DRN-3075294
The complaint
Mr C complains about the quality of a car he acquired under a conditional sale agreement
(agreement) with Santander Consumer (UK) Plc (Santander).
What happened
 Mr C took possession of a used car in May 2020.
According to the agreement the cash price of the car was £13,600. Under the terms of the
agreement, everything else being equal, Mr C undertook to make an advance payment of
£249.99 followed by 48 monthly payments of £250.18 and a final payment of £4,131 -
making a total repayable of £16,389.63 at 7.9% APR.
Shortly after taking possession of the car Mr C said he was experiencing problems with the
handbrake, faults he reported to the supplying dealership in July 2020 and Santander in
August 2020.
Santander commissioned an independent inspection of the car, as we would expect it to do
in circumstances such as this. This was carried out in September 2020 when the car had
travelled approximately 9,000 miles since it was acquired (45,347  36,308).
In receipt of the above report Santander didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Unhappy with Santanders response to his complaint Mr C referred it to our service for
investigation.
Whilst Mr Cs complaint was with us for investigation, and with the faults continuing, Mr C
took the decision to trade in the car against a new one in November 2020. Mr C received a
trade in allowance of £9,501.74 against an outstanding finance liability with Santander of
£12,723.74 resulting in a shortfall of £3,222. The car had travelled approximately 11,500
miles since it was acquired (47,873  36,308).
The shortfall sum was added to the £23,000 purchase price of the new car bringing its cost
up to £26,222. Mr C paid a £250 deposit towards the new car and financed the balance of
£25,972.
Mr C also explained that although the agreement (subject to this complaint) lists the cash
price of the car as £13,600 it was advertised at £11,400. And the £13,600 is made up of the
advertised price of £11,400 and a £2,200 shortfall on the finance he had on the car he had
part exchanged.
Mr Cs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it
should be upheld. In summary he said he was satisfied, on the balance of probabilities, that
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied and to fairly compensate Mr C for this
Santander should:
Pay Mr C the difference between the negative equity carried over to his current
agreement and the negative equity that what was carried over to the agreement
subject to this complaint.
Refund the advance payment made by Mr C.
Pay Mr C £200 for the distress and inconvenience this whole matter had caused him.
Remove any adverse information recorded with credit reference agencies.
Mr C responded to say that he accepted the investigators view.
Santander responded to say that it disagreed with the investigators view. In summary it said:
Had Mr C not part exchanged the car it would have had one attempt to repair, a right
that is no longer available to it.
It shouldnt be liable for the negative equity that has accrued because it was Mr Cs
decision to part exchange the car.
It shouldnt have to return the advance payment because had the car not been part
exchanged, but repaired instead, our service wouldnt have made such a direction.
Mr C had travelled 9,500 miles in four months and this above average use needs to
be taken into account.
However, it said it was prepared to pay Mr C £200 and to remove any adverse information it
might have recorded with credit reference agencies.
The investigator shared Santanders response with Mr C who said to resolve matters he was
prepared to accept £850.
Santander wasnt prepared to pay Mr C £850 and the investigator was persuaded to deviate
from his original view, so the complaint was passed to me for review and decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on this case in September 2021. In summary I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I would like to point out Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Secondly, I would add that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or
contradictory, as some of its here, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Mr C acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Santander, who are also the supplier of the car, are
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include
things like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr C.
Taking everything into account Im satisfied that Mr C was supplied with a car that wasnt of
satisfactory quality. In my view Mr C was entitled to expect, given the cars age, miles
travelled and the price paid, that the handbrake would operate correctly and not fail in the
manner that it did on the various occasions that it did. And Im of this view despite what the
inspection report might say to the contrary.
Having concluded that Mr C was supplied with a car that wasnt of satisfactory quality Ive
gone on to consider what Santander should have to do to fairly compensate Mr C.
Santander says that had Mr C not part exchanged the car, it would have had one attempt to
repair it, a right that is no longer available to it. Now I dont disagree that the right to repair
is no longer an available option. But in my view Santander had the opportunity to have had
further diagnostics and/or a repair carried out before Mr C part exchanged the car and took
the decision not to do so.
I would also add that having confirmed to Mr C it wasnt prepared to repair the car, and with
the problem with the handbrake continuing, Im satisfied Mr C acted entirely reasonably in
part exchanging the car for a new one.
I accept that had Santander successfully repaired the car its unlikely that our service would
have directed it to return Mr Cs advance payment. But as I say above, Santander had the
opportunity to have had further diagnostics and/or a repair carried out, but it elected not to
do so. Therefore the advance payment of £249.99 should, in my view, be returned to Mr C
together with interest.
Santander says it shouldnt be held liable for the negative equity that accrued because it
was Mr Cs decision to part exchange the car for a new one. But I disagree. I say this
because, for the reasons already given, I think Mr C acted entirely reasonably in part
exchanging the car and shouldnt have to stand such a loss.
The investigator concluded that Santander should pay Mr C the difference between the
negative equity carried over to his current agreement and the negative equity that what was
carried over to the agreement subject to this complaint  a sum I calculate to be £1,022.
Now I accept that some adjustment to the sum of £1,022 should be made for the 11,500
miles Mr C travelled in the car in the six months or so he had use of it, compared to say the
5,000 miles one might have expected Mr C to have travelled. But equally I think Mr C should
get the benefit of the negative equity he carried over to the agreement subject to this
complaint and which he paid down in part in the six months or so he had the car and was
making the monthly payments of £250.18 required of him.
And taking everything into account I think its entirely reasonable to treat these two
adjustments as cancelling each other out. In other words, Santander should have to pay
Mr C the £1,022  as proposed by the investigator  in order to fairly compensate him.Like the investigator, I think this whole matter has caused Mr C a degree of distress and
inconvenience for which he should also be fairly compensated. And taking everything into
account I currently find that £200 in this respect represents an appropriate sum for
Santander to have to pay.
Finally I agree with the investigator that if any adverse info has been recorded with Credit
reference agencies by Santander, then this info should be removed.
Mr C responded to say that he accepted my provisional decision.
Santander responded to say this it didnt accept my provisional decision. In summary it said:
I made no mention in my provisional decision of the inspection report findings
the inspection report findings concluded the faults with the car would not have been 
present at the point of sale
despite being expected to obtain an inspection report, the findings of the same have 
been overlooked by me
the inspection was undertaken by a qualified mechanic but Ive simply overlooked it
if inspection report findings are not considered valid then it undermines the 
investigation process and renders them a futile exercise
despite the inspection report finding the supplying dealership to be not at fault, it did 
try and assist Mr C
Mr C refused to get a diagnosis and provide information requested by the dealership, 
electing to part exchange the car instead
Mr C didnt explore having repairs undertaken by the supplying dealership, or by his 
warranty provider, and he should have done
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said:   
Taking everything into account Im satisfied that Mr C was supplied with a car that wasnt of
satisfactory quality. In my view Mr C was entitled to expect, given the cars age, miles
travelled and the price paid, that the handbrake would operate correctly and not fail in the
manner that it did on the various occasions that it did. And Im of this view despite what the
inspection report might say to the contrary.
Therefore I disagree that I made no reference to the inspection report findings in my 
provisional decision, or that they were overlooked by me. 
I think its also worth pointing out that inspection reports are, in most cases, key to our 
services consideration of complaints and our views and decisions often mirror what these 
inspection reports conclude. But this is not always the case, especially where there is other 
persuasive and compelling evidence to the contrary. And in this particular case Im of the 
view that there is indeed other persuasive and compelling evidence to the contrary including, 
but not restricted to, the time taken for Mr C to report the fault, his consistent plausible and 
persuasive testimony and photographs/videos. I would also remind both parties that this car 
cost in excess of £10,000.Finally Im satisfied that the lack of a repair being undertaken (by the supplying dealership or 
an agent appointed by the warranty company) was, in the main, down to how the supplying 
dealership dealt with matters and communicated with Mr C rather than as a result of 
anything Mr C did, or failed to do. 
So given what I say above, and given Mr C accepted my provisional decision, I can confirm I 
see no good reason to depart from my provisional findings and I now confirm them as final.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and Santander Consumer (UK) Plc must:
refund Mr C the advance payment he made of £249.99
pay Mr C interest on the above sum of £249.99 at 8% simple per year from the date
of payment to the date of settlement*
pay Mr C £1,022 for consequential losses he has suffered on being supplied a car
that wasnt of satisfactory quality
pay Mr C £200 for distress and inconvenience.
remove any adverse information it has recorded with credit reference agencies in
respect of this agreement
* Santander Consumer (UK) Plc is required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct tax from
any interest paid. Should Mr C request it, Santander Consumer (UK) Plc should provide him
with a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off so that, if appropriate, he can
reclaim it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman