DRN-3833095
The complaint
Miss M complains about the suitability of the advice she received from Portal Financial 
Services LLP (Portal) to transfer a defined-benefit occupational pension scheme (OPS) she 
held with a former employer to a Personal Pension (PP). 
Miss M is being represented by a third party, but for ease Ill refer to all representations as 
being made by her.
What happened
In early 2013 Miss M engaged Portal to provide her with advice on her pension. On 
6 February 2013 Portal wrote to Miss M noting she had an OPS with a transfer value of 
£106,651. It set out the critical yield and identified some options available to Miss M, 
including doing nothing or transferring the benefits to access TFC with different options for 
her remaining fund. 
On 26 February 2013, Portal gathered information about Miss Ms circumstances and 
objectives and carried out an assessment of Miss Ms attitude to risk, which it deemed to be 
moderately adventurous. At the time, Miss M was 55 years old and employed, earning 
£37,000 per year and she also earned other income by being self-employed, but she had no 
savings. She told Portal she lived in a property she owned worth around £148,000, with an 
outstanding interest only mortgage of £125,000. Miss M had a loan totalling around £2,000 
with repayments of £100 per month. It noted that she had £600 per month disposable 
income and that she was just starting to save, having finished paying for her car. It also said 
she wanted to buy a house abroad at some point, which she planned to move to in 
retirement.
The following day, Portal sent Miss M a letter summarising some of her OPS benefits and it 
recommended she didnt transfer out of this due to the critical yield and because shed be 
giving up guaranteed retirement benefits that were payable from age 60. However, Portal 
said it could still help Miss M if she wanted to go ahead and asked her to return the enclosed 
options and insistent client form, which asked her to choose between:
Option 1: Income Drawdown  After taking the maximum TFC the residual fund 
would be reinvested until she required an income. It said she would be treated as an 
insistent client in that case.
Option 2: Leave her fund where it was. It said this was its recommendation. 
Miss M says she signed and returned the forms, selecting Option 1, and then Portal sent her 
its suitability report and covering letter, dated 5 March 2013. This said her aims were to take 
TFC immediately, leave her residual fund invested and take an income at a later date, 
ensure she had good awareness of available investment opportunities, access to a system 
which monitors the performance of her investments and be kept informed about these and 
ensure her portfolio reflects her risk profile.
The suitability report then said:
Due to the guaranteed benefits that you will be relinquishing with [Miss Ms OPS], it is 
against my recommendation to transfer your benefits You have decided that you still wish 
to proceed with the Pension Release. On this basis, although we can help you release 
money from your pension, we are treating you as an insistent client. 
You are aware that by taking this amount now, you will not have a guaranteed pension 
benefit, which you do currently have through your defined benefit (otherwise known as final 
salary) pension scheme. You stated that you are aware of the benefits that you are giving 
up, and that you wish to proceed on this basis, even though I have advised that it is 
extremely unlikely that we will be able to match the required annual return (the critical yield 
of 20.86%).
Portal went on to explain this again in a section entitled Our recommendations, saying: 
You have decided that you still wish to proceed with Pension Release despite us advising 
you not to. We will assist you with this, and have treated you as an Insistent Client. 
Having considered all of the information available to us including the charging structures of 
the transfers, available underlying fund choice, your personal circumstances and other 
factors, I have come to the following conclusions: 
My recommendation is that: 
You transfer your [OPS benefits] to a [PP]. 
The reason I have recommended a pension transfer is due to the possibility that the benefits 
available at retirement with your recommended new pension will exceed the benefits that 
would have been available through your existing provider. 
By following this recommendation you will:
Meet your stated objectives and purchase a house abroad.
Be able to take up to 25% of your pension as a Tax Free Cash Lump Sum to meet 
your needs; you have elected to take £26,662.
Portal went on to provide advice regarding the investments within the PP, recommending a 
lifestyle fund it said was designed to reduce the amount of risk her pension was exposed to 
as her retirement gets closer. 
Portal also said it doesnt recommend Miss M transfer her OPS benefits, as I do not believe 
a growth rate of 20.86% will be achieved with your [Miss Ms] new [PP]. However, you have 
insisted that you still wish to proceed with the pension release. And it asked Miss M to sign 
a declaration saying she understood the benefits shed be giving up. 
On 7 March 2013, Miss M accepted the insistent client recommendation and her OPS 
benefits were transferred. She then took TFC and by 2017 shed taken her entire pension 
fund as a taxable lump sums.
In 2020, Miss M complained to Portal via a representative about its transfer advice saying, in 
summary, that she wasnt truly an insistent client  it was a papering exercise and the 
documents were pre-drafted. She said Portal focused on the amount of TFC she could 
release by transferring, when she had no pressing need to access this. 
Portal responded saying Miss M had made her complaint too late for our Service to consider 
it. Unhappy with this, Miss M came to our Service. And we decided we could consider her 
complaint about the suitability of the advice, as it had been made in time. 
One of our Investigators looked into Miss Ms complaint and said it should be upheld. The 
Investigator didnt think Portals insistent client process was fair, as it directed Miss M down 
this route before it had even provided its advice. And they didnt think Portal had 
demonstrated that transferring Miss Ms OPS to a PP was in her best interests, as she was 
likely to be worse off in retirement. They werent persuaded Miss M had any genuine 
retirement objectives that needed to be addressed at the time rather than nearer to 
retirement. So our Investigator recommended that Portal compensate Miss M for the losses 
shed incurred by transferring her OPS. 
Portal didnt respond, so the complaints been passed to me for a decision. 
I let Portal and Miss M know that I intended to say it should also pay her £250 compensation 
to make up for the distress and inconvenience caused to her by this matter. Miss M replied 
letting me know she had no further comments to add. Portal didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Portal said Miss Ms complaint was brought to our Service too late for us to consider it.          
I dont intend to revisit that, given an Ombudsman has already given a decision explaining 
why hes satisfied Miss M brought this complaint in time and that its one I can consider. 
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Portals actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Portal should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Miss Ms best interests. 
Portal maintains its advice was suitable, as it advised Miss M against transferring out of her 
DB scheme and gave her sufficient warnings about the consequences of going against the 
advice. And it said that Miss M insisted on transferring, which meant she became an 
insistent client. 
At the time of the advice there was no regulatory advice or guidance in place in respect of
insistent clients. But there were the above rules. So, Portals recommendation had to be 
clear and Miss M had to have understood the consequences of going against it. I also need 
to think about whether the insistent client process in this case was simply used by Portal to 
transact what Miss M thought she wanted to achieve.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold Miss Ms 
complaint for largely the same reasons as the investigator.
Insistent client
Portals role was to discern what Miss Ms wants and needs were and why she wanted to 
transfer her pension. Its role wasnt simply to facilitate what Miss M wanted. It had to act in 
her best interests.
In Portals letter, dated 6 February 2013, it told Miss M she could take TFC and set her 
remaining pension up so that she didnt have to purchase an annuity, in light of rates being 
at a historic low, giving her more flexibility of choice at the time. This letter was sent before a 
fact-finding conversation had been completed or any details of Miss Ms aims or objectives 
had been obtained. Yet Portal was already emphasising the release of TFC involving a 
change to Miss Ms current pension arrangements and how much could be released. I think 
this suggests the approach was already being skewed to a particular outcome. I dont think 
this was in line with the requirement to start by assuming the transfer was unsuitable. And     
I dont think the emphasis placed on this outcome, before any fact finding had taken place, 
was fair to Miss M or could be said to demonstrate Portal was acting in her best interests. 
And I think the content of this letter was likely to affect Miss Ms thinking and reasonably lead 
her to believe at that stage Portal was suggesting this option.
In Portals letter dated 27 February 2013, after gathering information about Miss Ms 
circumstances but before giving its suitability report, it said: 
You currently have a pension with [former employer] which has a transfer value of 
£106,651, from which you could release a total amount of £26,662 as a tax free lump sum. 
However, as the critical yield (growth rate required to match your guaranteed benefits with 
[former employer]) is 20.86% it would be against our recommendation to do this. 
Furthermore, you will be waiving your entitlement to a guaranteed pension £6,183 per 
annum and a lump sum of £18,551 which is payable at retirement age 60. 
If you decide that you still wish to proceed then we can help you with this, but we would have 
to treat you as an insistent client as this would be against our recommendation. We would, 
therefore, require you to complete and return the insistent client form confirming you are 
aware of the benefits you would be relinquishing. 
I enclose a form detailing the various options available to you. Please can you arrange to 
complete and return both forms to us at. Upon receipt, I will arrange to send out all the 
relevant application forms and Suitability Report detailing our advice. So, before Portal had even provided a formal suitability report, I think it paved the way for 
Miss M to proceed on an insistent client basis. The letter included the pre-typed insistent 
client form. While it isnt in dispute that Miss M signed this form, it was a template. It wasnt 
in her own words, thereby removing the opportunity for her to express why she wished to 
ignore professional advice and proceed with the transfer. I appreciate that it wasnt a 
regulatory requirement at the time of the advice for Miss M to provide such a letter in her 
own words. But regardless, Portal was required to ensure it treated Miss M fairly and that it 
acted in her best interests. 
I think it ought to have been clear to Portal that Miss M had little knowledge or experience of 
financial matters based on the information available at the time of the advice. I say this 
because she doesnt appear to have any previous investment experience. And because of 
the inconsistent responses in the risk profiling questionnaire. For example, Miss M strongly 
agreed that those who know her would describe her as cautious and she said she has little 
experience investing in stocks and shares, but then said shes willing to take substantial 
financial risk to earn substantial returns. I think this shouldve put Portal on notice that it had 
to be careful if it was to take matters through the insistent client route. I think it wouldve 
been important for Portal to ensure Miss M understood what she was getting into, and a 
good way to have done this wouldve been to see in her own words that she understood the 
recommendation being made and why she wanted to proceed. In the absence of this, Im not 
persuaded Miss M was able to make an informed choice here.
And Im not persuaded Portal treated Miss M fairly when it went to such lengths to assist her 
to identify as an insistent client. To my mind, the process wasnt geared towards Miss M 
making a considered assessment of why she shouldnt be transferring  I think that would 
have involved Portal providing the full recommendation to Miss M, allowing her to consider 
this on his own and then revert to Portal if she still wished to proceed. Instead I think Portals 
process was designed to facilitate the transfer. I dont think that providing Miss M with a 
means of proceeding against the advice, without fully establishing why she wanted to go 
against it, demonstrates that Portal had her best interests in mind. 
As the insistent client form was provided to Miss M before she received Portals suitability 
report she didnt have all of the information she needed to make an informed decision. And   
I dont think the wording and emphasis of the letter and forms Miss M was given  including 
that the first option given to her was to ignore Portals recommendation  was fair to Miss M 
or in her best interest. I say this because I dont think it was in Miss Ms best interest to go 
against Portals recommendation. But the documents she was sent made it very easy for her 
to do so.
In this situation Id expect the emphasis of the documentation to be the reasons why the
transfer was not in Miss Ms best interests. But the information on this form was limited to the 
loss of guarantees and critical yield required to match the benefits.
It seems it was only after receiving Miss Ms confirmation that she wished to proceed that 
Portal sent her the formal suitability report. And while the suitability report contained a 
recommendation not to transfer out of the OPS, the recommendation that she transfer out of 
the OPS to a PP was in the same report, which I think seriously undermined the 
recommendation not to transfer out. Not least because the suitability report said under Our 
recommendations, as set out above in the background, that while it was unlikely the critical 
yield would be achieved and it was treating Miss M as an insistent client, it was 
recommending she transfer to a PP due to the possibility the benefits would exceed those 
available through her existing OPS and because this would meet her stated objectives. In 
which case, I think Miss M couldve misunderstood or believed that, overall, Portal was 
recommending she should go ahead with the transfer.Furthermore, the covering letter to the suitability report said:
If you follow my recommendation you will:
Receive your Tax Free Cash lump sum of circa £26,662.
Have greater long-term flexibility to maintain your pension in line with your risk and 
reward profile.
Receive further advice when you decide to take an income from these funds.
The covering letter also included a declaration in which the recommendation not to transfer 
was repeated and that she would be treated as an insistent client. But given what Portal 
stated at the start of the letter, I think Miss M couldve believed that Portal was actually 
recommending that she transfer to access her TFC. Either way, I dont think the information 
provided by Portal here was clear, fair and not misleading.
Although Portal sent a suitability report, Miss M still had little information to go off to decide if 
being an insistent client was truly in her best interests. The difference between the critical 
yields and growth rates werent explained. And it doesnt appear that Portal did any analysis 
of the income Miss M required in retirement, and how transferring and accessing TFC at this 
point would affect her retirement income. It wasnt demonstrated what income in retirement 
Miss M was likely to achieve by transferring. Other risks involved in the transfer werent 
considered either, such as the risk of funds running out in drawdown. And Portal doesnt 
seem to have considered if Miss M couldve accessed her DB scheme benefits early, when it 
seems that she could have done so, taking reduced benefits as a result, given she was over 
50 and had left the scheme on or after 31 March 2000. 
On balance, given these failings, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to conclude the
process Portal followed meant Miss M can truly be regarded as an insistent client. Portals 
communications werent clear or fair. It didnt act in Miss Ms best interests. And it failed to 
act with due care and skill.
And, if Portal had followed the insistent client process correctly, I dont think Miss M wouldve 
insisted on going ahead with the transfer. Ill explain why. 
Ive taken into account that shortly after the transfer Miss M did go on to buy a home abroad 
using the TFC, costing her around £27,000, as well as drawing down further lump sums from 
her PP to carry out renovations on it. And that shes recognised she wouldnt have been able 
to do this at the time without transferring from her OPS. But Miss M has also said that if 
shed been made aware of what shed be giving up by transferring from her DB scheme to 
access the TFC then she would have postponed her plans. I find this explanation to be 
credible, given Miss Ms plan to move abroad werent fully formed at the time of the advice.
I note Miss M planned to sell her current property to move to a new home abroad in 
retirement, which would give her equity of around £25,000 after her mortgage was repaid. 
She had significant disposable income of around £600 per month, which I note she was 
intending to save having just repaid a car loan. And Miss M could also access the full 
amount of TFC available from her OPS at age 60, which was £18,551.Taking this into 
account, I think Miss M could still have achieved her plans to move abroad, but at a later 
date, without transferring out of her DB scheme. I think this would have been enough to 
purchase a property, as well as carrying out some renovations. 
While transferring to access her benefits sooner for the above reasons might have been an 
attractive prospect for Miss M, accessing her pension early needed to be considered very 
carefully in her circumstances and balanced against other aspects of her overall situation 
and longer-term retirement security. And I dont think Miss M had a genuine need to transfer out of her DB scheme to access TFC to the exclusion of everything else  Im persuaded her 
plans to buy her home abroad when she did were a desire rather than a need. Especially 
given she intended to continue living and working in the UK until she retired at age 60.  
I also think Miss M had a cautious attitude to risk and low capacity for loss given it seems 
she had little investment experience, she didnt have long until retirement and that this 
pension was her main retirement provision. Given Miss Ms circumstances and lack of 
investment experience, she went to Portal seeking advice. So, I think its more likely that 
Miss M would have followed Portals advice to remain in the OPS had it been delivered with 
the skill, care and diligence required and shown to be in her interests.
For these reasons, Im upholding Miss Ms complaint. And, in light of this, I think Portal 
should compensate Miss M for the unsuitable advice, using the regulator's defined benefits 
pension transfer redress methodology. 
Portal should also pay Miss M £250 compensation to make up for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to her by the unsuitable advice. I think this is a fair and reasonable 
amount in the circumstances because, while the advice was unsuitable and I think its likely 
Miss M wouldve remained in her OPS had it been otherwise, Miss Ms only found this out 
more recently and shes still had the benefit of using her fund. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Portal to put Miss M, as far as possible, into the 
position she would now be in but for its unsuitable advice. I consider Miss M would have 
most likely remained in her OPS if suitable advice had been given.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new defined benefit transfer redress 
guidance and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 
2022 with any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
We previously asked Miss M whether she preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the any new guidance/rules to be published. 
Miss M has chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle her 
complaint. And Im satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if 
a loss is identified, will provide fair redress for Miss M.
Portal must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.For clarity, compensation should be based on Miss Ms normal retirement age of 60, as per 
the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ts acceptance of the decision.
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Miss Ms 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ts SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Miss Ms pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Miss M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow 
for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have 
been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income 
tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Miss M within 90 days of the date Portal receives notification 
of her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portal to pay Miss M.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Portal to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Portal should also pay Miss M £250 compensation to make up for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to her by the unsuitable advice. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that Portal 
pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Portal Financial 
Services LLP to pay Miss M the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Portal Financial Services LLP to pay Miss M any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Portal 
Financial Services LLP to pay Miss M any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Portal Financial Services LLP pays Miss M the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Miss M.
If Miss M accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Portal Financial 
Services LLP.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Miss M can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Miss M may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Holly Jackson
Ombudsman