DRN-2384743
The complaint
Mr C complains that Calpe Insurance Company Limited (Calpe) has unfairly declined his 
motor insurance claim and avoided his policy.
What happened
In 2019 Mr C made a claim under his policy for damage to his vehicle following a road traffic 
accident. Calpe considered the claim, and said that during the application process, Mr C 
failed to disclose that he had other employment as a musician. And that had it known about 
this, it wouldnt have provided him with cover.
It concluded Mr C was aware of this additional employment and had deliberately or 
recklessly provided incorrect information to it. So it declined his claim, avoided his policy, 
and retained the premiums hed paid. It also sought to recover third party claim costs it 
incurred from Mr C.
Mr C disagreed with Calpes decision. He said that in the years prior to the accident, hed not 
generated much of an income from being a musician, and that music was simply a hobby of 
his. He said his employment had been correctly entered on the application. And that he was 
being unfairly chased by creditors for outstanding premiums they said were owed to Calpe, 
but his payments were up to date at the time the policy was cancelled. An agreement wasnt 
reached between the parties, so Mr C brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the matter and upheld Mr Cs complaint. He agreed that Mr C 
answered the other employment question incorrectly, but he didnt think this amounted to a 
failure to take reasonable care, so he said there wasnt a qualifying misrepresentation under 
the relevant law that applies in this case. He said this was because Mr C made little income 
from being a musician and he was persuaded Mr Cs work in this area was nothing more 
than a hobby. So he thought it reasonable Mr C hadnt disclosed that he was a musician, 
and set out what Calpe should do to put things right.
 
Calpe disagreed. It said it was satisfied Mr C was carrying out his work as a musician in a 
professional capacity. And that in the circumstances of his case, being a musician counted 
as other employment, regardless of the amount of income he made from it. Calpe provided 
evidence from search engine results and online websites that it thought supported this 
argument. The complaint was passed to me to make a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in September 2020. In it I said;
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont intend to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Im aware 
this isnt the outcome Mr C is hoping for, and I was sorry to learn of the impact the 
road traffic accident had on him. But Ill explain my reasons for the provisional 
change in outcome below.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract 
(a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
If a consumer fails to take reasonable care, the insurer has certain remedies 
provided the misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying 
misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show 
that if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it wouldve offered the policy 
on different terms, or not at all.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed 
to take reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA 
depends on whether the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or 
careless.
Calpe says Mr C failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
because he didnt tell it he was a musician. From what Ive seen, Mr C applied for the 
policy via a comparison website. His answers were then sent to a broker who called 
Mr C to confirm the information hed given online and proceeded to set up the policy.
So Ive looked at the questions Mr C was asked. As the call with the broker seems to 
have been purely to confirm the answers Mr C had already given online before 
setting up the policy, Im satisfied the questions I need to consider in this case are 
those asked on the comparison website.
The first question was  What is your main occupation?  to which Mr C answered 
by providing his main employment, which isnt in dispute in this case. Mr C was then 
asked  Do you have any other employment?  to which he answered no.
Based on what Ive seen so far, Im satisfied the question Mr C was asked was clear. 
But Mr C says he answered no to other employment because being a musician is 
simply a hobby, and in the years prior to taking the cover, he hadnt generated much 
of an income from this. And to support this, Mr C has provided us with royalty 
statements which show his earnings from his music streamed or sold online, were 
less than £10 per year between the years of 2017  2019.
While I understand the general point Mr C is making, the question Calpe asked 
wasnt based on how much Mr C earns from other employment  but simply whether 
he has any other employment. And from what Ive seen, Mr C does carry out work as 
a musician. 
In addition to this, Calpe has provided evidence from online searches it carried out, 
which it says shows that Mr C considers himself as an artist in a professional 
capacity. So Calpe says he shouldve reasonably known to answer yes to the other 
employment question, regardless of his limited earnings.
Ive thought about both arguments carefully. Mr C says his involvement in music is a 
purely a hobby and thats why he answered the question asked of him as he did. A 
general definition of the word hobby is an activity done regularly in ones leisure 
time for pleasure.
From the evidence Calpe has provided, Mr C appears to have a relatively prominent 
online presence in his field as a musician  so it would seem he devotes a 
reasonable amount of time to this work. He features in online music videos which appear to be professionally produced. And he lists himself as an artist or producer 
on job and talent scouting websites  which I think could reasonably suggest that 
theres an intention to earn an income from this work.
Ive seen an online news article which discusses a music award, live performance 
dates and an interview with Mr Cs manager. Mr C also describes himself as a 
singer/songwriter on his social media pages. And hes also listed as a verified artist 
on one of the professional streaming platforms where his music is available to 
download. With all of this in mind, and in the specific circumstances of this case, Im 
not persuaded by Mr Cs argument that being a musician is purely a hobby for him.
It follows, on balance of the information Ive seen, Im persuaded that Mr C should 
reasonably have known his work as a musician counted as other employment. At the 
very least it shouldve raised a question mark for him. And he couldve contacted 
Calpe to query this further or asked the broker during their call. But from what Ive 
seen, he didnt do that. It follows based on what Ive seen so far, Im satisfied he 
failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation.
Calpe has provided us with details of its underwriting criteria which shows it doesnt 
provide cover for drivers who are musicians. Therefore, had Mr C answered the 
employment question correctly, Calpe wouldnt have offered him a policy. So Im 
persuaded by the evidence Ive seen so far, that a qualifying misrepresentation was 
made in this case.
Calpe says Mr C made a deliberate or reckless misrepresentation in this case, 
because he knew he was a musician and failed to disclose it, which on balance Im 
minded to agree with. This is because I think its more likely than not, it wouldve 
been evident to Mr C that the information he gave Calpe was at the very least, 
misleading, and that the matter the question related to was relevant to Calpe.
Under CIDRA, if a qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, the 
insurer is entitled to avoid the contract and refuse all claims and need not return any 
of the premiums paid. As far as I can see, this is the action Calpe has taken in this 
case which is in line with its entitlement under CIDRA, so I dont intend to direct 
Calpe to do anything differently in relation to this.
Im aware that as a result of Mr Cs road traffic accident, Calpe had to settle a third-
party claim. And it says Mr C is now liable for the full cost of the settlement of this 
claim. From what Ive seen, under the terms of Mr Cs policy, it seems Calpe is 
entitled to seek to recover these costs and so I cant say this is unreasonable in this 
case.
Mr C says hes being chased for outstanding policy premiums. But Calpe say that Mr 
Cs broker paid it the annual insurance policy premium in one lump sum at policy 
inception (which its retained). So it says that any ongoing issues around premiums 
are between Mr C and the broker because the monthly payment agreement was 
done separately between them.
In this decision, I can only consider the complaint thats been brought against the 
insurer  in this case Calpe  and Ive already explained why its entitled to retain the 
premiums its been paid in this case. So these points dont change my provisional 
conclusion.
It follows, based on all the information Ive seen so far, I dont intend to uphold this 
complaint.I asked both parties to send me any further comments or evidence theyd like me to consider 
before issuing my final decision. Calpe accepted my provisional decision, but Mr C didnt. 
In summary Mr C maintains his work as a musician is simply a hobby. He says his time 
spent on his music is limited as he is extremely busy with his full-time job. And that hes 
barely earnt any money as a musician to sustain himself. 
Mr C says he doesnt deny hes talented and so he can understand that by looking at his 
accomplishments in music, and information about him online, parties could be led to believe 
hes an established artist. But he says that some of the information online may not be wholly 
accurate. And that he doesnt regard being a musician as other employment.
Mr C says he would never deliberately give wrong information to Calpe as his car was worth 
a lot of money and he wanted to ensure it was covered. Mr C says Calpe failed to ask him a 
direct question as to whether he was a musician, and that he answered what was asked of 
him to the best of his knowledge.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator set out in his view, employment can be defined as the state of having 
paid work. And its not in dispute in this case that Mr C earns some money from being a 
musician. The question Calpe asked him wasnt about how much he earned, but whether he 
had any other employment. So in the circumstances of this case, Im still persuaded he 
shouldve answered yes to this question.
Add to this, that he markets himself as an artist on job websites and talent scouting 
directories. And his presence online shows a vast amount of information regarding his 
musical accomplishments, various descriptions of award nominations, collaborations with 
other artists, professionally produced songs that are available to buy and stream, music 
videos and details about tours and gigs.
So on balance, the information Ive seen doesnt persuade me that music is simply a hobby 
for Mr C. I agree with Calpe that the evidence suggests hes a musician in such a capacity 
that it was right for him to declare this when asked about other employment. And so for the 
reasons Ive already explained in my provisional decision, Im satisfied Calpe has acted fairly 
in how its dealt with his claim. 
Mr C says Calpe shouldve asked him a direct question about being a musician if it doesnt 
cover people in this category. But there are many occupation categories that can affect 
whether an insurer offers cover or not. And while it isnt our role to determine what questions 
an insurer should ask within its applications, I can see how it would become impractical and 
unusual for an insurer to ask a direct question about each role not covered. 
In any case, Im satisfied Calpes question was sufficiently clear in the circumstances of this 
case for the reasons already explained in my provisional decision. So these points dont 
change my conclusion. 
It follows after considering Mr Cs comments in full, I still dont uphold this complaint for the 
reasons set out above and in my provisional decision. And so I wont be directing Calpe to 
do anything differently in this case.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2020.
 
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman