DRN-2480586
The complaint
Mr H and Miss C have complained that esure Insurance Limited didn't adequately repair 
their car following a claim on their motor insurance policy.
Miss C is a named driver on Mr Hs policy. Miss C is the cars main driver and has taken the 
lead in bringing this complaint, so, where I refer to her actions and comments below those 
are in respect of both her and Mr H.
What happened
In 2018 Miss Cs car was damaged by a parking service. She claimed on the policy and 
esure arranged repairs. Around nine months later, in 2019, Miss C had a further problem 
with the car losing power and going into limp mode. Miss C thought that was connected to 
the earlier repairs. After looking at it esure told her the issue was caused by wear and tear 
and wasn't connected to the initial accident damage or repair. Miss C didn't think that was 
the case and brought her complaint to us. One of our  investigators looked into it and 
recommended that esure carry out a further diagnostic report. esure didn't agree with that 
recommendation.
I issued a provisional decision on 2 December 2020. For ease I've copied my provisional 
findings below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss C told esures repairers in 2018 that one of the issues with the car was that it would go 
into limp mode and lose power. To investigate this the repairers had a diagnostic check run 
by the cars manufacturer. That showed an issue with the cars diesel particulate filter (DPF). 
esure said that wasn't connected to the damage Miss C was claiming for. And when it 
returned the car to her it wasn't suffering with the problem.
But in 2019 the car started to suffer with the same issue. And, given that this was an issue 
Miss C had reported shortly after the accident, she thought the two faults must be 
connected. The repairers and two of esures engineers considered the matter. They all said 
the cars recent problem wasn't connected to the earlier repair. They said it was a fault that a 
car of that model, age and mileage was known to suffer from and was caused by wear and 
tear.
Miss C had various mechanics look at her car. She had some components, which could 
have been causing the problem changed. One garage told her there was evidence that the 
cars driveshaft was bent and that this could have happened in an accident. Another garage 
found a fault connected with the cars steering angle sensor. And Miss C thinks this is 
evidence that the cars driveshaft was damaged in the initial accident. esure maintained its 
position that the cars issues were caused by wear and tear.
Miss Cs policy requires esure to repair a car following an event insured by the policy. And 
that would include the damage it suffered in 2018. But if the car developed other faults, 
unrelated to the incident that caused the claim, then esure wouldn't need to arrange for 
those unrelated faults to be repaired. Thats the case even if the faults were present at the 
time of the accident. I've noted that Miss C did refer to issues with the car going into limp 
mode in 2018. And esures repairers looked into this. But they didnt find anything related to 
the claim that would cause it. And, when Miss C took her car back from the repairers it was 
running. But nine months later the problem resurfaced. esures engineers, who are experts 
in their field, have explained why they don't think that issues in 2019 are related to the 
damage and repair from 2018. Miss C has provided some evidence to counter those 
arguments but I don't find her evidence persuasive.
For example, Miss C provided evidence from one garage showing the car had an issue with  
a steering angle sensor. But the garage didn't provide any expert evidence of how or why 
that might be connected to the damage and repair in 2018. And, from what Ive seen, this 
fault wasn't apparent at the time esure arranged those repairs and only presented many 
months later.
Similarly Miss Cs also provided an email exchange with an individual from one of the 
manufacturers garages in which she asks what could have caused the issue her car was 
experiencing. The manufacturers first response set out reasons that could cause it including 
wear and tear. Miss C followed that up by asking about damage to her cars driveshaft. The 
manufacturer replied that there was some evidence the driveshaft was bent and that this 
could have been caused in an impact. But the garage didn't say what evidence there was 
that the driveshaft was damaged. It didn't provide any images to show the damage. And the 
individual responding to Miss Cs email didn't set out how he'd arrived at his conclusion or 
his qualifications to make such a diagnosis.
In contrast esures engineers said that following the cars repair the garage carried out a four 
wheel alignment check which didn't show any issues with the cars suspension. It said that to 
damage and bend a rear driveshaft in an accident there would be a significant impact and 
destruction of the rear suspension and other components. But the car hadn't suffered that 
sort of damage in the accident. And I find that evidence persuasive that any damage to the 
driveshaft wasn't caused by the accident.
I've seen evidence that many similar cars appear to suffer the same issues once theyve 
reached a certain age and mileage. In other words its a recognised fault with that model of 
car. And the fault occurs in cars that haven't been repaired following an accident. So, given 
there was a significant gap between the repair and the issue with Miss Cs car reappearing, 
during which time the car had travelled around 7,000 miles, Im not persuaded the issue was 
caused by the accident. It follows that I don't think it would be fair to make esure pay for a 
further diagnostic report.
Developments 
Miss C didn't agree with my provisional decision. She made a number of detailed comments. 
I don't intend to list all of those here, instead I will address what I see as the key issues 
relevant to my decision in my findings below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss C said esure only identified the DPF issue in 2019 and not, as I said, when she initially 
put the car in for repair in 2018. But Im satisfied Miss C is mistaken. Ive seen the diagnostic 
report which is dated 31 August 2018 and its mileage matches that at the time that her car was taken to the repairers initially, whereas, when she took it back in 2019, the mileage was 
almost 7,000 miles more. So Im satisfied that a manufacturers diagnostic report did first 
identify the DPF issue in 2018.
It might also help if I explain that Miss C told esures garage in 2018 about dashboard 
warning lights coming on and her car going into limp mode. But when the repairers were 
looking into the problems with her car, they couldn't replicate the dashboard lights and the 
car was driving without going into limp mode. They asked for a diagnostic report to see what 
error codes the car might be displaying. But, at that time, it only displayed the DPF issue. 
And esures engineers have explained that the DPF issue wasn't causing the problem with 
the dash lights that Miss C reported. So it seems that whatever was causing the car to go 
into limp mode at that time was most likely an intermittent issue, which esure believed to be 
caused by wear and tear and wasn't related to the accident.
Miss C said that shed put the car through an MOT and had it serviced only weeks before the 
car went to the repairers. And it wasn't suffering the same issues then. So I can understand 
why, given that she first noticed the issue after the car was damaged she would think that 
the two things were related. But the fact the cars previous MOT and service didn't identify 
there was an intermittent issue at the time doesn't mean that it had to have been caused by 
the subsequent accident. Thats because the very nature of an intermittent issue is that it 
can come and go. And the fact that it first appeared after the accident doesn't automatically 
mean it was accident related. 
Miss C said that owing to the cars issues, she returned it to esures repairers and when they 
gave her the car back the problem was sorted. So she thinks the repairers must have fixed 
it. And as their work is guaranteed, when the issue reappeared in 2019, she thinks the 
repairers should remain responsible for the work they guaranteed. But, I haven't seen any 
evidence, beyond Miss Cs comments that the repairers did any further work to address the 
issue with the car going into limp mode. Instead they noted that it was a problem that cars of 
that age and mileage are known to suffer from. And given the issue was intermittent its likely 
that the issue had temporarily resolved itself before the repairers returned the car to Miss C, 
without them taking any action to fix it. 
Miss C said that during that time the repairers sent her a video showing the problem and 
explaining how they would fix it. I wasn't party to that conversation and I haven't seen 
reference to it elsewhere on file. Also, I haven't seen evidence that the repairers took action 
to fix the problem. Neither did they bill esure for any work to sort the issue out. Similarly I 
can't see that this additional repair was listed on the work which was guaranteed. So I'm not 
persuaded the repairers did do any work to fix the limp mode issue. So it wouldn't be 
covered by a guarantee.
Also, as I said in my provisional decision, esure wouldn't be responsible for repairing any 
work that wasn't accident related. So esure wouldn't have been under any obligation or duty 
of care - as Miss Cs suggested - to repair any issues with the car that weren't caused by 
the accident. And as I've said above it seems that the problem had resolved at the time that 
the repairers returned the car to Miss C.
Miss C said that when she took the car back to the repairers in 2019 they said the issue was 
again with the DPF and that if Miss C could show that wasn't the case esure would repair the 
car. But I don't think thats accurate. This was a point Miss C raised while our investigator 
was looking into her complaint. And the investigator asked Miss C to provide evidence to 
support this allegation. Miss C didn't provide that evidence. And I think she might have 
misunderstood what esure told her at the time.Ive seen that in 2019 esure thought the limp mode problem was a traction control issue 
caused by wear and tear. So it wasn't responsible for repairing it. esure told Miss C that if 
she could provide evidence from a suitably qualified person that the issue wasn't wear and 
tear related it would consider that. But I haven't seen evidence, beyond Miss Cs comments, 
that esure said it would look at the car again if Miss C could show that it wasn't the DPF 
issue that was causing the car to go into limp mode. That's unsurprising as esure didn't think 
it was the DPF issue that caused the problem so had no reason to tell Miss C to prove it 
wasn't. And Miss C didn't provide persuasive evidence that the problem wasn't wear and 
tear related. 
Miss Cs also said esure referred to wear and tear without proving thats the case. Shes said 
that model of car is designed to be driven for many miles. And her car was operating well 
before the accident. She added that there are many other cars of similar age and mileage 
that don't suffer the same problem. But not all cars will suffer exactly the same issues as 
they age and cover more miles. And as I said in my provisional decision the traction 
control/limp mode issue Miss Cs car suffered from is a well-known problem with that model 
as it ages. But that doesnt mean that every single car of that model will suffer from the 
issue. And esures engineers have given their professional opinion that the issue was 
caused by wear and tear. Miss C hasn't provided persuasive evidence to counter those 
expert opinions.
Miss C said esures engineers have no more expertise than the garages shes taken the car 
to and who have done diagnostics, repairs and given advice. But I don't know how shes 
arrived at that conclusion. The evidence Miss C has provided is essentially general and 
occasionally anecdotal in nature. She hasn't provided any engineering evidence that 
specifically ties in the cars issues with the accident. The evidence presented doesn't provide 
the relevant qualifications of those whove given advice, nor does it explain how conclusions 
have been arrived at in relation to Miss Cs specific car and it's also not supported by 
images. 
In contrast esures engineers had access to all the relevant engineering information including 
the repairers report and images of the car. The engineer has set out his qualifications and 
experience and his statement is court compliant, that is its offered as a true statement of 
professional opinion. The evidence Miss Cs provided, which is generally confined to email 
exchanges, simply doesn't carry the same weight and I don't find it persuasive.
Miss C said she provided a diagnostic report from the manufacturer, showing that the car 
suffered a bent drive shaft. But the report actually says the driveshaft rings were swollen. 
Not that the driveshaft was bent. The reference to the driveshaft being bent only came in an 
email exchange with someone working for the manufacturer. As I've said above that 
comment wasnt supported by other evidence. And esures engineers have said that 
driveshafts can deform in that manner as a result of moisture absorption causing the 
driveshafts to swell over time. That is its a known issue with this model of car caused by  
wear and tear. And at the time that esure repaired the car in 2018 there wasn't evidence of 
an impact that would cause the driveshaft to bend; that is there was no evidence of damage 
to the relevant suspension components that would be expected to also be damaged in such 
an impact.
Miss Cs noted that I said the traction control/limp mode fault can occur in cars that haven't 
been repaired following an accident. Miss C seems to have interpreted this to mean that the 
fault occurs in cars that haven't been properly repaired following an accident. But that's not 
what I meant. The point I was trying to make is that this model of car is known to suffer from 
this problem without ever having been in an accident. So the issue is not generally 
considered to be related to impacts. I understand Miss C continues to feel very strongly that esure didn't fully repair her car in 
2018 which caused an issue to recur in 2019. But Im simply not persuaded thats the case. I 
think the evidence shows that esure repaired all relevant accident damage in 2018. It seems 
likely that, around that time, the car was beginning to suffer from an intermittent fault that 
caused it to go into limp mode. But the repairers at that time couldn't replicate it. And it 
appears it only resurfaced many months and around 7,000 miles further. But I haven't seen 
evidence that persuades me that the problem that occurred in 2019 was related to the 
accident or repair in 2018. It follows that I don't think esure needs to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C and Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 February 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman