DRN-3663302
The complaint
Mr M complains about Allianz Global Assistance (AGA) and the way they handled his claim 
after his boiler stopped working.
What happened
On 9 August 2021, Mr M contacted AGA to make a claim on his home emergency insurance 
policy, after his boiler stopped working.
AGA sent engineers to Mr Ms property on two occasions, who were unable to fix the issue 
and advised that parts would need to be ordered. Mr M challenged this diagnosis so Allianz 
sent another engineer to provide a second opinion. This engineer condemned the boiler 
upon attendance. Mr M was unhappy with this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr M was unhappy with the length of time his family had been left without heating and hot 
water due to the differing diagnoses of AGAs engineers. He explained his wife and daughter 
suffer from Asthma and that they had to use a neighbours showering facilities. He was also 
unhappy that AGA only paid him £500 towards a new boiler, which he didnt think was 
enough to cover the costs of a replacement.
AGA responded and upheld the complaint. They accepted the service Mr M received was 
below a reasonable level and offered him £75 compensation. But Mr was unhappy with this 
amount, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They explained AGA had failed to 
respond to our services request for information. So, they had based their investigation on 
the testimony of Mr M, and the evidence available. From this, they were satisfied AGA had 
accepted they acted unfairly in the final response. But our investigator didnt think this offer 
was enough to recognise the time Mr M was without heating and hot water and the impact 
this had on him. So, they thought AGA should increase this offer to £200.
But they didnt think they had enough information to say AGAs payment of £500 for the 
boiler was unreasonable. Our investigator explained payments for condemned policies are 
normally less than the cost of a new boiler. So, without a copy of Mr Ms policy and the terms 
and conditions attached to this, they didnt think they could say AGA had acted unfairly. They 
gave both Mr M and AGA the chance to provide this document, but to date it hasnt been 
received.
Mr M accepted this recommendation. But AGA didnt reply. As AGA didnt reply, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome
I can see AGA have already accepted they acted unfairly in their complaint response, and 
they offered Mr M £75 to compensate him for the upset he was caused. So, I dont think its 
in dispute that AGA failed to diagnose Mr Ms boiler correctly, in a reasonable amount of 
time. And I think it follows that this meant Mr M, and his family, were without heating and hot 
water for longer than they shouldve been. As this is accepted, I wont be commenting on this 
further. Instead, Ive focused on the amount AGA should pay to adequately compensate Mr 
M for this, as this is Mr Ms main area of dispute. My findings regarding this are outlined in 
the section below.
The other aspect of Mr Ms complaint related to the payment he received from AGA, after his 
boiler was condemned. Mr M has explained he received £500, which he doesnt think covers 
the cost of a boiler replacement. But I note neither Mr M or AGA have been able to provide 
me with a copy of the policy document, that allows me to see the terms and conditions which 
should set out how much AGA should pay in that sort of situation.
So, Ive had to think about what is most likely to have happened here. And in general, home 
emergency policies usually agree to pay a customer a set amount, dependent on the age 
and condition of the boiler that has been condemned. And this is very rarely the total cost of 
a brand-new replacement. So, without any evidence to show otherwise, I think its most likely 
AGA paid Mr M the amount he shouldve been. And because of this, I dont think they need 
to do anything more for this aspect of the complaint.
Putting things right
As I think AGAs service was unreasonable, Ive then thought about what I think AGA should 
do to put things right.
Our investigator recommended that AGA increase their offer to £200, to recognise the upset 
and inconvenience this caused Mr M. And I think this payment is a fair one, that falls in line 
with our services approach and what I wouldve directed, had it not already been 
recommended.
I think it fairly considers the extended length of time Mr M and his family were without 
heating and hot water without the correct diagnosis for his boiler. I think this wouldve been 
inconvenient and upsetting, especially when Mr M became aware the first engineers had 
provided the incorrect advice.
But I also think it considers the fact Mr M would always have needed to replace the boiler, 
and that this wouldve taken time to arrange. I also think it factors in the time of year and the 
fact Mr M and his family were able to use alternative bathing facilities.
So, I think AGA should pay Mr M £200 to recognise the upset and inconvenience their 
failures caused.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint about Allianz Global Assistance 
and I direct them to take the following action:
Pay Mr M £200 to recognise the inconvenience and upset hes been caused.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman