DRN-2303876
The complaint
Mr O complained that he was mis-sold a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. AXA France IARD (AXA) has taken responsibility for this complaint.
What happened
Mr O bought the policy in December 1994 when he took out a store card. Mr O and AXA 
agreed that the sale took place in-store, and that Mr O wasnt advised to take the policy. Mr 
O said the PPI was added to the store card account without his consent. 
The policy cost no more than £1.00 for each £100 Mr O owed on his store card. If hed 
successfully claimed on the policy for accident, sickness or unemployment, each month it 
wouldve paid out 15% of what he owed on the card when he stopped working. This 
wouldve carried on until he returned to work or the balance was cleared. The policy also 
included life cover and purchase protection cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Os complaint. Mr O didnt agree and so the complaint has 
come to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Os case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Os complaint. Ill explain why.
AXA sent us a copy of Mr Os store card application. This shows yes and no tick boxes in 
the payment protection section of the form. The tick in the no box has been crossed out, 
and theres a tick in the yes box, and some handwritten wording alongside saying 1 month 
free. This seems to be confirming printed wording at the bottom of the PPI section of the 
form, which says your first premium is free and you can cancel at any time. Mr O has seen 
a copy of the form, and has told us that he recognises his handwriting so is satisfied that he 
completed the form  contrary to what he had previously remembered. However, he said 
that the 1 month free wording was not in his handwriting, and that it looked to him as though 
he had chosen not to take the PPI and that this had been altered after the form was 
submitted. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr O has said. And I accept that it is possible that things 
happened as Mr O suggested. But set against this, it is also possible that the salesperson 
added the wording to the form before Mr O completed it, or that they drew Mr Os attention to 
the free period and he changed his mind about taking the PPI. Mr O doesnt clearly 
remember the sale  which is unsurprising as it happened over 26 years ago  and Ive also 
kept in mind that the PPI premiums would have been shown on his store card statements, so 
if he hadnt agreed to it, I think he could reasonably have queried it once he started to 
receive statements. Theres nothing to suggest that that happened.
On balance, I dont think I can fairly say its most likely that the PPI was added without Mr 
Os knowledge and consent, which is what Id have to do to be able to uphold the complaint 
on this point  I simply dont have enough evidence that this is what happened. 
AXA didnt advise Mr O to take out the PPI, so it didnt need to make sure the policy was 
suitable for him. But it should still have given him enough information for him to decide if the 
policy was right for him.
I cant know how the salesperson explained the policy, including the things not covered. But I 
dont think Mr O would have been affected by any of these. There are brief details of the 
cover on the application form, and a reference to another document, but I dont have a copy 
of that. So its possible the information about the cost and benefits may not have been as 
clear as it shouldve been. 
Mr O told us that, when he took out the policy, he wouldve been entitled to sick pay from his 
employer of six months full pay followed by six months half pay. He also said he had some 
savings, and the amount he mentioned was equivalent to just under a months salary. On 
balance I think Mr O could have found it difficult to make the payments on his card once his 
sick pay reduced or if hed lost his job. So I think the PPI couldve provided a useful benefit. 
Overall, although I cant say that AXA fully explained the policy, Im not satisfied that Mr O 
would have acted differently  and not taken out the PPI  if it had. It couldve provided 
useful protection for him if he couldnt work. This means Mr O isnt worse off as a result of 
what AXA may have done wrong, so theres nothing it needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman