DRN-2431239
The complaint
Ms C complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited unnecessarily delayed in 
progressing her motor insurance claim. 
What happened
Ms C was involved in a road traffic collision in April 2019. She says she contacted Admiral 
the next day and provided all the information they needed including accident location, time, 
and police reference number. She says she informed them that there were CCTV cameras 
in the area so camera footage should be obtained.
Her vehicle was declared a total loss and she received her settlement for this within a month. 
She says that liability for the incident had not yet been established and so obtaining the 
CCTV footage was important. 
She says she wasnt contacted by the liability team until July 2019, almost four months after 
the incident. At this point she was told it would be difficult to obtain CCTV footage as it had 
been more than three months since the incident occurred.
In addition, she says Admiral didnt make any effort to obtain the police report despite 
chasing this numerous times. Admiral offered her £25 in compensation due to the delays 
shed faced in progressing her claim. Unhappy with this, she complained to Admiral. They 
upheld her complaint in part and also accepted the £25 compensation offer wasnt sufficient. 
They later offered her a £175 compensation for the poor service they had provided.  
Ms C remained unhappy with this offer, so she brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint and agreed with Ms C that the compensation award 
should be increased. He said Admiral should pay £275 and asked them to follow up on the 
police report in order to establish liability. He said Ms C could bring a further complaint (if 
need be) after Admiral had decided on liability following receipt of the police report.
Ms C did initially agree to accept this outcome but then upon speaking to Admiral she said 
that no effort was being made to obtain the police report and progress the claim. She 
declined the view and asked for this to be reviewed again, so this has come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am upholding this complaint. I will explain why.
I can understand Ms Cs frustration with the situation particularly the significant delay in 
trying to establish liability and that this has still not been resolved. Whilst we do not make 
liability decisions on behalf of insurers, we look to ensure that insurers act fairly in deciding 
liability and make a reasonable assessment of the claim - based on a clear understanding of 
the evidence and circumstances surrounding the accident. With this in mind, I have carefully 
considered how Admiral handled Ms Cs claim. 
Ms C did what was expected of her, to inform her insurers that she was involved in an 
incident and to provide them full details. It was Admirals responsibility to ensure that 
information was used appropriately. I can see that they have failed to do this by delaying in 
obtaining the CCTV footage. Whilst I cannot say whether obtaining the footage would have 
assisted them in establishing liability, I can see why failing to make efforts to obtain this 
would add to delays in progressing the claim and Ms Cs distress.
In addition, despite the investigators view asking Admiral to obtain the police report, it 
appears sufficient efforts hadnt been made to do this and so liability wasnt resolved for 
around a year.
I also have to add, that Admiral have accepted the delays they caused in their final response 
letter to Ms C. But Im inclined to agree with our investigator that the compensation offer of 
£175 isnt sufficient considering the length of time thats passed since the claim was 
reported. I think the offer is lower than what I would expect in this situation and not in line 
with what I would award.
Putting things right
From what Ive seen, Admiral did fail to progress Ms Cs claim in a timely manner and 
caused her undue distress and inconvenience because she had to continuously contact 
them for an update. Whilst I do sympathise with the situation, shes in, looking at all the 
circumstances here, I think that £275 would be a fair amount to compensate her for the 
distress and inconvenience shes suffered. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint against Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited and ask them to pay Ms C £275. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman