DRN-2635503
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her payment 
protection insurance (PPI) as part of a total mortgage protection plan (TMPP).
What happened
In 2002 Mrs K took out TMPP cover to protect her mortgage repayments in the event of 
accident, sickness and unemployment. It also provided other benefits but Im just dealing 
here with Mrs Ks complaint that she was mis-sold the PPI. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. Mrs K disagrees. 
Mainly Mrs K complains that she wasnt told the policy was optional but that it was a 
condition of the mortgage. Mrs K told us that she didnt need PPI as she already had 
excellent work benefits and other ways to pay the mortgage if she wasnt able to work. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ks complaint. Heres why I say this.
I dont doubt that Mrs K is sure about everything she has told us. But it wouldnt be 
reasonable to expect Mrs K to remember exactly what was discussed when she took out the 
policy as this was so long ago. And what Mrs K says isnt enough on its own for me to be 
able to uphold the complaint. Where the information is inconsistent or incomplete, as some 
of it is here, I must make my decision based on what I think is likely to have happened taking 
into account all the information thats available, what the parties have told me and also 
thinking about what we know about these types of sales at that time. I have to be impartial.  
The first thing Ive thought about is whether Halifax gave Mrs K a choice about taking out the 
PPI. 
In order to be able to uphold this complaint Id have to find that its likely that Mrs K wasnt 
given a fair choice about taking out PPI or that the policy was added to Mrs Ks mortgage 
account without her knowledge or consent. 
Ideally Id look at the paperwork to show whats likely to have happened at the time and how 
the PPI was likely to have been presented. Halifax couldnt provide all the documents from 
the time of sale. But this isnt a reason for me to uphold the complaint. Its not surprising, 
given how long ago this sale happened, that all the paperwork isnt still available. I wouldnt 
reasonably expect Halifax or Mrs K to have kept this for so long. I appreciate this is 
frustrating for Mrs K. But there are data protection laws in place that businesses must follow 
and destroying old information helps to ensure customers privacy. 
This service has seen copies of the TMPP paperwork Halifax normally used around the time 
Mrs K took out her cover. And we already know from looking at other cases what the usual 
process was when Halifax sold TMPP. Ive no clear reason to think that Halifax wouldnt 
have followed its normal sales process here. 
I think its likely that PPI was explained and recommended for Mrs K. Also I think its likely 
that Mrs K would have known at the time that PPI was optional and that she agreed to take it 
out. And I can see why she mightve felt PPI was useful when she took out her mortgage  
even if shes forgotten this now. 
I say this because her mortgage was a major financial commitment, due to run for a number 
of years. Mrs Ks home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to 
date. PPI provided a dependable means of ensuring the monthly repayments would be 
protected even if Mrs K wasnt able to work. Based on all the information I've seen and been 
told about her circumstances it looks like Mrs K couldve had a use for the policy if she had 
needed to claim. 
On balance, I think its likely that Mrs K was persuaded of the usefulness of protecting her 
home by taking out the PPI offered to cover her mortgage monthly repayments - and she 
decided to buy the policy. 
Halifax recommended PPI to Mrs K. If a financial business makes a recommendation about 
PPI it has to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable as well 
as giving important policy information in a clear way. 
She was eligible for the cover. 
Ive taken into account that Mrs K had some sick pay entitlement through work she couldve 
relied on 3 months full sick pay followed by 75% of her pay for the next 3 months. 
But this doesnt mean that Halifaxs recommendation was unsuitable.  
PPI couldve protected Mrs K if she was disabled or too sick to work as well as providing 
cover if Mrs K lost her job unexpectedly and was out of work. The policy couldve paid out for 
up to 24 months per claim  significantly longer than shed have been able to rely on getting 
full sick pay through work. 
The policy wouldve paid out on top of any other income coming in from work. I think this 
couldve been useful if Mrs K found she had extra costs as a result of being sick or disabled, 
even if she was also getting some sick pay for the first 6 months off work.
And Mrs K couldve made repeated claims under the policy. So PPI gave her long term 
protection for her mortgage. 
I've taken into account that Mrs K mentioned having other insurance cover set up through 
her employer. Mrs K told us that when her sick pay entitlement ended she wouldve been 
able to fall back on her employers income protection scheme. 
But this doesnt mean that the PPI duplicated benefits she already had. Income protection 
policies arent the same as PPI. And in the event that Mrs K found she needed to claim on 
her employers group income protection scheme she would still have been facing a drop in 
income. So I think its likely that she wouldve valued having PPI that covered her mortgage repayments for up to two years, so that all her other income was available to pay her other 
living costs and expenses. 
Relying on other people to help out in the event of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
I think PPI was suitable for Mrs K taking into account everything shes told me about her 
circumstances at the time.
There were some things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt look as if those applied in 
Mrs Ks case. 
Mrs K told us shes certain that Halifax never asked if she had a pre-existing medical 
condition  and its possible shes right about that. But it doesnt affect the outcome of her 
complaint. 
As Mrs K arranged this policy alongside her mortgage it wouldve covered her for any pre-
existing medical conditions she may have had at the time. 
So, I dont think having more information about things the policy didnt cover wouldve put 
her off taking it out.
Its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold. But Mrs K 
chose to take out the cover when she didnt have to - so she seems to have wanted the 
insurance at the time. Ive seen nothing that makes me think paying for the policy led to any 
money problems for Mrs K. 
And she took out other cover under the TMPP at the same time. So it doesnt look like 
keeping costs down overall was a priority for Mrs K when she signed up for the PPI. 
It was a policy she paid for monthly so she couldve cancelled the PPI at any time at no extra 
cost if she decided it wasnt something she wanted to pay for.  
Looked at overall, I think Mrs K still wouldve decided to buy the policy if shed been better 
informed as it gave her useful protection in her particular situation. 
I dont think having better information wouldve stopped Mrs K buying PPI. 
So I dont find that she has lost out as a result of anything Halifax did wrong during the sales 
process.
I appreciate that Mrs K feels strongly about this complaint. I understand that what Ive said 
will come as a disappointment. In my decision, I havent needed to comment on everything 
Mrs K has mentioned - and I dont think theres anything more I can usefully add to what our 
adjudicator has said. 
I've dealt with all the main points that have an impact on the outcome of this complaint. 
I hope that setting things out as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman