DRN-2805374
The complaint
Mr N complained that following the theft of his car Advantage Insurance Company Limited 
(Advantage) reduced the settlement paid under his motor insurance policy by 20% due to 
points on his licence that were not declared.
What happened
In July 2020, Mr Ns car was unfortunately stolen from the drive of his parents house. He 
claimed on his policy, however Advantage advised Mr N that his claim would be reduced by 
20% due to a previous driving conviction which Mr N had not declared. 
Advantage had issued a renewal notice in February 2020 confirming that the policy would be 
automatically renewed in March 2020. When Mr N made the claim, Advantage obtained 
information which highlighted that Mr N had received a driving conviction in August 2019. 
This had not been disclosed by Mr N during the previous policy term or when the policy was 
renewed.
Advantage stated that Mr N was responsible for making sure that his information was true, 
accurate and complete. It said that if it had known about the motoring conviction, it would 
have charged a higher premium and it considered it was entitled to reduce the settlement by 
the same percentage as the difference between the premium charged and the higher 
premium.
Mr Ns car was valued at £26,197.95 by Advantage. As it decided to deal with the claim on 
an 80% proportionate settlement, it paid £20,958.36, having applied the 20% reduction.
Mr N said that he had been living away from home for twenty months and that this was the 
reason that he was not aware of the speeding conviction. He said that all communications 
would have been sent to his parents address which he had not visited for a significant length 
of time and he had not been aware of receiving a renewal letter.
Mr N complained to Advantage and received a final response letter. Advantage stated that it 
was Mr Ns responsibility to update organisations such as the DVLA with his address so that 
he was informed of any changes to his licence. Advantage considered that it had followed 
the correct process and it didnt change its complaint outcome.
Mr N complained to this service and our investigator thought that Advantage had acted in 
line with the relevant guidelines in reducing the payment by 20% in view of the undisclosed 
driving conviction. He said that this was covered in the policy documents. He also said that 
the driving conviction happened in 2019 which was prior to the pandemic and he considered 
that Mr N had the opportunity to advise Advantage of the change. Finally, he considered that 
Advantage had given a fair valuation for the car.
As Mr N was unhappy with this outcome, the matter has now been referred to me to look at it 
afresh and to make a decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its my role to consider whether Advantage acted unfairly and/or unreasonably in the light of 
the law and policy terms in reducing the settlement amount by 20% for Mr Ns claim. In all 
the circumstances, I cannot say that Advantage has acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
reducing the settlement amount by 20%. Ill explain why.
The relevant law is found in the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 
2012 (CIDRA). It says that its the duty of the consumer to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation to the insurer. The standard of care is that of a reasonable 
consumer. If a misrepresentation is deliberate or reckless, an insurer may treat the 
insurance contract as if it never existed or voided, retain the premium and refuse all claims.
Under the Act, if a consumer fails to take care in giving or confirming information, the insurer 
then has certain remedies where the misrepresentation is what CIDRA describes as a 
qualifying misrepresentation. In certain circumstances, the insurer may reduce a settlement 
on a proportionate basis.
Looking next at the policy terms, in this case they state as follows; -
Your legal obligations
Remember, its an offence under the Road Traffic Act to make a false statement or to
withhold information in order to get motor insurance.
Under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representation) Act 2012, when you apply 
for insurance, as the Primary Policyholder you have a duty to take reasonable care to 
answer all questions as fully and as accurately as possible.
If you dont take reasonable care to answer all questions fully and accurately or if you 
deliberately make a false statement, there could be serious consequences
If the details on your documents are wrong, or if you wish to make any changes, please
contact our customer services team. Their details are at the front of this document.
As to the position on renewal, the policy booklet states as follows; -
At renewal time, think back over the previous 12 months and let us know if anything has
changed for you or any named driver.
Changes we need to know about include, but are not limited to:
 Any prosecutions or motoring convictions that you, or any named drivers, are aware of.
 Any fixed penalty notices or licence endorsements incurred during the year
If you dont tell us about changes and take reasonable care to ensure that the information 
you supply is honest, full and correct we or your Insurer may cancel your Policy from the 
start date, apply additional premium, reject your claim or only pay part of it..
Ive looked at the renewal documents also and note that they were sent to Mr Ns parents 
address and Advantage also state that it was e-mailed to the e-mail address Mr N used 
when he purchased his policy. I see that Advantage wrote to Mr N about renewal of his 
insurance in February 2020, stating the following: -
Thank you for getting in touch about your car insurance. Your renewal invite now reflects 
your up to date details. Your policy will renew automatically on 20th March 2020 based onthese details. Please check these, let us know if anything else needs to change.
Ive also looked at the Statement of Insurance which was sent by Advantage to Mr N to 
confirm details. It states; Please read and check the information shown in this document 
carefully. It represents your policy details from last year, and any amendments you've made. 
It forms part of your contract of motor insurance. If any of the details are incorrect or have 
changed, please contact us immediately
For all drivers named on this policy, we need to know of any driving related convictions, 
endorsements, fixed penalties, disqualifications or bans in the past five years.
None disclosed.
Advantage states that cover would have been provided if it had known about Mr Ns 
speeding conviction from 2019, but at a higher premium. As it states that the premium paid 
was 80% of the higher premium which would have been chargeable, it states that 20% of the 
claim settlement was deducted from the payment to Mr N. It considered that it was Mr Ns 
responsibility to update companies such as the DVLA with his address so that he was duly 
informed of any changes to the licence. 
Mr N says that he had been living away from home for 20 months and that he wasnt aware 
of any motoring conviction and didnt receive any correspondence regarding it. Mr N said 
that the renewal came at a time when he was mobilised as part of the covid response, 
working on the front line for an extended period of time. He said he hadnt been aware of 
receiving a renewal letter and wasnt in a position to review any renewal documentation.
 
Ive looked carefully at all of the documents and correspondence in this matter and on the 
balance of probabilities, Ive concluded that its more likely than not that Mr N would have 
been aware of the driving conviction of August 2019. This conviction occurred well before 
the covid pandemic and Mr N has confirmed that he had visited his parents address prior to 
Christmas 2019, and he would have had an opportunity to collect any unopened 
correspondence at this time. In July 2020, with regard to a query from Advantage about the 
level of mileage, Mr N also confirmed that he usually commuted to see his parents once a 
month.
In any event, I agree that Mr N could have arranged for his mail to be redirected from his 
parents home. Its also the case that there is a requirement to notify the DVLA of address 
changes and if Mr N had been living away from his parents home for 20 months, this was 
not a temporary address change.
I appreciate that Mr N had been through times of stress and uncertainty over the covid 
pandemic and I accept what he says that he had been a front-line worker and that this 
pressure will have mounted from March 2020 onwards.
With regard to the renewal information, this was sent in February 2020 and I accept that it 
was sent by Advantage on the email address supplied when the policy was initially taken 
out. In this instance, Mr N acknowledged to Advantage that his lack of response was an 
oversight. I note also that he has said in his complaint to this service that he hadnt been 
aware of receiving a renewal letter and wasnt in a position to review any renewal 
documentation at the relevant time.
On balance however, Ive concluded that despite the understandable pressures Mr N was 
under, he had over-looked the renewal documentation and not provided information about 
his driving conviction. This was important information, being information, which could affect insurance premiums and a reasonable consumer would have been aware of this. I dont 
think Mr N took reasonable care about this.
I must then ask whether that failure was deliberate, reckless or careless. Due to the way in 
which Advantage has handled Mr Ns claim, its apparent that it has treated Mr Ns failure as 
being careless rather than deliberate or reckless. I agree, and accept that it was a careless 
rather than a deliberate or reckless act.
I then need to ask whether the careless misrepresentation and incomplete information have 
made a difference to the insurer, in other words if it is a qualifying misrepresentation under 
CIDRA. We expect insurers to provide evidence of their underwriting terms to prove the 
difference that the correct information would have made.  Advantage has shown its 
calculations as to the difference to Mr Ns premium before and after the addition of the 
relevant speeding conviction and Im satisfied that this shows the premium would have been 
20% higher.
I accept that the misrepresentation was a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA 
therefore and had Mr N provided the correct information, this would have made a difference 
to his premium of 20%.
Where an insurer would still have provided an insurance policy but would have charged a 
higher premium, CIDRA states that the insurer may reduce the amount to be paid on a claim 
on a proportionate basis. The calculation to be followed by an insurer is set out within CIDRA 
(Schedule 1).  I think Advantage has followed the law and acted fairly and reasonably in 
settling Mr Ns claim on a proportionate basis and Im satisfied that it would have treated all 
customers in the same way that it treated Mr N.
Mr N has not complained about the valuation that Advantage placed on his car. For the 
avoidance of doubt however, I conclude that the valuation was fair. When assessing the 
value of a used vehicle, we generally find the valuations provided by motor-trade guides to 
be reliable in arriving at a reasonable figure. The valuation figures obtained by this services 
investigator broadly match the figures provided by Advantage and the valuation was well 
within the range of valuations provided by the guides. I cant say that Advantage has acted 
unreasonably or unfairly in this regard therefore.
As well as being unhappy about the fact that Advantage settled the claim on a proportionate 
basis, Mr N felt that increasing the premium whilst also reducing the settlement by 20% was 
contradictory. In this respect, Advantage confirms that the policy was cancelled shortly after 
the claim and that there was no increase to Mr Ns direct debits and no additional payment 
was deducted from the settlement. I cannot say that Advantage has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in this instance either therefore.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint and I dont direct Advantage 
Insurance Company Limited to do anything else in response to his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2021.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman