DRN-3324362
The complaint
Mr W complains Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) wrongly declined his 
claim for legal expenses insurance cover.
Where I refer to LV in this decision, I am also referring to their claims handlers.
What happened
Mr W took out legal expenses insurance (LEI), as part of his home insurance policy with LV, 
which took effect on 9 January 2021. 
In June 2021 Mr W made a claim on the policy for cover to pursue legal action in relation to 
his property. The developers of the estate Mr W lived on had made a mistake in carrying out 
works in line with planning permission. That meant access to property owned by some of   
Mr Ws neighbours had been restricted. And they were using Mr Ws land for access instead. 
He was concerned about interference with his property rights and damage to his land.
Based on the information Mr W provided in his claim, LV said cover was excluded because 
the claim was about an event, or part of a series of events, that had happened before the 
policy started, and Mr W ought reasonably to have known that when he took the policy out. 
Mr W disputed LVs assessment of when an insured event had occurred, and he thought LV 
had altered the date to avoid providing cover. LV didnt uphold his complaint. But they said 
theyd give his claim further consideration if he could provide evidence hed had equivalent 
cover with another insurer immediately before he took out the LV policy. Mr W wasnt able to 
provide LV with evidence which they found acceptable.
Since Mr W wasnt happy with LVs response to his complaint, he brought it to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think LV had done anything wrong. Since Mr W didnt accept our 
investigators view, his complaints been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Mr Ws strength of feeling about whats happened. And I can understand the 
situation regarding his neighbours using his land to access their property has been stressful. 
Before considering LVs actions, it's important first to identify the relevant parts of Mr Ws LEI 
policy.
The policy provided LEI cover where an insured event had happened during the policy 
period, starting on 9 January 2021, subject to any conditions and exclusions in the policy.
An insured event was defined as:
The start of an individual or series of events that may lead to a claim under this 
section.
Well treat all events related by time or cause as one.
The insured event will be treated as occurring on the date that you first became 
aware of the start of an individual or series of events, problems or disputes covered 
under this insurance.
LV would not pay any legal expenses if, amongst other things:

the insured event had started before you bought this legal expenses insurance;
you should reasonably have known when buying this insurance that the 
circumstances leading to a claim under this legal expenses insurance already 
existed
Subject to those and other exclusions, the policy provided cover for Protection of property 
which included:
Pursuing or defending a claim relating to:
interference with your use, enjoyment or right over your home;
damage to your home
But there was no cover under that section for:
Claims in respect of:
The interference of your use, enjoyment or right over your home when the 
insured event happens within the first 90 days of this cover starting unless you 
had an equivalent policy which finished immediately before this cover began
Mr W made a claim under the policy in June 2021. The claim form suggests he initially told 
LV the event he was complaining about happened at the beginning of December 2020. LVs 
records show Mr W said soon afterwards that the date of the event was 5 March 2021. Mr W 
thinks LV altered documentation and deliberately ignored the later date to decline cover. I 
havent seen any evidence of that.
I acknowledge LV didnt refer to 5 March 2021 in responding to Mr Ws claim. And I think it 
would have been better if LV had investigated why Mr W had changed the date before 
sending their response. But its the policyholders responsibility to provide evidence to 
support their claim. Mr W relies on a letter sent to him by the council on 5 March 2021 that 
confirmed that the developer hadnt kept to the planning approval. Mr W could have sent the 
councils letter to LV sooner. Once Mr W had provided a copy of the councils letter, LV said 
theyd consider his claim further, which I think was fair.
Ive considered whether LVs decision to decline the claim initially was fair and reasonable. I 
think it was, as Ill explain. 
The claim form records Mr W gave the following information about the problem he faced:
hed lived at his property for 12 years; hed had confirmation from the council in December 2020 that the developers had 
deviated from the planning permission; 
other residents had been using his land to access their property rather than the 
designated access way which wasnt usable because of the developers errors; 
hed complained many times to the parties involved; 
his neighbours were unwilling to stop using his land; and 
the council had no enforcement powers due to the time that had passed.
These events are all part of the same problem  or series of events. The use by his 
neighbours of his land to gain access to their property stems from the mistake the 
developers made. And his communications with the council to try to resolve the issue follow 
on from that. Given how long Mr W had been living at the property and the many complaints 
he told LV hed made, I think he knew about the problem before he took out the LV LEI 
policy.
I also think the council had probably let Mr W know before 5 March 2021 about the 
developers mistake. Their letter seems to be a response to a complaint Mr W made in early 
February 2021 about the councils decision not to take enforcement action. It refers, 
amongst other things, to Mr Ws complaint and various emails which pre-date it. I think its 
more likely than not that Mr W had been corresponding with the Council over a period pre-
dating 8 February 2021. And, on balance, he probably knew before he took out the LEI 
policy with LV that they werent going to take the steps hed requested. That fits with the 
information he provided to LV initially about the date of the event being December 2020 
when he made his claim. 
Mr W has argued he couldnt take any action until he knew the outcome of his discussions 
with the council. Im not aware of any reason why he couldnt consider legal action before 
then. But thats not relevant to policy cover in any event. Whats relevant is when the event 
giving rise to the insurance claim happened and when Mr W ought reasonably to have been 
aware of that event. 
I think the policy exclusions apply because the problem Mr W had begun before he bought 
the LV policy; and he ought reasonably to have known when he bought the insurance that 
the circumstances that led him to make his claim in June 2021 existed when he took the 
policy out. Bearing all of the above in mind, I dont think it would have been unreasonable for 
LV to decline Mr Ws claim.
LV said that even if the event was the councils confirmation of 5 March 2021, or the 
complaint Mr W made in early February which the council was responding to, his claim 
would be excluded on grounds that it had happened within the first 90 days of the policy start 
date  unless Mr W could provide evidence hed had an equivalent policy with another 
insurer which finished immediately before this cover began. I agree. The policy is clear about 
that.
LV said theyd reconsider his complaint if Mr W could provide that evidence. I understand 
that Mr W hasnt been able to provide LV with evidence they consider acceptable. Hes 
unhappy LV couldnt access information hed directed them to on his previous insurers 
website and thought they ought to make further enquiries themselves.
It's Mr Ws responsibility under the terms of the policy to provide LV with evidence about his 
previous cover. The general conditions of the policy say:
You must do the following
Provide at your own expense information relevant to your claims such asother supporting documents to help [LV] assess whether:
-your claim is covered
Id expect Mr W to provide LV with information they request to support his insurance claim, 
provided their request is reasonable. I understand LV asked for the policy wording, which 
they now have, and the policy schedule. I think thats fair since without both those 
documents they wont know what cover Mr W had and when it applied so they can assess 
his claim further. Mr W should know, as LV have explained, that even if he is able to give LV 
the documents theyve requested, theres no guarantee hell be entitled to cover to pursue a 
legal claim, as the policy is subject to various terms and conditions which may apply in his 
case. 
Bearing everything in mind, I think LV have assessed Mr Ws insurance claim fairly and in 
line with the terms of his policy. Whilst I understand Mr W will be disappointed by my 
decision, I dont uphold his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman