DRN-4502994
The complaint
Ms L complains Santander UK Plc caused her distress after she was the victim of fraud.
What happened
In July 2022 Ms L says she started receiving letters from banks with whom she didnt have a 
relationship. She says she didnt think the letters were genuine at first, but then she received 
a debit card. She says she checked her credit score and then obtained her credit file and 
saw a lot of accounts  including a current account and a credit card account with Santander 
 had been opened in her name. Ms L contacted the banks in question, including Santander, 
to say that shed been the victim of fraud. Ms L says Santander told her not to worry, that the 
accounts had been blocked, that it would investigate and that the accounts would be closed 
down and that any debts owed would be written off once its investigation was complete.
Ms L says the current account was closed and a closing statement  including what was 
likely the fraudsters name  was sent to her causing significant amounts of distress. She 
also says that the credit card wasnt blocked, and that Santander started writing to her 
chasing her for the outstanding balance. Ms L says this made matters worse still.
Ms L complained to Santander saying that it should have done more to protect her in the first 
place, that it had given her inconsistent information, that it shouldnt have sent her a closing 
statement and that it could have answered some of her questions sooner. Santander 
investigated Ms Ls complaint and accepted that it had given her inconsistent information, 
that it shouldnt have sent her a closing statement and that it could have answered some of 
her questions sooner. Santander ultimately offered Ms L £200 in compensation for the 
distress it had caused. Ms L complained to us saying Santanders response was insulting.
One of our investigators looked into Ms Ls complaint and said that we couldnt look into her 
complaint about the current account, but that we could look into her complaint about the 
credit card account. They also thought Santander should pay Ms L £400 in compensation for 
the distress it had caused. Ms L asked for a decision from an ombudsman. So, her complaint 
was passed onto me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Last month I issued a provisional decision. In that decision I said the following:
Everyone accepts that Ms L is an innocent victim of fraud  a third party attempted to 
open a number of accounts in her name, with varying degrees of success, including 
accounts with Santander. Some of those attempts failed at the application stage, some 
didnt. They managed to open two Santander accounts, and to get several pounds 
worth of credit.
Its clear that Ms L is angry that Santander not only allowed the third party to open up 
two accounts in her name, but also allowed them to access several thousand pounds 
worth of credit. I accept that some banks blocked the third partys attempts at 
application stage, and that others didnt give the third party access to as much credit. I 
have, however, seen details of the applications the third party made to Santander, and 
can see how they managed to get as far as it did. Because Ive seen the applications, 
and based on what Ive seen, I dont agree that it follows Santander did something 
wrong at that stage. That doesnt mean I think Santander did nothing wrong in this 
case. It did. Just not at that stage.
In my opinion, this case went off track because Santander didnt block both accounts 
when it should have done and didnt write off the outstanding balance on the credit 
card account when it wrote of the outstanding balance on the current account. That 
meant Santander started sending letters to Ms L chasing her for the outstanding 
balance on the credit card. To make matters worse, Santander sent Ms L a statement 
for the current account  meaning she was able to identify the person who had likely 
attempted to defraud her  and at the same time wouldnt say what ID the third party 
had used when opening the accounts. That left Ms L in a position where she knew 
enough to identify the possible fraudster but not enough to take action to protect 
herself. I can see that Ms L had other concerns and worries too  given what shed 
learnt. Shes also told us  and told Santander  about her mental health and how this 
issue had an impact on her.
Im satisfied, based on all the evidence that Ive seen, that discovering the credit card 
hadnt been blocked straightaway and then being chased for an outstanding balance, 
caused Ms L substantial distress on top of the stress of being a victim of fraud.
In this case, it wouldnt be fair to hold Santander liable for the stress Ms L experienced 
as a result of being a victim of fraud  thats down to a third partys actions  but it is 
fair to hold Santander liable for the substantial distress that she experienced on top of 
this. I consider an award of £750 to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So, 
thats the award Im minded to make.
Both parties were invited to reply to my provisional decision, and both did. Broadly speaking, 
Ms L said that she didnt think my award reflected how badly Santander had managed this 
process and that it wouldnt learn. And, importantly, that knowing who the likely fraudster is 
continues to have an ongoing impact on her. So, Ms L wanted me to increase the award I 
was making. And Santander said that although it appreciated it had caused additional 
distress because of the letters and closing statement being sent to Ms L, the award seemed 
to be excessive given that it was the fraudster who obtained Ms Ls details and caused her 
distress opening accounts in ger name. In short, Santander said that it thought the award Id 
suggested was because Ms L had been the victim of a fraud perpetrated by a third party and not Santander.
In my provisional decision I said that it wouldnt be fair to hold Santander liable for the stress 
Ms L experienced as a result of being a victim of fraud  thats down to a third partys actions 
 but it is fair to hold Santander liable for the substantial distress that she experienced on top 
of this. Thats the basis on which I approached the award I suggested. I dont, therefore, 
accept what Santander has said about the award Id suggested being because Ms L had 
been the victim of a fraud. The award I suggested reflected the substantial distress that she 
experienced on top of this. That award  as Ive explained to Ms L  isnt meant to punish 
Santander, nor can it reflect the distress that she experienced as a result of receiving the 
closing statement for the current account. Thats because we cant consider any complaint 
about any errors that Santander might have made in relation to the current account for the 
reasons our investigator gave  reasons Ive explained to Ms L too. So, whilst I accept that 
what has happened to Ms L has had a long-lasting impact on her, the award I make can only 
reflect the substantial distress that she experienced on top of being a victim of fraud as a 
result of Santander sending letters chasing her for the outstanding balance on the credit 
card. But I can, and have taken into account, the impact the fraud had on her generally when 
assessing what impact these letters then had on her.
Putting things right
Having considered everything both parties have said, and for the reasons Ive just given, I 
remain of the view that an award of £750 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So, 
thats the award Im going to make.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding this complaint and requiring Santander UK Plc to pay 
Ms L £750 for the substantial distress it caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman