DRN-2257649
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Jigsaw Insurance Services Plc unfairly charged him an additional 
fee in respect of a claim on his roadside assistance policy.
Reference to Jigsaw includes its agents. 
What happened
Mr M had an accident while driving. He didn't believe his comprehensive motor insurance 
policy readily covered him to recover his badly damaged car; so he contacted Jigsaw. 
Jigsaw said it would recover his car but warned him his policy didn't cover the costs of using 
any specialist recovery equipment. 
After the recovery agent recovered Mr Ms car he charged him £150 for the use of skates. 
Mr M paid the fee. But he later questioned why he was charged for the use of specialist 
equipment when the wheels on his car were free-rolling. Jigsaw said the charge was 
between Mr M and the recovery agent. 
Mr M brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. Eventually he 
concluded that Jigsaw had dealt with the matter unfairly. So, he said it should refund Mr M 
the £150 he paid to the recovery agent and pay him £100 compensation to address his 
distress and inconvenience.
Jigsaw didn't agree with our investigator's assessment of the complaint so it's been passed 
to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that its usual, following an accident, for the drivers comprehensive motor 
insurer to recover the car. But in this case Mr M didn't believe that service was readily 
available to him and so he contacted Jigsaw. At that time, Mr M wasn't sure whether his car 
wheels were rolling or not. Jigsaw advised him that if the recovery agent needed to use 
specialist equipment to recover the car then this wasn't something covered by Mr Ms policy. 
And, in those circumstances, he would have to pay for the use of that specialist equipment 
directly to the recovery agent. Mr M agreed to that.
It might help if I explain that following an accident a cars wheels might not be able to roll 
freely and so it may require the use of extra equipment, such as skates, to allow the car to 
be loaded onto the recovery truck. And Mr Ms policy didnt cover any costs associated with 
the use of that specialist equipment. So, if Mr Ms car had required the use of such specialist 
equipment then this is something Mr M would have needed to pay for himself.
After recovering Mr Ms car, the agent charged him £150 for the use of skates. Mr M didn't 
dispute that at the time, but later questioned why the charge had applied as he didn't think 
the recovery agent had used any specialist equipment. In fact Mr M said that when the 
recovery agent dropped off his car he asked Mr M to sit in it and steer the car. Mr M said the 
cars wheels rolled freely and he was able to steer it close to the kerb.
In response Jigsaw said the recovery agent had used skates because the wheels were 
turned in. In other words they wouldn't roll freely at the point the recovery agent picked the 
car up. But Mr M has provided photos of the car taken at the roadside shortly after the 
accident. And while the car is clearly very badly damaged, there is no sign of any damage 
whatsoever to any of the wheels. And the photos show conclusively that they are not turned 
in. In fact they appear to be perfectly square with the car. Further, if the wheels hadn't 
rolled and skates were required then Mr M wouldnt have been able to steer it to the kerbside 
when  the recovery agent dropped the car off. And I'm persuaded by Mr Ms account of what 
happened. So, I think the evidence clearly shows the wheels weren't turned in, which was 
the recovery agents justification for using specialist equipment. Instead the evidence shows 
its likely that the cars wheels were perfectly capable of rolling. And, as such, specialist 
equipment wasn't required to recover the car. 
I note that, in response to our investigators assessments of the complaint, Jigsaw has 
speculated that specialist equipment may have been required for other reasons. But those 
werent arguments put forward by the recovery agent who said that specialist equipment was 
required because the wheels were turned in, when they weren't. And in those circumstances 
I don't think its fair Mr M had to pay for the use of equipment that wasn't required.
I understand Mr M paid the £150 fee directly to the recovery agent and not to Jigsaw. But the 
recovery agent was acting for Jigsaw when he attended the scene. And as the wheels were 
free to roll, he should have been able to assess that at the scene and recover Mr Ms car 
without using specialist equipment. And as that's something Mr Ms policy should cover 
without an additional fee, it's not fair Mr M had to pay one. In those circumstances I think it's 
fair for Jigsaw to refund Mr M the £150 charge for the specialist equipment. I'm also aware 
that this matter has been a source of distress and inconvenience for Mr M. And to address 
that I think Jigsaw should pay him £100 compensation.   
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Jigsaw Insurance Services 
Plc to:
Refund Mr M £150 in respect of the fee charged for specialist equipment.
Pay him £100 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman