DRN-4269580
The complaint
Mr B complains Portafina Investment Management Limited trading as Portafina delayed the 
withdrawal he requested from his pension. He feels unnecessary obstacles were put in the 
way and this left him frustrated that he could not access his money when he needed to. 
What happened
Mr B holds a pension administered by Portafina.
On 28 November 2022, he contacted Portafina to request a withdrawal of £500.
Portafina says it emailed the forms on 30 November 2022, but Mr B says he didnt receive 
the email. He thought the withdrawal would be finalised within 10 days.
On 5 January 2023, Mr B still hadnt received his money and so he contacted Portafina. It 
explained the forms had been emailed but not returned. Mr B said he hadnt received the 
email, so Portafina sent it again on 6 January. But Mr B couldnt open the link.  Portafina 
tried again on 9 January 2023, but Mr B still couldnt open it and so the withdrawal forms 
were posted out on 13 January and Portafina raised the issue with its marketing team. 
Portafina received the completed forms on 23 January 2023. It processed the request, and 
the funds were released on 30 January 2023.
In the meantime, Mr B had become increasingly frustrated with the process and made a 
request to withdraw his remaining pension fund as a lump sum. 
Portafina processed his withdrawal request on 20 January 2023 and the funds were 
released 16 working days later on 13 February 2023.
Portafina acknowledged that it hadnt provided Mr B with the service it would have expected 
and offered £50 compensation for the poor experience.
Mr B didnt feel this reflected the trouble and upset this matter had caused and so he brought 
his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Mr B. In his view he felt Portafina were trying to comply 
with Mr Bs request but were not aware that Mr B hadnt received the email it sent in 
November 2022 until 5 January 2023. Once aware he felt it had acted swiftly to sort out the 
matter but due to a system error ultimately had to rely on the postal system. He didnt think 
that Portafina had acted unfairly, and he found he £50 offered for the poor service to be 
reasonable and so he didnt ask it to do anything further.
Mr B disagreed, he said the time taken to process wasnt reasonable and so he asked for an 
ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have independently reached the same outcome as the investigator. I 
appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr B  Ill explain why.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive 
done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think 
are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. Instead, I have concentrated on what I understand to 
be the crux of Mr Bs complaint which is that he asked to withdraw funds in November 2022 
and actually received them in January 2023 and he considers this to an unreasonable length 
of time to action a simple request.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr B and by Portafina. 
Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, I have made my decision based on the 
balance of probabilities. In other words, I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the 
surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have 
happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead, this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
I can understand why Mr B would be frustrated with the length of time his withdrawal took 
but I have to look and see what went wrong here and if Portafina acted unfairly or 
unreasonably. 
Portafina has provided a copy of the email it sent to Mr B on 30 November 2022 with the 
withdrawal forms attached. So, far as I can see this is the same email address he holds now 
 it didnt bounce back unreturned so Portafina wouldnt have known he hadnt received it 
until he contacted them on 5 January 2023. When he did so it acted quickly to issue new 
links to the same email address. This time Mr B received the email but the links within it 
didnt work. Portafina tried twice to successfully provide the links and failed so it posted the 
forms to him. 
Im persuaded once it was aware Mr B hadnt received the email it tried reasonably to give 
him the swiftest access to enable the withdrawal request to be processed quickly  and that 
would be online. After the second time it decided to post the forms and again, I think this was 
a reasonable approach to rectify the issue. I cant hold Portafina responsible for delays 
before it became aware there was a problem on 5 January nor for what would be the longer 
process of posting the forms and Mr Bs request. I can see that once received it was date 
stamped 23 January 2023 and processed on 30 January 2023, Im not persuaded that was 
an unreasonable length of time.Mr Bs second withdrawal request for the remainder of his funds was completed within 16 
working days and again I find that a reasonable timescale.
The obstacles Mr B described in his telephone conversation with this service were in part 
due to the regulatory requirements, practically as Mr B declined to take financial advice 
before making his withdrawals and this has to be confirmed in writing. That is a regulatory 
requirement  and one with which Portafina must comply.
It was unfortunate that the system links appeared not to work properly resulting in the need 
to rely on the postal service, which is a longer process but not one that Portafina is 
responsible for. It apologised for the poor service with the system links and offered £50 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused. This is in line with what this service would 
expect, and I havent had cause to ask it to increase that award.
So, whilst I appreciate Mr B will be disappointed, Im not going to ask Portafina to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint for poor service and direct Portafina 
Investment Management Limited trading as Portafina to pay Mr B £50 compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman