DRN-2313518
The complaint
Mr H complains about the quality of car he acquired under a hire purchase agreement 
(PCP) with Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (Mercedes-Benz).
What happened
Mr H took possession of a new car in September 2019. The cash price of the car was 
£31,400. Having paid a cash deposit towards the cash price of £1,334.08 Mr H took the 
decision to finance the balance of £30,065.91(a difference of 1p in favour of Mr H) by way of 
a PCP with Mercedes-Benz.
Under the terms of the PCP, and everything else being equal, Mr H undertook to make 
48 monthly payments of £419.63 followed by one final payment (if the car was to be kept) of 
£15,035  making a total repayable (inclusive of the deposit) of £36,511.32.
In February 2020 and having visited the dealership on a number of occasions due to issues 
he says he was experiencing with the gearbox and the supplemental restraint system, Mr H 
complained to Mercedes-Benz about the quality of the car. 
Mercedes-Benz considered Mr Hs complaint and in April 2020 agreed to uphold it. And by 
way of compensation it agreed to:
take Mr H out of the car
settle Mr Hs agreement
return to Mr H his deposit of £1,334.08
pay Mr H £293.75, representing10% of the seven instalments of £419.63 paid by 
Mr H between October 2019 and April 2020, for loss of enjoyment
Mr H was unhappy with Mercedes-Benzs offer of compensation, so he referred his 
complaint to our service for investigation.
Mr Hs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded that it should be 
upheld. In summary he said that Mercedes-Benz should:
collect the vehicle at no cost to Mr H
end the agreement with nothing further to pay
refund the deposit of £1,334.08 and add 8% simple interest [a year] to this sum from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement
pay Mr H £293.75 for the distress and inconvenience he had been caused
remove any adverse information from Mr Hs credit file
not charge for any excess mileage run up by the supplying dealership 
Mercedes-Benz responded to say that it accepted the Investigators view and that it wasnt 
proposing to charge Mr H anything by way of an excess mileage charge.
Mr H responded to say that he didnt agree with the investigators view. In summary he said:
he should have returned his whole deposit, not just £1,334.08
he should have at least 12 monthly instalments returned to him, and in full
he believes Mercedes-Benz should be able to source a suitable replacement car for 
him
he has travelled 9,200 miles in the first year of having the car in his possession, less 
than the annual mileage cap imposed by Mercedes-Benz of 10,000
he would like permission to be able to refer a complaint to the motor ombudsman
The investigator considered Mr Hs response to his view but wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. However, he confirmed to Mr H that Mercedes-Benz had confirmed that no excess 
mileage would be charged. And that Mr H was free to approach the motor ombudsman but, 
in his view, the motor ombudsman was unlikely to consider a complaint whilst a complaint, in 
respect of the same car, was open and under investigation with our service.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Mr H has very strong feelings about this complaint. He has provided detailed 
submissions in support of his view which I can confirm Ive read and considered in their 
entirety. However, I trust that Mr H will not take the fact that my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as 
a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised. The purpose 
of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
Mercedes-Benz doesnt dispute that the car is/was of unsatisfactory quality. And having 
considered what both parties have said and submitted in this respect I can confirm that Ive 
come to the same conclusion. So, in essence, what Im required to decide in this case is 
what, if anything, Mercedes-Benz should have to do to fairly and reasonably compensate 
Mr H for him having been supplied a car that is/was of unsatisfactory quality. 
Mr H says he would like a replacement car and that Mercedes-Benz should be able to 
accommodate his request in this respect. However, I find Mercedes-Benzs submissions that 
its unable to source a suitable replacement, or to do so would be very difficult and involve it 
in a disproportionate amount of effort, to be both plausible and persuasive. I would also add 
that there is no guarantee that even if Mercedes-Benz was able to locate and secure what it 
felt represented a satisfactory replacement, that Mr H would be in agreement. Therefore, like 
the investigator, I find that rejection of the car represents the fairest outcome here.
Mr H says he is looking for at least 12 monthly repayments he has made refunded, totalling 
just over £5,000, by way of compensation for the quality issues he has had with the car. But 
given, amongst other things, the miles travelled by Mr H and that no further repairs to the car 
have been required for several months, I think that £293.75 represents a fair compensation 
sum to be paid in respect of distress and inconvenience, loss of use and loss of enjoyment.
Mr H says that he paid £4,000 by way of a deposit, rather than £1,334.08. Now I dont 
dispute that Mr H paid over to the dealership £4,000, but Im satisfied that only £1,334.08 
was a deposit against the new car and should be returned. The balance of £2,665.92 
(£4,000 less £1,334.08) went to settle the finance outstanding on the car Mr H had traded in.Finally, I would add that Mr H doesnt need mine or Mercedes-Benzs permission to 
approach the motor ombudsman. However, neither I nor Mercedes-Benz can say what the 
outcome of such an approach might be. 
In addition to the above I can confirm that I agree with the investigator that as well as paying 
Mr H £293,75 and returning to him his deposit of £1,334.08, Mercedes-Benz should also:
collect the vehicle at no cost to Mr H
end the agreement with nothing further to pay
add interest to the deposit refund
remove any adverse information recorded with credit reference agencies in respect 
of the agreement
not charge for any excess mileage on the assumption that Mr H is correct in his 
submission of 25 February 2021 that no excess miles have been travelled.
My final decision
My final decision is that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited must:
collect the vehicle at no cost to Mr H
end the agreement with nothing further to pay
refund the deposit of £1,334.08 and add 8% simple interest a year to this sum from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement*
pay Mr H £293.75 for the distress and inconvenience he has been caused and for 
any loss of use and loss of enjoyment
remove any adverse information from Mr Hs credit file
not charge for any excess mileage on the assumption that Mr H is correct in his 
submission of 25 February 2021 that no excess miles have been travelled.
*HMRC requires Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited to take off tax from this 
interest. If Mr H asks for a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off this should 
be provided.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman