DRN-1573869
 
The complaint
This complaints about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Mr R says 
Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him the PPI.  
What happened
Mr R applied for a credit card with Lloyds in 1998. At the same time, it sold him PPI that was 
designed to help protect his repayments if he couldnt work due to disability or 
unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. As Mr R didnt agree with the 
adjudicator, the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Rs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold because:
I realise Mr R disputes being told about the PPI or that it was optional. But, from the 
copy credit agreement Mr R signed, Im satisfied he was made aware Lloyds was 
selling optional PPI and that he ticked for it to be added. And I see no reason to think 
he didnt tick the box - or at least want it ticked - as he suggests. 
If Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr R, it had to check that the PPI was right for 
him. And, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example, I cant see that hed have been affected by any of the exclusions 
to, or limits on, the PPI cover. And the PPI benefits would have paid out on top of his 
sick pay, for up to 12 months per claim. They covered him for unemployment too. 
Overall, I think hed have found the PPI useful. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But I believe he chose to take it out  so it looks like he wanted 
this type of cover. And it looks as though it would have been useful for him if 
something went wrong. I also cant see that hed have found it unaffordable. 
 
Taking everything into account, I dont believe Mr Rs lost out because of how Lloyds sold 
him the PPI. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman