DRN-2356403
The complaint
Mrs W complains about the contact she received from Nationwide Building Society 
(Nationwide) after a potentially fraudulent transaction was identified on her credit card. Mrs 
W complains the nature of the automated call was suspicious and that Nationwide wont 
send her a transcript of what it says. 
Mrs W also complains about the process of using the online system when complaining about 
Nationwide.
 
What happened
On 26 November 2019 Nationwide stopped a credit card transaction due to concerns that it 
may not have been genuine. On 26 and 27 November 2019 Nationwides automated phone 
system called Mrs W in an attempt to verify that the payment was genuine. Mrs W has told 
us that the call she received appeared to be similar to other calls she had been advised to 
ignore. 
Nationwide says that its automated calls request the customers year of birth but dont ask 
for any account information. If the customer confirms their year of birth they are asked to say 
whether or not a particular transaction is genuine. Nationwide called Mrs W four times but 
the transaction wasnt confirmed. 
Mrs W complained and Nationwide issued two responses, one on 13 December 2019 and 
another on 3 January 2020. Nationwide didnt forward Mrs W a transcript of its automated 
call. Nationwide said its account terms allowed it to block payments for verification and that 
its online banking system would log users out automatically if there has been no activity for 
five minutes. Nationwide didnt uphold Mrs Ws complaint. Nationwide said it would forward 
Mrs Ws feedback about its phone system to the relevant team. 
An investigator at our service looked at Mrs Ws complaint but felt Nationwide had dealt with 
it fairly. The investigator requested a transcript for the automated security call but Nationwide 
advised it couldnt provide it. Nationwide pointed to other information it has available 
concerning the content of its calls. 
Mrs W asked to appeal. In response to the investigator Mrs W said it was impossible to 
complete an investigation of her complaint without a transcript of the calls she received. Mrs 
W said the wording of the phone call was her main concern and that she remains of the view 
that the wording of the call and options the customer is required to follow were suspicious. 
As Mrs W asked to appeal, her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that, in response to the investigator, Mrs W has confirmed she understands that 
Nationwide is able to block a transaction if it has concerns it may be fraudulent. Mrs Ws 
main concerns elate to Nationwides automated phone calls and the information provided to 
the customer. Mrs W has consistently asked Nationwide for a transcript of the calls and our 
investigator has also asked for the same. 
Nationwide has confirmed there is no transcript or call recording available and that it cannot 
provide the information both Mrs W and this service has requested. I note Mrs Ws belief that 
the information must be available, but I cant force a business to supply something that it 
says doesnt exist. And whilst I appreciate Mrs Ws firm belief that we cant deal with her 
complaint without a transcript, Im satisfied it is possible to reach a fair decision. 
I accept that Mrs W found the content of the phone call suspicious and that she was 
concerned that, by providing some personal information, she could have been subject to 
fraud. Mrs W has sent us some supporting information from a local community organisation 
that advises people to be very careful about giving personal information over the phone. As 
the guidance says, fraudsters can operate sophisticated scams and pretend to be calling 
from genuine businesses. But, I have to balance that against a banks responsibility to 
protect its customers accounts and ensue its talking to someone whos authorised to 
access private information. 
Whilst Nationwide hasnt been able to provide a transcript, both it and Mrs W have told us 
about the content of the calls in question. I dont think either party has disagreed to a great 
extent over the details of the calls. Mrs W says the request to confirm your identity only 
comes once the caller has been told Nationwide suspects fraud on the account and after the 
customer has been asked to select an option. Mrs W feels that continuing to select options 
represents a security risk. Nationwide says its automated calls are structured to allow a 
customer to confirm a transaction as genuine by the year of their birth, not the full date. 
Nationwide hasnt disputed that customers are asked to make selections as part of the 
verification process. 
I understand Mrs Ws concerns over fraud, but Im not persuaded that Nationwide has acted 
unreasonably by asking customers to make selections to confirm a transaction is genuine. I 
think the nature of the information required by Nationwide means it has to ask specific 
questions before it can confirm a transaction is genuine with a customer. Nationwide also 
has to make sure the person it has called is authorised to approve the transaction. 
I note Mrs W says that elderly and vulnerable consumers may be more at risk from 
Nationwides approach. But Mrs W had the option of contacting Nationwide directly if she 
was unsure whether the automated call she received was genuine or not. I havent found 
that Nationwide has treated Mrs W unfairly by using an automated call to contact her. 
Mrs W has also complained that when she tried to raise a complaint on Nationwides 
systems there was a maximum character limit and that she was logged out after five 
minutes. As our investigator has said, the Financial Ombudsman Service doesnt have legal 
powers to tell a business how to operate or what systems it must have in place. We are an 
informal dispute resolution service and our approach takes the rules and regulations into 
account when deciding how to resolve a complaint. 
Nationwide has confirmed that it has a maximum character limit for secure messages and 
thats an approach its entitled to take. In much the same way, Nationwide can decide to log 
its customers out after five minutes of inactivity when using online banking. I havent found 
that Mrs W has been treated unfairly by the way Nationwides online systems work or that 
her ability to complain has been impacted. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs W as I can see how strongly she feels in this matter. But I 
havent found that Nationwide treated Mrs W unfairly by blocking the transaction in question and making automated calls to her. Im satisfied that Nationwide can chose how its 
automated calls work and that asking customers to confirm basic details during the call is a 
reasonable approach to take. As Im satisfied Nationwide has dealt with Mrs Ws complaint 
fairly, Im not telling it to take any further action.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman