DRN-2834426
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy with the amount Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros (Ocaso) 
offered to settle her claim under her buildings insurance for damage caused by an upstairs 
neighbour.
 
What happened
Miss S is the leaseholder for the property, and the freehold is owned by the local authority. 
The buildings insurance is in both the local authoritys name and Miss Ss name as 
beneficiary of the cover. Miss S is authorised to bring this complaint. 
Miss S suffered a number of leaks coming through her ceiling, damaging parts of her lounge 
and kitchen. Her upstairs neighbour caused the leaks. Ocaso settled an earlier, similar claim 
for a much greater amount, so Miss S didnt think its offer for this claim was enough. 
However, Ocaso explained that the earlier claim was for significantly more damage and, 
therefore, higher repair costs.
There was general disagreement between Miss S and Ocaso about the extent of repair work 
needed, during which time Miss S experienced further water damage. Ocaso said the 
additional damage wasnt covered under her policy. Miss S thought her home was showing 
signs of subsidence, but Ocaso disagreed and didnt increase its cash settlement offer.
Our investigator thought Miss Ss complaint should be upheld. She said that while Ocaso 
didnt think extensive repair work was needed, it hadnt provided any evidence of what its 
settlement offer was based on. Our investigator also noted that Ocaso declined part of Miss 
Ss claim (for her bay window) under a policy exclusion which didnt apply. In summary, our 
investigator proposed that Ocaso:
pay Miss S compensation of £100 by way of apology for declining her claim 
incorrectly;
investigate the cause of the damage to the bay window, and
settle the claim based on the cheapest of Miss Ss quotes for the repair work 
recommended by Ocasos approved surveyor.
Miss S didnt agree. She said:
a settlement to cover the cost of patch repairs wouldnt be enough;
she was unwilling to get quotes for patch repairs, but shed happily get them for full 
redecoration costs;
she doesnt think Ocaso will handle the claim for her bay window properly, based on 
her experience here, and
the offer of compensation is premature because the claim is ongoing.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Miss Ss complaint, although I havent changed any of the 
recommendations made by our investigator. Ill explain.
Theres a lot of information relating to this complaint, including surveyor reports and photos. 
Ive considered everything, but Ill only comment on the evidence when its necessary to 
explain the reasons for my decision. Firstly, Ill explain that under the policy, Ocaso only 
provides for cash settlement of claims. It doesnt arrange the repair work.
Settlement offer
Ocaso offered Miss S around £700 to repair the water damage to her home. Having looked 
at the photos, I can see why its offer is to cover decorative costs only. Thats because the 
outward signs show minimal damage to the rooms, which is confirmed by the surveyors 
report. Ocaso paid around £7,000 for her previous claim, but more extensive repairs were 
needed. Miss S is concerned that Ocasos current offer wont cover the same standard of 
repair.
The only evidence available to support the cost to repair is that provided by Ocasos 
surveyor. However, I accept that there isnt a breakdown of the costs, so its not possible for 
Miss S to understand the scope of work covered by the offer. Ocaso has since agreed to 
settle based on Miss Ss cheapest quote for the repairs if she provides three quotes for it to 
consider. The schedule of work quoted for must not be more than that decided by Ocasos 
surveyor, without good reason, and it must not exceed the policy limitations.
I think its a fair and reasonable outcome for this part of the complaint, but I can understand 
why Miss S thinks it wont be enough. Shes concerned that Ocaso is pricing the work at 
patch repairs rather than full redecoration. Ive looked at the terms of the policy and under 
the section Policy Exclusions, it states:
Matching items
We will not pay the cost of replacing, repairing or changing any undamaged items or parts 
of items forming part of a set, suite, carpet or other items of a common nature, colour, 
design or use. This applies if the other item can still be used and the loss or damage only 
affects one part of the item.
While this doesnt specifically state Ocaso wont redecorate full rooms where one wall or the 
ceiling is damaged, I think it goes some way to showing that the policy isnt intended to cover 
anything beyond the damaged item or area of the home.
That said, its already been established that the settlement offer isnt broken down, so I cant 
be sure whether Ocaso thinks its offer will cover patch redecoration or more than that. 
However, what I can see in its surveyors reports is that Ocaso is aware further damage may 
become apparent during repairs, or drying may be required:
Drying  Minor: (no dehumidification required). Protimeter readings were taken on a 
noninvasive basis and are only surface readings and thus an indicator of possible 
moisture, not confirmation. Once repairs commence the attending contractor must make 
their own final assessment, based on an invasive inspection if necessary, to establish if 
moisture levels are sufficiently low to enable works to proceed. We do not envisage the 
need for a drying company to be appointed on this occasion. 
So, I think its reasonable that Ocaso made an offer based on the extent of damage seen in 
the evidence, while being aware that further work may be required. Ocaso hasnt said it 
would cover the cost of drying the property, nor has it said the cost wont be covered. I can see why Miss S is unhappy with the cash settlement, but if she arranges for the quotes and 
more extensive work is needed, then Id expect Ocaso to consider the additional evidence 
with a view to increasing the settlement. Im satisfied that Ocasos offer is reasonable.
Subsidence
Ocasos surveyor inspected the cracked walls, which Miss S believed were caused by 
subsidence, and concluded that there was no movement to the property. I understand the 
property suffered movement in the past and appropriate repairs were covered. The surveyor 
thought the cracks were the result of normal expansion, reopening the previously filled 
damage. The freeholder of the property also appointed a structural engineer, who agreed 
with Ocasos report. As theres no other evidence to the contrary, I have no reason to ask 
Ocaso to do anything more about Miss Ss concerns regarding subsidence.
Bay window
Miss Ss further claim was for water ingress to the bay window. Ocaso declined this claim 
because Miss S had been away from the property for more than 30 consecutive days. The 
policy excludes cover for certain perils when the property has been unoccupied - water 
ingress isnt one of those exclusions. 
Ocaso has since agreed to investigate the cause of the damage to determine whether cover 
is available under the policy, which I think is reasonable. Ill include this in my requirements 
of Ocaso.
However, Miss S said she doesnt think Ocaso will handle the claim for her bay window 
properly, based on her previous experience. While I can understand that she has some 
reservations, I cant require anything of Ocaso just because it might make a mistake. I can 
only require Ocaso to investigate the damage in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy. It would be unreasonable, and outside my remit, to place any other conditions on its 
investigation to address what might happen.
I know Miss S thinks the £100 compensation recommended in our view isnt enough and its 
premature. But I dont agree. Thats because the compensation it offered was to address a 
specific error  that of declining her claim under a policy term which didnt apply. I think, 
here, Miss S is assuming Ocaso will make further mistakes which is why she says the offer 
is premature. As Ive already said, I cant require Ocaso to pay for mistakes it hasnt made, 
but I dont think Miss S is asking me to. If Miss S experiences any shortfalls in the future, its 
a matter which she can raise with Ocaso then. In the meantime, Im satisfied that £100 by 
way of apology for the mistake Ocaso made is fair and I see no reason to increase it.
Overall, I can see that Miss S hasnt had the best experience while making her claims, but I 
must bear in mind that Ocaso isnt responsible for causing the damage. It can only settle the 
cost of repairing damage which is caused by an insured peril and I think my requirements of 
it will achieve that. I sympathise with the position Miss S is in because she has no control 
over the cause, most of which relates to her neighbours actions. That must be frustrating. 
But its important to separate her frustration and upset about that from Ocasos 
responsibility, here.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and Ocaso SA, 
Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros must:
pay Miss S compensation of £100 by way of apology for declining her claim 
incorrectly;
investigate the cause of the damage to the bay window in line with the policy, andsettle the claim based on the cheapest of Miss Ss reasonable quotes for the repair 
work Ocasos approved surveyor recommended.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman