DRN-3787041
The complaint
Miss G complains about the actions of Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax, in relation
to cheque payments she made from her current account.
What happened
I previously issued a provisional decision on this case. It was my intention to come to a 
different outcome to the Investigator, so I wanted to give both parties the chance to 
respond with any further information they wanted me to consider before I came to my 
final decision on the matter.
I have copied my provisional decision below, which also forms part of this final decision.
Miss G says she instructed a builder to carry out some works on a new property shed
bought. The builder asked Miss G for a payment of £15,000, which Miss G sent by
cheque. Miss G says Halifax didnt allow the cheque to be cashed by the builder
because the cheque had been incorrectly completed.
Miss G says she then gave the builder a second cheque, which Halifax didnt pay
because her handwriting didn't match other examples it had of her handwriting. Miss G
says she was assured by Halifax that this cheque wouldnt be paid and so she wrote a
third cheque to the builder which cleared.
Miss G says she then found out that the second cheque she wrote to the builder had
been re-presented and had also cleared  meaning the builder had been paid twice.
Miss G says that the builder wouldnt answer any of her calls, and the work to her new
property hadn't been completed which meant she couldnt move to her new house.
She contacted Halifax and was told it would recall the second cheque and it asked her to
call in three days time to find out if the recall had been successful. Miss G says that she
spent a lot of time on the phone trying to find out if the cheque had been recalled, and later
found out that Halifaxs attempts to recall the cheque had been unsuccessful. The builder
later transferred a portion of the £15,000 back to Miss G, but not the full amount.
Miss G then instructed new builders, who asked for a payment of £10,000 to start the works
 again Miss G paid this by cheque, which wasnt paid by Halifax, this was due to a
signature mismatch. A second cheque for £10,000 was the written out the new builders 
which was also retuned as unpaid. This resulted in the builder not starting the work and
causing further delays to the building work.
Miss G says she is out of pocket by around £70,000 due to the actions of Halifax and the
builder. She says she told Halifax that she was unable to move into her new address and 
asked for it to correspond with her at her previous address. However, Halifax sent her letters 
about the possibility the cheque could be represented to the new address. Miss G also said 
that Halifax sent other letters to her new address despite Miss G letting it know on three
occasions that she hadnt yet moved there.
Miss G says that she has suffered a great deal of trouble, stress and expense as a result of
Halifaxs actions.
When Miss G initially complained to Halifax, it offered to pay her £40 for poor service. But it
then later changed its decision. It agreed to compensate her an additional £500 and pay her
£7,348.44  which was the difference between the amount the builder had returned and the
cheque value (£15,000). Halifax said the £10,000 cheque it didnt pay was done so correctly
because Miss Gs signature didnt match what it had on its records. It also explained that it
thought much of the impact on Miss G was down a civil dispute with the builder and not
because of its actions.
Our Investigator looked into things for Miss G, but they didnt uphold her complaint. They
agreed that Halifaxs actions had caused Miss G to write another cheque for £15,000 to the
builder. But they felt that Halifax had done enough to put things right for Miss G. They also
agreed that the signature on the cheque for £10,000 didnt match its records and so this was
fairly unpaid.
Miss G responded to say that she didnt think the settlement offer Halifax had provided her
with was fair, and she wanted an Ombudsman to look into her complaint. Because Miss G
didnt agree with the Investigator, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision
on the matter.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to express my empathy for Miss Gs situation. Its clear that shes been
through a very difficult time which has, understandably, caused her much upset. In reaching
my conclusion, I dont wish in any way to downplay or disregard the situation Miss G has
found herself in. Ive no doubt it was a truly horrible time for her. And Im sure the impact of
the error caused by Halifax has made an already bad situation much worse.
But being independent means I have to take a step back and consider what both parties
have said. I can only ask Halifax to reimburse Miss Gs losses if they were as a result of
something it had done wrong.
Having looked at all of the information available to me, I think Halifax needs to do more to
put things right for Miss G, but I am aware that what I intend to ask Halifax to do, isnt going
as far as Miss G would like.
£15,000 cheque payment
Both parties agree that Miss G was given misleading information which led to her writing two
cheques to the builder for £15,000  which subsequently meant the builder was paid twice.
I think it was always Miss Gs intention to pay the builder £15,000  because this is what the
builder wanted for the work  and Miss G accepted and paid this in good faith under the
impression that the works would continue. Unfortunately, its become clear that the builder
didnt continue with the works despite the payment having been received by them. And so, I
agree Miss G has lost out here. But I dont think the losses for the initial payment of £15,000
are as a result of something Halifax has done wrong. I think this is down to a dispute
between Miss G and the builder, which Miss G will need to pursue down other avenues. So,
I cant agree that Halifax needs to do anything more in relation to the initial payment of£15,000.
Both parties agree that the actions of Halifax resulted in Miss G making a second payment to
the builder of £15,000. I agree Miss G wouldnt have written another cheque if she had been
given better information by Halifax. So here, Halifax needs to put Miss G back in the position
she would have been in had it not paid the second cheque. I can see that the builder has
returned some of the money from this cheque payment, and Halifax has paid Miss G the
difference. But I dont currently think this is enough.
The £15,000 cheque was paid in August 2021. And I can see the builder returned some of
the funds at the end of August 2021. So Miss G was out of pocket by £7,348.44 until Halifax
reimbursed her the difference on 5 May 2022.
To put things right here, I think Halifax should pay Miss G 8% simple annual interest on
the £15,000, from the date the cheque was paid to the builder, until the amounts were repaid
to Miss G. This is to compensate her for the time she was out of pocket as a result of
Halifaxs error.
Unsurprisingly, Miss G was very worried about the fact she had lost out on the second
cheque being paid. And I can also see shes made a number of calls to Halifax about the
issue. Ive thought carefully about the impact this has had on Miss G, and I have also
considered our general approach to distress and inconvenience payments when thinking
what might be a suitable amount for Miss G to be awarded. Halifax has already offered Miss
G £540 to compensate her for this, and based on everything Ive seen, I think this is enough
to compensate Miss G for what Halifax did wrong.
I can see that Miss G has referred to other losses she incurred, which she says includes
extra costs for rent as a result of building works being delayed, having medical operations
cancelled as a result of not having moved into her new home  but I dont think I can hold
Halifax responsible for these losses. I think these losses are more likely to have been
incurred as a result of the builders and not something Halifax has done, so I wont be asking
Halifax to compensate or reimburse Miss G for these losses.
Unpaid £10,000 cheques
Halifax say this cheque wasnt paid because the signature didnt match what Halifax had
recorded on file for Miss G. Halifax has an obligation to check things like signatures on
cheques, to ensure that the cheque is legitimate.
Ive looked at the signature Halifax holds on its records for Miss G, and Ive looked at the
signature from the unpaid cheque. There does appear to be a difference in the two
signatures, so I think it was right of Halifax to have questioned the legitimacy of the cheque
with Miss G.
I can see that Miss G then wrote out a second cheque to the new builders which wasnt paid.
Halifax has said this cheque wasnt paid because an alteration on the cheque required Miss
Gs signature  Halifax say this is likely down to the S in one of the words on the cheque.
Ive looked carefully at the cheque, and it isnt clear to me why this cheque wasnt paid. The
copy of the cheque I have seen doesnt appear to have been altered, however I have only
seen a copy and so its possible the original does show an alteration.
Halifax say that the company who cleared the cheque should have contacted Miss G direct
before returning the cheques as unpaid. Because this contact was made by the cheque
clearing company, Halifax says it doesnt have any evidence to show whether the calls tookplace or not.
Ive thought carefully about what happened here. And while its possible Halifax could have
done more to contact Miss G about the returned cheques, I have also considered that there
were other ways that Miss G could have paid the builders to avoid delays to the works she
needed completing. Im not aware of any reason why the funds couldnt have been
transferred either by going to branch, online or by using telephone banking.
Having taken everything Ive seen so far into account, I wont be upholding this part of Miss
Gs complaint.
Neither party responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party responded to my provisional decision, Ive assumed both Miss G and 
Halifax has nothing further to add. Because of this, I see no reason to depart from the 
findings made in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
To put things right, Halifax should compensate Miss G for the time she was out of pocket, to 
do this it should:
Pay Miss G simple interest at 8% per annum on £7,651.56 from the date it was paid 
to the builder, until the builder repaid this to Miss G; and
Pay Miss G simple interest at 8% per annum on £7,348.44 from the date it was paid 
to the builder, until it was reimbursed by Halifax. **
**HM Revenue and Customs requires Halifax to deduct tax from the interest payment 
referred to above. Halifax must give Miss G a certificate showing how much tax theyve 
deducted if she asks them for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Miss Gs complaint. I order Bank of Scotland plc  
trading as Halifax to put things right for Miss G by doing what Ive said above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman