The complaint
Mrs C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold her a single premium payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy with a loan. 
What happened
In 1999, Mrs C took out a single premium PPI policy with a loan from HSBC. It doesnt seem 
to be completely certain how the sale took place, although Mrs C says she thinks it was over 
the phone. The cost of the policy was added to the loan and interest was charged on it. 
The PPI protected Mrs Cs monthly loan repayments if she wasnt able to work because of 
an accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs C disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Cs case. Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill explain.
HSBC needed to make it clear to Mrs C that the PPI was optional and get her agreement to 
take it. Mrs C says it didnt do this. She says she wouldnt have agreed to take the PPI 
unless she had been given the impression that it was part of the loan, or that she had to 
agree to it to get her loan approved. 
But I need to bear in mind that this all happened a very long time ago and, understandably, 
Mrs C doesnt seem to have a very clear recall now of what took place then. So I dont think 
it would be fair for me to conclude that the PPI was mis-sold for this reason, based only on 
what Mrs C says she thinks must have happened. I need to decide what I think is most likely 
to have occurred, taking account of all the information available to me. This includes what 
we know about how HSBC normally sold this type of PPI policy at around that time. 
HSBC doesnt have much information from the time of the sale, but I dont find that 
surprising given how long ago the sale occurred - businesses arent required to keep such 
records for this period of time. But HSBC has referred us to sample documents which it says 
were in use at around this time. These include a Creditor Protection Declaration which the 
consumer needed to sign to confirm theyd decided to take PPI. And I think its likely that 
DRN-1822552Mrs C would have needed to sign this, or a very similar document, for the PPI policy to have 
been added to her loan. 
So, overall, I think HSBC is likely to have done enough to make Mrs C aware that the PPI 
was optional. And I think she actively agreed to take the policy knowing she could choose 
not to do so. But I can understand why she might not recall this now.
HSBC says it cant be sure whether or not the PPI policy was recommended to Mrs C. But 
Ive assessed this complaint on the basis that HSBC did recommend it, because this means 
it needed to ensure that the policy was suitable for her. I cant now know what, if anything, 
HSBC did to ensure that it was suitable. But from what I know about Mrs Cs circumstances 
at the time, I cant see any reason why it wouldnt have been suitable. I say this because:
 
Mrs C appears to have been eligible for the policy.
 
 The policy excluded claims for pre-existing medical conditions. And I cant be sure 
that this exclusion was discussed with Mrs C at the time of the sale when the 
suitability of the policy should have been considered. Mrs C says she had a serious 
injury in 1995, which resulted in her being hospitalised for some time, followed by an 
extended period of recuperation. But it doesnt appear that this injury had caused her 
to still be receiving any treatment or attending regular medical check-ups in the two 
years leading up to the sale in 1999. Ive also noted that a box has been ticked in her 
representatives consumer questionnaire confirming that she had no health 
conditions at the time of the sale. So, based on a careful consideration of all the 
information available to me, I dont think that this exclusion would have put her off 
buying the policy, or made it unsuitable for her - even if this wasnt given full 
consideration at the time. I think shed still have thought the policy gave her useful 
cover. And it doesnt appear as if Mrs C would have been affected by any of the other 
main exclusions and limitations in the policy.
 
Mrs C says she didnt need the cover the policy gave her because she was entitled to 
generous employee benefits and also had some savings she could have used to 
make her loan repayments if she couldnt work. But this policy would have paid out in 
addition to Mrs Cs other means. It could have covered these repayments for up to 
twelve months if she became unemployed and for the remaining term of the loan if 
she couldnt work because of an accident or sickness. So I still think that Mrs C 
would have valued the additional security which the policy gave her if things went 
wrong.
 
It doesnt appear as if the policy was unaffordable for Mrs C. And although she 
wouldnt have received a proportionate refund of the policys premium if she 
cancelled it early, Ive no reason to think that this was particularly likely to happen.
 
HSBC also had to give Mrs C enough information so that she could decide if the PPI was 
right for her. Its not clear what information HSBC gave Mrs C and I think its possible that 
what she received wasnt as good as it should have been. But for much the same reasons 
that I dont think the policy was unsuitable for her, I dont think better information would have 
changed her mind about taking it. I think shed still have thought it provided useful cover at 
an affordable cost. So, on balance, I dont think Mrs C has lost out because of anything that HSBC may have 
done wrong when it sold her this PPI policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15July2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman