DRN-1156067
The complaint
Mr K has complained that Calpe Insurance Company limited refused to pay a claim on his 
motor insurance policy.
Reference to Calpe includes its agents.
Background
Mr K was involved in an accident while insured by Calpe. Calpe refused to pay to repair 
Mr Ks car. It said he wasn't covered at the time of the accident. Mr K didn't think that was 
fair and brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. He thought Calpe 
had dealt with the claim reasonably. Mr K didn't agree so the complaint's been passed to me 
to decide.
My findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
In bringing his complaint Mr Ks made a number of points and I've considered everything 
hes said carefully. But in this decision I will focus on what I see as being the key outstanding 
issues following our investigator's assessment of it.
Motor insurance policies have various levels of cover. So the different policies won't cover 
every eventuality or every purpose of use for the car and driver insured on them. And I don't 
think there's anything unfair or unreasonable in an insurer wanting to be sure that, at the 
time of an accident leading to a claim, the car and driver involved were covered by the terms 
of the policy. It follows that if the policy doesn't cover the driver at the time of the accident, 
then it might be fair for the insurer to refuse to pay that claim. Where thats happened Ill look 
to see that an insurers made that decision reasonably.
Mr Ks policy covered him for social domestic and pleasure use and specifically excluded 
any use for commuting or business. Mr K doesn't dispute that. Calpe turned down Mr Ks 
claim because it said that, at the time of his accident, Mr K was using his car for commuting 
or business. Mr K is adamant that he wasn't using his car for any form of business. Instead 
he said he was travelling to a meeting to discuss a relatives upcoming wedding. And he 
provided an email from a friend to support that. 
In contrast I've listened to the phone call when Mr K first reported the accident to Calpe. And 
when asked where he was going at the time of the accident Mr K replied:
I was going to work
The call handler also asked him what he mainly used his car for. Mr K said:
Mainly leisure but I was going to a meeting
So in that call Mr K twice indicated he was using his car for business purposes at the time of 
the crash. That is he said he was going to work and also for a meeting, which he said was 
distinct from being for a leisure purpose. And in those circumstances I think its reasonable 
for Calpe to conclude that the meeting was for a business purpose.
Mr K said he was mistaken when he told Calpe he was going to work and that he was still 
shaken after the accident. But while I don't doubt that he would have been shaken by the 
accident, it's not clear why he would make a mistake about where he was travelling to. And I 
note that he managed to answer all of Calpes other questions.
Mr K doesn't think he should be bound by what he said in the initial phone call, as this isn't 
set out in his policy. I agree that his policy - nor any other policy I'm aware of - says a 
policyholder may only ever give one answer to a question. And if a consumer has made a 
genuine mistake then I would expect an insurer to allow the policyholder to correct that error. 
But in this case, Mr K had more than one opportunity to say why he was travelling and what 
he used his car for. 
Around a week after the accident, a claims investigator interviewed Mr K. And Mr K signed a 
statement which said that - as well as using the car for social purposes - he also used it to 
drive to and from work. And the statement records he said that at the time of the accident 
he was driving to a meeting. So the answers in the signed statement support what he said 
when he reported the claim over the phone. That is: he mainly used his car for social 
reasons, but also used it for work, and at the time of the accident he was using it to travel to 
a work meeting. Mr K said the investigator has misrepresented what he said and misled him 
into signing a confession. Mr K added that the claims investigator didn't give him time to 
read the statement and covered some of it with his hand. But I don't find Mr Ks evidence 
here persuasive. Mr K is clearly an intelligent man. And if the investigator didn't give him 
time to read the statement then Mr K could have refused to sign it. He chose not to. And I 
think that's more likely than not because the statement accurately reflected what Mr K said 
at the time, which matched what he said when he reported the accident over a week earlier.
Mr K also said that in order to turn down his claim Calpe has to prove that he was driving for 
business purposes. But that's not right. Its fair for Calpe to make claims decisions based on 
the balance of probabilities. That is to decide whats more likely than not to have happened. 
So it doesn't need to prove exactly what meeting Mr K was travelling to at the time of the 
accident. Instead, in order to fairly turn down the claim, the evidence needs to show that it's 
more likely than not that Mr K was using his car to travel for a business purpose. And in this 
case I think that's a reasonable conclusion.
Mr K said he was driving for work purposes immediately after the accident, when the events 
would have been fresh in his mind. He then confirmed he used his car for travelling to and 
from work over a week later and that at the time of the accident he was travelling to a 
meeting. Ive read the email from Mr Ks friend to say that Mr K was travelling to meet him to 
discuss a relatives wedding. But Mr K didn't mention the wedding discussion until after 
Calpe had told him it would turn down his claim. And, in the circumstances, I think its 
reasonable for Calpe to give Mr Ks friends evidence less weight than it did to Mr Ks 
evidence when he reported the claim. So I think it turned down his claim fairly.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2020.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman