DRN-3184163
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold him a Silver account. Mr T 
says he was told that upgrading his account was the only way for him to get a bank card that 
can be used at ATMs.
What happened
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint about the Silver account. He didnt think 
that this account had been mis-sold. Mr T disagreed and asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. Having considered everything that has 
been provided, I dont think the Silver account was mis-sold. I will explain why. 
I think it may help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is missing, I 
have to base my decision on what I think was likely to have happened  based on everything 
that is available. And Ive started by thinking about whether Mr T was given a fair choice to 
take out the Silver packaged bank account.
Mr T has explained that he was told that he needed to upgrade his account in order to get a 
bank card that he could use to withdraw cash at ATMs. I can see that his account had been 
opened as a fee-free account a Classic account. Lloyds records show that he then went on 
to upgrade his account online without a staff member present a few days later. From what I 
can see of Mr Ts account history with Lloyds, it does appear that Mr T had held an account 
with a debit card prior to this, albeit some years earlier. So I think he would have known that 
debit cards were an option on fee-free accounts. I also note that the Classic account he 
opened did come with a debit card that could be used at ATMs so I find it unlikely that a 
member of staff would say that Mr T needed to upgrade his account to get a card that was 
either already issued or on his way to him. I should also add that at the time the account was 
taken out every Adult account came with a bank card that can be used at ATMs.
Also I find it unlikely that a member of staff would intentionally mis-lead Mr T into taking out a 
Silver account online if the account was not to be taken out over the phone or in branch - as 
I cant see how this would benefit the member of staff, since they would not receive credit or 
recognition for the upgrade. So overall, I am not persuaded that Mr T was told that he had to 
have a Silver account in order to receive a bank card that could be used at ATMs.
I think it is more likely than not that he agreed to the account as he was persuaded to take it 
out due to the benefits that it came with. I say this because the main benefits that the 
account came with at the time included European Travel Insurance, Breakdown Cover and 
Mobile phone insurance. I can see that Mr T contacted the Travel insurer on two occasions 
(though it does not seem a claim was made) and it seems from his bank statements he 
could have chosen to use the Breakdown Cover and Mobile phone insurance if he had 
wished to do so.
Based on what I have seen I dont think Lloyds made a personal recommendation that Mr T 
should take out the Silver account. This means that it did not have to ensure that the account 
was right for Mr T. It did though have to give Mr T enough information to decide this for 
himself. I am satisfied that during the online upgrade process, the major benefits wouldve 
been highlighted to make the account seem more attractive. 
I accept that Mr T may not have been told all the information about all of the account 
benefits. But Ive not seen anything specific that makes me think he wouldve been put off 
from agreeing to the account, had he been given more information about it. 
Mr T has mentioned that he did not end up using any of the account benefits, and I accept 
with the benefit of hindsight, the account may not have provided value for money. But this 
does not mean Lloyds did anything wrong in allowing Mr T to take out the account himself 
online
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint about his Silver 
account. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman