DRN-3134720
The complaint
Mr W complains that Santander UK Plc failed to carry out an international transfer request 
which led to exchange rate losses and bank charges.
What happened
On 11 Jan 2021 Mr W executed an international transfer through online banking of 
€22,938.80 to a payee I shall refer to as AM&S. He paid £25 for a same day transfer. Mr W 
said the name AM&S wasnt accepted on the online banking screen, only AM. He said the 
account name and International Bank Account Number (IBAN) matched so the payment was 
sent. 
Mr W chased the payment on 15 January as it hadnt been received and said he was 
advised by Santander that the payment could take up to 4-5 working days. He disputed the 
payment should take this long as hed paid £25 for a same day transfer. Mr W continued to 
chase the payment over the next few days. On 19 January Santander identified that the 
problem with the payment was that the payee name did not match the account so the 
receiving bank would not credit the account. 
Mr W checked the name with the payee and called Santander back that same day to 
manually add the details he hadnt been able to input on the online system originally. After 
three days of chasing, the payment still hadnt credited the account, so Mr W complained to 
Santander. 
Mr W said he was advised by Santander that all transfers have a £25 fee and its not a fee 
for a same day transfer. He said this contradicts Santanders stated fees online. Mr W also 
told Santander he needed the money back in his own account but was advised this was 
impossible as now the payee details were correct the transfer would go through okay. Mr W 
said he was offered a refund of the £25 plus £100 towards the international calls. Mr W said 
two hours after this phone call he received an alert on his phone confirming that the money 
had been credited back to his account and not to the payee. But the payment received back 
was substantially less than the original transfer. Mr W complained again to Santander. 
In its final response Santander said the payment was carried out on 19 January but the 
payee name was incorrect again, so the money was returned. The loss was due to 
correspondent bank charges and the difference in exchange rates. Santander offered a 
further £50 compensation for the advisor giving Mr W incorrect information on 22 January 
concerning when the new payee details had been applied to the transaction. Mr W declined 
the offer and brought his complaint to this service. 
In her view our investigator concluded that Santander didnt need to take any further action. 
She didnt believe Santander had incorrectly advised Mr W that the payment could take 
between four to five days. She also concluded the reason the transfer hadnt gone through 
was because the details were still incorrect. 
Mr W didnt agree and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. He maintained his view 
that the account name supplied to Santander had been correct and that the £25 fee would 
ensure payment arrives by the next working day.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr W but having done so I wont be asking 
Santander to do anything further. 
Account Name
Ive listened to several calls between Mr W and Santander. When Mr W initially tried to make 
the payment online he entered the name AM. He said he was unable to enter AM&S. After 
he chased the payment Santander informed him the payee details were incorrect so he 
corrected them during a phone call on 19 January. Mr W spelt out the name in full as AM&S, 
specifically using the ampersand (and sign) and not the actual word and. This name was 
applied to the transaction. I can see that it was later found to be incorrect. The correct name 
for the payee was AMandS not AM&S. This is the reason the transaction failed the 
second time.  
Mr W has said the account name detail supplied to Santander is correct. He said it was 
supplied to him in a document by the payee and suggested the problem with the ampersand 
relates to the Santander system. He provided a receipt with the account name, unrelated to 
this transaction, to demonstrate the account name. 
I can see the account name on the receipt is AMS with no and or & so it doesnt exactly 
match either name Mr W has quoted in the transactions. I also note the date of the receipt is 
August 2019. Mr W has suggested this is an issue for Santander and that perhaps some 
training is needed when an ampersand forms part of an account name. Its not for me to tell 
Santander what to do regarding its processes or whether its staff need training. But I can say 
that generally over the last year financial businesses have increased their fraud prevention 
measures to include confirmation of payee. These measures can include the need to match 
the account name exactly. 
While it does seem like a small difference in the name of the account it is still a difference. And 
it states in the terms and conditions:
3.2 International Payment delays or failures
a) We shall not be liable for any loss you may incur or suffer as a result of any delay 
or failure in an International Payment reaching the bank (or other financial institution) 
account of the beneficiary of the payment, where that delay or failure is a result of (or 
arises in connection with):
(i) you giving us Payment Details  which are inconsistent or incomplete
 
Im persuaded the payment failed because the name was incorrect. 
24 hours
Although Im persuaded the reason for the failed transaction is because of the incorrect 
account name Mr W has also complained that he paid £25 same day fee transfer but was subsequently told the transfer could take up to four to five working days. He said this 
contradicts the information on the Santander website.
Mr W said he has made other payments which have gone through within 24 hours as the 
website indicates they should do. He said he has also made non-urgent payments without 
paying £25 which have gone through within 48 hours. 
Ive looked at the website terms for international payments and electronic transfers and Ive 
also looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Ws account. 
The website page is broken down into sections:
In the International payment types section it describes the three types of international 
payments. It says:
£25  Electronic transfer (standard). The fastest method of transferring money, 
directly to an overseas bank account. For payments in EUR and USD funds can 
arrive on the same day if sent before our cut off time. 
In the Electronic transfers and electronic euro transfers section it lists various time limits in 
the form of a table. 
Payment type Cut-off time (branch) When the money usually 
arrives at the recipients bank
Sending money either inside or 
outside the UK in euros***2.30pm*** Within the EEA or the UK  
same working day
There are three asterisks referring to a footnote which says:
*** Please note that a cut off time of 1pm may apply to a small number of banks. Any 
payments made after this time will arrive the next working day.
Mr W, referring to the footnote, has concentrated on the word will in the footnote. He says 
this is a definitive statement which means his transaction that was made on the Monday 
should have been completed by the Tuesday at the latest. Im afraid I dont agree. The 
column to the right indicates when the money would usually arrive. There is no guarantee in 
this column. The three asterisks refer to the cut-off time in branch, specifically that there is a 
different cut-off time for a small number of banks which would affect whether money might 
arrive the same working day or the next working day. My interpretation of this is that 
payments made by 2.30pm in most branches would usually arrive the same working day and 
that for a smaller number of banks if payment arrives after 1pm it would usually arrive the 
next working day. I dont believe this footnote overrides the information in the table generally.
So Im not persuaded that Mr W was given any guarantee the payment would arrive the 
same day.
I can see from the call of 22 January that Mr W was given incorrect information. He was told 
the amendment hadnt been applied to the transaction on 19 January when he gave a 
revised name when, in fact, it had been processed. Mr W was offered £50 for this error. If Mr 
W would like to take up this offer he should contact Santander to see if its still available. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman