DRN-2981618
The complaint
Mrs Ms complaint is about the handling of a claim under her central heating insurance policy 
with British Gas Insurance Limited. 
What happened
On 10 April 2021, Mrs M reported a claim to British Gas as she had no hot water and the 
radiators were dangerously hot. However, British Gas told her its engineers were striking 
and so it could not attend to fix the boiler until May 2021. British Gas therefore told Mrs M 
she could arrange a gas-safe engineer of her own and it would reimburse the costs. 
Mrs M was not happy about this. She says she had been told that she would be prioritised in 
the event of any claim, due to her daughters additional needs; and if British Gas is unable to 
provide the service she is paying for (and a dispute between it and its engineers is not her 
concern) then it should provide an alternative. Mrs M are also unhappy that British Gas had 
written to her, instead of using email which is what she had asked for in a previous 
complaint. After she complained, British Gas arranged to attend to look at the boiler on 15 
April 2021. I understand the boiler was repaired on that day. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter, he did not recommend that it be upheld as 
he was satisfied British Gas had acted reasonably in dealing with the claim. The investigator 
also explained that we are unable to investigate the complaint about Mrs M having received 
letters by post instead of email, after an agreement that British Gas would communicate by 
email only. This is because the letters she says she received were from the gas supplier 
about the gas and electricity tariff and not from British Gas Insurance Limited. Although it is 
part of the same business group, they are separate legal entities and we have no jurisdiction 
over the gas supplier. 
Mrs M does not accept the investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to me. 
She has made a number of points in response, which Ive summarised below: 
She was not told of the reason for the delay in attending in the initial claim call. It was 
only after further lengthy attempts to make contact that she was told of the industrial 
action and that she should have received a letter informing her of the same. 
Even if the industrial action was out of British Gass control, it should have provided 
an alternative service, as it was still taking her premiums. 
She was not assured she would be reimbursed any costs she incurred in getting the 
boiler repaired, she was only told that she could try and get the costs back. The 
representative that she spoke to was vague and did not commit to saying she would 
be reimbursed and she no record of their name. If this was a serious commitment, 
why was it not confirmed to her in writing? 
She should have been informed in writing that industrial action was taking place and 
that if she needed to claim during that period, she should instruct her own engineer 
and would be reimbursed. British Gas did not do this. 
The only reason she was able to get the appointment in the end was via a special 
number provided to them by a disability support organization. 
Mrs M has also complained about the automatic renewal of the policy and the price of it, but 
these matters are being dealt with under a separate complaint. I am only addressing the 
handling of this claim.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy that Mrs M holds provides that claims will be dealt with within a reasonable time, 
unless something beyond our control makes that impossible  in which case well let you 
know as soon as possible and give you another time when we can visit. This is not defined 
and what is a reasonable time in some situations may not be reasonable in another. Mr and 
Mrs M had no hot water and problems with their heating, so this did need to be dealt with 
relatively promptly. However, while I can see the force of Mrs Ms argument that an industrial 
dispute should not impact on customers, I agree that it was an exceptional situation and out 
of British Gass control. 
Mrs M says that an alternative service should have been provided and customers should 
have been informed in writing that they could employ their own engineers and would be 
reimbursed in the event of a claim. I am not persuaded this would be a reasonable 
expectation, given the availability of engineers would presumably vary considerably between 
areas. In any case, I can only consider how this affected Mrs M. 
British Gass contemporaneous note of the phone call with Mrs M on the morning of 10 April 
2021 records that Mrs M was told she could arrange her own engineer to attend as soon as 
possible. The record also shows that Mrs M queried if she would definitely be reimbursed for 
any costs incurred in having the boiler repaired herself and she was assured that as long as 
she used a gas safe registered engineer, she would be reimbursed on receipt of the 
invoice. So while Mrs M was entitled to expect British Gas to attend, this was a reasonable 
proposal and would have saved the need to wait for the repairs. Mrs M says she didnt want 
to take this route, as she didnt have confirmation of this in writing but she had been assured 
the costs would be reimbursed. In the end, British Gas attended and repaired the boiler five 
days later. Overall, given the circumstances, I do not consider this to be unreasonable and I 
do not think British Gas did anything wrong.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman