DRN-2657024
The complaint
Mr K complains U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has unfairly declined his pet insurance claim.
What happened
Mr Ks pet dog T required veterinary treatment to investigate fore limb lameness. Mr K
made a claim under his policy with UKI for the cost of this. UKI declined the claim, saying Ts
condition began in the first 14 days of the policy and so isnt covered.
Our investigator considered the matter, upheld the complaint and said UKI should pay Mr Ks
claim. UKI disagreed so the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional 
decision on this case in February 2021, part of this is detailed below:
Mr K is claiming for costs incurred for investigative tests into Ts limb lameness. Ts
veterinary notes show that Mr K visited the vet within the first 14 days of the policy starting
and they assessed an occasional limp in Ts right fore. It was thought to be something
traumatic  one nail was shorter than the other. T was to be re-examined if it didnt improve.
Around a month later, Ts notes show that Mr K went back to the vet again. The notes say 
Admitted today for radiographs of right fore, persistent intermittent lameness, worse after
rest then loosens up through the day. Has not improved in last 4wk and lameness 8/10 when
bad. Ts radiographic notes referred to  v subtle osteophyte growing proximally from
Metacarpal 2 lateral to joint of MC2  but on second opinion from a senior vet they
commented that the radiographs showed nothing of concern.
The veterinary notes clearly show that Mr K visited the vet for Ts limb lameness within the
first 14 days of the policy. And the exclusion UKI is relying on to decline the claim says it
wont cover; any claim for or in connection with any illness arising during the first 14 days of
your pet being covered. UKI argue that Ts illness was arising in the first 14 days as hed
been seen by the vet for it during that timescale.
But our investigator noted that the exclusion being referred to, specifically didnt cover claims
relating to illness that started during this period. And he said, illness is defined in the policy
terms as  disease, sickness, infection or failure or any changes to your pets normal
healthy state thats not caused by injury.
After reviewing Ts veterinary notes, he wasnt persuaded that Ts limb lameness was
caused by disease, sickness or infection, as none of these things were diagnosed in the
senior vets final conclusion as set out above. So he didnt think UKI could fairly rely on the
exclusion to decline the claim.
But the exclusion also refers to any changes to your pets normal healthy state thats not
caused by injury. I think its fair to say that Ts limping was a change to his normal healthy
state  likely the reason why Mr K raised it with his vet in the first place. And while it was
initially thought to be caused by an injury to his nail bed, the veterinary notes show that this
was later ruled out when the limping was still present four weeks later, but the nail bed was
showing to be healthy  hence the further investigative tests.
On balance of what Ive seen so far, it seems T did have a change to his normal healthy
state, that was unlikely caused by injury, and started in the first 14 days of the policy. The
claim being made in this case is for treatment in connection to this. And as set out in the
exclusion above, this isnt covered. It follows Im persuaded UKI has fairly declined the claim
in line with the policy terms and conditions. So I dont intend to direct it to do anything
differently in this case.
Ive considered all of Mr Ks comments, including the fact that he had a previous policy for T
(policy 1) with UKI that overlapped with this new policy (policy 2) by several days. So he
thinks UKI could also consider the claim under policy 1, as T was seen by the vet for
lameness when it was still in place.
But the policy terms state  Well refund treatment costs for vet fees or complementary
treatment that you have to pay for a condition providing the condition happened during a
period of insurance and the treatment was given during a period of insurance when the
premium has been paid.
From what Ive seen, Mr K didnt renew policy 1. Instead he cancelled it at the end of its term
and took out policy 2 as brand-new cover. UKI says policy 1 is a completely separate policy
to policy 2, and that as Ts treatment didnt take place when it was still active, the claim cant
be paid under this policy either. This decision seems to be in line with the policy term set out
above, so these points dont change my provisional conclusion in this case.
For the reasons set out above, I didnt uphold the complaint and asked for any further 
comments to be sent to me before making my final decision. UKI agreed with the provisional 
decision and provided no further comments. 
Mr K disagreed and said theres been no reoccurrence of the issues with Ts fore limb 
lameness since the problems were investigated approximately two years ago. He says this 
suggests the limping mustve been caused by traumatic injury that went undiagnosed and 
has cleared up over time. He says if the limping was caused by disease it wouldve instead 
worsened over time  which it hasnt. And he thinks UKI is changing its excuse for not 
paying the claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Ks response in full and after doing so my findings remain unchanged. I 
say this because as set out in my provisional decision, the definition relating to the exclusion 
UKI has relied on when declining the claim, partly refers to any changes to your pets 
normal healthy state thats not caused by injury. I explained I think its fair to say that Ts 
limping was a change to his normal healthy state and while Mr K suspects the limping 
mustve been caused by an injury, Ive simply not seen sufficient evidence to support this. The initial injury thought to involve Ts nail bed was later dismissed as a cause and as Mr K 
has acknowledged, no injury was diagnosed at the time T was assessed for the limping. 
Instead, radiographs pointed to a subtle osteophyte which, from what Ive seen, is a type of 
outgrowth of new bone that can cause pain, loss of joint function and clinical symptoms and 
is often associated with osteoarthritis. While I note a second opinion of the radiographs 
stated they showed nothing of concern, this opinion also didnt give any other definitive 
cause for the limping. So Im not persuaded it was caused by an injury.
It follows, on balance of the information that is available to me in this case, and for the 
reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, Im still persuaded UKI has fairly 
declined the claim in line with the policy terms.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman