DRN-4160486
The complaint
Mr L complains that Revolut Ltd will not refund Apple Pay transactions that he says he didnt 
make or otherwise agree to. 
What happened
Mr L explains he received a phone call from someone claiming to be from Revolut to discuss 
transactions on his account. Mr L didnt recognise them. He says the caller told him they 
would be blocked, and a new card would be sent out to his address. Mr L recalls receiving 
another phone call around an hour later. He recalls the caller told him to open his Revolut 
app. Mr L says that when he did, he noticed £800 had gone. He says the caller told him to 
close the app and open it again. Mr L says he followed the callers instructions and more 
money started leaving his account. A total of seven payments totalling just under £5,000 
were made in store at a high street retailer that Ill call A. The transactions were authorised 
using Apple Pay. 
Mr L reported the matter to Revolut within an hour of the transactions happening. He said it 
was obvious hed been the victim of a phishing attack. He said hed been called by someone 
claiming to be from Revolut but he didnt give the caller any information. He told Revolut 
about his learning difficulties and how he finds it easier to talk on the phone than write in the 
chat function. Revolut took five days to call him back, resulting in a delay logging the claim.
When Revolut had the details, it looked into the matter but declined Mr Ls claim for a refund. 
It said the device involved in setting up Apple Pay for Mr Ls card was the same device that 
was being used on the in-app chat. It pointed out that Mr L hadnt provided any screenshots 
of his phone to show the suspicious calls hed received. Revolut concluded if Mr L didnt 
make the transactions himself, he must have agreed that someone else could. It said it had 
found no trace of fraudulent activity and the transactions could have only been made by 
Apple Pay if Mr L had failed to keep his account details safe.
Mr L complained. Revolut didnt change its position on the refund, but it paid Mr L £100 to 
recognise it gave poor service by not calling him sooner. As Mr L remained unhappy with 
how things stood, he referred the complaint to this service. He explained hed been at home 
when the disputed transactions happened and his housekeeper could confirm this. He said 
that no-one else had access to his phone. 
Our Investigator considered the matter but did not recommend it should be upheld. He 
concluded there was no explanation for how the disputed payments could have been made 
without at least some involvement from Mr L and he wasnt persuaded things happened in 
the way Mr L had described. 
He pointed out Mr L signing in and out of his app had no connection to money leaving his 
account as making an Apple Pay payment did not require any steps to be taken from within 
Mr Ls mobile banking app.
Our Investigator also asked Mr L about the phone calls in case there was more going on 
than Mr L had initially reported. He was mindful it was possible Mr L could have unwittingly 
shared information. 
Mr L replied to say the findings were wrong and that around five payments had already been 
taken out of his account before he may have given the caller a passcode. He said the 
outcome wasnt logical and he wouldnt have spent all of his money in 50 minutes and then 
said it was fraudulent. 
As Mr L and our Investigator couldnt reach an agreement, the complaint has been passed to 
me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Revolut treated Mr L unfairly by declining his claim. I know this 
is not the news Mr L is hoping for, so I will explain why. As our Investigator set out the 
position extensively in his view to both parties, Ive focussed on what I think are the key 
outstanding issues here. 
In cases where payments are in dispute, there are some general principles that apply. The 
Payment Services Regulations primarily require firms to refund customers if they didnt make 
or authorise payments themselves. Certain other circumstances do apply  specifically in 
this type of case whether the customer was grossly negligent or what the customer may 
have consented to. So, when I look at whether a firm has acted fairly in rejecting someones 
fraud complaint, one of the things I consider is whether the customer made the transactions 
themselves or allowed them to be made. If they did, then it generally wouldnt be fair to ask 
the firm to refund them.
One of the difficulties in this case is its not very clear exactly whats happened. Mr L says he 
received two phone calls that he thought were from Revolut, but hes not been able to show 
any specific details about those calls from his phone records and hes not given much 
information about what was said, particularly during the second call. Mr L explains he 
couldnt remember if he was speaking to the same person both times due to the stress of the 
situation. Ive thought about whether Mr L was tricked by a caller into taking steps resulting 
in payments being made from his account. But one thing Mr L has been very clear on is that 
payments had already been made from his account before hed potentially given the caller a 
passcode and before the second phone call took place, so by Mr Ls own recollections this 
cannot be what happened. 
Ive looked carefully at Revoluts technical evidence. It shows that the payments were 
authenticated by Apple Pay involving personalised payment details linked to Mr L such as 
his virtual card number and its security code. So Ive thought about whether its more likely 
than not that Mr L consented to the payments being made. 
Revoluts records show that an Apple Pay token was set up shortly before the disputed 
transactions happened. A passcode was sent by text to Mr Ls phone number as part of the 
process to set up Apple Pay. This is the same phone number that Mr L has used when 
contacting this service and the same number that Revolut has held for Mr L since 2021. Mr L told both this service and Revolut that hed never shared his card details and that no-
one else had access to his phone. But this means I cant see how anyone else could have 
had the opportunity to add Mr Ls virtual card details or to find out the passcode that was 
required to verify Apple Pay when it was only sent to Mr Ls phone. 
In addition, at the time the disputed Apple Pay transactions were taking place, further unique 
passcodes were required. There is no question that Mr L received these text messages 
because hes provided this service with a screenshot of them. It is unclear how an 
unconnected third party would have been able to obtain these codes which were required in 
real time to complete the transactions at As retail premises unless Mr L disclosed them. 
Although Ive thought carefully about everything Mr L said to Revolut and to us, there 
remains no clear opportunity for someone else to have obtained this information or for Mr L 
to have unwittingly disclosed it. 
Whilst I recognise Mr Ls strength of feeling, from what I have to consider, I cant see how 
the transactions in dispute could have been made without Mr Ls involvement. Revoluts 
technical evidence shows that things could not have happened the way that Mr L has 
described. Having looked carefully at the payments and the surrounding circumstances, on 
balance, I think the transactions were authenticated using Mr Ls payment tools and that 
Mr L consented to them being made. This means I consider the payments to be authorised 
and that Revolut did not treat Mr L unfairly by holding him liable for the loss. 
Given that I consider the payments to be authorised because, on balance, Mr L was involved 
in their execution, I dont think he would be in a different position now if Revolut had tried to 
block his account to find out more about the transactions at the time they were being made. 
In addition, there is no way for Revolut to stop a card payment once it has been made. 
Finally, Im not persuaded that Mr L has lost out specifically as a result of Revoluts delay in 
investigating the claim, although I am pleased to see Revolut has already recognised that it 
should have phoned Mr L when he told it about his personal circumstances. 
I am sorry to have to disappoint Mr L. I have not reached this position lightly and I am 
especially mindful that the loss of this money at a time when hes struggling to make ends 
meet will not be easy to accept. But for the reasons I have explained above, I am unable to 
fairly conclude that Revolut should take responsibility for the loss. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman