DRN-3536529
The complaint
Mr S complains about the time it took to receive a replacement card from Clydesdale Bank 
Plc trading as (Virgin Money) due to an error in its part. He is also unhappy about the 
customer service he received when requesting updates and making a complaint. 
What happened
On 2 December Mr S notified Virgin Money by webchat that he had lost his card. He was 
advised he would receive a replacement card within three to five working days.
Mr S contacted Virgin Money again on 10 December having not received his card. He was 
told the replacement card hadnt been actioned but the representative ordered another and 
compensated Mr S £50 for its error which Mr S accepted as a resolution to his complaint.
Three days later Mr S asked Virgin Money to reopen his complaint as he didnt believe the 
impact of not having his debit card had been considered in full and he wanted further 
compensation. Mr S confirmed he received the replacement card on 20 December.
Virgin Money agreed the service Mr S received wasnt as it shouldve been and awarded Mr 
S a further £60 for the distress and inconvenience caused. It also asked for details about 
how Mr S had been impacted financially by not having his card, but Mr S never responded.
Mr S was dis-satisfied with the compensation received from Virgin Money and brought his 
complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ss concerns and reached the conclusion that the 
compensation Virgin Money had paid Mr S was fair and reasonable and didnt think it should 
do anything more. 
Mr S disagreed  he says his mental health wasnt taken into consideration when awarding 
compensation and he got more on another similar complaint and has asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided to not uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
My role is to look at the problems Mr S has experienced and see if Virgin Money has done 
anything wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr S back in the position he 
wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award modest compensation 
that I think is fair and reasonable.
And in this complaint Virgin Money has agreed the delays on its part meant it took a week 
longer than it should of for Mr S to receive a replacement card and that Mr S had to chase it 
for this. Mr S has now received the replacement card  so this issue has been resolved so 
what I need to consider is if the compensation of £110 in total awarded to Mr S for the 
distress and inconvenience caused in having to chase Virgin Money for the card was 
enough.
And I think it was. I accept that it was inconvenient not having the card and even more so 
having to chase Virgin Money for it following its mistake in not ordering it. Mr S says because 
he was without the card he had to seek assistance from family and friends by getting them to 
withdraw and transfer cash for him. I agree this is unfortunate but as Im sure Mr S 
understands mistakes happen. And I think Mr S also has to take some responsibility for 
being without the card and mitigating his circumstances  indeed he lost the card to begin 
with. 
And although Mr S says he was impacted financially and possibly his credit file affected 
when Virgin Money asked for details of this to assess further compensation he didnt 
respond. And I also havent seen any evidence of this. 
So taking all of this into consideration I think the compensation of £110 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the delay in receiving his replacement card is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances and Im not going to ask Virgin Money to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint against 
Clydesdale Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman