DRN-3493642
The complaint
Mr C has a hire purchase agreement with Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited 
trading as Audi Financial Services (VWFS). He has complained VWFS didnt treat him fairly 
when he asked for help with his agreement. 
What happened
Mr C acquired a new car under a four-year hire purchase agreement with VWFS in January 
2020. The car cost around £22,000 and Mr C was required to pay around £270 per month. 
In April 2020 Mr C contacted VWFS and asked for help by making a request through its 
portal for customers in financial difficulty as a result of Covid-19. VWFS suspended Mr Cs 
agreement in May 2020 to stop further billing while his request was assessed. Mr C asked 
for an update in June 2020, and the following month he signed a modified agreement and 
VWFS agreed to apply a four-month payment deferral for the months that werent paid. 
Rentals on the modified agreement were around £300 per month.  
Towards the end of July 2020, it looks like VWFS told Mr C his rentals were soon due to 
resume. In August 2020 VWFS also wrote to Mr C to explain his credit file had incorrectly 
been negatively impacted but amendments would be made to correct this. 
Mr C spoke to VWFS in October 2020 about missed rentals for August and September. He 
cleared one of the missed rentals in October 2020 and made a further application for a 
payment deferral and his agreement was suspended. Mr C made a £200 payment in 
December 2020, which meant his agreement was around £100 behind at that point. 
VWFS, however, left Mr Cs agreement suspended which meant arrears started to accrue. 
Its contact notes indicate it sent arrears texts to Mr C but it wasnt noted until May 2021 the 
payment deferral hadnt been properly processed. So VWFS told Mr C his rentals would 
resume. It offered to write off rentals in excess of six months totalling around £600. Mr Cs 
agreement was therefore around £1,900 behind. This is worked out as the six rentals that 
werent taken when the agreement was suspended totalling around £1,800, together with the 
£100 he was behind from the payment made in December 2020. 
Mr C wasnt happy with this. VWFS notes say he was unhappy with the call waiting times; 
he wanted the option to pay the outstanding rentals at the end of the agreement; he thought 
the communication wasnt adequate; he was concerned about his credit file; and hed been 
unable to make card payments over the phone.
VWFS gave Mr C its bank details for making payment and in August 2021 it sent a final 
response to the complaint. It said it acknowledged its call waiting times were impacted by 
Covid-19 but they were back to their unusual level by that point. It agreed to amend Mr Cs 
credit file up to that point too and offered to speak to him about the outstanding rentals that 
were due. It said it would consider forbearance options if needed. And that Mr C had signed 
the modified agreement after the initial deferral setting out what his rentals would be. It 
couldnt say when the system for taking card payments over the phone would be fixed. To 
resolve things, it offered to waive a further amount totalling around £700, which reduced the 
outstanding balance to around £1,200. 
Mr C still didnt agree and brought the complaint to our service. VWFS offered to reduce the 
outstanding balance further to £1,000. Our investigator looked into things, and she thought 
VWFS offer was fair. She noted it had agreed to write off a significant sum in total  around 
£1,500. She noted it had agreed to amend Mr Cs credit file. And she didnt think it needed to 
do more. 
Mr C didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I first want to say Im sorry to hear Mr C has been impacted by Covid-19. It cant have been 
easy, and I appreciate the time hes taken to bring his complaint to our service. 
I also want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend 
any discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. I want to assure 
Mr C and VWFS that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, 
its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the 
key issues. Our powers allow me to do this.
Mr C acquired the car under a regulated hire purchase agreement. And our service is able to 
consider complaints relating to these sorts of agreements. 
Its not in dispute here that things could have gone better. It would have been helpful had 
Mr C been told earlier his first payment deferral had been accepted. And rather than 
suspending the agreement for so many months when Mr C asked for the second payment 
deferral it would have been better had VWFS gave him an answer on the request sooner, 
told him what the implications were, and carried out what was necessary. VWFS also 
incorrectly impacted Mr Cs credit file before having to rectify it. 
I can understand Mr Cs frustration if he was having difficulty contacting VWFS and making 
payment over the phone. I can also understand Mr Cs concerns about having to pay back 
the rentals that hadnt been collected in addition to paying his normal rentals. And, of course, 
he also wanted to know his credit file wouldnt be impacted in relation to the outstanding 
rentals. So I think it was right for VWFS to offer to do something to resolve Mr Cs complaint. 
On the other hand, I dont think VWFS has acted wholly unreasonably. While it didnt let 
Mr C know about the outcome of the initial payment deferral enquiry straight away it did 
suspend the agreement so rentals werent claimed for. When Mr C initially asked for help the 
Financial Conduct Authority hadnt yet issued its Covid-19 guidance setting out its 
expectations for payment deferrals for car finance firms. And VWFS added a Covid-19 flag 
on the agreement so thered be no payments taken or worsening status on his credit file 
(although I acknowledge there was a temporary issue with this). 
Moreover, VWFS only increased Mr Cs rentals after the initial deferral once hed accepted a 
modified agreement. So I dont think that was unfair. While VWFS didnt deal with the 
subsequent deferral request as it should have done, it did suspend the agreement which did 
ultimately give Mr C the breathing space he needed. From what I can see it sent texts to him 
about the arrears. So theres an argument Mr C should have known something wasnt right, 
although I do appreciate he had a lot going on at the time. I also have to bear in mind VWFS service was likely impacted in 2020 by having to change the way it worked as a result of 
Covid-19. And that it gave him alternative methods for making payment.
VWFS has offered a significant reduction in the outstanding amount owed  around £1,500. 
Its also offered to ensure theres no worsening status on Mr Cs credit file in relation to the 
rentals that were missed. While I can appreciate Mr C is still unhappy, I think this offer is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances. This is taking into account any difficulties Mr C had 
contacting VWFS; making payment over the phone; the errors on reporting his credit file; 
and the communication about the deferrals. I think it adequately puts things right in light of 
what Ive explained above. 
While Mr C is unhappy with the resolution, I dont for example think VWFS needs to do more 
such as offering to write off the outstanding rentals. Those rentals are fairly owed under the 
agreement, and Mr C had use of the car for the relevant time. So I think its fair he pays for 
that. It also doesnt look like VWFS is adding interest on this amount. I dont find I have the 
proper grounds to direct it to do more. 
I would encourage Mr C to speak to VWFS about the outstanding rentals. If Mr C is unable 
to pay this amount straight away VWFS should work with him to find a solution. If he is in 
financial difficulties, Id remind it to treat him with forbearance and due consideration. 
Finally, I think this decision fairly resolves things up until this point. But if there are any future 
problems, for example with the arrangement, if Mr C is unhappy with how VWFS has dealt 
with things, it may be something our service is able to consider. 
My final decision
My final decision is that, to the extent its not done so already, Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial Services should reduce the debt relating to 
the missed rentals to £1,000, and it should remove any adverse information relating to those 
rentals from the credit reference agencies. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman