DRN-4122749
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C and Trustee complain about the service provided by Skipton Building Society, 
referred to as Skipton or the business. 
In short, they say Skipton ignored their instructions to sell the investments. 
What happened
In August 2022, Mr and Mrs C contacted Skipton with a request to fully surrender their 
investments, but theyre unhappy that this didnt happen. 
Theyre also unhappy that Skipton want to charge a fee (of around £2,000) to surrender 
investments that werent held within their Monitored Informed Investing (MII) portfolio 
service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Skipton has an MII service which provides ongoing investment monitoring and advice 
for a fee. Some of Mr and Mrs Cs investments are included in this service, so it wont 
charge a fee for any advice when surrendering them. However, advice when 
surrendering investments not in the MII service will be subject to a charge. 
In August 2022 Mr and Mrs C spoke to Skipton to explain that theyd decided to close 
their investments and wanted advice on how to do this, and if thered be any tax 
implications. Skipton made it clear that thered be a fee for the non-MII investments, 
and the cost would be £2,090.00 where a trust is involved. Mr and Mrs C then 
decided that theyd surrender the non-MII investments without advice. 
An advice meeting was set up, but it didnt go ahead. Skipton emailed Mr and Mrs C 
suggesting that it would provide advice around surrendering the MII investments 
once theyd surrendered their non-MII investments. 
Skipton later sent the documents that Mr and Mrs C needed to close their accounts 
on a no-advised basis. 
Shes seen no evidence that Skipton received an update on the non-MII investments, 
or instructions to proceed with advice to surrender the MII investments, so no action 
could be taken.   
Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. In summary, Mr C make the following key points:
They werent seeking advice, they just wanted information  mainly procedural about 
how they surrender the investments and confirmation that the Capital Gains Tax 
(CGT) calculations that Mr C had already done were correct.  
The fee that Skipton wanted was a non-starter. Hes already discussed the impact of 
the closure of MII would have on their Loan Trusts. Nothing further that was said by 
the adviser could be construed as advice. 
Despite what the investigator says, they didnt need advice, just the investments sold 
as soon as possible. The adviser insisted on the meeting, not them. 
The adviser couldve called  it was imperative in these circumstances that he did  
but he didnt. 
The investigator has missed the thrust of their complaint, which is that Skipton failed 
to carry out their instructions to surrender all of their investments. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr and Mrs C say, Im not 
persuaded that the business behaved unreasonably, such that this complaint should be 
upheld.  
But before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr and Mrs Cs strength of feeling about this matter. Im also very sorry for 
the recent health challenges faced by Mrs C. I appreciate this must be a difficult time for 
them both. 
Mr C has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope they wont take the fact my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. In 
other words, I dont have to comment upon every single point made. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr and Mrs C and Skipton, and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. Despite what Mr C 
says, I dont need any further evidence to make my decision. 
I dont uphold this complaint, in brief, for the following reasons: 
I dont think Skipton was wrong to say that it would charge a fee for any advice 
offered that wasnt covered by the MII services for which it was already justifiably 
charging a service. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs C didnt want to pay any fees at all because they just wanted 
to surrender their investments  Im aware that they wanted the money to help their 
son buy his first house. 
Based on what Skipton says, I dont think the process was that simple, given the 
possible tax implications. Im mindful that Mr and Mrs C, in August 2022, decided  of 
their own volition - to close their investments and wanted advice on whether thered 
be any tax implications. I note Mr C says that theres a difference between wanting 
advice and information but I think the distinction in this setting is somewhat artificial. 
Im aware Skipton quite rightly explained that it could provide advice, but thered be a 
fee for the non-MII investments.  
In the circumstances, I dont think Mr and Mrs C could reasonably expect the 
business to offer this advice  in relation to the investments that werent already 
covered by the existing arrangement  without a charge. I appreciate Mr C says, they just wanted to know about the procedure for encashing 
their investments, but as I said above, I dont think it was that simple, given the 
potential tax consequences. Im aware Mr C says hed done his own capital gains tax 
(CGT) calculations on the sale of the investments and was looking for confirmation 
that his calculations were correct. Even if this was the case, this involves advice on 
the part of the business thats unlikely to come for free and expecting it to be free I 
dont think is reasonable. 
In any case, a business is entitled to charge a fee for a service, as long as it has 
made the level of fees reasonably clear to the customers, which I believe it has here. 
I dont think Skipton suggesting that advice when surrendering investments  not in 
the MII service  will be subject to a charge, was wrong. 
Its possible Mr and Mrs C thought the amount was too high given that they were 
paying for advice already, and that all they wanted to do was to surrender. In other 
words, what they wanted wasnt advice. But this was the rate the business was 
charging for advice in relation to investments in trust, which is what Mr and Mrs C 
had. Skipton was entitled in the reasonable exercise of its legitimate commercial 
judgement to decide the level of fees, for services provided. Its not something that 
our service can get involved in. 
I appreciate Mr C says that the adviser wanted the (advice) meeting and not them. 
But even if this was the case, I dont think the adviser was wrong to insist on having a 
meeting in order to decide the best way forward. But if they absolutely didnt want 
any advice, they shouldve made this clear, as they did in relation to the non-MII 
investments. 
The above notwithstanding, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im 
persuaded that Mr and Mrs C  armed with the information about fees  decided of 
their own volition to surrender the non-WII investments themselves without advice. 
I note that an advice meeting was set up, but it didnt go ahead through no fault of 
Skipton. But Skipton emailed Mr and Mrs C suggesting that it would provide advice 
once their non-MII investments had been encashed by them. I note Skipton even 
provided the necessary forms to enable them to do so on a non-execution basis. I 
note Mr C takes issues with when the forms were sent, but I cant safely say that this 
means the business behaved in such a way that the complaint should be upheld. In 
the circumstances I cant say that the business behaved unreasonably. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I cant say that Skipton received an 
update on the non-MII investments  so that it could proceed to advise on the 
remaining investments within the MII  therefore, Im unable to say that Skipton did 
anything wrong by not offering this advice of its own volition regarding the 
investments for which Mr and Mrs C were entitled to advice without having to pay an 
additional fee. 
In other words, in the circumstances, and on balance, I cant blame Skipton for not 
offering advice, before Mr and Mrs C had sold the non-MII investments, as it had 
made it clear that it would after theyd done so. So, it hasnt done anything wrong by 
not giving this advice. 
On balance, I cant safely say that Skipton failed to carry out Mr and Mrs Cs 
instructions to sell all of their investments. Therefore, I cant say that Skipton is 
responsible for any losses they may have suffered, because it hasnt done anything 
wrong such that this complaint should be upheld. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs C will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isnt what they want to 
hear. Whilst I appreciate their frustration, I cant safely say that Skipton behaved 
unreasonably.  In other words, on the face of the available evidence, and on balance, I cant uphold this 
complaint and give them what they want. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C and 
trustee to accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman