Page 1 of 11The complaint
Ms F complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) postponed the investment review for 
her Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) from January 2020 to March 2020, leading to a 
significant drop in its value.
What happened
Ms F had a SIPP. It was invested through Barclays Discretionary Fund Management service 
until November 2018, when it moved to their Private Clients Service. Barclays also acted as 
financial advisers for the SIPP.
Barclays said that they schedule financial reviews every 12 months, unless their client 
informs them that their circumstances have changed. 
Ms F stopped working in 2017 and started studying again. In August 2018, she had an 
annual investment review with Barclays. She also put her house on the market around this 
time. 
On 4 September 2018 Barclays shared a report with Ms F covering the outcome of the 
August 2018 investment review. The report showed no change in Ms Fs financial 
requirements from the previous review. It indicated that Ms F had no need for cash at that 
time. The report stated: If any of your circumstances change ahead of our next review, 
please let me know as this could affect the suitability of the investments that you hold. 
After that meeting, Barclays called Ms F on 26 September 2018 regarding the transfer to 
their Private Clients Service that had been agreed at the review meeting. On 1 and 8 
November 2018 Barclays unsuccessfully attempted to call Ms F regarding this transfer.
On 5 November 2018 Ms F emailed Barclays to ask them about student loans.
On 15 November 2018 Ms F was transferred to the Private Clients service. And on 26 
November 2018 Ms F called Barclays to ask for her branch address and to arrange a new 
cheque book.
On 20 May 2019 Barclays tried to call Ms F to set up the next annual investment review. 
They said this was planned for August 2019, as investment reviews should take place 
annually. 
Barclays also attempted to call Ms F on 24 and 30 May 2019 to set up the August 2019 
review. Their call records show they didnt connect with Ms F but left voicemails. 
On 14 September 2019 Ms F called Barclays to request a dispute be raised for certain 
transactions. Barclays noticed that the mobile number Ms F had provided for them to call her 
back didnt match the one held on file. They asked if they should update their records with 
DRN-3070791Page 2 of 11the new number.
On 9 December 2019 Barclays sent Ms F an e-mail which said theyd been trying to contact 
her. Ms F replied the same day to say shed received no messages.
Barclays call notes show that Ms F called them on 20 December 2019 to book an 
investment review. This was scheduled for 8 January 2020 at 1pm. On 7 January 2020 
Barclays tried to call Ms F for a pre-appointment discussion. They left a voicemail. But On 8 
January 2020 Ms F called to change her appointment as she could no longer make it.
On 15 January 2020 Barclays call notes cover the rescheduled appointment on that date. 
The note states that shed only set aside 10 minutes. So the review had been rescheduled 
for 22 January 2020. Ms F said she had around 20 minutes available that day.
Barclays called Ms F on 22 January 2020 and started the review with Ms F. Their call notes 
said: Due to the clients financial situation, the review has been postponed (she is currently 
in the process of selling her residential property). 
The next record of a call between Barclays and Ms F is dated 11 March 2020, although the 
note refers to 10 March 2020. The note for this call refers to recent discussion about the 
financial review. It said: Her financial circumstances have not changed and therefore the 
review has been postponed for now. 
Barclays first call note dated 19 March 2020 refers to a call to discuss options due to 
overdue review and current client circumstances. It noted that Ms F was unhappy and 
wanted to escalate her complaint about the service. A second call note from later that day 
refers to an internal call to discuss the concerns Ms F raised.
On 20 March 2020 a different Barclays adviser called Ms F to start the review process with 
her. A follow up call was booked for 24 March 2020. During this second call, it was agreed 
that Ms F had no market risk appetite and no market risk capacity to continue with the funds 
held in the discretionary portfolio being exposed to market risk.
So on 3 April 2020, a further call took place between the Barclays adviser and Ms F to go 
through the letter shed received on the morning of the call. The exit from her investment 
funds to cash was agreed. 
At the time of the disinvestment, the value of the SIPP had dropped from its value in January 
2020. Ms F said it fell by around £35,000, from around £175,000 to £140,000. Ms F said that 
her circumstances hadnt changed between January 2020 and March 2020. So she felt that 
if the review had gone ahead in January 2020, instead of March 2020, the review wouldve 
made the same recommendation as it made in March 2020. And she wouldve been 
considerably better off. 
So Ms F complained to Barclays. She wanted them to compensate her for the difference 
between the value of her pension in January 2020 and March 2020. She also wanted them 
to return the fees she paid over that period. 
In their final response, Barclays didnt uphold Ms Fs complaint. They said that the advice 
they gave could only be based on the information at the time the review was undertaken. 
They said that Ms F had agreed to the postponement of the review from January 2020 to 
March 2020. And that as she was in the process of selling her property her circumstances 
couldve changed, so the postponement was reasonable. They noted that the pandemic 
couldnt have been foreseen when the review was postponed. Page 3 of 11Unhappy with their response, Ms F brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator 
recommended her complaint be upheld. He felt the review shouldve taken place on 22 
January 2020. And that the same recommendation wouldve been given at that point. So he 
felt that Barclays should put Ms F back into the same position she wouldve been in if the 
review had gone ahead on 22 January 2020. He also felt that Barclays should refund any 
fees Ms F had paid since that date.
Barclays didnt agree. They felt itd been reasonable to postpone the review from the first 
meeting on 22 January 2020. They noted that Ms F was looking for a new job. And that she 
was hoping to sell or let her property with a new estate agent. They felt that there was 
significant uncertainty in her circumstances. And therefore it wouldve been questionable to 
have provided advice when Ms F was in that position. They noted that two months later on, it 
wouldve been much clearer how Ms Fs job search was going. And if thered been any 
interest in her house. So they felt theyd acted reasonably when theyd decided it wasnt 
appropriate to carry out the review on 22 January 2020.
As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint has come to me for a final review.
I issued a provisional decision on 18 August 2021. It said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I dont intend to uphold it. I know how disappointing this will be for Ms F. But 
I disagree with our investigator that the issue to determine is whether Barclays are 
responsible for the review being delayed from January 2020 to March 2020. I consider that 
the issue to determine is when the review shouldve taken place and who was responsible 
for any delay. As the available evidence doesnt support the position that Barclays havent 
met the terms and conditions, or made a mistake, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable 
to make any sort of award against them. Ill explain my decision further.
The service Barclays provided to Ms F required her to keep them informed about any 
changes to her circumstances that could impact her investment strategy. The relevant 
extract from the terms and conditions is copied below:
6. Changes to your pension plans
6.1 Whenever your financial circumstances and/or retirement plans change, you will need to 
assess any impact on the investment objectives of your pension plans. Therefore, it is 
important that you seek professional advice from an authorised pension planning adviser 
especially at these times.
6.2 Where we provide our Discretionary Investment Management Service or our Non-
Discretionary Investment Management Service:
(a) You undertake to notify us in writing, as soon as reasonably possible, in the event that 
you require a change to be made to the Investment Objective and/or the Preferred Level of 
Risk; and 
(b) You undertake, on a continuing basis, to inform us of any change in your circumstances 
which may reasonably have a bearing on the appropriateness of the Investment Strategy.
I dont consider that these terms are unusual or particularly onerous. Its clear that Barclays 
couldnt be expected to know about any change to Ms Fs circumstances unless she told 
them.Page 4 of 11From what Ive seen, it looks like Ms F didnt formally tell Barclays of her change in 
circumstances between August 2018 and the review held in March 2020. Ms F says that 
Barclays did know her circumstances. Shes shown us evidence that her house was already 
on the market in August 2018, before her review that year. But the report from that review, 
dated 4 September 2018, doesnt note anything different about her circumstances. 
The report concluded that thered been no material changes to her financial circumstances. 
It stated: If any of your circumstances change ahead of our next review, please let me know 
as this could affect the suitability of the investments that you hold. The report also noted 
that Ms F agreed (amongst other things):
-That her risk profile was moderate
-That she wished to invest over a long-term time horizon of at least 5 years
-That she had no plans for any specific capital withdrawals from the portfolio within 
the next 5 years
Based on the review, Barclays concluded that Ms Fs investments remained suitable for her 
needs. They said: At the 2018 review Ms F confirmed her situation was stable. There were 
no plans for any withdrawals in the next five years, and the investment was to be held for the 
long term (ie over five years). She was asked to let us know if her circumstances changed, 
so we could review the ongoing appropriateness of the advice. She did not contact us.
The only other piece of information Ive seen that Ms F shared with Barclays after the August 
2018 review and before she responded to their December 2019 e-mail was an e-mail on 5 
November 2018. Ms F said that this e-mail shows that Barclays knew that she was in need 
of a loan. In this e-mail she said: As also discussed, I understand some commercial banks 
provide professional and career development loans. Given my relationship with Barclays, 
can you let me know what such loans would be available to me?. Unfortunately, neither 
party has provided me with a response to this e-mail. Nor have I seen any record of this 
being discussed during the review meeting. 
But I note that this e-mail begins: As also discussed. so it suggests this was talked about 
during Ms Fs August 2018 review meeting. So it seems that at the August 2018 review 
meeting, it was already known that Ms Fs house was on the market, she was studying and 
not working, and shed shown some interest in learning about professional and career 
development loans. Despite this position, the August 2018 review concluded that no change 
to investments was needed. This is what the 4 September 2018 report showed. And this is 
what Ms F agreed to at that time.
Around this time, Ms F was moved, with her agreement, to a different Barclays service. She 
was given a new relationship manager. Her existing contact gave her the wrong name of his 
replacement on 21 November 2018. Ms F called Barclays direct on 26 November 2018 to 
find out her branch address and to request a new cheque book, so its clear at this point that 
she had working contact details for Barclays.
The next call of note in Barclays call records is their attempted call on 20 May 2019 to set 
up a review with Ms F in August 2019. This was followed up with two further unsuccessful 
calls on 24 May 2019 and 30 May 2019 when a voicemail was left. Ms F said she didnt 
receive these calls. The call records show that on 14 September 2019 Ms F logged another 
call to Barclays about some disputed transactions. During that call Barclays noted that the 
mobile number Ms F was calling on differed from the one they held on file. They offered to 
update the number. So it looks likely that Ms F had changed her number before 20 May 
2019, as this would explain why she didnt receive the calls Barclays call records show they Page 5 of 11made.
On 9 December 2019 Barclays contacted Ms F by e-mail to arrange the review. She 
responded the same day, stating shed received none of the previous messages.
The service Ms F had with Barclays provided annual reviews. But it required her to let 
Barclays know if her financial circumstances changed. Barclays would also expect to hold an 
up-to-date phone number for Ms F. In fact, the terms and conditions required Ms F to agree 
to receiving telephone calls from Barclays as appropriate.
The review of Ms Fs investment portfolio in August 2018 had concluded, with her 
agreement, that her circumstances hadnt changed and that her current portfolio remained 
appropriate. Ms F said that her 5 November 2018 e-mail to Barclays asking for information 
about professional and career development loans showed that her financial circumstances 
had changed. She also notes that Barclays knew that her house had been on the market 
since August 2018. But, from what Ive seen, they knew all of these things at the time of the 
2018 review.
Ms F didnt formally tell Barclays that her financial circumstances had changed. The only 
information she did provide had already been known at the August 2018 review. And she 
didnt request an early investment review. So Barclays couldve reasonably expected to 
carry out the next review 12 months after the previous one.
From the call notes, I can also see that Barclays did try to arrange for an investment review 
to be held in 2019. They made three separate calls in May 2019, but none of the calls 
connected with Ms F. This is likely because Barclays no longer had an up-to-date phone 
number for her. But it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to hold them responsible for that, as 
they have no control over when their customers change their phone numbers.
When Barclays did make contact in December 2019, Ive seen no evidence that Ms F 
indicated that a review was urgently needed as her circumstances had changed. 
The review was scheduled for 8 January 2020, but Ms F cancelled on the day. Then it was 
rescheduled for 15 January 2020, but Ms F only had around 10 or 20 minutes available. So 
the review was postponed, as Barclays felt they needed 60 minutes to conduct the review. I 
dont consider it unfair or unreasonable for Barclays to ask for more than 10 or 20 minutes to 
carry out a review of this nature.  
The next review was scheduled for 22 January 2020. During that call Ms F told Barclays that 
she was in the process of selling or renting her main property. Barclays said that as they 
considered that Ms Fs circumstances were uncertain at the time, they agreed with her to 
postpone the review to March 2020. 
Ms F said: at no point did [the adviser] say that as a result of my financial position, Barclay's 
advice would be for me to transfer my pension to cash straight away. If she had said this, I 
would have agreed immediately. And I certainly would not have agreed to delay the review 
further until March 2020 if I had been made aware of this option. 
Ms F also said: Irrespective, as Barclay's knew my financial position (for some time) and my 
strong desire to cash in my pension ASAP, they should have been insisting that we 
undertake the review immediately. But the available evidence doesnt support the position 
that Ms F told Barclays that she wanted to cash in her pension straightaway. The first record 
Ive seen of this being noted indirectly is the call note for the 24 March 2020.  
Ms F said that two named individuals were very much aware that I was keen to cash in the Page 6 of 11pension as soon as possible next August 2021 and that shed had conversations with both 
of them about this. But other than Ms Fs own recollection on this, Ive not seen any 
evidence of these conversations. 
In response to the complaint, Barclays said: the advice given can only be based on the 
information available at the time the review is undertaken. Whilst I appreciate that the initial 
date in January for the proposed review was postponed for two months, this was with [Ms 
Fs] agreement. As you were in the process of selling your property and this could have 
changed your circumstances, this doesn't seem to be an unreasonable stance to have taken 
at the time.
Barclays also said: the money in question was invested within a SIPP, and Ms F was too 
young to take the benefits from the SIPP at that time (January 2020). They said that theyd 
advised Ms F to switch from investments to cash in March 2020 because her attitude to risk 
had changed. They said that at the time of the March 2020 review: it was becoming more 
obvious that Covid-19 was going to have an effect. Hence it is understandable that a clients 
attitude to risk would reduce, making this the appropriate recommendation. There was not 
the obvious trigger for that change of attitude to risk in January.
They also said that by the time of the March 2020 meeting there was no realistic chance of 
Ms Fs situation changing due to the impact of the pandemic, which is why they decided to 
carry out the review at that point. 
Ms F said she certainly did not agree to the delay in the review. Unfortunately, the available 
evidence doesnt support this, for the reasons Ive set out above.
The review did eventually go ahead at the end of March 2020. Ms F said that her situation 
hadnt changed since the partial meeting in January 2020. The report from the March 2020 
review concluded that the Discretionary Management Service no longer meets your needs. 
This is because:
You have an income shortfall of £72,000 per year and as such, your pension will be 
accessed at its earliest point when you turn 55 in August 2021 as for the time being, 
this is your only potential source of income.
This indicates that you no longer have a long-term time horizon as you will be looking 
to access the funds within the next 15 months. As such, you do not have the 
capacity to overcome short term volatility.
You have no cash reserves at the moment and no income and so do not have 
capacity for further losses to occur
The review also concluded that Ms Fs risk profile had changed to no market risk. And 
suggested that the assets in the portfolio should be sold.
Taking the available evidence into account, Im satisfied that Barclays provided the service 
Ms F was supposed to get. It tried to arrange an appointment for an annual investment 
review for August 2019, but Ms F didnt receive messages about this until December 2019. 
When the review was scheduled for January 2020, Ms F was unable to attend the first 
appointment. And she didnt have enough time to allow Barclays to carry out the review for 
the rescheduled appointment on 15 January 2020. When the appointment was rescheduled 
again for 22 January 2020, Im satisfied  based on the evidence Ive seen  that it was 
reasonable for Barclays to suggest the review be postponed for a couple of months. 
Im also not persuaded that Ms F wouldve wanted to move to cash in January 2020 had the Page 7 of 11review gone ahead then. I consider that it was the external circumstances  the pandemic 
and its impact  that caused her to make that decision in March 2020.
Its extremely unfortunate that the pandemic hit in March 2020 and that this affected the 
investment markets the way it did at that time. I sympathise with Ms F for the loss in value to 
her SIPP at that point. But it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to hold Barclays responsible. 
They couldnt have known about the impact of the impending pandemic on 22 January 2020. 
And Ive seen no evidence that Ms F had made it clear to Barclays that she urgently wanted 
to cash in her pension. So it also wouldnt be fair to hold them responsible for the financial 
impact Ms F said the delayed review caused her.
Had Ms F updated Barclays with her new mobile phone number, she couldve had a review 
in August 2019. I cant say if she wouldve asked to move to cash at that point or not. It 
seems that at that point her circumstances were still the same as they were at the August 
2018 review, which means there would be no apparent reason for her to do so. But she then 
wouldnt have needed another review until August 2020.
Im also not persuaded that Barclays should refund Ms F the fees they charged her between 
22 January 2020 and 3 April 2020, when the process for the disinvestment was agreed. This 
is because Im not persuaded that Barclays was solely responsible for the delayed 
investment review, nor that it wasnt delayed without good reason. 
Based on everything Ive seen, Im not persuaded that Barclays did anything wrong. So I 
dont intend to ask them to do anything.
Response to my provisional decision
Barclays accepted my provisional decision. 
Ms F didnt accept my provisional decision. She raised a number of points. Some of the 
points had been raised before, so I wont cover them again. But Ms F raised the following 
points which led me to ask both Barclays and Ms F for further information and evidence:
She said shed been optimistic she would quickly sell her property when she had the 
2018 review with Barclays. But it proved very difficult to sell the property. So she 
became increasingly concerned that she was using all her savings to fund her 
studying/expenditure. Ms F said she had regular contact with the adviser who carried 
out the 2018 review over this period. And that he was very understanding of her 
circumstances. She said Barclays were well aware of her deteriorating financial 
position.
Ms F said that as her financial circumstances had changed, the adviser who 
conducted the 2018 review told her she would no longer be classified as a Wealth 
Client and he could no longer be her adviser. She said that as soon as her key 
contact was changed, the service she received deteriorated significantly
Ms F also said shed told Barclays several times, from a Banking perspective, of my 
change in phone number. However, every time I contacted them, they still seemed to 
have my old phone number
She said she was quite upset by the call with Barclays on 15 January 2020. She said 
her notes recall (they) were quite rude, insisting an hour was required, despite I 
continuing to state it wouldnt take long to do the review. Regarding the 22 January 
2020 call, she said if Barclays had explained that she had an option to immediately 
move into cash she would have insisted on doing the review at that point.Page 8 of 11Ms F asked me to listen to the calls on 15 January 2020, 22 January 2020, 19 March 
2020 and 20 March 2020. 
Ms F said that when Barclays did eventually agree to undertake the review, it took 
less than 10 minutes to complete. 
Ms F said that when Barclays called her on 19 March 2020, the adviser sounded 
quite agitated. During this call, Ms F said Barclays finally agreed she should have the 
review. She said this was the first time she was advised that given her financial 
position, it was very likely she should immediately transfer her funds to cash. Ms F 
said: I suspect, given the fall in Markets due to COVID, someone in Barclays 
panicked at this point, as they knew they had refused to do the review several times 
and was aware of the significant fall in the value of my pension as a result.
Ms F said that when she eventually received communications from Barclays about 
her review, they initially failed to respond. And then they refused to conduct that 
review at least 3 times.
After reviewing Ms Fs submission, I asked her to provide any further evidence she had that 
shed made Barclays aware of the changes to her financial circumstances after the 2018 
review.
Ms F said shed already set out all the facts of the case. She said that she was sure her 
previous Barclays adviser, who held the 2018 review, could confirm what shed said. She 
also said that Barclays were: so aware of my change in financial circumstances, they 
deemed me no longer worthy of a Wealth Manager (who I had so much appreciated). I think 
this says everything.
She said that shed referenced various phone calls shed had with Barclays in early 2020.  
She asked me to confirm that Id received those calls. And asked to be provided with copies. 
I asked Barclays to provide the call records, but they were unfortunately unable to find them. 
I understand that Ms F called her 2018 adviser to discuss her complaint. But Ive not seen 
any new information in the record of that call.
Following my review of Ms Fs new submission, I asked Barclays a number of questions. I 
summarise the responses to those questions below:
Barclays asked Ms Fs 2018 adviser what shed told him about her financial 
circumstances after the 2018 review. And checked their systems for records of 
contact. They said that their adviser could only remember one contact with Ms F after 
the 2018 review. And that this was to provide details of her new adviser. They said 
they had: no record of any contact which would have made [their adviser] aware of 
any changes in her circumstances after that date. Barclays said that they hadnt 
been aware of Ms Fs deteriorating financial position. And theyd found no record that 
shed told her 2018 adviser or her new advisers. 
Barclays said that the new service Ms F was moved to after the 2018 review wasnt 
as personalized as the service she had been receiving. But said that she had named 
contacts. And that her new adviser had made three attempts to contact her in 
November 2018. They said that all the calls went to voicemail, and a message was 
left. They noted that Ms F had contacted her new advisory service on 26 November 
2018 to ask two general questions. So they said it was clear that shed received the 
new contact information. They also said that although the new contacts werent 
briefed by the 2018 adviser, they had access to the same records. And therefore they Page 9 of 11had all the information and contact details available. Barclays noted that the 
information on record at the time showed that Ms F was expecting to start generating 
an income during the next year, and that she was not intending to need to access her 
investment for five years.
Barclays said theyd found no evidence of a change of telephone number request, 
apart from the one which had been actioned. They explained that any change of  
telephone number would be updated on both their banking and wealth systems.
Barclays said that the adviser who called Ms F in early 2020 had access to the  
computer system containing Ms Fs records. And that this contained the September  
2018 review report. This showed that Ms F was training for a new profession and that 
she had a moderate attitude to risk. It also showed that she wasnt expecting to  
require access to her investment for five years. They said that it wasnt until March  
2020 after Ms F had completed an updated Financial Personality Questionnaire that  
her attitude to risk was recorded as no market risk. And that this was the reason for  
their advisers recommendation to dis-invest. They said their adviser wouldnt have 
been aware of this change to Ms Fs attitude to risk until then. Barclays said: I have 
not seen anything to suggest that Ms F had let us know of her change in attitude to  
risk prior to March 2020 .
Barclays said that the purpose of the fact-finding meeting is to find the facts:  ie to
 
check with the client as to her current situation and aspirations. A second meeting  can 
then be arranged, if required, to discuss the options arising from the fact-finding  
meeting. An adviser would not reasonably be expected to know everything about the 
clients situation prior to that meeting (as things can, and do, change) .
Barclays said that Ms Fs previous review had been carried out in late August 2018, 
with the report being issued in September 2018, so the next review was due around  
September 2019. They said that due to the difficulties in contacting Ms F, it was 
January 2020 when the review was first attempted. They said that at the call Ms Fs: 
personal situation would have appeared little changed to what was recorded in  
September 2018, and I am not aware that Ms F had let us know of a reduced  attitude 
to risk. On this basis it would not be unreasonable to allow a little extra time for Ms  Fs 
personal situation to settle. They said that by March 2020 the review was even more 
overdue, it was approaching the financial year end, and the financial  markets were 
more uncertain due to Covid-19. So they said at this point it was  reasonable to go 
ahead with the meeting.
Barclays said that Ms Fs 2018 adviser wouldnt have had any reason to bring the 
cash option to Ms Fs attention in 2018. This is because at that time she still had a  
moderate attitude to risk, and an investment horizon of 5 years. But they said that 
when Ms Fs attitude to risk was identified as no market risk in March 2020, the  
recommendation to move to cash was made and accepted by Ms F.
In response to Ms Fs statement that at no stage during the 3 aborted review calls, did 
Barclays explain that she should move monies to cash, Barclays said: We could not 
make a recommendation without knowing the clients full personal situation. It  would 
have been irresponsible to have provided regulated advice prior to having a  fact-
finding meeting .
Barclays also said that it isnt generally possible to gather the required information for 
a full review in 10 or 20 minutes. So they dont consider it unreasonable to only hold  
review meetings if sufficient time can be devoted by both parties. They said: It would  
also not be appropriate for advice to be provided by telephone prior to this meeting Page 10  of 11(particularly if our telephone representative was not the regulated advisor). 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im still not going to uphold it. I know how disappointing this will be for Ms F. 
Ill explain the reasons for my decision.
Although Ms F said that Barclays were well aware of her deteriorating financial position, Ive 
seen no evidence of that. I can see that Barclays understood her position in September 
2018. But Im not persuaded they were aware that her attitude to risk had changed until the 
March 2020 fact-find had been carried out. Ive also seen no evidence that Ms F had made 
Barclays aware that shed brought forward her need to access cash until March 2020.
While I acknowledge that Barclays suggested Ms F move to a different advice service, Im 
satisfied that this was a result of the 2018 review. Ive no evidence that the move was 
suggested based on information Ms F provided to Barclays outside of the 2018 review 
process.
Ive seen no evidence that Ms F asked Barclays to update her changed phone number 
before the successful change. So I remain of the view that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to 
hold Barclays responsible for not holding an up-to-date number for Ms F.
I acknowledge that Ms F said that the service she received after shed been moved away 
from the initial adviser deteriorated significantly. But from the evidence Ive seen, Barclays 
took reasonable steps to provide a decent service. They tried and failed to contact her to 
arrange a review in 2019. But its likely that they had the wrong phone number at this point. 
And they tried several times to hold the review in early 2020, as they appreciated it was 
overdue. So Im not persuaded that Barclays provided a poor service after Ms F was moved 
to a different advisory service.
I acknowledge that Ms F said that the adviser on the March 2020 review call sounded 
agitated. But Ive no evidence that Barclays had panicked due to the fall in value of her 
pension. Im satisfied that it wasnt until Ms Fs attitude to risk had been updated that the 
adviser could fairly and reasonably have advised Ms F to move to cash.
I acknowledge that Ms F feels that her review couldve been held in less than the time 
Barclays required to be put aside. But Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable 
to ask Barclays to make a recommendation without knowing their clients full personal 
situation. And I agree with them that it wouldnt be responsible to provide regulated advice 
without first conducting a fact-finding meeting.
Its unfortunate that Barclays couldnt locate the call records from the calls held in early 
2020. But Im satisfied that even if theyd been provided, they wouldnt change my decision. 
This is because Ive found no evidence that Ms F provided Barclays with her updated 
attitude to risk or changed financial circumstances after the 2018 review process, until the 
review meeting in March 2020. Ive asked Ms Fs previous Barclays adviser to confirm that 
shed made him aware of the changes to her financial circumstances after the 2018 review 
had completed. He wasnt able to do that. And neither Barclays nor Ms F have been able to 
provide any evidence that Ms F told someone else at Barclays about her changed 
circumstances. So Im not persuaded that Barclays couldve known what the outcome of the 
next review would be, until theyd carried out an up-to-date fact-find. And it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable for me to say that Barclays shouldve carried out a review without sufficient time. Page 11  of 11I say that even though I acknowledge that, in the end, and after the fact-find had been 
completed, the review only took 10 minutes.
No new information has come to light to change my opinion. So I remain of the view I set out 
in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman