DRN-2508191
The complaint
M complains National Westminster Bank Plc is using exchange rates which disadvantage it 
and is charging hidden commission without adequate disclosure and is misreporting matters.
What happened
M is a company with two directors. Both the directors complain that for their own personal 
accounts and for Ms account NatWests approach to foreign exchange transactions has 
resulted in them losing money without adequate disclosure of the costs they were incurring, 
or the amount of money NatWest was making on each transaction. They have particularly 
referred to one transaction made in December 2019 concerning M. The directors are also 
unhappy with how the complaint was handled by NatWest.
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said it was NatWests 
commercial decision to calculate its exchange rates. He referred to the banks terms and 
conditions and thought that NatWest had satisfied these. He also said that we couldnt look 
at a complaint about complaint handling.
The directors disagreed. They say what NatWest has done is effectively applied a much 
worse rate without their knowledge, without seeking pre-agreement or consent, or giving an 
option to find an alternative, and without disclosing it in its advice, all as required by 
European Union or United Kingdom financial regulations. They say the spirit of the regulation 
is clear in terms of financial services firms having to act with due care and diligence, having 
to be fair, clear and not misleading in their communications and having to treat customers 
fairly. Hidden in small print, not defined and not disclosed fails to fulfil these requirements.
They point out NatWest has completely changed its online banking for cash transfers in 
foreign currency with full disclosure of the exchange rate it intends to apply with a 
requirement to accept the terms and the rate quoted for each transfer before it is executed. 
They say it would not have done this if it were rightfully not disclosing it previously. 
They believe NatWests practices are non-consented extortion.
They also believe we can look at a complaint about complaint handling.
The investigator responded to say that the business has set out in its terms and conditions 
how it will communicate the exchange rates used, and he thought that it was under no 
obligation to disclose how it calculated the exchange rate it used as this was commercially 
sensitive information. He didnt feel that, in line with the terms and conditions of the bank 
account, the business has acted unfairly.
The directors have asked for an ombudsmans decision. They say that the investigator has 
continued not to acknowledge their arguments and dismissed the rules going as far as 
stating the Financial Conduct Authority does not regulate complaints. They say the 
investigator has sill not acknowledged that NatWest failed to adequately process Ms 
complaint. And that in their last email they presented the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
chapters governing costs and charges (Conduct of Business (COB) 5.7 and 6.4), as well as 
having pointed out the treating customers fairly rules for the fair treatment of customers, 
including clear, fair and not misleading information requirements, which NatWest clearly 
failed to comply with. In addition, they referred to EU rules. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to make clear that this decision relates only to Ms complaint. I am not considering 
any transaction on the two directors personal accounts. Although given their prior 
experience it does seem that M  through the knowledge of its directors  should have 
known how the exchange would work.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions applicable at the time of the December 2019 
transaction and I think NatWest disclosed what it needed to do under the relevant 
regulations. It made clear to M that payments could be booked and that where they werent 
booked the exchange rates would be based on its prevailing rate at the date and time that 
the foreign currency transaction is processed. It is common practice for there to be a spread 
between the price for buying and selling currency this in and of itself is not wrong.
The regulations Ms directors have specifically referred to arent relevant here. So, for 
example COB 5.7 is concerned with designated investment business. Businesses do have 
an obligation to treat customers fairly but nothing NatWest has done here is unfair. The fact 
that it has changed the way it does things for some foreign exchange transactions doesnt 
mean that its practices were previously unfair. 
Regarding whether we can look at a complaint about complaint handling then I agree with 
the investigator we cannot. This has been specifically considered and determined by the 
courts.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman