DRN-3454432
The complaint
Mr I says MBNA Limited has treated him unfairly in relation to transactions on his credit card 
which paid for flights, car hire and car parking.
What happened
In 2019 Mr I used his MBNA credit card to pay for flights, car hire and car parking for a trip 
abroad in August 2020 all from different suppliers. His flights were cancelled due to the 
Pandemic, so he didnt travel, and he eventually was refunded the flight costs. But the 
separate suppliers of the car hire and the car parking wouldnt refund him what hed paid to 
the two of them. So Mr I complained to MBNA.
MBNA says that both the car hire service and car parking service were available to Mr I, but 
he didnt use them. So it felt that neither a Chargeback nor a claim under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 should be successful for that reason. Mr I says that within his 
phone calls with MBNA it said that it would refund him, but now it says it wont. MBNA did 
acknowledge some customer service issues it had with Mr I and says it had paid him £130 in 
recognition of that. However Mr I, remained unsatisfied, so he brought his complaint to this 
service.
Our Investigator felt MBNA didnt have to do any more. And Mr I remained unhappy and so 
this complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Not all of MBNAs key arguments were put to Mr I by the Investigator. So I wrote to both Mr I 
and MBNA making clear MBNAs comments, particularly including its comments about S75, 
and asked for any further comments by both parties. Ive had no response from either party. 
So I think it is safe to proceed with them both having had fair opportunity to see the 
arguments around Section 75.
Mr I used his MBNA credit card to pay for the car hire and car parking on his trip abroad. 
This means MBNA has certain responsibilities to Mr I which arise from the relevant law, 
specifically, Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA). In summary Section 
75, if (my emphasis) certain criteria are met, has the effect of allowing Mr I to hold MBNA 
liable for breaches of contract, or misrepresentations made in relation to the agreements 
made. Again without going into a large amount of detail, a breach of contract occurs when 
one party to a contract fails to provide what it has agreed to under that contract. 
Misrepresentation is when something is said which is relied upon and transpires to be untrue 
leading to detriment.
MBNA credit cards also operate within a card network. And this network has rules which 
includes giving MBNA an avenue for card transactions to be disputed with Merchants, 
namely through the Chargeback process.
I should also add at this juncture that this decision is solely about MBNA and whether it did 
what it should have and whether it treated Mr I fairly. This decision isnt about the suppliers 
which arent party to this decision and arent within this services remit for complaints 
regarding Chargeback and S75. I hope this distinction is clear.
could MBNA challenge the transaction through a Chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mr I does 
here, MBNA can attempt to go through the Chargeback process. Mr I doesnt dispute that he 
used his MBNA credit card here. Nor does he dispute the amounts, dates, or any other 
details about the transactions themselves. So I dont think MBNA couldve challenged the 
payments on the basis Mr I didnt properly authorise the transactions, given what Ive just set 
out.
MBNA is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. And it can fairly decide to not proceed at any stage if it 
doesnt think there is a reasonable prospect of success.
MBNA says it raised a chargeback about the parking and it was rejected. It says the supplier 
responded to the chargeback pointing out the parking was not cancellable, amendable, or 
refundable. MBNA considered this and decided there was no reasonable prospect of 
success with this chargeback, so it didnt take it further. Having considered the defence of 
the supplier and what MBNA considered here to make its decision I think it has treated Mr I 
fairly.
With regard to the car hire MBNA has pointed to the cancelation terms on the website of the 
supplier. I note that if someone booking this service doesnt attend or doesnt cancel 
sufficiently early a charge of up to 100% of the amount paid is chargeable. MBNA says Mr I 
told it that hed accepted vouchers from the supplier and was still liaising with the car hire 
company. So it didnt take the Chargeback further at that time. In the circumstances Im not 
persuaded MBNA has treated Mr I unfairly by not taking this chargeback further bearing in 
mind the terms of the agreement and what happened.
So I dont think Mr I lost out on these chargebacks because I think, on balance, such 
chargebacks were unlikely to succeed.
Section 75
Before deciding on whether there is breach or misrepresentation there are some 
requirements set out in the CCA which also have to be met before these issues can be 
considered. One of these tests is around financial limits. For a dispute to be successful 
against MBNA under the CCA the transaction for a single item has to be more than £100 
and less than £30,000.
Mr I paid £42.48 for the car parking. Accordingly it doesnt meet the financial requirements of 
the CCA and thus cannot be successful. So MBNA has done nothing wrong in not refunding 
this amount under S75. 
With regard to the car hire MBNA has pointed to a fourth party being involved. Im not 
necessarily persuaded by this. However I dont think it makes a difference anyway. For Mr I 
to be successful here he has to demonstrate that there was a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the car hire supplier. However it is clear the service was available. It 
also appears hes said he received vouchers from this supplier. And MBNA asked Mr I for the documentation regarding the booking and hasnt received it. So I dont think MBNA could 
have taken this claim further. As a consequence I dont think MBNA has treated Mr I unfairly 
by not refunding this amount to him.
Mr I points to the customer service hes received. Ive considered what happened and I think 
£130 is in line with what I would have awarded. So Im not persuaded MBNA has to do 
anything more.
Mr I says that MBNA told him hed be refunded. MBNA cannot trace any calls where this is 
said. But even if he was mistakenly told that hed be refunded, it doesnt necessarily follow 
that he should be refunded if he wasnt actually due a refund. In that situation there would 
have been a loss of expectation but not an actual financial loss. So even if he had been told 
that he was getting a refund wrongly, I wouldnt be asking MBNA to refund the amounts he 
wasnt entitled to under chargeback or S75.
So all in all having considered the matter and everything Mr I has said, Im not persuaded 
MBNA has treated Mr I unfairly sufficient for it to remedy anything further to that it has 
already remedied. So Mr Is complaint doesnt succeed.
I appreciate Mr I feels hes done nothing wrong.  And this isnt the decision he wishes to 
read. But MBNA hasnt done anything which means Mr I has lost out. So it doesnt have 
anything more to do.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint MBNA Limited. It has nothing 
further to do in respect of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman