DRN-3881957
The complaint
Mr P and Mrs F complain that GE Money Consumer Lending Limited (GE Money) unfairly
declined their claims in relation to three timeshare purchases.
What happened
A different ombudsman at this Service issued her provisional decision on this complaint in 
October 2022. An extract from that provisional decision is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the rules that govern how I assess complaints, I must take account of law and
regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice and good
industry practice, when I make my decision.
I also focus on what I think is material and relevant to reach a fair and reasonable outcome.
So, although I have read everything that has been supplied to me, I may not address every
point that has been raised.
From my reading of Mr P and Mrs Fs complaint, they have raised a number of claims and
complaint points against GE Money in relation to the loans they took out to fund their
timeshare purchases in 2007, 2008 and 2009. I will deal with each in turn and set out my
provisional findings, based on the available evidence.
Section 75 of the CCA
Under section 75 of the CCA, in certain circumstances, if Mr P and Mrs F paid for goods or
services using certain types of credit (even in part), and there was a breach of contract or
misrepresentation by the supplier of those goods or services, the creditor (GE Money in this
case) can also be held responsible.
Mr P and Mrs Fs representative said that Business C misrepresented a number of points in
relation to the timeshare agreements they purchased, and they didnt get what they were
promised under the contract. I cant see that they specifically raised a claim under section 75
of the CCA directly with GE Money or within their letter when referring their complaint to our
service. Indeed, their original letter of claim to GE Money only claimed that Business C
wasnt authorised to arrange the loans. But I dont think I would be able to consider a
complaint about GE Moneys response to a section 75 claim in any event. Ill explain why.
Before considering the merits of any complaint, I must first ensure I have the jurisdiction to
consider the event Mr P and Mrs F are complaining about. The Financial Ombudsman
Service isnt free to deal with every complaint it receives. Its bound by rules that set out the
types of complaints it can look at. Those rules are set out in the FCA Handbook under the
Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP).
DISP 2 sets out the Financial Ombudsman Services two jurisdictions: our compulsory
jurisdiction and our voluntary jurisdiction. DISP 2.1.1(1)(a) says our compulsory jurisdiction
covers: certain complaints against firms (and businesses which were firms at the time of the
events complained about). A firm was a business authorised by the FCA to undertake
certain financial services work. So, the question I have to answer is whether GE Money
Consumer Lending Limited was authorised by the FCA at the time of the event being
complained about.
The event being complained about in these circumstances would be GE Moneys response,
or lack of response, to their section 75 claim. And GE Money only responded to Mr P and
Mrs Fs claims in July 2021. GE Money Consumer Lending Limited resigned from FCA
authorisation on 6 December 2019  which is the part of GE Money that provided all three
loans to Mr P and Mrs F. This means GE Money were not a FCA regulated firm at the time
of the event being complained about and, therefore, I cannot consider Mr P and Mrs Fs
complaint in relation to any claim under section 75 because it doesnt fall within the
jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service.
I note in GE Moneys final response letter they also said some parts of Mr P and Mrs Fs
complaint were made out of time under the DISP rules. But I understand they are no longer
raising these concerns. Regardless, Im satisfied there are no other issues as regards our
jurisdiction to consider the rest of this complaint. I have therefore gone on to consider the
other main complaint points.
The claims under section 140A of the CCA
Under this section of the CCA, a court may make an order under section 140B in connection
with a credit agreement if it decides that the relationship between the debtor and the creditor
arising out of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a
determination, but I think it is relevant law, which I can take into account, if applicable.
Mr P and Mrs F claimed that the relationship between them and GE Money was unfair for a
number of reasons. However, GE Money argued that any claim under section 140A would
be time-barred. And GE Money would be entitled to rely on the LA as a defence to
answering the claim if it was made outside of the relevant time limits set out in that Act. So, I
must also consider the LA as relevant law.
To be clear, Im not deciding if any right Mr P and Mrs F may have to bring this claim has
expired under the LA (thats a matter for the courts). In this decision Im considering whether
GE Money acted fairly and reasonably by refusing to consider their section 140A claim.
It was held in Patel v. Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 (QB) that when considering section 140A of
the CCA, the time for limitation purposes ran from the date that the credit agreement ended
if it was not still running at the time the claim was made.
GE Money said they were unable to locate a record of any of the loan accounts that Mr P
and Mrs F took out with them in 2007, 2008, and 2009. They said this means that the
accounts have been closed for more than six years, in line with their data retention policy.
Given Mr P and Mrs F first contacted GE Money in December 2020, they said this means
the loans were most likely closed by December 2014 at the latest. I note the 2007 loan was
set to run for 12 months, so was most likely closed a long time before this.
I appreciate there is no evidence to show when the credit agreements ended in this case.
But Mr P and Mrs F havent disputed that the loans were closed by December 2014 as
GE Money said, or provided any evidence to show that they remained open past this time.
Rather, they have argued that other sections of the LA apply, which mean the time limits
should be extended in the circumstances.Given the loans were taken out more than ten years ago, and based on what we know about
GE Moneys data retention policies, on balance, I think its more likely than not that the loans
closed more than six years before Mr P and Mrs F raised their claims to GE Money.
Therefore, I also think that its most likely their section 140A claims were made out of time
under the LA. This means I dont think GE Money acted unreasonably by refusing to
consider their claims.
Mr P and Mrs Fs representative argued that section 32 of the LA would apply in the
circumstances, which states that in cases of fraud, concealment or mistake, the limitation
period only starts to run from when a claimant discovers the fraud, concealment or mistake
(or could have discovered it using reasonable diligence). But, like the investigator, Im not
persuaded by this as they havent pointed to any specific fraud or concealment, and I cant
see that there was any. Mr P and Mrs Fs representative provided a copy of a judgment from
the Spanish Court of Appeal, which they said showed the structure employed by
Business Cs group was akin to fraud and unlawful. But they havent explained how this
applies to Mr P and Mrs Fs claim or complaint. And, in any event, even if there was a
concealment, I think Mr P and Mrs F probably had enough information about the terms of the
agreements to start the clock running not long after they purchased the timeshares. So, Im
not persuaded they could rely on section 32 to extend the time limits under the LA in these
circumstances.
Mr P and Mrs Fs representative also said their claim is in a claim in specialty, which would
mean that a 12 year time limit applies under section 8 of the LA. However, it is clear in this
case that Mr P and Mrs F are seeking repayment of funds and not a declaration of
unenforceability. And, like the investigator, Im satisfied that in the case of a claim for
repayment of monies recoverable by statute, the six year time limit set out under section 9 of
the LA applies.
Overall, for the reasons Ive explained above, I dont think Mr P and Mrs F raised their
section 140A claim in time, so GE Money would be entitled to rely on the LA as a defence to
answering that claim in these circumstances. This means I also dont think GE Money acted
unreasonably by refusing to consider their section 140A claim and I dont intend to ask
GE Money to do anything further in response.
Was Business C authorised to arrange the loans?
Mr P and Mrs F havent provided any evidence to show that Business C wasnt properly
authorised to arrange the loan in the way their representative says. And, as our investigator
explained, our records indicate that Business C was authorised at the time Mr P and Mrs Fs
loans were arranged, albeit not by the FCA.
The FCA only took over the regulation of consumer credit businesses on 1 April 2014. Prior
to this, such businesses were regulated by the OFT, including Business C. Ive not seen
anything to suggest that our records are wrong on this point. So, I dont think theres
sufficient evidence to show Business C breached the general prohibition (section 19 of
FSMA), and I dont intend to uphold this part of their complaint on this basis.
Were the proper checks carried out when GE Money agreed to lend to Mr P and Mrs 
F?
Mr P and Mrs F says GE Money failed to carry out proper credit checks when lending to
them. Even if I were to conclude that GE Money or its agents didnt carry out the proper
checks for creditworthiness and affordability when arranging a loan for Mr P and Mrs F, I
would still need to be satisfied that the lending was unaffordable for them and/or that theylost out as a result, in order to uphold this part of their complaint.
Mr P and Mrs Fs representative hasnt provided any further information around this, despite
the investigator pointing out that this would be needed. So, as it stands, I dont intend to
uphold this part of their complaint either as theres insufficient evidence to show that the
lending was irresponsible or unaffordable for Mr P and Mrs F at the time.
My provisional decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont intend to uphold Mr P and Mrs Fs complaint about
GE Money Consumer Lending Limited.
Further comments or evidence 
The ombudsman who wrote that provisional decision has now left this Service and the 
complaint has been referred to me to make a final decision.
I explained to all of parties that having read the papers and the previous ombudsmans 
provisional decision, I was in agreement with it but, given the change of ombudsman, I gave 
them a little more time to provide any further comments or evidence they wanted me to 
consider.
No further comments or evidence were provided.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive not found any reason to change the provisional decision. That provisional decision now 
becomes my final decision on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman