DRN-3884058
The complaint
Mr K complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) provided him with credit he 
couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
RBS approved a £9000 loan for Mr K in January 2020. The loan was repayable over 60 
months.
Mr K says the loan was unaffordable for him.
RBS disagrees. It says it carried out reasonable and proportionate checks but didnt find 
anything to suggest that Mr K couldnt afford the loan.
Mr K wasnt happy with the response and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said the checks carried out by RBS were 
reasonable and proportionate and that the lending decision was fair.
Mr K didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to irresponsible and unaffordable lending on our website, 
including the relevant rules, regulations and good industry practice. Ive had this approach in 
mind when considering Mr Ks complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, the rules say RBS had to complete reasonable and proportionate 
checks to ensure Mr K could afford to repay the debt in a sustainable way. These checks 
need to be focussed on the borrowers circumstances. Whats considered to be reasonable 
and proportionate will depend on various factors such as the amount of credit, the cost of 
credit, the amount of repayments and the customers individual circumstances. 
Theres no set list of checks a lender must complete. But lenders are required to consider 
the factors Ive mentioned above when deciding whats reasonable and proportionate.
Mr K stated that he had income of £2200 per month when he applied for the loan. RBS 
carried out checks to verify this. Mr K held a current account with RBS, so it looked at his 
average income over the previous 6 months and reduced his monthly income to £1832 for 
the purposes of the application.
Mr K also stated that he had monthly commitments of £522 for his mortgage and £641 for 
living costs. RBS took these expenses into account.
Based on the reduced income figure, RBS calculated that Mr K had monthly disposable 
income of around £600.
RBS also carried out a credit check to find out information abut Mr Ks borrowing history and 
other consumer credit commitments. It also checked for any missed payments, defaults and 
CCJs. It found no adverse information.
RBS didnt find any information which gave it cause for concern, or any reason to think that 
the loan wasnt affordable for Mr K. It looked at his income and expenditure and, based on 
his monthly disposable income, decided that the loan was affordable for Mr K and that he 
was likely to be able to sustainably repay it.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that RBS carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks before approving the loan. I dont think theres anything in the information gathered 
by RBS to suggest that the loan was unaffordable. It follows that I dont think RBS lent 
irresponsibly to Mr K.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman