DRN-2089991
The complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays wont refund an £1,800 payment that he made as part of a 
scam.
What happened
Mr R made a payment in March 2019 believing he was paying a deposit to rent a home. But 
Mr R had been using a fake website created by scammers. When he could no longer reach 
the landlord of the property, he contacted Barclays to explain he had been the victim of a 
scam.
Barclays didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. It said it contacted the receiving bank in good time 
when it was made aware Mr R had been the victim of a scam. £1.56 remained in the 
recipient account, which has since been returned to Mr R. It also said Mr R made the 
payment himself. And a bank transfer like this one is made using the account number and 
sort code only and the account name is not used.
Unhappy with Barclays response Mr R brought his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into things. She didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. Whilst she was 
sympathetic to Mr Rs situation and acknowledged he had been the victim of a scam she 
didnt think it was fair and reasonable to hold Barclays liable for his losses in this instance. 
She looked carefully at the scam payment and at Mr Rs genuine account activity but didnt 
feel there was anything or unusual or suspicious about the scam payment that meant 
Barclays ought to have intervened or prevented the payment. 
She was also satisfied that Barclays actions to attempt to recover Mr Rs funds didnt 
contribute to his losses. Barclays acted quickly in contacting the receiving bank which is 
what we would expect.
Mr R didnt accept the investigators findings. He said although he made the transfer this was 
based on false information and believes the bank should be able to do something about it. 
He was a victim of a scam and it has had an effect on his life. He thinks Barclays should 
refund him for his one-time loss as other banks have refunded in similar instances. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the
time.
Im sorry to hear Mr R has been the victim of a scam and lost this money. I know this cant 
have been easy for him, either financially or emotionally. But Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
The regulations most relevant to this case are the Payments Service Regulations 2017 
(PSRs). Its the PSRs that set out when a customer and when a bank is responsible for 
transactions on an account. 
The transactions
A customer will normally be responsible for any transactions they authorise. Here, theres no 
dispute Mr R authorised the transaction from his account. He set up a new payee and 
transferred £1,800 from his account. 
I know Mr R believes he was acting in good faith when he made the payment. But the fact 
that he made the payment because he was tricked or it was based on false information isnt 
relevant to the matter of authorisation. All of this doesnt change the position that he 
authorised the transaction and the starting position is that hes liable for doing so. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Barclays should fairly and reasonably:
-Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
-Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
-In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
So there are some situations where we might expect a bank to question transactions if they 
are particularly unusual for a customer. The bank didnt ask Mr R about the transactions 
whilst they were taking place and I dont think that was unreasonable in the circumstances. 
Ill explain why. 
Barclays actions
On the individual facts and evidence before me, Ive considered whether the activity 
surrounding the scam represented particularly unusual activity for Mr Rs account and I dont 
think it did. I say this because:
-The scam payment leaves the account with a healthy balance of over £4,000. Mr R 
generally maintains a similar balance so this doesnt look unusual for the account. 
-It appears as though there is a credit into the account for £1,800 which funds the 
payment so it doesnt deplete the balance or appear to be suspicious.
-There are genuine payments of over £1,000, £2,000, £2,500 as transfers or bill 
payments in the months prior to the scam payment. So its not unusual for Mr R to 
make payments of similar value, using this payment method.-There are payments larger than the scam payment made by card, for over £3,000. 
So Im satisfied the value of the scam payment doesnt seem unusually high or out of 
character.
-Mr R set up several new payees on his account in the year prior to the scam. And in 
the same month he set up a new payee and made a payment of £1,050. The setting 
up the of scam payee and value of the payment again doesnt stand out as being 
unusual for his account. 
Considering the usual account activity, I dont think the scam payment was so unusual or 
suspicious that Barclays ought to have been concerned about it and intervened. Therefore, 
Im persuaded that executing the payment, was reasonable in the circumstances. 
Recovery of the funds
Barclays records show that Mr R called at around 16:45 on 05 April 2019 to report the scam. 
I can see that Barclays started the recovery of funds process by 17:12 the same day.  Im 
satisfied Barclays acted reasonably here in its attempts to recover the funds. So, Im not 
persuaded that Barclays contributed towards Mr Rs losses here. 
My final decision
As Ive set out above, I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Sophia Smith
Ombudsman