DRN-3313856
The complaint
Mr K complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc mishandled a claim on his motor insurance 
policy.
Where I refer to AXA, I include claims-handlers, engineers and others insofar as I hold AXA 
responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a car first registered in about 1999.
For the year from September 2019, Mr K had the car insured on a comprehensive policy with 
AXA. He was the policyholder. The policy also covered his wife as a named driver.
The car had a recorded mileage of over 250,000 miles in early November 2019 when, 
unfortunately, it was damaged in an accident.
AXA said the car had a pre-accident value of £650.00 and was a total loss in category B.
Mr K complained to AXA about that.
By a final response dated early December 2020, AXA said that it couldnt repair or return a 
category B car. But it acknowledged delay and a lack of updates and said it was sending a 
cheque for £150.00 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
In May 2021, AXA sent Mr K a cheque for the value of £650.00 less an excess of £200.00, a 
balance of £450.00. 
In May 2021, AXA sent Mr K a cheque for £325.00 as compensation for delays.
Mr K brought his complaint to us in early June 2021. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that AXA 
had offered sufficient compensation for delays. He thought that AXA had settled the total 
loss claim as we wouldve expected it to do. He said it was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances for AXA not to have returned the vehicle.
Mr K disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
The police officer who attended the incident in November 2019 advised him (after his 
careful inspection and testing) that there was no need to wait for recovery services, 
as his vehicle was safe to be simply driven away. He drove it 35 miles to his home.
AXA hasnt returned his car and its contents to him.
He wants to exercise his right to have the category of loss ascertained by an 
engineer fully independent of AXA. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXAs policy terms included the following:
We will not pay more than the market value of your car at the time of the loss less 
any excesses
We will also arrange for your car to be moved to a place of free and safe storage until 
it is repaired, sold or scrapped. The salvage of your car will become our property 
after your claim is settled.
I consider that the last sentence meant that the damaged car would become AXAs property 
after it settled a total loss claim.
From the policy schedule, I see that the total of compulsory and voluntary excesses was 
£300.00 rather than £200.00.
For a car like Mr Ks in November 2019, the Cazana trade guide gives a retail valuation of 
£541.00.
I accept that  despite frontal damage in the accident  the car remained driveable.
Mr K has said that AXA drove the car away from his home in November 2019. So I find it 
likely that Mr K or his wife had an opportunity to remove their belongings from the car. And I 
find it unlikely that any such belongings will be found now. So I dont find it fair or reasonable 
to direct AXA to search for or to return such belongings to Mr K or his wife.
I can understand why Mr K doesnt regard AXAs report as impartial. But he has had a copy 
of that report (including photographic images of the damaged car) for some time and he 
hasnt been willing to pay for an engineer to do a review. 
In any event, the only engineers evidence available to me is that the car was in category B. 
That meant that AXA couldnt return the car to Mr K. Without any other engineers evidence, 
I cant say that the car shouldve been in category S.
AXA was responsible for some delay. But it sent Mr K a cheque in May 2021 for the value of 
£650.00 less £200.00 excess, a balance of £450.00. I consider that AXA settled the claim 
and  under the policy term quoted above - the damaged car became the property of AXA. 
That meant that AXA was entitled to sell or otherwise dispose of the damaged car.
For that reason, I dont find it fair or reasonable to direct AXA to search for or to return the 
car to Mr K.
Ive noted the delays and the shortcomings in the way AXA communicated with Mr K. I dont 
under-estimate the impact of that on him. Mr K had to chase AXA and he was frustrated 
when he didnt get a response.
 
But I accept that AXA sent Mr K cheques for £150.00 and £325.00. Thats a total of £475.00, 
which is at least as much as I wouldve directed AXA to pay in compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. Overall, I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct AXA to do any more in response to this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct AXA Insurance UK Plc to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman