DRN-2966193
The complaint
Mrs J and Mr J complain about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plcs (RSA) decision to 
decline cover for a buildings insurance claim. 
What happened
Mrs J and Mr J say heavy winds caused damage to the apex of a gable end wall at their 
property. They made a claim to RSA which was declined. Mrs J and Mr J complained to RSA 
about their decision. RSA responded and agreed there had been storm conditions in the 
week leading up to the collapse of the wall. They also agreed that structural damage to a 
wall is possible after storm force winds. RSA explained the damage though was down to the 
wall being in a poor state of repair so the claim had been correctly declined. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs J and Mr J and thought RSA hadnt acted unfairly 
in declining the claim. Mrs J and Mr J disagreed so the matter has come to me for a 
decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mrs J and Mr J will 
be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My starting point is Mrs J and Mr Js home insurance policy. This covers their property for 
loss or damage caused by storm. The policy says, under the heading Policy exclusions, 
that the policy doesnt cover any loss or damage caused by wear and tear, fading, 
corrosion, rusting, damp, decay, frost, fungus, mould, condensation or deterioration, or 
anything that happens gradually over a period of time. So, Im satisfied that RSA shouldve 
looked into Mrs J and Mr Js claim because they reported the damage was caused by a 
storm. Ive then looked at whether RSAs decision to decline the claim, and their reason for 
doing so, is fair and reasonable.    
  
In order for us to consider whether the damage was caused by a storm, we ask three 
questions: 
 Did storm conditions occur on or around the date the damage was said to have happened? 
 Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes? 
 Were the storm conditions the main cause for the damage? 
If the answer is yes to all three questions, were likely to uphold the complaint. But if the 
answer to one of the questions is 'no' we're unlikely to conclude that the claim should be met 
due to storm conditions.
Theres no dispute on the first two questions  RSA accept there was storm conditions and 
its possible the damage to the wall could be caused by a storm. That means the answer to 
these two questions is yes.   
 
Turning to the third question, insurers often appoint surveyors experienced in this type of 
work to look at the damage, and thats what RSA did. I think its a fair thing to do  and its 
reasonable for RSA to rely on the report when deciding whether to meet the claim. Ive seen 
the surveyors report and this says When the surveyor inspected the apex he observed that 
the top half of the wall has come down. There are signs of deterioration to the wall, brick and 
the mortar is breaking down in several paces [sic]. The wall tiles are rusted and corroded. 
There is no damage consistent with storm. The cause of the damage to the apex is 
considered to be due to natural breakdown of materials and not the result of an insured 
cause. 
RSA say, when the surveyor attended, he inspected the damaged area and found evidence 
that the wall was in a poor state of repair. They say he highlighted decayed mortar with 
visible gaps and crumbling bricks in the remaining sections of the wall. They say he also 
found fully eroded wall tiles and thought the whole wall was suffering from a natural 
breakdown of materials in line with its age and location. RSA accept that strong winds may 
have contributed to the collapse but they werent satisfied that it was the dominant cause.  
Its clear there is a difference in opinion here as Mrs J and Mr J believe the storm was solely 
responsible for the damage. My role is to consider whether RSA have acted fairly and 
reasonably in declining Mrs J and Mr Js claim. RSA have instructed a suitable expert here 
to investigate the damage. I think the expert used to investigate the claim has taken 
reasonable steps to arrive at their decision. And, it follows, that I dont think RSA have acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in relying on the surveyors report to decline the claim. RSA have 
also looked at photographs of the relevant area. So, I think RSA have followed a fair process 
here to reach their decision. On the basis of the evidence before me, I cant conclude that 
storm conditions were the main cause of the damage. That means the answer to the third 
question is no. 
I note Mrs J and Mr J say they have maintained their house and kept it in good condition. 
They also say, when they bought their house about 18 months prior, they had a survey done 
which didnt highlight any problems with the apex of the gable end wall. RSA say the survey 
shows only a limited inspection was carried out to this specific area. They say the survey 
doesnt comment on the overall condition of the brickwork. Ive looked at the survey and 
agree with RSAs comments here. The survey notes the side elevation could not be 
inspected from ground level because of the height and configuration of the roof and as a 
result we cannot report in detail on such hidden areas. The survey also says, because of 
this, the condition ratings they have given may well have been based on a limited inspection. 
So, while I do agree the survey doesnt specifically comment on there being any wear and 
tear issues to the apex of the gable end wall, Im not persuaded this means there were no 
issues. The survey followed a limited inspection whereas the surveyor instructed by RSA 
carried out a more thorough inspection of the specific area. So, Ive placed more weight on 
the findings of the surveyor and, on that basis, I think wear and tear issues led to the 
damage. 
Mrs J and Mr J say they cant be expected to know about wear and tear issues which arent 
visible. They say the apex is three floors high and can only be seen from one spot across the 
road. I do acknowledge that, given the area of damage, it may not have been clearly visible. 
But, that doesnt mean RSA should meet the claim. The evidence shows there were wear 
and tear issues to the area which was damaged. 
So, even if Mrs J and Mr J didnt notice the issue with the apex because of its height, I cant 
say RSA have acted unfairly in applying the policy exclusion when they have independent 
evidence to show there was a pre-existing problem with the wall.  Im sorry to disappoint Mrs J and Mr J as I can see they firmly believe the damage to their 
property is as a direct result of storm conditions. I do want to reassure them that I have 
carefully considered their points and arguments but my role is to consider whether RSA have 
acted fairly and reasonably. And, for the reasons I have given, I think they have.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman