DRN-1670625
The complaint
Mr G complains on behalf of his business (which I will refer to as W), of which he is a 
director, that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) did not follow its instruction to cancel a 
standing order and made a payment incorrectly. 
What happened
W has a current account with RBS. In May 2019 Mr G wanted to cancel an existing standing 
order, payable from Ws account to a third party.
Mr G says he discussed cancelling the standing order with RBS and was told to do so 
through online banking. 
Mr G logged into online banking and deleted the third party from the saved payee list.
The standing order payment for £585 was still made a few days later from Ws account. 
Mr G contacted RBS to complain.
RBS initially said the standing order had been paid in error and would be refunded. But on 
further investigation it said that this was incorrect. It apologised for the misleading initial 
response. It said that Mr G had deleted the third party as a payee, but this payee list was for 
storing details to make one off payments. The recurring standing order to that payee from 
Ws account had not been cancelled. So, it said that the payment had been made correctly 
in line with the instruction it had. It cancelled the standing order following the complaint and 
requested the funds back from the third party, but no response was received.
Unhappy with this response Mr G asked our service to look into his complaint. He said that 
the information online was misleading and that anybody deleting a payee would naturally 
assume that meant any future payment was also deleted. So, he felt RBS was wrong to 
make the payment. He has also been unable to recover the funds from the third party, so he 
says RBS error had left W with a loss of £585.
An investigator looked into matters. He asked RBS for information relating to the contact 
Mr G had with it before cancelling the standing order. But RBS could find no evidence of 
Mr G having called to discuss cancellation of a standing order. Based on this the investigator 
said they couldnt conclude RBS had given misleading information to Mr G. And he felt there 
was information available through RBS online banking on how to cancel a standing order 
payment. So, given the standing order had not been cancelled following the right process, he 
didnt think RBS was wrong to have paid it from Ws account. 
 
 
Mr G disagreed with the investigators opinion. He said he still believed that the information 
online and the process for cancelling the standing order are misleading and unclear. He said 
that it was reasonable for him to expect that, having deleted the payees details, the payment 
would not be made  as there was no other reason for him to have done so. He also said he thinks RBS has recently changed its online instruction around this, indicating that it was 
previously unclear. 
As Mr G, on behalf of W, did not agree with the investigators opinion the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that there was a standing order in place prior to May 2019 instructing RBS 
to make a payment from Ws account to the third party. And it also isnt in dispute that, 
although Mr Gs intention may have been to cancel this instruction on behalf of W, the 
standing order wasnt cancelled in line with RBS processes prior to the payment being made 
in May 2019. So, when making the payment in May 2019, RBS was acting on a valid 
instruction as it hadnt been correctly notified otherwise.
Mr G said when he initially complained to RBS and our service that he was told over the 
phone by RBS that he could cancel the standing order online, prior to him attempting to do 
so. Hes also said more recently he was told this by a manager at RBS. It is unclear if by this 
he means he was told this in branch or over the phone. Either way RBS has no record of 
Mr G having discussed cancelling a standing order with it before he attempted to do so 
online.
But whether the discussion took place or not, Mr G hasnt said that RBS told him before he 
logged into online banking that deleting a payee would in turn mean a standing order was 
not paid. Hes just said that he was told he could delete a standing order online and to follow 
the relevant instructions when he logged in. And RBS has confirmed that is correct  a 
standing order can be deleted through its online banking. Based on this, and the lack of 
records of a conversation having taken place, I cant reasonably say that RBS gave Mr G 
misleading information about its processes prior to him attempting to cancel the standing 
order using online banking.
The issue has arisen because Mr G deleted the payees details but not the standing order 
itself. So, the correct process wasnt followed. He has said that the steps for doing this are 
misleading and that it was reasonable for him to think that deleting a payee would delete the 
standing order.
RBS has said there are different processes for these two different actions and deleting a 
payee will not cancel a standing order. And it has provided evidence of the processes for 
each from May 2019 and the steps to complete them. Having reviewed the information it has 
provided, I dont agree with Mr G that the processes were misleading. And I havent seen 
anything to show that the information which wouldve been displayed when he deleted the 
payee stated that the standing order had also been deleted. So again, I cant reasonably say 
RBS has provided misleading information. 
 
 
It appears Mr G has assumed that deleting the payees details would cancel the standing 
order from W's account. And hes said he thinks this is reasonable. But whether it is 
reasonable or not, I dont think this is the fault of RBS because I dont think it has provided 
misleading information. I know Mr G feels that deleting a payee should mean standing orders are also deleted, but this isnt RBS process. Businesses are entitled to use their 
judgement in deciding their internal processes. And our service is not a regulator, so it isnt 
for us to tell business it must make changes to its processes.
Mr G has said that these processes have been updated, indicating they were misleading. 
RBS has said they have not changed. But even if they had, I dont think this means they 
were previously misleading as businesses update their processes regularly. 
So, based on everything Ive seen, I dont think there was any error by RBS that led to the 
standing order not being cancelled. And I dont think it has made an error by paying the 
standing order, in line with the instruction. Which means I cant reasonably require it to 
refund the amount paid.
RBS has acknowledged it did give Mr G incorrect information when he first complained on 
behalf of W, for which it has apologised. As it has acknowledged the error and provided the 
correct information shortly afterwards I dont think it needs to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my decision is that I dont uphold Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2020.
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman