DRN-1501226
The complaint
Mr C complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as Moneyboat) lent to him 
in an irresponsible manner. 
What happened
Mr C was given three loans by Moneyboat between August 2018 and February 2019. Each 
of the loans was repayable in four, or five, monthly instalments. Mr C successfully repaid the 
first two loans but a balance remained outstanding on his final loan at the time he made his 
complaint. A summary of Mr C's borrowing from Moneyboat is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount 
1 21/08/2018 15/10/2018 £  200
2 19/10/2018 29/01/2019 £  650
3 01/02/2019 - £  800
 
Mr C's complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She didn't think Moneyboat 
had been wrong to give any of the loans to Mr C. So she didn't think the complaint should be 
upheld.
Mr C didn't agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasn't been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Moneyboat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr C could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Moneyboat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
 the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
Moneyboat did some checks before it gave each of the loans to Mr C. It asked him for details 
of his income and his normal expenditure. And it checked his credit file before agreeing each 
loan. I've seen the results of the credit checks and they don't show anything that I think 
should have caused additional concerns to the lender.
I think that the checks Moneyboat did before agreeing each of the loans were 
proportionate. The amounts that Mr C needed to repay were small compared with the 
disposable income hed declared. Given these repayment amounts, what was apparent 
about Mr Cs circumstances at the time, and his borrowing history with the lender, I dont 
think it wouldve been proportionate for Moneyboat to ask him for the amount of information 
that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing any of loans. 
So I don't think Moneyboat was wrong to lend to Mr C. 
I appreciate that Mr C says his finances were under pressure at that time. But the true state 
of Mr C's finances wasn't something that he shared with Moneyboat when he asked for the 
loans. And I don't think it is something that Moneyboat should have discovered from 
proportionate checks. I'm sorry to hear about the significant health problems Mr C is 
suffering from. But it seems to me that Moneyboat reacted appropriately when Mr C told it 
about these problems and agreed a reduced repayment arrangement with him. So I don't 
think this complaint should be upheld.   
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Evergreen Finance London Limited.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman