DRN-4117187
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that HDI Global Speciality SE declined a claim they made under their 
buildings insurance policy for subsidence.
Reference to HDI includes its agents and representatives.
What happened
The circumstances arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the background:
Mr S got in touch with HDI in July 2022 after noticing cracks on the wall of the 
extension. It appointed a loss adjuster to consider the claim.
The loss adjuster inspected the damage and arranged for ground investigations. In 
summary, they said the following and declined the claim:
oThe extension damage had been caused by subsidence due to nearby trees 
 an Ash and a fruit tree.
oThe foundation was 500mm deep but should have been 1,750mm. As a 
result, the foundation design was faulty.
oThe damage likely started before the policy began.
Mr S said the extension had been built in 2003 and would have had to conform to 
building standards of the time. He hadnt noticed any damage until 2022. Mr S 
complained but the loss adjuster maintained its position.
Our investigator didnt think HDI had acted fairly. She said it hadnt shown what the 
foundation depth ought to have been at the relevant time, so it hadnt shown why the 
foundation was faulty. Nor was she persuaded the evidence showed the damage had 
begun before the policy. She asked it to consider the claim further.
Mr S agreed with this. HDI didnt. It sent us a copy of British Standards for foundation 
design and said it was relying on the opinion of its claim technician who said the 
foundation was faulty. It also noted the guidelines of a builder of new homes, N, 
which suggested the foundation ought to have been deeper at the time the extension 
was built, particularly if the trees were in place then.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change her mind. She said HDI hadnt pointed 
to anything in particular within the Standards to support its point about the foundation 
depth. And she noted that the guidelines of N arent relevant here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covers damage caused by subsidence, during the period of insurance, but 
not when caused by faulty design. Theres no dispute the damage was caused by 
subsidence. So the question for me is whether HDI can rely on either of the reasons 
raised to decline the claim. The onus is on HDI to show it can do so.
The first reason relied upon is to do with the timing of the damage. The loss adjuster 
said it was likely to be pre inception of this policy seemingly because of some 
brackets on the side of the extension that have been painted several times over the 
years. However, they havent gone so far as to say when the policy began or why 
these brackets are a sign the subsidence problem began before that time.
The policy documents Ive seen show it renewed in June 2022 and Mr S made the 
claim soon after. He says damage began in summer 2022 and I havent seen 
anything to challenge that. So, based on the information available to me, it seems the 
damage began at least a year into the policy.
In these circumstances, Im not satisfied it would be fair to decline the claim based on 
the timing of the damage.
The second, and main, reason relied upon is the depth of the foundation. HDI says 
its faulty because its not deep enough.
The ground investigations showed the extension has a 500mm deep foundation built 
on clay. Roots emanating from a fruit tree were found beneath the foundation. I 
havent seen any evidence to challenge these findings, so I accept them.
The extension was built in 2003. In order for HDI to show it was faulty, I would expect 
it to provide evidence of relevant regulation and/or best practice from that time  and 
show how it wasnt met. I would also expect it to show how this caused the current 
subsidence, especially bearing in mind the structure had stood without problem for 
nearly 20 years at the time it became damaged.
HDI has mentioned the guidelines of N. But theres nothing to suggest the extension 
was built under the supervision of N, so I dont think its guidelines had to be followed 
by the builder. That means Ns guidelines arent directly relevant here.
HDI has also pointed to British Standards on foundation design from 1986. Whilst 
these might not strictly be Regulation, Im satisfied theyre a credible source of 
generally accepted best practice that still applied in 2003. And therefore it would be 
reasonable to take them into account.
As the loss adjuster pointed out, those Standards say a foundation in clay should be 
built to a depth below the zone where shrinkage and swelling due to seasonal 
weather changes, trees, shrubs, and other vegetation are likely to cause appreciable 
movement. The loss adjuster says this means the foundation ought to have been 
1,750mm deep, but its unclear how it is has reached that opinion. Despite our 
investigator asking for this information, HDI hasnt explained itself.
I dont think it would be fair to take the overarching aim of the Standards literally. To 
do so could mean that any claim for subsidence in a clay soil due to trees could be 
considered to be the result of a faulty foundation design and declined. The Standards 
set our vast amounts of guidance. So I think its important for HDI or its loss adjuster 
to set out exactly what part(s) of the guidance within the Standards hasnt been met. 
But it hasnt done so.HDI said a report provided by Mr S supported its position. That report was prepared 
by a chartered surveyor. They said the extension would have required Building 
Regulation approval at the time it was built. That wasnt obtained, but HDI doesnt 
seem to have looked into why that might be. The surveyor goes on to say that 
insulation would need to be provided in order to comply with Building Regulation from 
the time  but the foundation appeared compliant. So rather than supporting HDIs 
position, I think it undermines it.
A chartered surveyor says they think the foundation would have complied with the 
relevant approval process at the time. HDI has partially relied on irrelevant standards 
and, when turning to relevant ones, hasnt pointed to any specific part of them that 
hasnt been met. Nor has it explained why it thinks the foundation depth ought to 
have been 1,750mm. So whilst HDI says its claim technician considers the 
foundation faulty, its failed to point to any objective information to explain why.
I also take into account into that the structure had stood for around 20 years before 
suffering damage. If the foundation had been faulty from the outset, one might have 
expected it to have suffered damage sooner. HDI hasnt explained why this isnt the 
case, which again undermines its position.
Bearing in mind the onus is on HDI to show the foundation design was faulty, Im not 
persuaded the information its provided has done so. As a result, I think it acted 
unfairly when it declined the claim. To put that right, it should now accept the claim.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require HDI Global Speciality SE to accept the claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman