DRN-3807818
The complaint
Mrs B complains that the advice she received from Nationwide Building Society in 2000 and 
early 2001, to invest a total of £3,000 in an equity tracker ISA, was unsuitable.
Mrs B is represented by a claims management company (CMC) in this matter.
What happened
In 2000 and early 2001, Mrs B and her husband discussed their financial planning with an 
adviser from Nationwide. In 2000, the adviser recorded that Mrs and Mr B had a joint 
monthly income of over £2,200 net and had a disposable monthly income of around £600. 
By the time the adviser met Mr and Mrs B again in 2001, their net monthly income had 
increased to £2,800. Their income was made up of a mix of Mr Bs self-employed earnings, 
including income received from renting out vehicles he owned, and disability benefits that 
Mrs B received.
The fact find in 2000 set out that Mr and Mrs B had combined deposit based savings of 
around £30,000, an endowment plan with a sum assured of £19,000, due to mature in 2006 
(it appears this was their mortgage repayment vehicle), and shares valued at over £3,000. In 
addition, Mrs B also held a Personal Equity Plan valued at around £4,000.
Their outstanding interest only mortgage balance was £12,500 and Mr B also had an 
outstanding car loan of around £7,200. 
Mrs Bs attitude to investment risk was described as ambitious.
The adviser recorded that Mrs B, currently has liquid assets totalling £16,661. We have 
agreed that in her case an amount of £7000 should be left available for short term savings 
and for use in an emergency. This leaves an amount of £9,661 available for investment.
Mrs B initially invested £1,500 in an equity tracker ISA with Nationwide. In early 2001 Mrs B 
invested a further £1,500 in the tracker ISA. The adviser set out in the report provided to Mrs 
B at the time the advice was given in 2001:
I am recommending a CAT marked Mini Equity Tracker ISA as a medium to long term 
investment in FTSE All Share companies; offering a combination of low charges and tax free 
growth potential for your investment. This is not a fixed term investment and any value 
stated above is a projected amount only. 
You now appreciate the benefit of looking at alternative investments on part of your 
capital. You are aware and happy with the risks associated with these types of investments. 
You wish to potentially achieve a better return through non-deposit based accounts, such 
as Cash ISAs and National Savings, as you feel that you have adequate funds on deposit.
You have confirmed that you are investing these monies solely for growth and you do not 
want it to provide an income for the investment term.
From the records available it appears that Mrs B encashed her ISA in 2008. 
In 2021, the CMC representing Mrs B in this matter complained to Nationwide about the 
investment advice Mrs B had received in 2000 and early 2001, to invest in the equity tracker 
ISA. It said Mrs B only had limited investment experience and should have been advised to 
pay off the mortgage she held with Mr B, before investing in any investment products.
Nationwide did not uphold the complaint. It said, in summary, that it was satisfied that the 
advice had been suitable for Mrs Bs circumstances, attitude to investment risk and capacity 
to take risk. It noted that its adviser had discussed using some of Mr and Mrs Bs deposit 
based savings to reduce their mortgage debt, but they had rejected this suggestion.
The CMC then referred the complaint to this service. 
Having reviewed the information available our investigator said she didnt think the advice 
Mrs B had received in 2000 and 2001 was unsuitable. 
She noted that at the time the initial advice was given in 2000, Mr and Mrs B had no 
dependents and had a disposable income of around £606 per month. (By the time Mrs B 
invested the second £1,500 lump sum in the equity tracker ISA, in early 2001, their joint 
disposable income had increased to £1,570 per month.) In view of this she said she was 
satisfied that both investments had been affordable. She also noted that the adviser had 
discussed using the money to repay the mortgage Mrs B held jointly with her husband, but 
this had been declined in favour of investing for the future. 
She said she was satisfied that the risk profile of the equity tracker ISA was in line with Mrs 
Bs ability to take risk as she had only invested a small portion of her overall savings in the 
ISA.
The CMC was not satisfied with our investigators view. In summary it said:
The funds chosen were significant gambles for Mr & Mrs B. They had never invested before, 
had no experience or knowledge of investing and had never taken any personal interest in 
finance or equities. Despite this and having no real understanding of the meanings or 
definitions of the risk levels or the associated levels of loss that may be incurred at the 
different levels, Mr & Mrs B have been placed in the highest levels of risk available.
We simply cannot accept that placing this amount of their money, given the debts, variable 
income, lack of disposable income (as explained about the figures are unrealistic in the POS 
docs) and their lack of experience could have been appropriate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.This service does not have the power to consider every complaint referred to us. In 
particular, we cannot usually consider a complaint referred to us more than six years after 
the event complained about, or three years (if later) from the date the complainant ought 
reasonably to have become aware that they might have cause for complaint, unless the 
business consents to us considering the complaint, or exceptional circumstances apply. 
In this case Nationwide has consented to this service considering this complaint despite the 
advice being complained about having been given in 2000 and 2001 and the investment 
having been encashed in 2008.
I have carefully considered the points the CMC has made but I cannot reasonably agree that 
the advice Mrs B received in 2000 and 2001 was unsuitable. Ill explain why.
Investment experience
In its most recent response to this service the CMC said that Mrs B ...had never invested 
before, had no experience or knowledge of investing.
I cannot reasonably agree with this claim. The contemporaneous records I have been 
provided with, set out that Mrs B held a mortgage endowment jointly with her husband (it 
appears this was their mortgage repayment vehicle), had an equity based Personal Equity 
Plan with another provider, and held around £3,000 of shares jointly with Mr B.
In view of this it is not clear to me why the CMC has claimed that Mrs B had never invested 
before and had no knowledge of investing.
Investment advice
The CMC says it feels the £606 monthly disposable income recorded on the fact find in 2000 
was completely unrealistic. I am mindful however, that in the fact find completed in early 
2001, their disposable monthly income was recorded as over £1,500. If Mrs and Mr B felt the 
disposable income recorded in 2000, was too high it is not clear to me why they reported a 
much higher figure in early 2001. In the absence to show that the disposable income 
recorded was incorrect I cant reasonably agree with the CMCs claim that it was completely 
unrealistic.
The CMC also said it felt that as Mr Bs work, which naturally had a seasonally variable 
income and was subject to demand it was important to have a considerable cash reserve  
even more so as his wife was not in a position to work. And it noted that part of Mr and Mrs 
Bs income came from renting out vehicles Mr B owned. It said this could have ceased at 
short notice.
I appreciate the points the CMC has made, but it appears it has overlooked that, even after 
Mrs B had invested a total of £3,000 in the equity tracker ISA, she and Mr B still had around 
£20,000 in deposit based savings. This was enough to repay their outstanding mortgage and 
most, if not all of Mr Bs car loan. In view of this I am satisfied that they had a considerable 
cash reserve, even after Mrs B had invested in the equity tracker ISA. 
The adviser recorded that she had discussed using the lump sum Mrs B wanted to invest to 
reduce the mortgage she held jointly with Mr B. The adviser noted:
You have confirmed you do not wish to reduce or pay off your mortgage with the lump sum 
you are investing.  
The CMC has said that the adviser should had done more to persuade Mrs B to use the money to reduce the mortgage debt. I appreciate its position but, based on the information 
recorded at the time the advice was given, I dont agree that the adviser was required to do 
more than she did. She discussed the option with Mrs B, she was not in a position to insist 
that Mrs B should use the money to reduce the mortgage debt. 
Having reviewed the information available, I am satisfied that Mrs B still held significant cash 
savings, even after she had invested £3,000 in the equity tracker ISA with Nationwide. 
Based on the information recorded about Mrs Bs personal and financial circumstances at 
that time, I am satisfied that she had some investment experience as she had already 
invested in an equity PEP and held an endowment plan and shares jointly with Mr B. In light 
of this, I dont agree with the CMCs claim that Mrs B didnt understand the level of risk 
involved in an equity tracker ISA or that the investment was too high risk. Nor do I agree, 
based on the information recorded at the time, that Mrs B did not have the capacity to take 
the level of investment risk recommended.
I am also mindful that Mrs B held the investment until 2008, so there is nothing to suggest 
that Mrs B needed access to this money for around eight years.
I appreciate that, with the benefit of hindsight, Mrs B and her CMC may feel that the most 
suitable advice would have been for Mrs B to have used the money she invested in the 
equity tracker ISA to pay down the mortgage she held with Mr B. But I am required to 
consider, based on the information Mrs B provided at the time the advice was given  and 
any foreseeable changes to her circumstances  whether the advice given was suitable. 
Having carefully considered all the information available, I cannot reasonably find that the 
advice was unsuitable.
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2023.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman