DRN-3878280
The complaint
Mr G complains that Santander UK PLC unfairly restricted his bank account, and that it used 
some of the funds held within that account to repay a debt owed by a limited company of 
which he is the director.
What happened
Mr G is the owner and director of a company, which Ill refer to as S. Both Mr G and S 
banked with Santander. 
S obtained a £50,000 Bounce Back Loan from Santander in May 2020. Between May and 
August, Mr G transferred the majority of Ss loan funds to his personal account with 
Santander.
Santander applied a restriction to Mr Gs account on or around 29 July 2020, while it 
undertook a review.
In light of concerns as to Ss eligibility for the Bounce Back Loan it had obtained and the way 
the funds were being used, Santander also undertook a review of its relationship with Mr Gs 
company. The bank subsequently decided that S was ineligible for the loan, so it terminated 
the agreement and demanded immediate repayment of the funds.
On 14 August, Santander removed the credit balance of around £5,800 held in Mr Gs 
personal account, and subsequently applied this to the amount owed by S in respect of the 
Bounce Back Loan.
Santander removed the restriction from Mr Gs account on 14 August. The bank says the 
account was later closed on 28 August.
Mr G doesnt think it was fair for Santander to restrict his account, or to use the funds he 
held in his own account to repay debts owed by his company. This is in part because he 
doesnt think S did anything wrong in obtaining the Bounce Back Loan, as he believes the 
company met the eligibility criteria. But he also argues that Santander shouldnt have used 
his personal funds to repay money owed by his company. 
Mr G is also unhappy that the restriction caused Direct Debit payments to fail and that the 
account was pushed into an overdrawn position that he struggled to rectify as Santander 
wasnt clear with him as to what was happening. 
Santanders actions in respect of Ss Bounce Back Loan are the subject of a separate 
complaint with our service.
My provisional decision 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint last month, setting out why I didnt intend to 
uphold it. I said:
Santander has a number of legal and regulatory obligations to meet in providing 
banking services to its customers. Banks are required to keep accounts and their use 
under review, and may need to suspend access or services in order to do so. 
In addition to its broader legal and regulatory obligations, Santander was also 
expected to keep matters relating to the Bounce Back Loan under review in line with 
its anti-fraud requirements under the government-backed loan scheme. While Mr G 
didnt hold a Bounce Back Loan, his company did  and the funds from that loan had 
been transferred to his personal account.
The terms and conditions of Mr Gs account allowed Santander to suspend its 
services. The bank wasnt required to notify Mr G of this or of its decision to review its 
relationship with him. So it was entitled to take the actions it did. And I think these 
actions were reasonable in the circumstances, particularly given that:
Under the separate but related complaint from S about Santanders actions in 
respect of the companys accounts, Ive found that the bank had valid 
concerns as to Ss entitlement to the loan.
A significant portion of Ss Bounce Back Loan funds had been moved to Mr 
Gs personal account. That represented a possible breach of the terms and 
conditions of Ss loan (which required the funds only to be used for Ss 
business purposes). The bank therefore took steps to protect its ability to 
recover these funds, which I think was reasonable.
I understand why Mr G doesnt think Santander was entitled to use funds held in his 
personal account to repay the debt owed by S under the Bounce Back Loan 
agreement. The debt was owed by a distinct third party, which leads me to think that 
the bank didnt have the contractual right of set off to use the money in this way. But 
that isnt the end of the matter. In addition to the contractual position, I must also 
consider what is fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of this complaint. 
And having done so, my view is that it was fair and reasonable for Santander to 
remove these funds for this purpose in the circumstances here because:
In reviewing the complaint from S, Ive provisionally concluded that Santander 
reasonably decided that the company hadnt been eligible for the loan it 
obtained. The loan only came into existence as a result of Mr Gs self-
declaration as to his companys eligibility, which the bank had reasonable 
grounds to consider inaccurate.
The loan was to be used only for business purposes and Ive not seen any 
reasonable grounds for the transfer of the £50,000 to Mr Gs personal 
account. While the payment of a salary could well amount to a legitimate 
business expense, this seems difficult to justify in the circumstances that 
apply here. Most notably, Mr G wasnt receiving salary payments at such a 
level prior to Ss receipt of the loan and a large portion of the funds were 
swiftly used to pay other finance providers and transferred to other personal 
payees.It would not be fair for Mr G to benefit from these funds given that his 
company was not entitled to them in the first place and when the loan couldnt 
be used for personal purposes. Particularly as Mr G wouldve been  or, at 
least, ought reasonably to have been  aware of both of these issues.
Therefore, it follows that Im not intending to require Santander to return the funds in 
question to Mr G.
I can see that the restriction of the account and the removal of the funds impacted a 
couple of the Direct Debit payments that Mr G had scheduled around the time. The 
statement Ive seen suggested that one was returned unpaid on 14 August  which 
was correct, as there were no funds in the account after the bank had legitimately 
removed the balance with a view to applying them to Ss Bounce Back Loan debt. It 
seems that a subsequent Direct Debit of around £33 was paid despite the lack of 
funds, creating a small overdraft position that I presume Mr G wouldve needed to 
settle in order for the account to be closed. But that hasnt left him any worse off 
financially, and as I understand the account was closed on 28 August 2020 it doesnt 
seem to have caused any unreasonable delay either.
Mr G didnt accept my provisional decision. He replied to say, in summary, that Santander 
had delayed the closure of his account and that hed continued to incur monthly charges 
after August 2020  when Id said the account had been closed. He said the bank had 
continued to deduct monthly account charges thereafter, causing a debit balance. With 
regard to the use of the Bounce Back Loan, Mr G said that the transfer of funds to his 
personal account had been to repay himself for invoices hed settled on Ss behalf.
Santander confirmed it had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with particular regard for the additional comments and information that 
Mr G has provided, Ive not seen reason to depart from my provisional decision. Ill explain 
why.
Looking firstly at the use of the Bounce Back Loan, Mr G has suggested that the transfer of 
the loan funds to his personal account represented the repayment of a directors loan used 
to settle invoices. But hes been unable to substantiate that. Hes sent us some copy 
invoices, but theres no evidence that he paid them out of his own pocket (or indeed that 
they were settled at all). So this hasnt led me to reach a different view as to the 
inappropriate use of the loan funds or, therefore, the legitimacy of Santanders actions to 
recover the money and end its relationship with Mr G.
Ive reviewed the closure of Mr Gs account in light of his comments that it wasnt closed 
promptly in August 2020, and that this led to some problems and unfair additional charges. 
But the bank has confirmed that the account was closed on 28 August 2020, and evidenced 
this by way of a transaction record. So I dont think there was any delay in closing the 
account or that any additional charges were applied. I understand Mr G may in fact be 
referring to the account held by his company, S, as that was evidently closed later. But that 
has been addressed under the separate complaint weve considered from S.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman