DRN-3254730
The complaint
 Mr G complains about DKB Management (UK) Limited and losses sustained following 
advice to invest in a stocks and shares ISA.
What happened
On 16 January 2020, Mr G met with DKB (his independent financial adviser) to discuss 
reinvestment of the funds from investment S, which was due to mature on 20 January 2020.
DKB advised investing the funds into Mr Gs existing stocks and shares ISA. Mr G
completed the forms and the transfer completed on 8 February 2020, at which time the value
of the ISA was £57,269.11.
On 10 March 2020, Mr G called DKB to raise concern at the drop in value in the ISA due to
the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. DKB advised against liquidating the ISA at this time
and advised Mr G to remain invested. On 11 March 2020, Mr G called DKB again raising
concern about the further drop in value of the investment. Mr G then instructed DKB to
liquidate the ISA.
Funds were settled on 17 March 2020 and the total value was £47,400.40.
Mr G complained to DKB that he should not have been advised to re-invest funds from S into
his existing stocks and shares ISA and/or DKB should have advised him to liquate on or
before 28 February 2020. In addition, Mr G says DKB failed to undertake a further planning
review and failed to provide a suitability report. In essence, Mr G complains that he was
exposed to too much risk, after effectively doubling the amount of funds in his stocks and
shares ISA.
Further, DKB failed to consider that Mr G was a vulnerable consumer, by reason of his long-
term health conditions. Mr G says this should have been considered at the point advice was
given in 2020 and there should have been an urgent review of the risk his ISA was exposed
to because of the events relating to the Covid-19 pandemic and, the reasonably foreseeable
adverse financial consequences of those events on global markets. DKB should have
known Mr Gs health conditions would have been exacerbated by exposure to any resulting
fluctuations.
By way of background, DKB says that the 2017 advice to invest in the stocks and shares ISA
was suitable for Mr Gs needs at that time, as it met his objective of income and Mr G was
comfortable taking some risk as returns from cash were poor. The suitability report from
2017 records, your attitude to risk could realistically be described as cautious . . after
further discussion when completing the investment objectives section within the platform,
you concluded that you were prepared to accept a different level of risk in respect of this
NISA investment of Balanced.
DKB said Mr G remained invested in that ISA and as at January 2020, he was comfortable
with the ISAs performance and the income hed received. It was decided he should re-invest
the maturing funds into the ISA. DKB says there were no fundamental changes in terms of
income and outgoings, the investment continued to meet the requirement for medium-long
term investment with the objective of income and Mr G did not require access to capital.
DKB was aware that Mr G had health issues but considered he was a knowledgeable and
well-informed investor, with whom there had been a long-standing relationship. DKB did not
class Mr G as a vulnerable consumer.
DKB also said it could not have predicted the impact of the pandemic earlier. Given that      
Mr G was invested for the medium-longer term, it had been appropriate to advise Mr G to 
remain invested so as to ride out the fluctuations. It wasnt unreasonable for DKB to have 
acted on the direct instruction from Mr G to liquidate the ISA.
Our investigator considered the complaint. He thought DKB hadnt done anything wrong. As
Mr G was re-investing and moving money between investments, our investigator didnt think
DKB needed to carry out a full risk assessment or fact find. Mr G was comfortable with the
risk level of the ISA and wished to increase his income, there were no affordability concerns
so this was the natural option and DKB had discussed this with Mr G. Further, at the time of
the discussions the market hadnt been impacted by the pandemic.
Our investigator noted that Mr G was worried about his losses and changes in the market
when he spoke to DKB in March. Our investigator explained that DKB couldnt predict how
the market would perform and the advice to remain invested was suitable, given that Mr G
was a longer-term investor and that short-term shocks were common. Mr G was entitled to
disagree with the advice given and ultimately it was Mr Gs decision to sell. Also, whilst DKB
may have been aware of Mr Gs health conditions, it hadnt classed him as a vulnerable
consumer, as throughout their long relationship he had been knowledgeable and well 
informed.
Overall, our investigator thought the advice given was suitable. He recognised that it had
been a worrying time for Mr G and hed had to make a tough choice but DKB hadnt done
anything wrong.
Mr G didnt agree with the view and re-iterated that he was not complaining about the
advice to remain invested. Amongst other things, a central thrust of his concerns was that 
DKB failed to recognise and treat him as a vulnerable consumer. Mr G said he should have 
been treated with a higher level of care because of his vulnerability and this was material 
when assessing his attitude to risk. He submitted that had this factor been taken into account 
when advice was provided in 2020, it was unlikely that a recommendation to invest into a 
balanced risk product would have been given. Mr G highlighted many sections from the FCA 
Guidance Consultation - Guidance for firms on the fair treatment of vulnerable customers 
GC10/3 of July 2019 as follows:
2.3 Some consumers will be actually vulnerable because of their personal circumstances.
Actual vulnerability can be permanent but is often transient because consumers
circumstances constantly change. . .
2.4 Other consumers may be potentially vulnerable. Although not currently vulnerable, they
may be more susceptible than others, due to certain characteristics, for example, someone
with a history of stress-related illnesses. People with such characteristics may be more at
risk of suffering harm due to poor market practices or poor treatment by a financial services
provider. . .
2.5 Potential vulnerability can also be transient or short-term. But some consumers may be
in a permanent, or long-term, state of potential vulnerability. Whilst this may not lead to
actual vulnerability for everyone, it is important to be aware of the concept and understand
its causes and drivers.
2.13 The overall impact of these consequences on consumer welfare may well bedetrimental, and vulnerable consumers may be more likely to experience harm. In many
cases, this risk of harm may not develop into actual harm. If the risk does crystallise,
however, the impact on vulnerable consumers is likely to be greater than for other
consumers.
I wrote a provisional decision in November 2021, in which I provisionally upheld the 
complaint. I confirmed that the provisional decision addressed the merits of the complaint 
only and any service concerns raised by Mr G, had been considered separately. I went on to 
say:
Having read all the information provided, I hoped Mr G wouldnt take it as a discourtesy that I
hadnt addressed every point raised. I concentrated my findings on what I considered to be 
the key factors in reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
Id noted the following background to events: Mr G met with DKB in November 2013. A
financial review was undertaken, following which Mr G was advised to transfer £25,000 from
a matured cash ISA into a FTSE Quarterly Income Plan (investment S), which was
scheduled to mature in January 2020.
In February 2017, Mr G attended another financial review and sought advice about 
reinvesting another cash ISA that was about to mature. As Mr G wished to invest for income
and growth, DKB recommended investment into a stocks and shares ISA. Mr G then
invested £21,987.19 on 1 March 2017, followed by two further payments of £6,782.15 and
£3,217.85, in July and August 2017 respectively. Mr G had been clear that no issue was 
being taken with the 2017 recommendation.
This complaint concerned the matured funds from investment S and the recommendation to
re-invest those funds into the stocks and shares ISA that Mr G took out in 2017.
Health condition and vulnerable consumer
Having considered the medical evidence provided and Mr Gs testimony, I found that it was 
more likely than not that Mr G suffered from underlying health conditions, which were 
exacerbated by exposure to stressful events. In the 2013 fact find DKB recorded that Mr Gs 
health was poor, reference was also made to Mr G having medical issues in the 2017 
suitability report and DKB recorded that Mr G received benefits. Mr G had consistently said 
he told DKB that benefits were paid as result of his inability to work due to his health 
conditions. DKB confirmed it was aware of Mr Gs health conditions, early retirement from 
work, his receipt of benefits and the nature of those benefits. Taking all this into account, I 
thought it was more likely than not that DKB was aware of Mr Gs ill-health and the likelihood 
that stressful events would exacerbate his conditions.
I noted DKBs view that it did not consider Mr G to be a vulnerable consumer as he was a
knowledgeable client, who was capable of making informed decisions, having shown a full
understanding of information provided to him over the years. DKB said Mr Gs health
conditions did not restrict his ability to make rational, financial decisions. It is fair to say
there was no suggestion that Mr Gs understanding or decision-making capacity was 
impaired by his ill-health. But vulnerability is a broader concept than capacity, encompassing 
a spectrum of characteristics. That was also recognised by DKBs own vulnerable consumer
policy, which sets out FCA guidance that:
A vulnerable consumer to be someone who, due to their personal circumstances, is
especially susceptible to detriment, particularly when a firm is not acting with appropriate
levels of care.It is for firms to pay due regard to the interests of their customers and to treat them fairly, as
required by PRIN 2.1.1R (6), FCA Principles for Business. I also considered the rules set
out in the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS), namely COBS 2.1.1R (1), which says,
A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its
client. These general principles have been clarified in the FCAs Guidance for firms on the
fair treatment of vulnerable customers, FG21/1, issued in February 2021 which highlighted 
the importance of providing a level of care appropriate for a consumers particular
characteristics. Whilst this guidance was published after Mr G had received advice, the core
content simply harnessed good industry practice with the guidance having been raised
during a period of prior consultation.
Mr G had long-standing heath conditions and stood to suffer deterioration in his health and
emotional stability if losses materialised, in other words, the risk of harm increased in line
with increased risk exposure in his investments. Mr G classed himself as a vulnerable
consumer. I thought it was reasonable to conclude that the nature of his ongoing conditions 
and the potential for exacerbation following exposure to stress amounted to vulnerable
characteristics. Mr Gs vulnerability was therefore a relevant factor to weigh in the balance
when considering his needs and how to treat him fairly.
2017
Mr G raised concerns about the 2017 fact find, but having seen the 2017 suitability
report I thought it was clear that an assessment was being given for that particular 
investment only. Mr Gs overall attitude to risk was described as cautious, which he didnt 
dispute and it was recorded that he was prepared to accept some more risk with the 
particular investment. Mr G did go on to receive a return from the investment. Mr G had been 
clear that he was not complaining about the suitability of advice given in 2017, so I did not 
consider it within this decision. But the context in which this advice was given was relevant 
when looking at the recommendation in 2020.
2020
It was common ground that Mr G met DKB in January 2020 to discuss reinvestment of 
matured funds from investment S. It wasnt disputed that DKB advised Mr G to reinvest the 
matured funds into his ISA. Whilst some discussion took place, Mr G recalled the adviser 
saying, Thats easy  transfer the monies into your ISA. Mr G received a letter from DKB in 
early February 2020 advising that the terms and conditions of the ISA had not changed since
inception and directing him to the 2017 suitability report.
I thought Mr G was right that under COBS 9.4.1, a suitability report should have been 
provided when advice was given about an investment. In fact, Mr G was referred back to the 
2017 report, which was specific to that one-off investment of £25,000. The recommendation 
didnt purport to have any wider application and that was evident from the covering letter, 
which said,
You instructed me to specifically limit my advice to your maturing . . . ISA, which matured on
27 February, and I have acted accordingly. I have, therefore, only obtained the necessary
information from you to advise on the above area. You should be aware that my
recommendations may have differed if I had undertaken a full review of your financial
circumstances.
In my view directing Mr G to a report written around three years earlier, which expressly
related only to investing matured funds from an earlier ISA, fell short of the requirement in
COBS.
DKB said that Mr G was a long-standing client and risk was assessed over time, evolving
with the reviews. But I hadnt seen anything in writing, which supported an evolving riskassessment and the comments in the 2017 covering letter suggest that a full review hadnt
been undertaken at that time. I thought it was more likely than not that Mr Gs overall
circumstances hadnt been fully reviewed since 2013. Taking into the account the timeline
and Mr Gs particular vulnerable characteristics, I thought DKB should have undertaken a 
fresh risk profile and full review of Mr Gs financial circumstances on which to base a new
suitability report in January 2020.
I went on to consider whether the recommendation given was suitable for Mr Gs
circumstances at that time. DKB said:
ATR was correct. Capital adequacy was fine given amount of cash holding between
them, most Mrs G but she is o% tax. Income adequately covers all expenditure with
some capital withdrawals, this is due to change when Mrs G gets her State Pension.
DKB had earlier identified that Mr G was a cautious investor and it was plain from his 
testimony that he had an aversion to risk. It was also a relevant factor that realisation of risk 
(i.e. the reality of sustaining loss) was a trigger for deterioration of his health conditions. 
There was nothing to show that Mr Gs overall risk appetite had changed to balanced. So, 
taking everything into account, I didnt agree with DKBs assertion the ATR was correct at 
the time as the ISA was a balanced investment. There was no contemporaneous 
assessment to support the conclusion that Mr Gs overall attitude to risk was balanced. I 
thought it was more likely that Mr G remained a cautious investor.
I had seen that Mr G and his wife jointly owned a residential and a second property. Mr G
received income through pension and benefits but had a small income from investments,
which he used towards expenses. So, I thought it was likely that he did have an objective of
income. Mr G had around £12,500 in cash savings only. So, Mr G didnt have much capacity
for loss and as this recommendation was specific to his circumstances, any cash held by his
wife wasnt a relevant factor in the assessment. Adding the matured funds to the existing
stocks and shares ISA, increased Mr Gs exposure to risk as the amount of funds in the
balanced investment doubled. Mr G recalled that no consideration was given to investing the
funds into his instant access cash ISA.
Overall, I was not persuaded that the recommendation to invest the matured funds into the 
ISA was suitable for Mr Gs circumstances, I thought it left him exposed to more risk than he 
wanted to, or was able to take. DKB hadnt been able to show that a contemporaneous 
assessment was made which showed otherwise.
Mr G had provided a timeline of events about the onset of the pandemic, but I didnt think the
specific market crash was foreseeable at the point advice was given in January 2020. The
important factor when considering Mr Gs needs was that he was likely to suffer ill health if
he sustained losses and the higher his exposure to the market, the higher the risk of
sustaining loss became. On balance, in light of my findings about DKBs knowledge of
Mr Gs ill health, I considered that this risk was foreseeable. Taking everything into account, I
thought DKBs recommendation was unsuitable. And I noted that when the risk of loss
materialised, the extent of the losses sustained by Mr G did trigger a deterioration in his
underlying health conditions.
I considered that DKB should put things right on a fair and reasonable basis.
Putting things right
In order to make a fair and reasonable assessment, I considered Mr Gs circumstances
as at January 2020. Mr G said it was likely that he would have invested all funds in the ISA
differently, so that the full amount should be redressed, not just the matured funds. I thought 
carefully about this and I was mindful not to make an assessment with thebenefit of hindsight.
As I said above, had DKB made a fresh assessment of Mr Gs overall financial
circumstances and his vulnerable characteristics, as at January 2020, I thought it was more 
likely than not that Mr G would have been assessed as a cautious investor. I was not 
persuaded that the objective of income would have been more important to him than risk 
exposure, especially as the income received from his pension and benefits was recorded as 
meeting his needs in the 2017 suitability report. Mr Gs cash holdings were only £12,500 and
remaining joint assets were tied into two properties, both of which were used as residential
homes. It was also a relevant factor that he stood to face a deterioration in his health 
condition if losses materialised and values fluctuated. So, on balance at this time, I was not 
satisfied that Mr G had the appetite or capacity for loss for balanced investments.
Taking all these factors into account, I thought it was more likely than not that Mr G would 
also have been advised to invest differently on the original sums invested if proper 
consideration had been given to his particular circumstances. Again, I considered that an 
investment exposing Mr G to less risk would have reasonably met his needs. So, I thought it 
was fair and reasonable for DKB to provide redress against the full sum invested in the ISA 
from the date that the matured funds were invested. Mr G chose to sell his investment later 
against advice, which resulted in the losses crystallising, so I thought it was fair and 
reasonable to cap Mr Gs losses at this point in time.
It was not possible to say precisely what Mr G would have done differently. But I was 
satisfied that what I set out below was fair and reasonable given his circumstances when he
invested in 2020.
DKB should make an assessment in respect of the whole sum invested, as follows:
Compare the performance of Mr Gs investment with that of the benchmark shown below
and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the investment. If the
actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
DKB should also pay interest as set out below.
Provide the details of the calculation in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
nameStatus Benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
TPI NISA Surrendere
dAverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bonds 8 February 
2020 date of 
surrender8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to 
date of 
settlement
actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return
using the benchmark.To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, you should use
the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity as published
by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous
month. Apply those rates to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investments should be deducted from
the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the
calculation from that point on.
If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, I will accept if
DKB total all those payments and deduct that figure at the end instead of deducting
periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I chose this method of compensation because:
Mr G wanted to achieve some income and capital growth without risk to his capital;
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their capital. It did not mean
that Mr G would have invested only in a fixed rate bond. It was the sort of investment
that would be a fair measure given Mr Gs circumstances and objectives;
The additional interest was for being deprived of the use of any compensation money
since the end date.
Distress and inconvenience
I thought it was be fair and reasonable to compensate Mr G for the distress and 
inconvenience he had suffered. I took into account Mr Gs consistent and clear
explanation about the impact this matter had had on his health and the supporting evidence
he provided. As Id explained above, I thought it was a foreseeable risk that Mr Gs health
could deteriorate and I also considered the additional impact that raising a complaint
had on his underlying health conditions. In all these circumstances, I considered that
compensation of £500 was a fair and reasonable award.
The parties have now responded to the provisional decision. Mr G agrees with the merits 
outcome but says an award of £500 for distress and inconvenience is not a fair and 
reasonable recognition of the anxiety and stress caused by DKB. He says consideration 
should be given to the amount of intellectual and mental effort taken in researching and 
preparing his responses. Further, the award does not fairly reflect the psychologically 
challenging nature of the circumstances which gave rise to the complaint. Mr G refers to the 
medical evidence he has provided.
DKB disagrees with the outcome in the provisional decision. DKB says the issue of 
vulnerability only came to light after our investigators view. In any event, DKB disagrees that 
Mr G was a vulnerable consumer and maintains that he was an astute investor, happy with 
the income hed generated and looking to achieve more of the same. DKB deny that Mr Gs 
overall circumstances had not been reviewed and say regular meetings took place with Mr G 
and his wife several times each year looking at cash flow and projections, dates within the 
diary were also given. Further, it was a relevant consideration that the second property 
jointly owned by Mr and Mrs G might be sold.DKB says Mr G would not have suffered any losses if he had not sold the holdings against 
advice, so the complaint should not be upheld. DKB also questions why redress has been 
made against the full amount invested and submit it is unfair to consider the top of the 
market value as at 8 February 2020. Further, the level of interest to be paid from the end 
date of settlement was too high.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed everything. First, I think it is helpful to clarify that the issue of Mr Gs 
vulnerability was raised at the outset in his complaint and was addressed at view stage by 
our investigator, albeit I have reached a different finding. I have taken into account the 
comments by DKB but as I explained in the provisional decision, my findings around 
vulnerability are not based on Mr Gs level of understanding and capacity, which has not 
been in dispute, they encompass a broader range of factors and characteristics. For the 
reasons set out in my provisional decision, I remain of the view that DKB was aware of       
Mr Gs ill-health and the likelihood that stressful events would exacerbate his health 
conditions.
DKB has referred to the dates of meetings with Mr and Mrs G. Whilst there may have been 
general discussions, nothing has been provided to show that a full financial review of Mr Gs 
circumstances was conducted after 2013. DKB says there were ongoing discussions about 
joint cash holdings and Mr and Mrs G were considering selling their second property in 
2018/2019, so could take more risk. DKB has provided a copy of an email from 2018, which 
deals with Mrs Gs income and refers to potential sale of the second property. A suggestion 
was made of putting the net balance into Mrs Gs sole name in a savings account or looking 
at investment, where it was said that investment risk was key. But theres nothing to show 
that the capital had been realised as at the date of the 2020 recommendation or that this 
was considered by DKB at the time in respect of Mr G. Theres no mention of it in DKBs 
comments set out in the provisional decision. So, Im not persuaded that DKB has shown it 
was a relevant factor at the time. On balance, for the reasons set out in my provisional 
decision and above, Im not satisfied that DKB has shown that a full review of Mr Gs 
circumstances did take place at the material time.
So, looking at everything in the round, Im not persuaded that it would be fair and reasonable 
to reach a different outcome to that set out in my provisional decision.
I am therefore upholding the complaint for the same reasons, set out above.
Putting things right
 As to financial compensation, Ive considered the points raised by DKB. As I explained in 
my provisional decision, I am not making any finding about the suitability of the 2017 advice, 
the focus of this complaint is on the advice given in 2020, which is why this is taken as the 
start date. As I have said, I am not satisfied that DKB has established that it is more likely 
than not that a full assessment of Mr Gs circumstances, including his taking into account his 
vulnerable characteristics, had been made as at 2020. Had such an assessment been 
undertaken, it remains my view, for reasons already given, that different advice would likely 
have been given in respect of investment into the ISA. For the reasons given in my 
provisional decision it remains my view that the method of redress I have proposed is fair 
and reasonable in the particular circumstances of this case.In light of all the circumstances, it is my view that the level of interest payable is a 
reasonable amount to compensate Mr G for being deprived of the use of funds since the end 
date. 
Distress and inconvenience
I have considered that Mr G has been put to the inconvenience of having to raise a 
complaint against DKB and I accept that the process of raising the complaint caused stress 
and exacerbated his health condition. So, it remains my view that it is appropriate to make 
an award of compensation. 
I have considered the matters raised by Mr G and the evidence provided. By his own 
admission Mr G says he spent extensive time researching and making very detailed, lengthy 
submissions and draws an analogy with preparing complex legal instructions and 
documents. It is said that these efforts caused exhaustion and anxiety. But when considering 
the time spent on the complaint matter objectively, Ive also considered proportionality, 
noting the issues involved and that this is an informal dispute resolution service. Further, to 
be clear my assessment is focused on the distress and inconvenience resulting from Mr G 
having to raise a complaint against DKB only. As I explained in my provisional decision, any 
service-related concerns and work undertaken by Mr G in respect of those matters have 
been considered separately and do not form part of my assessment. Overall, Im not 
persuaded it is fair and reasonable to ask DKB to pay more in compensation. Considering 
matters in the round, it is my view £500 remains fair and reasonable to compensate Mr G for 
the distress and inconvenience.
  
My final decision
I am upholding this complaint and I direct DKB Management (UK) Limited to put things right 
as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman