DRN-3335175
The complaint
Ms G complains that ReAssure Limited failed to apply payments shed made to her pension 
policy. 
What happened
Ive seen that Ms G has experienced a number of issues with her pension policy with 
ReAssure. 
Im not going to refer to everything but, in summary and in so far as this complaint is 
concerned, Ms G emailed ReAssure on 15 January 2021 when she realised that four 
payments shed made into her pension between October 2020 and January 2021 werent 
showing up on her account. I understand she lodged a complaint via ReAssures on line 
portal on 16 January 2021. 
ReAssure wrote to Ms G on 21 January 2021 to advise that the payments had been located 
and would be applied to her account within five to ten working days. Ms G made another 
payment on 15 February 2021. But, despite contacting ReAssure again, the payments still 
didnt show on her account.  
Ms G submitted a complaint to us on 8 March 2021. On her complaint form she said shed 
had to reduce her contributions to her pension so shed cancelled her direct debit and 
agreed to pay a smaller sum for a while. Her first payment of £100 was made in October 
2020 and showed on her statement dated 5 November 2020. She made further payments of 
£100 in November and December 2020 and January and February 2021, none of which had 
been added to her pension. She wanted proof that her pension policy was up to date and 
compensation for each day the money hadnt been added to her account plus for the 
inconvenience and time shed spent chasing things up. She also said that other errors had 
been made. 
ReAssure issued a final response letter on 25 April 2021. But it concerned a complaint about 
delays to a £3,000 withdrawal and receiving pension projections. ReAssure offered Ms G 
£100 for those issues. The final response letter didnt mention the missing payments.
Our investigator asked ReAssure for some more information about the dates ReAssure had 
received Ms Gs payments, when theyd actually been applied to her policy and if theyd 
been backdated. He also asked about the reason for the delay in adding the premiums to the 
policy and if thered been further delays from February 2021 onwards. Despite chasing, 
ReAssure didnt reply. 
Ms G then emailed us with screenshots of the payments showing on her account. She said 
she thought things were up to date but, as there were a number of payments, it was 
somewhat confusing. The investigator asked her to check. 
Ms G did so and emailed the investigator again saying she was happy that ReAssure was up 
to date with everything. She said she wasnt surprised the investigator had struggled to get a 
response from ReAssure. She commented that, although her pension fund was modest, that 
shouldnt make her a less valuable client than someone with a lot of money invested with 
ReAssure. She didnt know how compensation was worked out in a case such as hers but 
she was hoping, after such a long battle with ReAssure, it would be considerable. 
The investigator wrote to Ms G and ReAssure setting out his view of the complaint. He said it 
was a positive step that Ms G was now able to see the missing payments had been applied 
to her account. But, as ReAssures final response letter hadnt dealt with the issue and the 
investigator hadnt had any response to his enquiries, he couldnt say precisely what steps 
ReAssure had taken to remedy Ms Gs complaint. 
The investigator recommended that ReAssure backdated each of the payments to the day 
they were received to make up for the time that these payments werent invested but 
shouldve been. That should remedy any financial loss that had been caused by the error. If 
ReAssure had already done that then it should write to Ms G to confirm. 
The investigator also said, although backdating the payments would make good any 
financial losses, the payments not being directed to her account for several months wouldve 
caused Ms G some distress and inconvenience. He suggested an award of £250.  
ReAssure responded to the investigators view and apologised that it hadnt responded to 
the earlier request for information. It said it needed more time to check what had happened 
about crediting the payments. 
ReAssure later wrote to say that, having checked, the premiums had been applied correctly. 
Seven single premium payments each of £100 net had been made and these had now been 
applied to the account as at the correct dates. Unfortunately it appeared thered been system 
issues when applying the premiums initially and that had caused the delays. As the 
premiums had been backdated to the appropriate dates ReAssure said that, along with the 
payment of £100 to Ms G, was fair and reasonable.
Ms G was also unhappy with what the investigator had recommended. She didnt think £250 
was enough compensation for the stress shed suffered.
As agreement wasnt reached the complaint was referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry that Ms G has been waiting some time for an ombudsmans decision. 
Although Ive read and considered everything Im only going to refer to what I see as key. 
Ms G has made another complaint to us. Its about being unable to access her account on 
line and being sent an incorrect P45. Although Im issuing separate decisions, Ive 
considered both complaints alongside one another 
Since Ms Gs complaint was made, ReAssure was able to locate the payments Ms G had 
made. ReAssure has also confirmed the dates the payments had been applied were correct. 
That seems to be Ms Gs view too  shes confirmed shes happy that the payments are now 
correctly showing on her account.  
If the payments have been credited and as at the correct dates, then Ms G hasnt suffered 
any financial loss because of any delay in applying the payments. In effect the payments have been backdated or applied to her account on the correct dates. Theres no investment 
loss if the payments have been credited to Ms Gs account not as at the date that ReAssure 
located the payments and allocated them to the policy but as at the dates that the payments 
were received and shouldve been applied. So, from what Ive seen and given that Ms G has 
confirmed that shes happy that her account is up to date, I dont think shes suffered any 
financial loss.
But Ms G has suffered distress and inconvenience because ReAssure didnt deal with things 
as it shouldve done. ReAssure accepts that but it considers, as theres no financial loss, a 
payment of £100 is adequate. Ms G thinks a higher amount than that suggested by the 
investigator - £250  would be justified.
On our website we give some examples of the sort of awards for distress and inconvenience 
we might make. We say an award of up to £300 might be fair where there have been 
repeated small errors or a larger single mistake requiring a reasonable effort to sort out and 
which may last days or even weeks and cause some distress, inconvenience disappointment 
or loss of expectation. 
Although a number of payments were involved and it took a considerable time for things to 
get sorted out, I think whats happened here falls into that category. I take into account that 
although there was a delay in allocating the payments, ReAssure was able to confirm fairly 
quickly to Ms G when she queried things that the payments had been located. So I dont 
think Ms G was ever worried that ReAssure hadnt received the payments and that theyd 
somehow gone astray. 
On balance, I think the sum suggested by the investigator is fair and reasonable and taking 
into account what I say below.  
As Ive said, Ms G has another complaint with us which Ive also considered. I think at some 
stage we may have planned to deal with all Ms Gs concerns as one complaint. We havent 
done that but Ive borne in mind Ms Gs other complaint in deciding what compensation 
would be fair and reasonable in this complaint. 
Looking at things from that overall perspective, Ms G will receive, in total, £650 
compensation. Thats made of the £250 Im awarding on this complaint plus the amounts in 
respect of the other complaint  £400 in total. 
I think total payments of £650 fairly reflect the considerable frustration, annoyance, 
disappointment and inconvenience that ReAssures several errors and the delays in putting 
thigs right have caused Ms G. 
I think ReAssure may also have paid Ms G £100 in connection with another separate issue  
delays in withdrawing £3,000 and receiving pension projections. For the avoidance of doubt 
Ive disregarded that £100 as it relates to an entirely separate issue. So ReAssure shouldnt 
take that payment into account in paying the compensation Ive awarded. 
My final decision
I uphold Ms Gs complaint. ReAssure Limited must pay her £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience Ms G has suffered. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2022.
 Lesley Stead
Ombudsman