DRN-1189543
 
The complaint
Mrs H says that Bank of Scotland gave her the wrong information about her eligibility to open 
a student account.
What happened
Mrs H opened a student account with Bank of Scotland when she first became a student in 
2005. She says that at that time, she was told she wouldnt be able to open another student 
account in the future  either with Bank of Scotland or with another bank. So Mrs H says that 
she didnt enquire about opening a student account when she returned to education in 2016. 
She says she was told recently that she could have had another student account when she 
returned to education. 
Mrs H says shes lost out financially as a result, because shes been paying interest on her 
overdraft although she could, in fact, have had a student account with an interest-free 
overdraft.
There was also an issue with the way Bank of Scotland dealt with Mrs Hs complaint. Bank 
of Scotland has compensated Mrs H for the inconvenience in relation to that, and she hasnt 
raised any further points about it. So I havent considered that as part of my decision.
This is a brief summary of the complaint. As the other details of the complaint are well known 
to both parties, I wont repeat them again here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld. Mrs H didnt 
agree, so the case has been passed to me to make a final decision and bring matters to a 
close.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator. Ill explain why.
Bank of Scotland says it has never been its policy to allow a customer to only ever 
have one student account. Ive looked at the terms and conditions for Bank of 
Scotlands student account from around the time Mrs H opened her account  from 
2003 and 2007. Theres no mention of a customer being able to only ever have one 
student account. I accept that the terms and conditions Ive seen arent from the time 
that Mrs H opened her account, but I do think its likely theyre representative of the 
terms that wouldve applied in the interim period, in 2005.
I accept that Mrs H couldve been given incorrect information during the initial 
meeting in 2005. But it also entirely possible that she couldve incorrectly 
remembered or misunderstood the information she was given. I cant say for certain 
what happened here. But she became a student for the second time over ten years 
after the first time. Its fairly common knowledge that banks can change their eligibility 
criteria, terms and conditions and product offerings at any time. So I dont think itd be 
unreasonable for Mrs H to have re-checked whether she could have a student 
account in 2016  even if she did believe she was told in 2005 that she wouldnt be 
able to have another one.
Even if Bank of Scotland didnt permit customers to have a second student account, 
or did incorrectly tell Mrs H that this was the case, I think its very unlikely it would 
have speculated what other banks wouldve offered to Mrs H in the future. So even if 
Mrs H didnt think she could have another Bank of Scotland student account, she 
could still have shopped around with other providers to check this.
Id like to reassure Mrs H that Im not doubting what shes said. But given the time 
that passed between 2005 and 2016, I do think its possible that her memory of what 
happened initially may have faded. And Im also conscious that she couldve 
shopped around for a bank account that suited her needs in 2016 based on up-to-
date information, as opposed to information that was given over 10 years earlier.
Whilst I havent listed each of Mrs Hs complaint points individually, Ive thought carefully 
about everything shes said. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs H but for the reasons Ive explained, 
I havent seen enough to satisfy me that Bank of Scotland acted unfairly. So I dont uphold 
this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint against Bank of Scotland Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2020.
 
Sam Wade
Ombudsman