DRN-3828499
The complaint
Mrs B complains that PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA hasnt refunded payments she says 
she didnt authorise.
What happened
On 2 and 3 April 2021 three payments of £40 each - £120 in total  were made using 
Mrs Bs PayPal account. Mrs B received an email notifying her that these payments had 
been made, but she says she didnt make the payments, so she contacted PayPal to ask for 
them to be refunded.
PayPal said that the payments had been made under a billing agreement Mrs B had which 
authorised PayPal to make payments to a third party  which Ill call C. PayPal said this 
agreement had been in place since 2015 and had been set up by Mrs B. It also said that 
payments had been made using the agreement in 2015 and 2016 which Mrs B had not 
disputed at the time.
Mrs B disagreed, she said her list of authorised payees on her PayPal account did not 
include C, so she referred her complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened, he felt that there was not enough 
evidence to show that Mrs B had authorised the payments in 2021, so he recommended that 
PayPal refund them to Mrs B. PayPal disagreed, so this complaint was passed to me for a 
decision.
I issued my provisional decision on this case on 1 November 2022, explaining why I didnt 
think this complaint should be upheld. PayPal agreed with my findings, but Mrs B did not 
agree, she maintains that she did not authorise these payments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following:
Where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory  as it is here given the significant 
amount of time that has passed since this billing agreement was set up  I have to base my 
findings on the balance of probabilities, ie. what I think is more likely to have happened in all 
the circumstances of the complaint. Mrs B seems to be suggesting that the billing agreement 
with C was not set up by her in 2015, and that she didnt make any of the payments under 
the billing agreement. But the evidence Ive seen here suggests to me that it is more likely 
that Mrs B did set up the billing agreement with C and then authorised the payments that are 
in dispute. 
I say this because the evidence PayPal has provided shows the following:
-The billing agreement was set up using Mrs Bs email address
-The payments made under the agreement, in 2015/2016 and 2021, are not 
consistent with fraud
-Mrs B did not dispute the payments made in 2015/2016
-PayPal has provided evidence to show that Mrs B cancelled the billing agreement by 
logging onto her account on 3 April 2022, which contradicts Mrs Bs comments that 
her account never showed any record of this billing agreement
If it was a fraudster who had set up this billing agreement then I find it very unlikely that they 
would then use it only to make some small payments, leave it for several years, and then 
use it again for some more relatively small payments. And any fraudster would have needed 
access not just to Mrs Bs PayPal account but also to her account with C to set it up in 2015, 
and would still have needed access to her account with C in 2021 in order to use it, but no 
explanation has been given as to how that might have happened.
Mrs B has said that she doesnt recognise any of the payments made under the billing 
agreement, either in 2015/2016 or in 2021. But it seems likely that she would have been 
notified of the 2015/2016 payments in the same way as she was of the payments in 2021. 
So even though the payments were small I would expect her to have flagged these with 
PayPal if she didnt make the payments herself, and theres no evidence to suggest that she 
did so at the time.
An alternative explanation is that Mrs B did set this billing agreement up in 2015, made some 
payments, but then forgot about it and accidentally or unknowingly made payments using it 
in 2021. But in that case I still dont think it would be fair to ask PayPal to refund the disputed 
payments. The terms of the billing agreement are clear, they state that by entering into the 
billing agreement, the customer is authorising PayPal to make payments to a third party as 
and when it requests those payments. PayPals terms of use also explain the following:
Payments made under the billing agreement may be in variable amounts and may be made 
on various dates. We are only a payment service provider so we cant (and please dont 
expect us to) know what you have or havent agreed with the recipient or to know why the 
recipient decided to collect your payment. We are not obliged to verify or confirm the amount 
the recipient presents to us for the purpose of processing payments made under the billing 
agreement.
And given the nature of the payments, I dont think there was anything that should have 
flagged them as potentially fraudulent or suspicious to PayPal. So I think its reasonable for 
PayPal to have processed the payments in line with the terms set out in the billing 
agreement which was in place.
I appreciate that Mrs B disagrees with my findings, but shes not provided any further 
comments or evidence that would make me change my decision. So I remain satisfied that 
with everything Ive seen, its more likely than not that Mrs B did authorise these payments. 
So it follows that I think its reasonable for PayPal to hold her liable for them, and I wont be 
asking PayPal to refund them to her.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman