DRN-2058825
The complaint
Mr B complains about how Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) have handled a claim he 
made under a structural defects insurance policy that falls under a warranty.
For the purposes of this decision, any reference to Amtrust includes that of its contractors, 
representatives or agents unless specified.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, and our investigator has 
previously provided a comprehensive timeline of events. So, Ive summarised whats 
happened below. 
In 2017 Mr B purchased a new build property which included a ten-year warranty.
Within a year, Mr B raised a number of concerns about the property. Following use of 
a conciliation service between Mr B and the developer, Amtrust took responsibility for 
the repairs from October 2018. It is from this point onwards Mr Bs claim falls under 
the jurisdiction of this service. 
This claim was initially handled by Company A, who had delegated authority to do so. 
It contacted Mr B and appointed a surveyor to inspect the property. They attended in 
November 2018, and provided their comments on the present defects, required 
repairs and estimated associated costs.
Mr B complained  saying hed had to chase Company A for updates. In November 
2018 it provided a final response (FRL1), and said due to a high number of 
incoming enquiries it may take longer to update him than he would like but it would 
manage the claim accordingly and apologised for any inconvenience caused.
Following receipt of the surveyors report, Mr B raised concerns about the accuracy 
and language used within it  such as alleged defects. Further back and forth took 
place and Mr B raised again a lack of communication on Amtrusts part. Around this 
time Company A blocked Mr Bs phone number which it said was due to abusive 
telephone calls it had received from him. And it said any further communication 
would need to be in writing or email.
Another inspection took place in January 2019. A scope of work was produced and 
shared with Mr B in April 2019. He said there were additional works that would need 
to be completed  including the quality of the brickwork. But Company A disagreed 
there was anything wrong with the brickwork.
Mr Bs sons bed was damaged by Amtrust during this time. It agreed to investigate 
this further, but it didnt pay his quote for this until around two months after. Mr B has 
described the impact of this meaning he had to share a bed with his son for 
sometime which caused him physical distress due to an existing back complaint.
Company A initially contacted three contractors as part of a tender to the scope of 
works. Two of these contractors replied but one didnt. Company A recommended 
one of the two contractors carry out the repairs.
In September 2019 Amtrust took over the handling of the claim due to the sums 
involved. Mr B raised concerns about the tender analysis he was given  saying it 
was flawed due to only two contractors responding. He also had concerns about the 
nominated contractor. Following this Amtrust agreed to re-run the tender process. 
And it said it would aim to retrieve at least three quotes and agreed to revise its 
scope of works from June 2019. 
In October 2019 a surveyor took a sample of the brickwork mortar alongside 
reviewing other concerns raised. Mr B also had the brick manufacturer review the 
bricks to provide a separate report.
In November 2019 Amtrust provided a final response letter (FRL2) to Mr B. It said 
its initial tender process was carried out correctly and there were no issues with its 
nominated contractor. But it agreed it had made mistakes handling the complaint and 
made the wrong decision to block his phone number, saying it would award £500 for 
the impact this had caused. It also apologised for the attitude of its claims team.
Following back and forth, Amtrust made the award of £500 directly into Mr Bs 
account without his agreement. 
Towards the end of November 2019 Mr B said none of the contractors for the second 
tender had contacted him to arrange a visit. As a result he said hed postponed a 
holiday. Amtrust said it would reach out to the contractors but couldnt compel them 
to visit. In December 2019 one of these contractors visited Mr Bs property. Only two 
contractors provided quotes, then Amtrusts surveyor completed a tender analysis. 
Mr B raised concerns, including the timeframes given not being realistic.
In December 2019 Amtrust issued another final response (FRL3). It apologised for 
not having the mobile number block lifted from Company A. It said it hadnt done so 
as Amtrust had taken over the claim but this would be fixed now should he need to 
contact Company A. It also said it had settled the cost for the new bed within a timely 
manner and that there had been no delays in the handling of his claim.
In January 2020 Amtrust detailed a cash settlement for his claim. This covered 
accepted repairs, alternative accommodation and other costs but not for brickwork as 
this wasnt covered. Following further comments from Mr B Amtrust issued a revised 
offer at the end of January 2020. 
A further final response was then issued in February 2020 (FRL4). Amtrust said it 
had sent the schedule of works to local contractors, but they werent obliged to visit 
and it had no control over this. It said it had been given no expert evidence to 
challenge any time period or works outlined within its quote. And it said it had offered 
alternative accommodation for 26 weeks to allow for extra time works may take. 
Amtrust reiterated its position that brickwork concerns were cosmetic and not 
considered a defect under this policy. It also acknowledged it hadnt unblocked Mr 
Bs phone number as it had said it did previously and awarded an additional £25 to 
account for this.
Unhappy with Amtrusts position on these matters, Mr B referred his complaint to our 
service. He raised a number of complaints about Amtrust and the claim. These include:
Concerns about the general handling of the claim including delays. 
He accused Amtrust of defamation of his character on two occasions. He said it had 
unfairly referred to him as abusive within internal notes which wouldve been 
available to any staff members. He also said a member of staff during a particular call 
had unfairly accused him of making comments that they considered inappropriate. 
He said Amtrust had failed to investigate this or consider the impact it had on him. Amtrust hadnt completed fair tender processes as both of them hadnt had at least 
three contractors respond. 
Mr B said Amtrust had misused his personal data by making an award to his account 
without his consent.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said: 
Amtrust hadnt caused unnecessary delays across the life of the claim. 
Amtrust had unfairly blocked Mr Bs mobile number during the claim which led to 
distress and inconvenience, and it hadnt unblocked this as soon as it shouldve. She 
was satisfied a sum of £525 in compensation that Amtrust had offered was fair for the 
impact caused.
Amtrust made reasonable attempts to obtain a range of tenders for repairs. And it 
had been fair to rely on the smaller number of quotes it received.
She didnt agree Mr B had been negatively impacted by Amtrust making an award to 
him without his acceptance.
Conflicting accounts of a conversation had been given about a heated conversation 
in which Mr B said hed been accused of making comments that were inappropriate. 
She wasnt persuaded this conversation had changed how Mr B was treated or his 
claim proceeded. And while Mr B had mentioned the impact on his reputation, she 
hadnt seen anything to see this had been recorded or shared further.
Complaint handling wasnt an activity our service could consider in isolation, and it 
seemed the dissatisfaction stemmed from the outcome Amtrust had reached  and 
this is what she had considered as part of her assessment.
She said Mr Bs home had been left with damage to his brickwork following Amtrusts 
October 2019 investigation. And she directed it to pay Mr B the cost on receipt of an 
itemised receipt or invoice or carry out the repair works.
Amtrust recognised it had broken Mr Bs sons bed but hadnt put this right as soon 
as it shouldve  taking around two months for payment to be made.
The investigator concluded that Amtrust should also award an additional £150 for 
mistakes in handling the claim.
In response Amtrust asked for further information in regards to the damaged brickwork but 
didnt comment on the additional compensation award. Mr B also responded saying:
Amtrust had falsified evidence about the availability of telephone calls and its 
complaint handling had been negligent. He reiterated his concerns about the 
behaviour of staff and data protection. Mr B said our service hadnt considered the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) when considering Amtrusts decisions about 
quotes from a tender. He requested the compensation award be raised in relation to 
Amtrust blocking his number. 
Mr B raised points about delays during the claim, specifically around the date he 
received the initial tender analysis being around two months. Mr B also said all of the 
defects shouldve been discovered within Amtrusts first assessment of the property, 
and that issues coming to light after this was a failing of Amtrusts. 
The investigator looked again but didnt change her mind. She reiterated her 
thoughts and told Mr B that Amtrust had asked for further evidence of the damage to 
the specific brickwork she had said it should put right.
Mr B provided further information to our service outlining each of his complaint points 
and explaining what rules and legislation he felt should be applied. On the topic of the brickwork he said the gash to the brickwork was created by Amtrusts surveyor so 
it would have the evidence already.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances I have taken into account 
relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. When explaining my reasoning, I will focus on 
what I consider to be the key issues at hand. In places this may mean I do not comment 
individually on each point that Mr B has raised, only on those relevant to the decision I need 
to make. But I provide assurance everything that has been provided has been considered by 
me as part of my decision.
Delays
By their nature, warranty claims will often take time to resolve and are likely to be stressful 
for those impacted and I cant hold Amtrust responsible for that. So, what Ive considered is 
whether Amtrust progressed the claim at a reasonable pace and avoided significant 
avoidable delays. My role doesnt require me to undertake forensic analysis of the time 
individual steps of a claim take but I have considered everything in the round and in line with 
what Id normally expect to see on claims of this nature.
Ive considered the overall timeline of events of whats happened in this case, and without 
repeating the history of the complaint I think in places Amtrust could have handled some 
aspects of the claim more quickly than it did. Ive gone on to think about the overall impact of 
this below.
Tender for works
Ive noted Mr B has made specific reference to consumer rights legislation, but Im not 
persuaded this is relevant to the point hes made. Instead Ive focused on Amtrusts 
obligations under the Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). 
Mr B has accused Amtrust of failing in both of its tender exercises due to less than three 
contractors providing quotes for each. Hes also indicated Amtrust shouldve done more to 
ensure the contractors did reply.
Theres no dispute that Amtrust reached out to a number of contractors, simply Mr B is 
unhappy with the number of replies it received. I dont think it would be fair to hold Amtrust 
responsible for the autonomy of these contractors and their decisions whether to reply. This 
isnt something that Amtrust could control beyond chasing for responses from the 
contractors  which I understand it did. So, Im not upholding this point.
Allegations of defamation and Mr Bs phone number being blocked
Ive carefully considered all of Mr Bs comments about what Amtrust has said about him. 
Where these specifically relate to accusations of defamation, I must be clear that is a 
decision that only a court can consider. Slander, libel or defamation is a legal issue that falls 
outside of the scope of this service and for that reason I wont be making a finding on 
whether Amtrust has made defamatory comments about him.I have however considered the impact of whats happened on Mr B and whether the 
compensation already paid is reasonable.
Amtrust has said reviewed the decision to block Mr Bs number and said it had made the 
wrong decision. It apologised and awarded him £500 in compensation. From what Ive seen, 
limiting Mr Bs ability to communicate by phone came at a cost of both hindering his ability to 
raise concerns, as well as causing him personal frustration. Given Amtrust has recognised it 
made a mistake in blocking the calls, I dont need to make a finding on this matter. 
Ive also thought about Mr Bs description of a call which he was accused of making 
comments that were inappropriate by a member of staff. This call isnt available, and the 
notes dont reflect any comments of this nature. So while Mr B has suggested the comments 
made about him had a wider impact on how the claim proceeded, Ive not been given 
anything to persuade me this was the case. But I have considered the impact of Mr Bs 
mobile number being blocked as part of the wider impact of the claim on him.
In this case I think the £500 that Amtrust awarded was generous, and higher than I wouldve 
awarded myself in the circumstances. Amtrust also agreed it hadnt unblocked Mr Bs 
number for some time after it said it would. To put this right, it awarded an additional £25 and 
apologised. I think this was fair and Im not going to increase this figure.
Data protection concerns
Mr B has mentioned specific data protection laws and said a breach of these has taken 
place by Amtrust using his bank details without his consent. It would be for the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO) to determine if a breach of the law took place. 
In this case, I can see no negative impact on Mr B from Amtrust using these details. So, 
whether or not there was a breach, which I will leave to the ICO to determine, Im not 
satisfied it needs to do anything to put this right. 
Complaint handling
Mr B has made specific complaints about Amtrusts complaint handling processes. These 
arent a subject Im going to consider as complaint handling isnt a regulated activity in itself. 
However, I have considered how the claim itself was handled overall within my decision.
Damaged brickwork
Mr B said there was specific brickwork damage caused by Amtrust as part of its investigation 
to test the brickwork  he describes as a three-inch gash to the outer leaf brick which is 
visible from the street. Our investigator initially told Amtrust to repair any damage to the 
brickwork or alternatively settle an invoice or quote for the works if it was provided by Mr B. 
Amtrust responded to say it would like further information about the damage as it said this 
hadnt been raised with it directly. She said she would need to see further evidence and 
would then ask Amtrust to reconsider.
Our investigator requested further information from Mr B about this on several occasions but 
he didnt provide anything  saying Amtrust would already have photos. Given the concern 
hes raised, I dont think its unreasonable to expect Mr B to provide evidence of this damage 
for Amtrust to consider even if he believes it should already have this. 
So in line with our investigators thoughts, I will ask Amtrust to reconsider this damage upon 
receipt of an itemised quote for repairs to this particular and specific damage. I will leave this 
to Mr B to provide to Amtrust should he want to pursue this point  and Id expect Amtrust to reconsider the matter once this evidence is received. 
Damaged bed
Amtrust has recognised it caused damage to Mr Bs sons bed. It said it settled this quickly 
after being told of the damage. Mr B disagrees and said it took around two months and from 
what Ive seen this was the case. So I understand how the impact of not having this bed for 
Mr Bs son wouldve been both frustrating as well as physically challenging for the reasons 
hes given us.
Overall
As Ive outlined, I think Amtrust couldve handled this claim better than it did in places. Ive 
thought very carefully about the overall life of the claim, any unnecessary delays, and the 
impact of the mistakes its made on Mr B. Having done so, and taking into account the total 
compensation already offered, Im satisfied an additional sum of £150 is fair and reasonable 
in all of the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding this complaint. I direct Amtrust Europe 
Limited to:
Award Mr B £675 in total  it can deduct from this any sums of the £525 
compensation it has already paid to Mr B. 
Amtrust to reconsider the specific alleged damage Mr B has described as a three-
inch gash to an outer leaf brick upon receipt of an itemised quote from Mr B.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman