DRN-3583866
The complaint
Mr C complains through his representative that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118
Money lent him money on high cost loans which he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
118 118 Money provided Mr C with the following loans:
Date taken Amount Term Monthly 
InstalmentDate repaid
Loan 1 22/2/2016 £2,000 24 Months £161 16/1/2017
Loan 2 16/1/2017 £2,559.07* 24 Months £196 31/12/2018
*includes £1,559.07 in repayment of loan 1
Mr C complained that the loans were unaffordable and that 118 118 Money didnt carry out 
additional checks before issuing the top-up loan. His representative has sent in bank 
statements from before loan 1 and up until the end of 2018 and a credit check report dated 
May 2019.
118 118 Money said all proper checks were carried out, including verification of income, and 
credit checks. It believed each loan was affordable.
Our adjudicator said that 118 118 Money shouldnt have issued the loans. For loan 1 she
said Mr Cs disposable income after taking into account his credit commitments was too low.
And for loan 2 she said Mr C had clearly been relying on short term loans.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I thought 118 118 Money had made fair 
lending decisions in respect of both loans.
118 118 Money accepted my provisional findings. Neither Mr C nor his representative have 
made any further comment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending 
- including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website.
The following were my provisional findings:
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the 
questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint are:
Did 118 118 Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Mr C would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr C would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required 118 118 Money to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Cs ability to make the repayments under the 
agreements. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment 
or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so 118 118 Money had to think about whether 
repaying the loans would be sustainable. In practice this meant that 118 118 Money had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loans wouldnt cause Mr C undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, 
without failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to 
make and without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial 
situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for 118 118 Money to simply think about the likelihood of 
it getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr C. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan 
application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications. I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which 
a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
loan 1
The credit check carried out by 118 118 Money at the time of the application showed that
Mr C had four active accounts, three short term loans and a credit card with a £28 balance
on it. He also had a current account overdraft of around £800. Our adjudicator assessed that
Mr C had credit commitments of around £615 a month. Together with his assessed
outgoings of £950 this meant he only had a small disposable amount each month remaining
from his £1,650 income.
However the loan accounts all had single payments of their full balances due so it wouldnt 
be right to include those figures in Mr Cs monthly commitments. The loan application 
didnt specifically say what the loan was for, but Ive noted from Mr Cs bank statements 
that he paid the three short term loans off. It was a concern that he wasnt reducing his 
overdraft by much from month to month, but with the loans paid off, he should comfortably 
have been able to afford this loan and possibly start reducing his overdraft.I think 118 118 Money made a fair lending decision here.
loan 2
There was some concern that Mr C had continued to rely on short term loans. He had three 
such active loans with payments totalling £252 a month, although all were due be repaid 
within the next three months. His bank overdraft stood at £662 at the time of the credit 
report. It appears from his bank statements that Mr C did pay off at least two of the loans. 
So on the face of it his remaining credit commitments of £88 (allowing for a 3% monthly 
payment off his overdraft) with the new loan instalment, amounted to about £17% of his 
income of £1,710. He would have had a disposable income, once the loans were paid off, 
of over £500.
Clearly though, Mr Cs finances must have been in much worse shape than that revealed 
by the information 118 118 Money obtained. Looking at his bank statements (which 118 
118 Money didnt request, although the rules dont require it to) his overdraft appeared to 
increase after the loan. And up until May 2019, the date of the latest credit report, he 
continued to take out short term loans, and also extended his credit card borrowing.
But I can only look at the situation as it was at the time of the application. Mr C had reduced
his overdraft since the first application, so I dont think the overdraft still showing on the
credit report should have alerted 118 118 Money to carry out further checks, And he had
taken out new loans since loan 1 but they were comparatively small and he was due to pay
them off with this loan. So as I dont think 118 118 Money would have been alerted to carry
out a more detailed financial assessment from the information it saw. I think it carried out
proportionate checks and made a fair lending decision.
As neither party has made any comments on my provisional findings, those findings are now 
final and form part of this final decision
My final decision
 I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman