DRN-3757109
The complaint
Mr M has complained about his van insurer West Bay Insurance Plc because it has voided 
his policy (treated it as though it has never existed) and, by association, declined his claim 
for his damaged vehicle.
What happened
Mr M had a van which he repainted. He took out cover with West Bay for the van in 2017. In 
January 2022 Mr M had an accident and made a claim to West Bay. West Bay felt the van 
had been modified  it had been painted differently to the factory specifications and had 
been lowered. Mr M said it had not been lowered, and whilst he had painted it, this was 
before he took the cover with West Bay, so it wasnt fair to say he had modified it. He also 
felt that he hadnt been asked a clear enough question to make him tell West Bay about the 
paintwork. 
West Bay said it was voiding Mr Ms policy. But it would return all of his premium paid.  
However, the voidance meant it wouldnt be settling his claim. Mr M complained to us.
Our Investigator felt West Bay had acted fairly and reasonably, in line with the relevant 
legislation. So he didnt uphold this complaint.
Mr M was unhappy. He said the paintwork wouldnt have stopped him having the accident 
and it wasnt fair that his whole claim could be declined because he had painted the van. 
Mr M said he didnt understand why, West Bay following the relevant legislation, was seen to 
create a fair and reasonable outcome. He reiterated his concern that the question had not 
been clear. His complaint was passed for an Ombudsmans consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M is correct. The paintwork on his van had no impact on the accident he had. But 
because the paintwork was different to that it had been when the van left the factory, the van 
had been modified. And that modification was important to West Bay  if it had known about 
it, it wouldnt have offered Mr M cover. Which is why it can void the policy and decline lability 
for the claim. Because, but for Mr M not telling it about the paintwork, it would never have 
been providing him cover at the time of the accident. 
I know Mr M is concerned that West Bay following the relevant legislation doesnt create a 
fair and reasonable outcome for him. But West Bay acting in that way does create an overall 
fair outcome. That is because the legislation (The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012  CIDRA) is in place with a view to setting out the obligations 
and rights of both parties when arranging and renewing insurance. CIDRA makes it clear 
that the prospective (or renewing) policyholder must take care to not make a 
misrepresentation when applying for cover. But, if they do misrepresent something, and that 
misrepresentation causes the insurer to offer cover it otherwise wouldnt have, CIDRA sets 
out what the insurer can do. Those remedies include voiding the cover, with any liability for 
the claim falling away. 
For West Bay to rely on such a remedy it has to have asked Mr M a clear question which he 
gave an incorrect answer to because he hadnt taken reasonable care. The question Mr M 
was asked, when arranging the policy, via a price comparison website, was has the van 
been modified in anyway. I dont think there is anything unclear in that question  modified 
means changed and Mr M knew he had changed the van by painting it a different colour 
(and colour scheme) to that it had been before. I can understand that Mr M may have 
thought modified to mean enhanced such as a more powerful engine, or maybe additional 
body parts, for example. But that is his interpretation applied to the simple question asked. 
And the website used did give Mr M an option of checking his understanding against a 
further explanation about what detail was expected to be given in response to that question. 
But clearly Mr M did not check that detail  as it clarified that cosmetic changes needed to be 
advised of. So Mr M was asked a clear question and chose to answer it having interpreted it, 
without checking his interpretation was correct. Which means that Mr M, in my view, did not 
take reasonable care and, in doing so, gave West Bay an incorrect answer. 
West Bay, like most insurers, has a set of criteria which it applies to decide whether or not to 
offer cover to prospective, and renewing, customers. It has shared that with us. It shows that 
it is not willing to accept customers who have modified the paintwork of their vehicles away 
from the factory finish applied by the manufacturer. Which means that if Mr M, when asked 
on the website about his van being modified, had said he had repainted it, he wouldnt have 
been presented with a quote for cover from West Bay. Which means that West Bay can, 
fairly and reasonably, void the policy and, by association, its liability for Mr Ms claim falls 
away.
I understand that this will be upsetting for Mr M. But, for the above reasons, I dont think 
West Bay did anything wrong in acting as it did. As such Im not going to ask it to do 
anything differently.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against West Bay Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman