DRN-3270935
The complaint
Ms O complains about QIC Europe Limited (QIC) declining a claim under her motor 
insurance policy for the theft of her vehicle.
References to QIC also include their agents. Ms O has been represented in making her 
complaint, references to Ms O include her representative.
What happened
Ms O took out a motor insurance policy with QIC in October 2019. In March 2020 her vehicle 
was stolen from outside her property and she reported the theft to QIC. Ms O told QIC that 
there were two keys for the vehicle and QIC asked her to provide them with both keys and 
other documentation. However, Ms O was only able to locate one of the keys, believing the 
second key had been misplaced, most probably by a vulnerable family member. QIC told Ms 
O that as she hadnt been able to provide the other key, they had referred the matter to the 
underwriter (as well as other information she had provided) for them to consider.
Unhappy at the time being taken to consider her claim, Ms O complained to QIC in July 
2020, who responded in August 2020 restating their position that they would not be able to 
progress her claim unless she was able to provide them with sight of the other key. QIC 
referred to exceptions in the policy regarding theft of the vehicle when unattended. One of 
the exceptions was where ignition keys had been left in, or on the vehicle. QIC said Ms O 
had to provide the other key in order to satisfy the terms and conditions of the policy.
 
In their final response letter of September 2020, QIC referred to their letter of August 2020 
requesting sight of the other key to progress Ms Os claim. QIC said that as they hadnt had 
a response to their letter, they werent able to progress the claim and closed the complaint.
  
Ms O then complained to this service. She was unhappy at QIC declining to progress her 
claim, arguing that QIC hadnt shown that the second key had been in the vehicle when 
stolen. Had the key  as she believes  been lost, there was no exception in the policy that 
applied in that circumstance. She thought QIC should settle her claim, reimburse her for 
payments she had made to the finance provider for the car since the time of the theft (as the 
payments would not have been made had the claim been settled at the time of the theft). 
She also asked for an award because of the distress and inconvenience she had suffered.
Our investigator upheld Ms Os complaint. He concluded QIC had unfairly declined Ms Os 
claim because they hadnt shown that the exception had been fairly applied. QIC had unfairly 
assumed that Ms Os inability to produce a second key meant that it had been in the vehicle 
when stolen. He thought QIC should settle the claim in line with the remaining terms of the 
policy. Because of the length of time taken by QIC in assessing the claim and the delays 
suffered by Ms O, the investigator thought QIC should also pay Ms O £250 in compensation.
 
QIC disagreed with the investigators view and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. QIC said the circumstances of the theft meant it was reasonable to conclude (as  
Ms O was unable to locate the other key) that Ms O had left the other key in the vehicle, 
enabling it to be stolen.
 
During Ms Os complaint to this service she told us shed found the second key, saying it had 
been hidden by the vulnerable family member. The key was sent to QIC, who had an expert 
examine to determine whether it was the second key for Ms Os vehicle. The expert 
concluded that it wasnt, so QIC maintained their rejection of Ms Os claim.
In my findings, while I agreed with the investigators view, I considered the arguments put 
forward by QIC when disagreeing with the investigators view. I concluded that I didnt think 
QICs initial decision to decline the claim was based on a thorough investigation, nor that 
they explored other ways in which the theft might have occurred. I also concluded that Ms 
Os explanation for how the second key could have been taken and hidden by a family 
member was plausible.
I also considered the issue of Ms O providing what she believed was the second key for her 
vehicle as well as the conclusion of QICs expert that it wasnt the second fob for the vehicle. 
I concluded that the report didnt definitively provide a conclusion that it cant have been from 
Ms Os vehicle. I also considered how the vehicle may have been stolen. While the evidence 
didnt point to a clear conclusion about how the vehicle was stolen, as QIC were relying on 
an exception to decline Ms Os claim I didnt think theyd provided enough evidence to show 
theyd applied it fairly.
As I didnt think QIC acted fairly and reasonably in applying the exception to decline Ms Os 
claim, I concluded that Ms Os complaint should be upheld.
I then considered what QIC needed to do to put things right. While I thought it fair QIC 
should settle the claim in line with the remaining terms of the policy, to avoid doubt and 
further delay, I set out how I thought QIC could put things right. This included a higher sum 
in compensation for distress and inconvenience (£500) than in the investigators view (£250).
Because I my findings and conclusions included additional matters to those 
considered by the investigator (and I thought a higher figure for compensation would 
be fair and reasonable) I issued a provisional decision to give both parties the 
opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The main issue in Ms Os complaint is whether QIC acted fairly in declining her claim by 
applying the exception for keys left in, or on the vehicle (so enabling it to be stolen). Ms O 
maintains that she didnt do this, while QIC say that her inability to produce the second key 
(after initially saying she had both keys) indicates its reasonable to conclude the second key 
was in the vehicle at the time of the theft. In their letter of August 2020 declining her claim 
QIC referred to the following wording in the General Terms and Conditions section of the 
policy:
You or any person in charge of the insured vehicle are required to take all 
reasonable care to safeguard it and its contents from loss or damage, for example 
the insured vehicle should not be left unlocked and ignition keys should not be left in 
or on the insured vehicle when you or any permitted drivers are not in the insured 
vehicle, no matter how briefly.
The letter also referred to the following wording of an exception to the policy:loss of or damage to the insured vehiclewhile you are not in the insured vehicle 
arising from theft or attempted theft when:
1. Ignition keys, or any other device which unlocks and/or starts the insured 
vehicle, have been left in or on the insured vehicle; or
2. The insured vehicle has not been secured by means of all door locks; or
3. Any window or any form of sliding or removable roof or hood have been 
left open or unlocked. 
As theres no doubt Ms Os vehicle was stolen (it wasnt recovered) then as QIC are relying 
on the exception to decline her claim the onus is on QIC to show that the exception applies. 
In declining her claim initially because she wasnt able to provide the second key for the 
vehicle, QIC were making the assumption that the second key was in the vehicle at the time 
of the theft and that this enabled the vehicle to be stolen. Or that the vehicle was unlocked at 
the time (either with the key inside or not).
Ive considered the point carefully, but I dont think its reasonable because its an 
assumption without evidence to support it. That is, QIC havent shown that the second key 
was in the vehicle (thereby enabling it to be stolen). I dont think QICs initial decision to 
decline the claim was based on a thorough investigation, nor that they explored other ways 
in which the theft might have occurred (for example, the possibility of relay theft where its 
possible for a vehicle to be stolen without a key being used).
 
For her part, Ms O has told us in detail about the nature and circumstances of a vulnerable 
family member. These indicate that the second key could have been taken and hidden by 
the family member. Ive considered what Ms O has told us, together with the evidence shes 
provided to support her view. Im persuaded that its a plausible explanation.
While Ive concluded that it wasnt reasonable for QIC to decline the claim initially on the 
basis of the exception they relied on, Ive also considered the issue of Ms O providing what 
she believes was the second key for her vehicle. In doing so, Ms O said that it had been 
hidden by a vulnerable family member who had a propensity to hide things, including keys. 
Ms O told us that because of this, she kept a number of sets of second or duplicate keys in 
what she thought was a secure location in her property. Ms O said that while, at the time of 
the theft of her vehicle, she wasnt able to locate the second key for her vehicle in the place 
that she had secured it, she was subsequently able to locate it and send it for examination 
by QICs expert. The experts report concluded that the second fob (key) wasnt a match for 
the first fob, so therefore wasnt the second fob for the vehicle. 
As QIC used the reports findings and conclusions to maintain their decline of Ms Os claim, 
Ive looked at the report carefully. While it notes that the second fob is of the same type and 
model of the first and both are original manufacturer equipment, the information contained 
within the two fobs indicates that they werent manufactured at the same time, but six to 
seven months apart. The report also noted that the metal key blade (usually located inside 
the fob) wasnt present in the second fob, which prevented a comparison of the two blades 
that would have indicated more definitively whether they were from the same vehicle. QIC 
have implied that the absence of the metal key blade could be intentional (to prevent it being 
compared to the key blade from the first fob). Based on these findings, the report concluded 
that the evidence from the two fobs indicated that they werent a match.
For her part Ms O maintains that she believes the second fob was for her vehicle. Shes also 
provided an indication that the metal key blade may have been taken (and lost) by the 
vulnerable family member, because of a recognised medical condition. Given the information 
provided by Ms O to support her view, Ive concluded that its a plausible explanation. QICs 
expert concludes that he doesnt believe the fobs are a match. While he was able to read (electronically) the two fobs the report doesnt definitively provide a conclusion that they cant 
have been from Ms Os vehicle (other than a difference in the date of their manufacture).
 
Ms O also says that while she would enter her vehicle by it automatically unlocking when 
she had the key fob in her pocket and she was in sufficient proximity, she would habitually 
lock her vehicle manually. She says that she followed this on the date of the theft. Shes also 
told us that the vehicle would automatically lock itself after a short period in any event, and 
that she was confident that the vehicle was locked at the time of the theft. She also believes 
that the absence of broken glass at the scene of the theft also suggests, along with the 
proximity unlocking and start/stop functionality, that it was stolen using the relay method. 
QICs view is that it was likely that Ms O left the key fob in the vehicle (along with her 
purse/handbag, which were stolen along with the vehicle) and this facilitated the theft.
 
Ive considered both versions of what might have happened carefully. While QICs view of 
what is likely to have happened differs from Ms Os, Ive also noted that the report from their 
expert states that the vehicle is susceptible to theft using the relay method (should 
conditions be favourable). Ive also considered that, according to data from the police, a 
significant proportion of vehicle thefts are made using the relay method. While the evidence 
(particularly as the vehicle was never recovered) doesnt point to a clear conclusion about 
how the vehicle was stolen, as QIC are relying on an exception to decline Ms Os claim I 
dont think theyve provided enough evidence to show that theyve applied it fairly.
As I dont think QIC have acted fairly and reasonably in applying the exception to decline Ms 
Os claim, Ive concluded that Ms Os complaint should be upheld.
Having concluded that QIC havent acted fairly, Ive gone on to consider what I think QIC 
need to do to put things right. Our investigator thought that QIC should settle the claim in line 
with the remaining terms of the policy. I think thats fair. Ive also considered that in her 
complaint to this service, Ms O said that shed had to continue making payments for the 
finance agreement shed taken out in respect of the vehicle. Given this and to avoid any 
doubt and further delay, Im going to set out how I think QIC can put things right.
Ms O obtained her vehicle through a finance agreement with a third party finance company. 
In those circumstances, depending on what Ms Os policy provides for, then one option may 
be for QIC (where the vehicle is subject to total loss, including its theft and non-recovery) to 
pay the third party finance company directly for the loss of the vehicle. Depending on the 
estimate of the market value of the vehicle (and deducting any excess applicable under the 
policy), if thats less than the amount owed then Ms O may have to pay the difference.
 
At this stage, I think QIC should do three things:
First, QIC should accept and pay Ms Os claim in accordance with the remaining terms of the 
policy without reliance on the exception.
Second, if QIC decide to pay the third party finance company directly, they should pay Ms O 
the difference between their estimate of the market valuation of the vehicle and the 
settlement value provided by Ms Os finance company.
Third, QIC should refund the interest element of Ms Os car finance premiums since April 
2020. Ms O would not have paid this interest if QIC had settled the claim in March 2020. QIC 
should add simple interest at 8% per year to these refunded interest payments from the date 
of each payment to the date of settlement.
The above would put Ms O back in the position she would have been if QIC had settled her 
claim in March 2020. But I think QIC should also compensate Ms O for the consequences of 
their failure to settle the claim, that is to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience it caused her by their handling of her claim. Our investigator thought that, because of the 
length of time taken by QIC in assessing the claim and the delays suffered by Ms O, they 
should pay Ms O £250 in compensation. 
Ive considered this carefully, given my conclusion that QIC unfairly declined Ms Os claim by 
relying on an exception that assumed (without evidence) shed left the key in her vehicle (or 
left it unlocked). And that they didnt consider other ways in which the theft might have 
occurred, nor the explanations given by Ms O for her initially not being able to provide the 
second key (or why the metal key blade from the second fob she provided might be 
missing). Taking all these into account, I think QIC should pay Ms O £500 to compensate 
her for the distress and inconvenience this caused her.
my provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, its my provisional decision that I uphold Ms Os complaint. I 
intend to require QIC Europe Limited to:
Accept and pay Ms Os claim in accordance with the remaining terms of the policy 
without reliance on the exception.
(If QIC decide to pay the third party finance company directly) pay Ms O the 
difference between their estimate of the market value of the vehicle and the 
settlement value provided by Ms Os finance company.
Refund the interest element of Ms Os car finance premiums since April 2020. QIC 
should add simple interest at 8% per year to these refunded interest payments from 
the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Ms O £500 for distress and inconvenience.
Ms O responded to say that she didnt have any further comments as the provisional 
decision was in her favour. But she added that if QIC advanced any additional information 
which caused me to revisit my provisional decision, she reserved the right to comment on 
that additional information. 
QIC didnt respond to the provisional decision by the date requested.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I remain of the view that the complaint should be upheld.
As Ms O didnt have any further comments and QIC didnt respond by the date requested, I 
havent changed my view to uphold Ms Os complaint. So, my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision that I uphold Ms Os complaint. I require 
QIC Europe Limited to:
Accept and pay Ms Os claim in accordance with the remaining terms of the policy 
without reliance on the exception.
(If QIC decide to pay the third party finance company directly) pay Ms O the 
difference between their estimate of the market value of the vehicle and the 
settlement value provided by Ms Os finance company.Refund the interest element of Ms Os car finance premiums since April 2020. QIC 
should add simple interest at 8% per year to these refunded interest payments from 
the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Ms O £500 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman