DRN-1245828
 
The complaint
Mrs O says that she was mis-sold a regular premium mortgage protection insurance (MPPI) 
by Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide). 
What happened
Mrs O took out a mortgage with Nationwide in 2003 at the same time she took out a MPPI 
policy. The policy protected her mortgage payments if she lost her job or was too sick to 
work for up to 12 months per claim and was free for the first 12 months. 
Our adjudicators didnt think Mrs Os complaint should be upheld because he thought it was 
clear from the application form Mrs O wanted the cover and thought the MPPI wouldve 
provided a useful benefit for her.
Mrs O disagreed. She says she didnt need the policy and that the policy wouldnt have 
covered her for her pre-existing medical condition (PEMC). 
So Mrs Os complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Os complaint.  
Nationwide had to make it clear to Mrs O that she had a choice in taking out the MPPI, that it 
was separate from the mortgage and she agreed to buy it. 
Nationwide have given us a copy of Mrs Os MPPI application form from 2003. The 
application form is completely separate from the mortgage application. I can see that there 
were a number of different levels of MPPI cover offered for either 12 or 24 months and that 
Mrs O opted to take full cover for accident and sickness and unemployment for 12 months. 
So I think because Mrs O completed a separate application form for MPPI she wouldve 
understood it was separate from the mortgage. And I think because Mrs O was able to select 
different levels of cover she would've understood she had a choice in taking out the policy 
and took full cover because that is the level of cover she wanted.
From what we know of Nationwide MPPI sales they were generally on a non-advised basis. 
And I havent seen anything from this sale to make me think it was any different here. What 
this means is that Nationwide didnt recommend MPPI to Mrs O, it just gave her information 
about MPPI. This information needed to be given in a way that was clear, fair and not 
misleading so she could make an informed choice about buying MPPI. Given the length of time that has passed since the sale, I dont know if Nationwide did give 
all the information as it shouldve. But I dont think this wouldve made a difference because I 
think Mrs O wouldve still taken the policy if she were given all the proper information. I say 
this because at the time of the sale:
She was eligible for the MPPI.
 
And although she did have a PEMC the policy terms say her condition wouldve only 
been excluded from cover for the first year when the policy was in the free period. 
And it doesnt look like Mrs O wouldve been caught by any of the other main 
exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made it difficult to 
make a successful claim.
 
Mrs O says although she wasnt entitled to any sick pay she had significant savings 
she could use to make her mortgage payments if she couldnt work. As the sale 
wasnt advised it was up to Mrs O to assess her needs in terms of cover. And the 
policy wouldve paid out on top of any savings and covered her for potentially longer 
if she lost her job. 
 
So I think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mrs O in her circumstances 
especially considering she was taking on a significant financial commitment. Given the 
implications if she was unable to meet her repayments I think she wouldve been 
interested in protecting them. 
 
There is nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mrs O and if she no longer 
wanted the policy she was able to cancel it. 
 
So it follows that I dont uphold Mrs Os complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Mrs Os complaint against Nationwide 
Building Society. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman