DRN-3433906
The complaint
Mr S complains that a car that was supplied to him under a conditional sale agreement with 
Santander Consumer (UK) plc, trading as Santander Consumer Finance, wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in March 2022 in which I described what 
had happened as follows:
A used car was supplied to Mr S under a conditional sale agreement with Santander 
Consumer Finance that he electronically signed in October 2020. He says that the 
cars engine management warning light came on in March 2021 and that he was told 
by a garage that a new engine would be required and the car wasnt safe to drive. He 
complained to Santander Consumer Finance and it arranged for the car to be 
inspected by an independent expert. It then said that it had been unable to evidence 
that the faults that Mr S had been experiencing were inherent at the point of sale or 
finance inception. Mr S wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this 
service.
Our investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
it was more likely that the car was supplied to Mr S with a developing fault but the car 
had then been written-off in a collision. He recommended that Santander Consumer 
Finance should: refund Mr Ss deposit of £5,000 and 10% of his monthly payments 
from March 2021 until the agreement was settled to reflect his impaired usage (with 
interest); and pay him £300 for the distress and inconvenience that hed been 
caused.
Santander Consumer Finance has asked for this complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. It says, in summary, that the car was deemed a full write-off, the 
insurance company has paid out the settlement figure, its not getting the car back 
and the collision wasnt caused because the car wasnt of satisfactory quality.
I set out my provisional findings in my provisional decision which were as follows:
Santander Consumer Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for 
ensuring that it was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr S. Whether or 
not it was of satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, 
including the age and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it. The car 
that was supplied to Mr S was about four years old, had been driven for 39,994 miles 
and had a price of £39,998. Satisfactory quality also covers durability which means 
that the components within the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of 
time  but exactly how long that time is will depend on a number of factors.
Mr S says that the cars engine management warning light came on in March 2021 
so he took the car to a garage and that he was told that a new engine would be 
required and the car wasnt safe to drive. The garage has told our investigator that 
the warning light was on and fault codes for 02 sensors were evident. It says that it 
took out the oil filter and found significant amounts of metal fragments in the oil which 
would have had to have been developing prior to the car being supplied to Mr S.
Mr S complained to Santander Consumer Finance and it arranged for the car to be 
inspected. The inspection took place in June 2021 and the inspection report recorded 
the cars mileage as 42,682 miles. It said:  the vehicle started straight away 
without hesitation, however, displayed a noticeable heavy misfire. The engine 
management light was illuminated. The vehicle displayed restricted performance 
message. We removed the engine oil filler cap and there was no evidence of any 
metallic swarf filings within the engine  These faults would not have been present 
or developing at finance inception.
Santander Consumer Finance didnt accept his complaint but the car broke down six 
days after the inspection and the recovery service identified a mis-fire. There doesnt 
seem to be any dispute that the cars engine was mis-firing and Mr S says that he 
took the car to the garage in March 2021  about five months after it had been 
supplied to him because of issues with it. The car had been driven for 2,688 miles 
between it being supplied to Mr S and the date of the inspection. Although the 
independent expert has said that the faults wouldnt have been present at finance 
inception, the garage that inspected the car has said that the metal fragments would 
have been an issue that was developing when the car was supplied to Mr S.
In complaints such as this one, where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory, I have to make my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances. I dont consider it to be reasonable to expect 
a car that cost £39,998 to develop a significant mis-fire so soon after being supplied 
and after it had only been used to drive a relatively low additional mileage. I consider 
it to be more likely than not in these circumstances that there were metal fragments 
in the cars oil when the car was supplied to Mr S and that there was a fault with the 
car that was present or developing at that time which caused it not to have been of 
satisfactory quality.
The car has since been in a collision and was deemed to be a total loss by Mr Ss 
insurer and a payment of £32,630.86 was made to Santander Consumer Finance to 
settle the conditional sale agreement. Mr S paid the salvage fee of £5,273.86 and the 
car was returned to him. Ive seen no evidence to show that the collision was in any 
way caused by the faults with it and the insurer paid the full settlement figure so the 
conditional sale agreement has ended. Mr S wouldnt have received a refund of his 
deposit after the collision if there hadnt been a fault with the car and, as the collision 
wasnt caused by the fault, Im not persuaded that he should receive a refund of his 
deposit in these circumstances.
The fault with the car will have affected Mr Ss use and enjoyment of it. I find that it 
would be fair and reasonable for Santander Consumer Finance to refund to Mr S 
10% of the monthly payments that hes made under the agreement for the period 
from March 2021 when he first had an issue with the engine management warning 
light to the date of the collision as compensation for his loss of use and enjoyment of 
the car. I dont consider that it should be required to pay interest of that amount.
These events have clearly caused distress and inconvenience for Mr S. I find that it 
would also be fair and reasonable for Santander Consumer Finance to pay £300 to 
Mr S to compensate him for that distress and inconvenience. Im not persuaded that 
it would be fair or reasonable for me to require Santander Consumer Finance to reimburse Mr S for the salvage cost of the car or to take any other action in response 
to his complaint.
Subject to any further representations by Mr S or Santander Consumer Finance, my 
provisional decision was that I was minded to uphold this complaint. Santander Consumer 
Finance says that it has no further points to add but Mr S says that hes been caused a huge 
amount of stress and financial issues as a resulting of the issues with the car and its 
unreasonable for Santander Consumer Finance and the dealer to not take responsibility. He 
says that the car was unusable immediately and was dangerous because it was misfiring, 
rattling and there were multiple warning lights. He says that its unfair and unreasonable to 
pay over a year for a car that has resulted in a huge commotion in his life and caused a 
phenomenal amount of stress, migraines, phone calls, emails and costs. He says that he 
should be able to reject the car with a full refund.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, including careful consideration of Mr Ss response to my provisional 
decision, Im not persuaded that I should change my provisional decision. I sympathise with 
Mr S for the issues that hes described but, for the reasons set out in my provisional 
decision, I consider that its fair and reasonable for Santander Consumer Finance to refund 
to him 10% of the monthly payments for the period specified as compensation for his loss of 
use and enjoyment of the car and to pay him £300 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience that hes been caused. 
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, Im not persuaded that it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to require Santander Consumer Finance to refund to Mr S the deposit that 
he paid for the car or a larger proportion of those monthly payments, to pay him a higher 
amount of compensation or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Santander Consumer 
Finance to take the actions described in my provisional decision and as set out below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and I order Santander Consumer (UK) plc, 
trading as Santander Consumer Finance, to:
1. Refund to Mr S 10% of the monthly payments that he made under the conditional 
sale agreement for the period from March 2021, when he first had an issue with the 
engine management warning light, to the date of the collision as compensation for his 
loss of use and enjoyment of the car.
2. Pay £300 to Mr S to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman