The complaint  
Ms K complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) has registered a late credit card  
payment with the credit reference agencies. She thinks that this has a disproportionate  
impact on her credit rating.  
What happened  
Ms K took out a credit card with Tesco in March 2020. She chose to suppress paper  
statements on the account, meaning that she would not receive them through the post.  
Statements were instead available to her online.  
Ms K chose to make payments to her credit ca rd by direct debit. In August 2021, she paid off  
the card balance entirely. At around the same time, her bank cancelled the direct debit to  
Tesco. That bank does not form part of this complaint. On 16 August 2021, Tesco says that  
it wrote to Ms K to let he r know that the direct debit had been cancelled, and that any  
payments must be made by another method. Ms K says that she did not receive that letter.  
In November 2021, Ms K used her credit card to carry out a balance transfer. This created a  
balance on t he card and meant that payments needed to be made. Ms K says that she  
assumed that her direct debit was still in place and so took no steps to make payment.  
Tesco says that it emailed Ms K on 26 November 2021 to let her know that her monthly  
statement was ready to view. This statement gave a payment date of 20 December 2021.  
Ms K says she did not see this statement, or else did not appreciate that she needed to take  
steps to make payment. No payment was made in December 2021. In January 2022,  Ms K  
says that she received a text message from Tesco telling her that the account was in arrears  
and made a payment to bring it up to date. No further payments have been missed. The  
bank has removed any fees in relation to the late payment, but also regi stered it with the  
credit reference agencies.  
Ms K says that the registration has had a major impact upon her credit rating, and that she  
has never missed a payment before. She thinks that registration of the late payment in these  
circumstances is disprop ortionate. She also notes that Tesco can send text messages to  
her, but did not send one warning that a late payment fee would be imposed. Tesco says  
that she is not registered to receive such messages by text and so it cannot send them.  
Our investigator t hought that Tesco had not got anything wrong. They thought that Tesco  
had sent out the correct information, in the correct form, at each stage, and that it was  
appropriate to notify the credit reference agencies of the late payment.  
Ms K did not agree and  so this has come to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why  
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and  
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
DRN-3597223 
Tesco could not control the cancellation of t he direct debit. That was done by the other bank.  
While Ms K says that she did not receive Tescos letter about this, I am satisfied that it was  
more likely than not sent. The copy that Tesco has provided us was properly addressed to  
her home address, and was dated correctly. I cannot say why it was not received by Ms K,  
but I am satisfied that it wasnt because of anything to do with Tesco. It took the proper steps  
to let Ms K know that the direct debit had been cancelled.  
 
When Ms K made the balance transfer, it meant that payments would again be due on the  
card. It fell to Ms K to make sure that these were made on time. While I understand that she  
did not appreciate that she needed to take any steps, I cannot say that this was Tescos  
fault.  
 
I say this because Ms K was able to access the relevant information to make her aware of  
this situation through her statements, which Tesco made available to her online, in line with  
her instructions. Tesco emailed her when statements were produced. Ms K has not disputed  
that this was done. Having considered Tescos system and looked at the statements, I am  
satisfied that these statements were produced, and email alerts sent. So Im satisfied that  
Tesco acted fairly in making her aware of the position of h er account and the payments that  
needed to be made.  
 
I am satisfied that Tesco sent a later text message telling Ms K that a payment had been  
missed. This led to her bringing her account up to date. But I cannot say that a text before  
the payment date was something it needed to have done here. While Tescos online banking  
and mobile app allowed for reminders to be set up in advance of payments, Ms K had not  
set these up. Unsolicited texts where there had been no changes on the account could be  
reasonably th ought to be inappropriate. Sending a text when a payment had been missed  
was a reasonable way of keeping Ms K informed about her account. So while I see Ms Ks  
point, I dont think that Tesco needed to send any further text messages here.  
 
In these circums tances, I dont think itd be fair to say that Tesco could be held liable for the  
payment being late here. Having considered the terms and conditions on the account, I can  
see that there is no grace period for late payments. In the circumstances, the payment was  
late, and there was nothing in the terms and conditions to suggest that it should not register  
this with the credit reference agencies.  
 
I can understand Ms Ks position. She made payment to bring the account up to date and  
has no history of missed payments. This was a genuine mistake. But the payment was late,  
and that was not caused by Tesco. It is reasonable and responsible for Tesco to provide  
accurate information to the credit reference agencies, and I think that is what it has done  
here.  
 
While I can certainly understand that Ms K is unhappy with this, I cannot tell Tesco that it  
should take any further action here.  
 
My final decision  
 
In the circumstances, I do not uphold this complaint.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial  Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or  
reject my decision before 10 November 2022.  
 
Marc Kelly  
Ombudsman  