DRN-4130380
The complaint
Mr L complaints Gain Credit LLC trading as Drafty (Drafty) gave him a line of credit he 
couldnt afford to repay. Mr L also says he agreed a repayment plan with Drafty but the 
interest on the facility wasnt stopped at this time. 
What happened
Mr L approached Drafty for a running credit facility on 17 January 2022 and Mr L was given 
a facility with a £250 credit limit  which didnt change while Mr L held it. Mr L has had some 
problems repaying the facility and from February 2023 he is paying £16.51 per month 
towards the outstanding balance. 
Mr L was given a running credit account where he could either request funds up to his
agreed credit limit in one go or could take multiple drawdowns up to the limit. He was also
able to borrow further, up to the credit limit, as and when he repaid what he owed. To be
clear, Mr L was not given a payday loan.
In Draftys final response letter issued in August 2022, it explained the information it had 
gathered from Mr L before it approved the facility. It concluded given the estimated monthly 
repayment, Mr L was likely to be able to afford the credit facility. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr L referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman, 
where it was considered by an adjudicator. And she thought while the facility appeared 
affordable from the outset Drafty ought to have done more. Drafty ought to have done some 
further checks into Mr Ls existing credit commitments, because the credit check results 
showed that Mr L had commitments despite him having declared there wasnt any. And even 
taking account of what the adjudicator could see in Mr Ls credit file  had Drafty made 
further enquiries about the credit commitments it still wouldve thought the facility was 
affordable. 
Drafty also had an obligation to monitor the facility and having reviewed the way Mr L 
borrowed and repaid the facility and the other information that was provided she also didnt 
think Drafty had done anything wrong here either. 
Finally, she didnt think Drafty had done anything wrong when it tried to set up a payment 
plan with Mr L. It had concerns about the authority of Mr Ls representative (at the time) and 
instead emailed his personal account but didnt hear anything from him. 
Mr L didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. As no agreement has been 
reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the relevant times.
In practice, all of this meant that a lender had to take proportionate steps to ensure a
consumer wouldve been able to repay what they borrowed in a sustainable manner
without it adversely impacting on their financial situation. Put simply the lender had to gather
enough information so that it could make an informed decision on the lending.
Although the guidance didnt set out compulsory checks it did list a number of things a lender
could consider before agreeing to lend. The key thing was that it required a lenders
checks to be proportionate.
Any checks had to take into account a number of different things, such as how much was
being lent and when what was being borrowed was due to be repaid. Ive kept all of this in
mind when thinking about whether Drafty did what it needed to before agreeing to Mr Ls
Drafty facility.
As explained, Mr L was given an open-ended credit facility. Overall, I think that means the 
checks Drafty carried out had to provide enough for it to be able to understand whether 
Mr L would be able to both service and then repay his facility within a reasonable
period of time. Drafty also needed to monitor Mr Ls repayment record for any sign that he
may have been experiencing financial difficulties.
What happened when Drafty approved the facility
Having carefully thought about everything provided, I do think Drafty ought to have made 
further enquires with Mr L about his credit commitments, but even if it had done so, it still 
wouldve thought the facility was affordable for him. 
As explained, Mr L wasnt given a payday loan, Mr L was given a facility where there was an 
expectation that hed repay what he borrowed plus the interest due within a reasonable 
period of time. What constitutes a reasonable period of time is laid out in the regulations but 
its important to note that a reasonable period of time will always be dependent on the 
circumstances of the individual case.
Mr L was granted a facility with Drafty with a £250 limit. In the credit agreement, a
hypothetical situation is laid out to show the potential cost of the facility to Mr L. This 
hypothetical situation assumed that Mr L did the following:
1. drew down his maximum credit limit on the first day of the facility being provided,
2. he kept to the terms of the agreement and
3. Mr L repaid what he owed in 12 monthly instalments.
Had Mr L done that, hed have repaid Drafty a total of £338.97 meaning a total monthly
repayment of around £28.24.
So, in these circumstances, I think Drafty needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate
checks to understand whether Mr L could make monthly repayments of around £29 at an
absolute minimum.
Drafty says it agreed to Mr Ls application after hed provided details of his monthly
income and expenditure and it carried out a credit check. Mr L declared he received an 
income of £2,500 per month and he also declared monthly outgoings of £225. This 
expenditure was broken down as £75 for food, £25 utilities and £125 for transport.  
Drafty also carried out a credit check before the facility was granted, and it has provided theFinancial Ombudsman with a summary of the results. The results showed that Mr L had 18 
active accounts and credit commitments of at least £215 per month. This is important, 
because as part of the affordability check, Mr L declared that he didnt have any existing 
credit commitments. So Drafty was on notice, that the information Mr L provided about his 
credit commitments was not likely to be accurate. 
In addition, Drafty was told that Mr L had defaulted on one credit account within the last 
12 months. But then the information is contradictory because the results indicate that the last 
defaulted account was 55 months before the facility was granted. Clearly, both results cant 
be correct. 
So, I do agree with the adjudicator, when the facility was approved, Drafty ought to have 
made some further enquires with Mr L about the nature and cost per month of his existing 
credit commitments. Mr L has provided a copy of his credit file and so Ive looked at this to 
see what Drafty may had seen had. 
From this credit report, I can see that Mr L had a hire purchase agreement costing £269 per 
month as well as a loan costing £195 per month. On top of this he had four current accounts, 
but there wasnt any adverse information recorded about them. 
There were also four credit card accounts, unfortunately the report doesnt show what the 
balance was of the cards at the time the facility was granted, but even if I assume that the 
cards were at the maximum limit Mr L wouldve owed these providers a total of £902.
Finally, there were three mail order accounts, again, I cant see the balance of those 
accounts at the time the facility was approved. But the most Mr L couldve owed these 
companies was £1,520.
Based on Mr Ls own credit report, he did have some other creditors that needed servicing, 
and just the loans were costing £464 per month and then there were credit cards and mail 
order accounts. However, even taking account of these payments, I still think had Drafty may 
further enquires it wouldve seen that Mr L wouldve had sufficient disposable income to pay 
and then service his credit facility. 
This does mean, I dont think Draftys checks needed to extend to for example obtaining 
copies of Mr Ls bank statement. I also accept Mr Ls actual financial position may not have 
been reflected either in the information provided, or the information Drafty obtained. But 
Drafty could only make its decision based on the information it had available.
Overall, I do think Drafty needed to consider Mr Ls credit commitments more closely given 
the results of the credit search which showed contradictory information between what Mr L 
had declared and his monthly commitments. However, even if Drafty had taken a closer look 
at Mr Ls existing credit commitments and substituted those figures into his outgoings, the 
facility still looked affordable. 
Monitoring the facility
Although I dont think Drafty was wrong to have initially provided the facility, that wasnt the
end of its obligations to Mr L. When the facility was approved, Drafty was regulated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority and it issued guidance on this type of lending and what it says 
should be expected from lenders when granting these types of facilities. Within the 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) section 6.7.2R says:
(1) A firm must monitor a customers repayment record and take appropriate action
where there are signs of actual or possible repayment difficultiesCONC 1.3 provides a non-exhaustive list of some indicators, which when present in a 
consumers circumstances, which could be suggestive of potential financial difficulties.
In practice, CONC 6.7.2(1)R meant Drafty needed to be mindful of Mr Ls repayment record 
and how he used the facility and step in if and when he showed signs of possible repayment 
difficulties.
Having reviewed the transaction data, which includes the relationship between when Mr L 
made his drawdowns and his repayments, there isnt anything within that ought to have 
given Drafty cause for concern. Between January 2022 and the last drawdown in July 2022, 
Mr L drew down seven times. But he also fully repaid the facility once, in April 2022. There 
wasnt anything within his repayments that wouldve indicated to Drafty that he was having or 
likely having financial difficulties. 
In my view, Drafty hasnt made an error in the way it monitored Mr Ls facility. 
Other considerations 
Mr L says that his representative at the time put a payment plan in place, but Drafty 
continued to apply interest to the balance. Although, a payment was received by Drafty for 
£9.12 in August 2022. This doesnt appear to have been a formal repayment plan which had 
been agreed between Mr L and Drafty and after August 2022, no payments were made until 
February 2023. 
I can see, from the copies of the emails Drafty has sent to us, that it had some concerns 
about Mr Ls representatives authority (when the complaint was first raised) to deal with this 
matter on his behalf. Drafty emailed Mr L directly to outline that it would look into the 
complaint but would write to him directly, instead. This email was sent to Mr L at the email 
address he provided Drafty when he applied for the facility. 
I can also see that each time Drafty received an email from Mr L through the email address 
his representative provided, Drafty emailed Mr L directly and sign posted him to the relevant 
part of its business in order to set up a plan or discuss the outstanding balance. However, 
Mr L didnt, for whatever reason, respond to Draftys emails about setting up of the 
repayment pan. And therefore, Drafty wasnt to know, what if anything Mr L could afford 
each month and so no repayment plan was formally put in place. 
I understand Mr Ls concerns about the increasing balance, but the facility was defaulted and 
then terminated on 6 October 2022 and so the balance has not increased since that time as 
the defaulting of the account prevented further interest being added. 
Overall, given what Drafty has said, and the fact that it emailed Mr L directly about his 
account. I dont think it has done anything wrong in relation to this element of the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I am not upholding Mr Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman