DRN-1125187
The complaint
Mr J complains that Nationwide Building Society unfairly declined his chargeback claim for a 
payment made using his credit card account.
What happened
On 7 May 2019, Mr J ordered some flowers from a florist as a birthday present to be 
delivered the next day. He paid around £30. 
On 8 May 2019, Mr J received confirmation from the courier delivering the flowers that they 
were scheduled to be delivered between 8am and 12pm that day. The couriers message 
said:
Your order is scheduled for delivery to you on 08 May 2019 between 08:00 and 
12:00
What if I am not in?
Do not worry, if you are not at the delivery address to receive your item, our driver will 
be able to leave it in a safe place with details on a while you were out card.
However, the flowers didnt arrive by 12pm. Mr J tried to cancel his order and then 
complained to the florist. The florist refused to cancel Mr Js order, saying it advertised its 
delivery times on its website and was sorry if this information was missed.
The flowers were delivered just after 4pm. Mr J said hed already left home to go to the 
birthday celebration, and the courier delivered the flowers to his neighbour. The neighbour 
then gave him the flowers the following morning. 
Mr J asked Nationwide to attempt a chargeback for the amount he paid the florist, saying the 
flowers werent delivered to his address and were delivered after the timeslot promised by 
the courier. 
Nationwide said the florist still delivered Mr Js order the day after the order was placed, as it 
said it would do. Mr J complained about Nationwides decision, saying it hadnt investigated 
his claim properly. He also complained that Nationwide tried to call him to discuss the 
complaint whilst he was at work, and sent him letters. He felt Nationwide was high-handed. 
Mr J says the couriers promise to deliver his flowers by 12pm was the basis of his contact 
with the florist.
Nationwide explained chargeback requests must follow the rules and regulations set by 
VISA (Mr Js card provider). It said rules could be found on VISAs website. It reiterated that 
the flowers were delivered on the day the florist stated they would be, so it was unable to 
raise a chargeback on Mr Js payment. 
Unhappy with Nationwides response, Mr J referred his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators thought Nationwides decision not to attempt a chargeback under VISAs rules was a reasonable one. Our investigator thought Mr J paid for the flowers to be delivered the 
next day, not the next day before 12pm. 
Mr J said it was reasonable to assume the flowers would be delivered as early as possible 
the next day, and his assumption was confirmed as correct when the courier confirmed the 
delivery would be before 12pm. Mr J thought his attempt to cancel his order was reasonable 
as it became clear to him the flowers wouldnt arrive that day. Our investigator didnt think 
the flowers not arriving in the schedule timeslot meant the flowers wouldnt arrive, and noted 
they did arrive on the 8 May 2019.
Mr J also said VISAs rules meant the florist should have clearly displayed its cancellation 
policy on its webpage before the final check out process, and the policy should not be solely 
on a link to a separate web page. Mr J said the florist did not comply with these rules and 
this aspect of his complaint had not been investigated. Our investigator didnt think Mr Js 
interpretations of the rules was correct, but clarified that this wasnt one of the conditions for 
a chargeback under VISAs rules. Mr J remained unhappy, so this has come to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive not upheld this 
complaint. I realise this will disappoint Mr J, but Ill explain my reasons.
A chargeback is where a consumer disputes a transaction and asks the card provider (in this 
case Nationwide) to claim the money back from the bank or finance provider for the 
merchant (in this case, the florist) who was to provide the goods or services. But a 
chargeback isnt a legal right. Its a voluntary scheme operated by some card providers. The 
card provider here is VISA, and Nationwides decision whether to attempt a chargeback 
would need to be decided based on VISAs rules. A chargeback attempt isnt guaranteed to 
recover money and a bank isnt obliged to attempt a chargeback just because a customer 
asks for one. 
Nationwide was entitled to check the reason Mr J gave for wanting a refund, or chargeback, 
against VISAs list of possible chargeback reasons. Nationwide should only attempt a 
chargeback if it thinks it would be successful under VISAs rules. 
Mr J asked for a refund because the flowers were delivered after 12pm on 8 May 2019. 
Because the flowers were delivered to a neighbour, he didnt receive them until the following 
day.
Valid reasons to attempt a chargeback under VISAs rules could include:
the flowers not being as described
the flowers were damaged or defective
the flowers were not delivered
the flowers were delivered late, and the cardholder attempted to return them
 
Mr J hasnt said the flowers werent as described or were defective, and hasnt provided any 
evidence to show the flowers were damaged. Mr J wanted a refund because he thinks the flowers were delivered late. I know Mr J feels 
strongly that it was reasonable for him to believe the flowers would be delivered as early as 
possible the next day, but Ive not seen any evidence that shows the florist promised to 
deliver the flowers the next day before 12pm. It was the courier who said the scheduled 
delivery time was between 8am and 12pm and, again, I dont think this constitutes a 
guarantee the flowers would arrive before 12pm. 
I know Mr J tried to cancel his order. But as I said above, I dont think the flowers were 
guaranteed to arrive before 12pm and so I dont think his attempt to cancel the flowers 
makes a difference. 
I note Mr Js comments about VISAs merchant website requirements, which he feels the 
florist did not meet. However, this is not one of VISAs dispute conditions, which are set out 
in Dispute Category 13. This means that, even if I were to conclude the florists website did 
not include the correct links, this would not be one of the conditions for raising a chargeback 
dispute.
I think Nationwides decision not to attempt a chargeback based on the information available 
was a reasonable one. Even if it had attempted a chargeback, I dont think it would have 
been successful because I dont think there is enough evidence to show Mr J was 
guaranteed to receive the flowers he ordered by 12pm on 8 May 2019. 
I note Mr Js frustration that Nationwide called him whilst he was at work, and that it sent him 
letters. But Ive not seen anything to suggest Nationwides communication was 
unreasonable. And whilst I acknowledge Mr J feels Nationwide was high-handed, I dont 
think it was obliged to attempt a chargeback for the reasons Ive explained above.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2020.
Victoria Blackwood
Ombudsman