DRN-3694608
The complaint
Ms N complains about the end of contract charges in relation to a car that was supplied 
through a hire purchase agreement with PSA Finance UK Limited (PSA). 
Ms N is being represented on this complaint, but to keep things simple Ill refer to Ms N 
throughout my decision.
What happened
In December 2017 Ms N acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with PSA. 
The purchase price of the car was £8,990. Ms N made an advanced payment of £1,000 so 
the total amount financed on this agreement was £7,990 payable over 48 months.
Ms N said that in March 2021 her car was collected by PSA representatives. Ms N says she 
left the service booklet in the glove compartment along with the three-year service history. 
However, PSA wrote to her advising the service booklet wasnt provided along with proof of 
service history and included them within the end of contract charges, totalling £1,677. 
In March 2021, PSA issue their final response to Ms Ns complaint. PSA said they removed 
some of the charges from the outstanding balance due to lack of evidence and removed a 
further missing service charge as only three services were due in the time Ms N had the car. 
So, the remaining balance was £1,002.
Unhappy with PSAs response, Ms N brought her complaint to this service for investigation. 
Ms N said she paid PSA £415.34 for the damages, wear and tear and excess mileage 
charges, but Ms N refused to pay for the remaining charges for missing services which she 
says were carried out on the car. 
Ms N said that following a further review of the charges PSA reduced the outstanding 
balance to £300. PSA said they did so in acknowledgement of the difficulties Ms N 
experienced during the Covid-19 lockdown and that they werent present when the car was 
collected. They advised they couldnt repatriate service histories with uplifted cars due to 
them being sent to auction.
Ms N said she provided PSA with proof of the services carried out which PSA acknowledged 
in an email dated 15 April 2021. However, PSA said the evidence should have been 
provided to the inspector on collection. Ms N said due to her vulnerability with Covid-19 she 
was unable to hand the booklet directly to the collecting agent.  PSA said they werent told 
the service booklet was in the glove compartment until theyd issued their final response to 
the complaint.  
Having considered all of the evidence, our investigator said that based on the evidence 
provided PSA had acted fairly in how they applied their charges for Ms N, so didnt ask them 
to do anything more.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Ms N asked that her complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement. As such, this service is 
able to consider complaints relating to it. 
My starting point is that Ms was presented with end of contract charges which she disputed 
in part. Ms N says she accepted the charges for fair wear and tear and excess mileage so 
paid £415.34 to cover them. However, Ms N disputes the charges that were applied for the 
missing services documentation. So, Ive focused my decision on the disputed element of 
the charges.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the British Vehicle Lease and Rental 
Association (BVLRA), and these are accepted as an industry standard in determining 
whether any damage goes beyond fair wear and tear on passenger cars, when they are 
returned at the end of a finance agreement. So, Ive considered these standards when 
thinking about whats fair and reasonable.
The BVRLA says the service book must be present and date stamped by the repairer or 
workshop as evidence that the services have taken place. 
The BVRLA guidance is supported by the terms and conditions of Ms Ns finance agreement 
which says: It is your responsibility to ensure that the repairer stamps the vehicles service 
book each time the vehicle is serviced (the service book must be returned to us on the day 
of collection if the vehicle is recovered by us). 
In addition to the guidance above, in correspondence PSA sent Ms N prior to the collection 
of her car, dated 11 February 2021, they advised: on the day of return, please make sure 
you have all the documents and everything that needs to be returned with the vehicle, 
including the V5 registration document, completed and stamped service history, MOT 
certificate if appropriate. The letter also set out details of the charges which were consistent 
with the amount PSA were requesting. 
Ms N says the service booklet was in the glove compartment along with the service 
information. However, Ms N says she wasnt able to hand the documents and paperwork to 
the collecting agent because of her vulnerabilities in relation to Covid-19. Ms N said she told 
the inspector where shed put them.
I dont doubt what Ms N has said, however PSA said they were only made aware of the 
issue with the service documentation after theyd issued their final response to Ms Ns 
complaint. I also havent seen any evidence that PSA were made aware of it any sooner or 
that it was included as part of Ms Ns initial complaint to them. I can see that PSA pointed this out in their email to Ms N dated 12 April 2022. They also advised they hadnt been able 
to fully investigate the circumstances as they werent made aware it sooner. 
As Ms N didnt raise the issue of the service booklet, despite being charged for it, I dont 
think its reasonable to expect PSA to be able to fully investigate the matter, for example by 
obtaining comments from their collection agents. In addition as Ive no evidence, besides 
what Ms N has said to our investigator about what took place at the point of collection, Im 
not persuaded that the collection agents have acted unfairly or that Ms N is being unfairly 
charged for the missing items. 
Following Ms Ns complaint to them, I can see that PSA reduced the outstanding charges 
further by half, as a gesture of goodwill in recognition of the situation Ms N was in.
Im satisfied that PSA have acted fairly in the circumstances. Ms N hasnt provided any 
evidence that the service documentation was provided at the point of collection to the 
inspector. And as the information was only presented to PSA after the complaint was 
responded to, PSA had already taken certain actions, for example by having the car uplifted 
and taken to auction. Theres every chance they may have had to absorb related costs for 
missing documentation. I acknowledge Ms N has been able to provide evidence that 
services were carried out, however, this was after the car had been collected and likely to 
have been after the car had been processed further towards auction. 
Having considered all the information provided, I think PSA have acted reasonably by 
reviewing the charges and removing the ones which were lacking the photographic evidence 
and further reducing the disputed charges by half.  I recognise Ms Ns strength of feeling 
about the situation. However, as per the industry guidance, along with the information that 
was given to Ms N, Im satisfied PSA has acted fairly in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances I dont uphold Ms Ns complaint about PSA Finance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman