DRN-3983723
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wont refund money they 
lost to an investment scam.
Mr and Mrs T are being represented by a claims management company.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide 
an overview and focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
In 2016, Mr and Mrs T were introduced to a firm based outside the UK which Ill refer to as 
C. They were sold an opportunity to earn a fixed rate of return by investing in an income 
bond. Mr and Mrs T say they made two payments totalling £51,000 in April 2016 in relation 
to this investment. The bond certificate, issued on 16 May 2016, shows an investment 
amount of £50,000 with monthly interest payable at 9% per annum. A further investment was 
made in 2017  a complaint about that is being considered separately.  
Their bank statements show that Mr and Mrs T received monthly interest on their investment 
until the autumn of 2019, when they were notified that due to liquidity problems the bond 
issuer had suspended the bond programme. And this resulted in the suspension of interest 
payments. I understand that Mr and Mrs T continued getting regular updates about the 
situation from C from then on. But interest payments didnt resume.  
At the start of 2022, Mr and Mrs T complained to Barclays that it didnt prevent them from 
falling victim to a scam. Barclays refused to refund the disputed transactions and the matter 
was referred to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as they thought that 
Barclays hadnt acted unfairly or unreasonably. Mr and Mrs Ts representative didnt agree 
and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as a scam is in fact a scam. Some firms 
may have used sales and promotional methods that could be seen to be unfair by 
consumers considering the losses theyve incurred, but this doesnt always amount to fraud. 
Similarly, where a firm is unable to continue paying returns on an investment, that doesnt 
automatically mean that it was set up with the express intention of defrauding its customers. 
While customers who lost out may understandably regard such acts or omissions as 
fraudulent, they dont necessarily meet the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud.
The first question I need to consider in any case involving an investment scam is to 
determine, so far as is reasonably possible, whether the complainant has in fact been 
scammed. This is important because banks (and other payment service providers) only have 
a duty to protect customers from the risk of financial loss due to fraud. This duty to intervene 
isnt triggered where payments are made to a legitimate investment.
Ive considered the official organisations that publish warnings about investment firms that 
operate in the UK and around the world. Ive searched the Investors Alerts Portal of the 
International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO), the international body that 
brings together the worlds securities regulators. And the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA), the financial services regulator in the UK, also has its own warning list which is in 
place to share alerts and insights about firms that have been identified as potentially being 
fraudulent. 
I cant see that theres been a scam warning published about C by the FCA or a regulator in 
another jurisdiction (which Id expect to see on the IOSCO website). On the other hand, the 
information Ive seen indicates that Mr and Mrs Ts dealings were with a legitimate company 
that was and still is registered in Bermuda. A digital archive search on the internet shows 
that in 2016, Cs website also said it was approved and authorised by the Bermuda 
Monetary Authority  the regulator in that jurisdiction. My independent research also shows 
that the bond Mr and Mrs T were invested in was listed on the Bermuda Stock Exchange 
until sometime in 2016, when trading was suspended due to unforeseen circumstances. 
While regulatory requirements can vary from one jurisdiction to another, a scammer is highly 
unlikely to submit itself to any kind of regulatory oversight, given the real risk of its true 
purpose being discovered. C may not have been regulated to offer its services in the UK, but 
that doesnt automatically mean that it was set up to defraud customers. Its also worth 
noting that Mr and Mrs T appear to have been residing outside of the UK at the time they 
engaged with C. Under the circumstances, I would question the relevance of their 
representatives argument about C not being regulated in the UK. 
Mr and Mrs Ts representative submits that the negative Trustpilot reviews and a support 
group on a social media platform for victims of C is highly suggestive that C is a scam 
company. Its completely understandable that investors who havent seen a return, and 
possibly face the prospect of losing their investment, would feel aggrieved by what has 
happened. But this alone isnt conclusive evidence that C has been deemed to be operating 
fraudulently. I can see that C continues sending updates to bondholders every month, a 
copy of which is available on the website of the Bermuda Stock Exchange.
I must follow the evidence and, essentially, Ive no credible evidence to persuade me with 
any degree of certainty that C was operating a scam at the time Mr and Mrs T made the 
disputed transactions. And the evidence Ive seen suggests that it had some regulatory 
oversight in another jurisdiction. Taking everything into consideration, Im not persuaded that 
C can be described as fraudulent. That being the case, Barclayss duty to protect its 
customers from the risk of financial loss due to fraud wasnt triggered here. And so, I cant 
fairly hold it liable for the loss that Mr and Mrs T seek to recover. 
I know that Mr and Mrs T will be disappointed with my findings. But its important that I 
mention the respondent firm here is Barclays, not C. We have no jurisdiction over C, so I 
cant consider whether it has acted fairly and reasonably in its dealing with Mr and Mrs T. Im 
limited to determining whether Barclays, as an FCA-regulated bank, executed authorised 
payment instructions to a legitimate company. Having considered everything, I havent found 
that its acted unfairly or unreasonably.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman