DRN-2358625
The complaint
Mrs M says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. AXA France 
IARD, as the insurer, have taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things simple, Ill only 
refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
What happened
Mrs M bought the policy in 1997, at the same time as taking out a store card in the store. It 
covered her in case she was off work sick or lost her job.
I sent Mrs M and AXA a provisional decision on 2 November 2020, to explain why I didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Mrs Ms store card application had a section for PPI, amongst other optional extras. It gave a 
brief overview of what the policy was for, and then there was a box that could be ticked if 
Mrs M wanted PPI, or which could be left blank if she didnt want it. The box was ticked, and 
Mrs M signed the form to confirm her choices.
Mrs M said she was told to tick every box on the form. But while I dont doubt shes given us 
her best recollections, Im afraid shes mistaken  I can see that she left many of the 
sections blank, including the boxes for other optional features. So it looks like she knew she 
didnt have to sign up for all of the extra features.
Ive not seen any wider problems with AXAs sales process from the time  from what Ive 
seen, in order to get this type of policy customers had to actively choose it. And it looks like 
thats what happened here. Overall, I think its most likely that AXA made Mrs M aware she 
had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time  though I can 
understand if she no longer recalls doing so after so many years.
AXA didnt give Mrs M tailored financial advice about buying the PPI, so they didnt have to 
check if it was right for her. They did have to give Mrs M enough information to decide if the 
PPI was right for her.
Its possible that the information AXA gave Mrs M about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed 
her mind. Here, it looks like Mrs M chose to take out the policy, which indicates she wanted 
this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it doesnt look 
like she was affected by any of the policys main exclusions or limitations. And while she had 
some benefits through work, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of those and offered her more 
comprehensive cover  especially for when her benefits reduced to just a fraction of her 
normal pay or ran out entirely. So the policy could have been useful for Mrs M in case 
something went wrong. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mrs M could 
cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think better information about the PPI 
was likely to have put her off taking it out.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
17 November 2020. AXA didnt add anything further, while Mrs M sent some further points 
which Ill talk through below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M explained that she didnt take out one of the other optional features because she 
already had it elsewhere, and that could have been why she felt she didnt need to tick that 
box but did have to tick the one for PPI.
I appreciate Mrs Ms explanation and point of view. But there was nothing on the form which 
should have given Mrs M the impression that she had to tick the box for PPI  so far as I can 
see, it was set out as an optional extra, much like the card protection plan or additional 
cardholder features. And since she knew she didnt have to take out other optional features, 
she should have reasonably known at the time that she didnt need to take out PPI if she 
didnt want to. And while I appreciate shes given us her best recollections in terms of what 
the staff member said, its evident that they cant have told her she needed to tick every box 
or fill out every section, since many sections of the application  and many of the tick boxes 
 were left blank. 
As I mentioned before, Ive not seen any wider problems with AXAs sales process from the 
time  normally, in order to get this policy around this time customers had to actively choose 
it. Ive not seen anything which makes me think that this sale differed significantly from the 
normal process, nor anything to show that Mrs M was misled, nor any evidence which 
makes me think that this agreement was tampered with. As far as I can see, it looks like 
Mrs M was offered a choice about whether she wanted PPI, and chose it at the time.
Mrs M also pointed out that she didnt claim on the PPI when she lost her job in 2004, which 
she felt meant she wasnt aware it was added on. I understand where shes coming from and 
why she brought this up. But memories can and do fade over time, and buying insurance is 
not often memorable  especially when its such a minor insurance for a small credit facility 
like this. So I dont think its particularly notable for someone to forget about such a policy 
after seven years, not least when theyd have so much else on their mind at the time of the 
redundancy. And I can see that in 1997, Mrs M signed an agreement to confirm what was on 
it, including signing up for PPI. So even if she may have  understandably  forgotten about 
this seven years later, I think its most likely that she was aware she was buying PPI at the 
time of the sale.
I should also point out that if Mrs M was eligible to claim on the policy, but didnt, then she 
may still be able to make a back-dated insurance claim now. If Mrs M would like to do that, 
she should get back in touch with AXA in the first instance to start the process. And if she 
has any issues with the back-dated claim, she can always ask our service for help as a 
separate case.
Lastly, Mrs M asked when her policy ended. I can see that the last time it was billed for was 
in October 2007.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint about the sale of this particular PPI policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman