DRN-2457942
The complaint
Miss G and Mr M complain that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
What happened
Miss G and Mr M bought a MPPI policy which started in May 2001 to protect their mortgage 
repayments. The policy was sold during a meeting with an advisor from Lloyds.  Mr M was 
covered against accident, sickness and unemployment as the sole policy holder.
Miss G and Mr M believe Lloyds mis-sold the MPPI policy. They say the MPPI policy wasnt 
wanted or needed due to their financial means at the time. They say they were told they had 
to have the MPPI policy in order to get the finance. They add it was a continuation from 
another PPI policy sold alongside a mortgage they obtained in 1996. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. As Miss G and Mr M dont agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss G and Mr Ms case.
First of all, I have looked at the sale of MPPI in May 2001 and whether it was sold in 
conjunction with an application for finance. Miss G and Mr M initially took out a mortgage 
with Lloyds in 1996. I can see from the MPPI policy schedule provided by Lloyds, that the 
MPPI policy was set up to cover the mortgage that they took out in 1996. When they met 
with the advisor from Lloyds, from the paperwork that I have seen, it doesnt look like they 
arranged any new or additional finance. So, the policy covered the mortgage repayments 
they were making on their existing mortgage taken out several years before the meeting 
where they were sold MPPI. I have proceeded to look at Miss G and Mr Ms complaint about 
this policy being sold, on this basis.   
Ive decided not to uphold Miss G and Mr Ms complaint because of the following reasons:
I cant be sure how the insurance was presented to Miss G and Mr M during the meeting 
they had with Lloyds when they were sold the MPPI policy. Miss G and Mr M have 
provided their recollections as to what happened including that they were told it was a 
condition of obtaining finance. But with the policy being set up to protect a mortgage that 
was sold several years before this, I cant see how that could happen. Miss G and Mr 
Ms recollections are also not detailed about the meeting, but this is understandable seen 
as a lot of time has passed since it took place. 
So, because of what I have just concluded, I have needed to look further at the sales 
documentation to help me understand what most likely happened during this meeting. 
After considering the documentation provided and what I know of how Lloyds sold 
policies at the time of sale, it is most likely that they were advised it was a good idea to 
have the insurance to protect their mortgage, and they took the policy on that advice.
I have come to this conclusion because the sales documentation from the sale that I 
have suggests to me that the policy was presented as optional. I can see that that Mr M 
signed separately for the insurance. When this form was being completed, it seems to 
me that some discussion most likely would have been had around the suitability of 
having the policy, rather than Lloyds not making Miss G and Mr M aware that they could 
have said no. I think it is most likely they were given a choice and advised on what type 
of policy they wanted and how the benefit would be split between Miss G and Mr M (on 
this occasion it was 100% to Mr M).
Moving on, I think Lloyds recommended MPPI to Miss G and Mr M, but it doesnt look as 
if the policy was unsuitable for Mr M (as the sole policy holder) based on what Ive seen 
of his circumstances at the time of sale. He has told our service he could have relied on 
6-12 months sick pay along with savings of £35,000 but the benefits provided by the 
policy would have paid out in addition to this amount, in a difficult time.  I do 
acknowledge their view that they had enough provisions to pay for times of 
unemployment, but the mortgage they initially took out was a serious commitment and 
there was a risk of losing their home if they missed payments on it. I can also see they 
say they had the savings in a 30-day notice account that would have attracted a better 
interest rate.  Having the cover in place would mean they wouldnt need to use the 
savings, something which I think on balance would have been of interest to them. So 
overall, I think it was still a reasonable policy to take out. I can also see no other reasons 
such as a significant or restrictive term that would make the policy unsuitable either.
I can see from the sales documentation that Miss G and Mr M were clearly provided with 
the costs associated with the MPPI policy. It was reasonably priced compared to similar 
policies available at the time and to the monthly mortgage repayments. And                   
Miss G and Mr M could have cancelled the policy at any time if it did become 
unaffordable. As Ive already mentioned, Im not persuaded Miss G and Mr M would 
have avoided protecting their repayments given the serious consequences of defaulting 
on a debt secured against their home.
Its possible Lloyds didnt point out the main things the policies didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mr M wouldve been affected by any of these based on his circumstances at the 
time of sale.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Miss G and Mr M, but on balance, I do not 
uphold their complaint for the reasons that I have given.
My final decision
I dont uphold Miss G and Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman