DRN-3850900
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited avoided their life and critical 
illness policy and refused to pay a claim.
What happened
On 9 August 2017, Mr and Mrs Ms broker submitted their application for joint life and critical 
illness cover to Aviva. The policy was accepted and commenced on 1 September 2017. 
Most unfortunately, in August 2021, Mrs M suffered a heart attack. She later made a claim 
on her policy, under the critical illness benefit. 
After reviewing the claim, Aviva said Mrs M hadnt answered the following questions 
correctly during the application process.
 
Have you ever had blurred or double vision, numbness, loss of feeling or muscle 
power, balance problems or persistent pins and needles or facial pain serious 
enough to seek medical advice?
Apart from any conditions you've already told us about in this application, within the 
last two years have you been referred to, treated at or had any investigations at a 
hospital or clinic?
Aviva thought Mrs M shouldve answered yes to both questions, when in fact she answered 
no. It considered these to be qualifying misrepresentations and said that, had she answered 
correctly, it would not have offered cover. Aviva treated the misrepresentation as careless, 
entitling it to refuse the claim, avoid the policy and refund the premiums Mr and Mrs M had 
paid. 
Mrs M complained but Aviva maintained its position, so Mr and Mrs M brought their 
complaint to us. Mrs M insisted she hadnt intentionally tried to mislead or provide false 
information. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, saying she thought Aviva had 
acted fairly in refusing to accept the claim and avoiding the policy.  
Mrs M didnt agree with the investigator. She said shed answered the questions correctly at 
the time and had contacted Aviva after shed received her policy documents to advise of new 
information regarding a recent hospital admission for a suspected transient ischaemic attack 
(TIA) or stroke. She also challenged Avivas additional view that shed failed to disclose high 
cholesterol and tests for cardiomyopathy. Mrs M felt shed taken reasonable care to disclose 
accurate information and had answered questions honestly. 
As Mr and Mrs M remained unhappy, their complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im sorry to hear of Mrs Ms health issues and acknowledge shes had a difficult time 
in recent years. Having reviewed all the information carefully, Im not upholding this 
complaint. I know this will be significant and disappointing news for Mr and Mrs M. Ill explain 
why Ive come to this decision.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Aviva has said Mrs M failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
she applied for the policy. It relied on the answers she gave to questions about her medical 
history, submitted by her broker. 
Aviva thinks Mrs M shouldve disclosed that on 3 August 2017 she consulted her doctor 
regarding neurological symptoms shed been experiencing for one to two weeks. Her doctor 
referred her straight to hospital where she was admitted later the same day for a suspected 
TIA or stroke. Mrs M was discharged on 6 August 2017. Shed undergone a number of tests 
and scans, all of which were normal. However, the cause of her symptoms remained 
unknown so further tests were scheduled and Mrs M was referred to a stroke clinic for 
follow-up. 
Mrs M says her symptoms, as described by her and recorded by her GP and the hospital, 
did not include blurred vision or any of the other symptoms described in Avivas first 
question. I can understand Mrs Ms position. Although the question is framed to capture 
common neurological symptoms, the symptoms described by Mrs M are not an exact match. 
I acknowledge this is an area of dispute between the parties, but in light of my other findings, 
I dont think its something I need to determine, as it doesnt affect the overall outcome. 
Whats not in dispute is that Mrs M was admitted to hospital for investigations for a possible 
TIA or stroke before her application was submitted. Mrs M has said the questions were put 
to her before she was admitted to hospital and were therefore correct at the time. But Mrs M 
was still obliged to report any changes in her information. Ive seen the letter from Aviva to 
Mrs M, dated 9 August 2017, enclosing confirmation of her personal details and asking her 
to check the information carefully to make sure its correct. This includes her answers to all 
the health questions on her application. The letter stressed that if any information needed to 
be changed, she should contact Aviva or her financial advisor. 
Mrs M has said that looking through this information, after she came out of hospital, 
prompted her to contact Aviva to disclose her admission and the investigations carried out. 
Shes indicated she was told it wouldnt affect her policy, as her investigations were all clear. However, Aviva hasnt found any evidence of a call or any supporting correspondence to 
Mrs M confirming what was discussed. Its pointed out that this differs from a later call Mrs M 
made about a diagnosis shed received, where there is a record and a follow-up letter 
confirming the policy was unaffected.
Overall, Im satisfied the question about being referred to, treated at or had any 
investigations at a hospital or clinic was clear and that the information about Mrs Ms 
admission for a suspected TIA or stroke wasnt disclosed to her insurer. So I think this 
means Mrs M failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. 
 
Im aware Aviva raised additional concerns about other areas of non-disclosure regarding 
high cholesterol and cardiomyopathy. But given my findings regarding the non-disclosure of 
the hospital admission, I dont think I need to comment on those matters further, as it doesnt 
affect the outcome of the complaint.
Ive looked at the actions Aviva can take in accordance with CIDRA. Its treated the 
misrepresentation as careless, which means it has to show it wouldve acted differently, had 
it been aware of Mrs Ms recent symptoms and hospital admission. Although Mrs Ms 
hospital tests were normal, the cause of her symptoms was unknown. She was due to have 
further tests and was referred for follow-up to a stroke clinic. Aviva has provided statements 
from its underwriters and evidence of its underwriting criteria to show that in these 
circumstances, it would not have offered cover at all. The misrepresentation is therefore a 
qualifying one under CIDRA.
So Im satisfied Aviva was entitled to avoid Mr and Mrs Ms policy, refunding the premiums in 
accordance with CIDRA. And, as this means that  in effect  the policy never existed, Aviva 
did not have to deal with Mrs Ms claim under the critical illness benefit. Overall, I dont think 
Aviva has treated Mr and Mrs M unfairly, so I dont uphold their complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman