DRN-3617969
The complaint
The estate of Mr C complain that ReAssure Limited sent unclear communication following a 
policy review which resulted in a lower sum assured.  
Mr C sadly passed away in 2018. Mrs C is bringing the complaint on behalf of the estate and 
is herself, being represented by her son, who is also Mr C. So, to save any confusion, Ill 
refer to Mrs Cs son as Mr X. 
What happened
Mr C took out a whole-of-life policy in February 1996. The policy provided £120,000 life 
cover for an initial monthly premium of £72.90. 
Mr C sadly passed away in 2018 which is when his estate became aware the life cover had 
considerably reduced. Mr X complained to ReAssure because he felt the review letter it sent 
in February 2016 didnt make clear the consequences or impact of not taking any action.
Our investigator said the February 2016 review letter could have been clearer. But he 
concluded a follow up letter sent to Mr C in April 2016 made it clear the value of the policy 
had reduced. And so, he didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr X disagreed; he explained his father was denied the chance to react in the way he would 
have wanted. Although his father was in ill health, he maintained that had the review letter 
been clearer his father would have been able to tick a box and sign a letter. 
He also explained he was confident his father would have opted to pay the increased 
premiums to maintain the original benefit given his health condition at the time. He asked for 
an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
The crux of this complaint stems from the review letter (the letter) sent in February 2016  
Mr X says it wouldnt have been clear to Mr C that he (Mr C) would have needed to take any 
action. Nor does he (Mr X) think it was made clear to Mr C what the impact would be if he 
(Mr C) did nothing. 
The policy Mr C took out was a reviewable whole-of-life policy. This means that at certain 
intervals ReAssure would have reviewed the policy to determine whether the premiums Mr C 
was paying could support the level of cover he had. In this case, the first review was set to 
happen after ten years and following this, every five years.
Mr Cs policy was set up to provide £120,000 of cover for a monthly premium of £72.90. 
ReAssure wasnt required to give any ongoing advice about the policy. But it was required to 
carry out the reviews in line with the terms and provide information.
Ive seen the letter Mr C would have received in February 2016. I accept the letter was 
lengthy and contained a lot of information. However, given the nature of the review, I dont 
think the amount of information provided was unreasonable. 
I can see on the first page of the letter, at the top, in bold writing, it states this letter is 
important. I think this should reasonably draw the readers attention to the importance of the 
letter. Further down the page theres a clear warning, again in bold font which says: 
Based on your Policy Review, we consider there is now a high risk that your policy 
may not sustain your valuable benefits. In order to maintain these valuable benefits, 
we strongly suggest that you take action now.
A couple of pages later the letter re-emphasises the above (again the bold text is 
ReAssures emphasis): 
ACTION NOTE:
We consider there is a high risk that your policy may not sustain your benefits. In 
order to maintain your valuable benefits, we strongly suggest that you take action 
now if you have not already done so. 
The letter goes on to list what will happen if ReAssure doesnt hear back by 25 March 2016. 
Its clear the premium would remain unchanged at £72.90 but the sum assured would reduce 
to £35,514.79. 
Mr X says the information about the reduced sum assured is first mentioned on page eight - 
which he doesnt think is prominent or clear. But Im satisfied there were clear warnings that 
action may need to be taken and the importance of considering the content of the letter in 
full. And whilst I understand why Mr X has said he doesnt think the letter was clear, on 
balance, I think there was fair warning the letter was important and required attention.
Overall, I think ReAssure made it clear to Mr C he needed to take action to avoid his sum 
assured decreasing. 
It should be borne in mind that following a review a policyholder doesnt have to act. In some 
cases, a policyholder may decide to pay the same level of premiums but accept a lower sum 
assured. ReAssure wasnt required to instruct Mr C to act in a particular way  this was 
always a choice for him to make. So, as Mr C hadnt contacted ReAssure, I cant conclude 
ReAssure acted unfairly by reducing the level of cover in line with the terms of the review 
letter sent it sent to him in 2016.
Mr X has told us that Mr C was suffering from ill health in 2016. And if the review letter had 
been clearer, its highly likely he (Mr C) would have opted to increase the premiums to 
maintain the initial sum assured. I empathise with the circumstances of Mr Cs health at the 
time and the current situation the estate finds itself facing now. Ive taken into account Mr Cs 
health issues. But its difficult to know how this would have impacted on his ability to make 
an informed choice. I also note ReAssure wasnt aware of Mr Cs ill health. So, I cant say it 
should have done anything differently based on the condition Mr C had. 
Overall, for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think ReAssure has acted unfairly. I know 
this will be a disappointing outcome for the representatives of Mr Cs estate and comes at a difficult time. But Ive considered all the evidence and based on this, Im not upholding the 
complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.     
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr C 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Rajvinder Pnaiser
Ombudsman