DRN-1679239
 
Complaint
Mr P complains that TSB Bank plc treated him less favourably than other customers when it 
told him he had to use its instant deposit machines to make a lodgment.
Background
Mr P has an account with TSB. He attended one of its branches to make a lodgment to the 
account. He says that he was told that there were no cashiers available and so he would 
have to use one of the instant deposit machines to make the lodgment. He says that just 
thirty seconds later another customer at the branch was treated differently. That customer 
was directed to a cashier. Mr P says that he felt he was being treated differently because of 
how he looked. He complained to TSB about how he had been treated.
TSB investigated his complaint. It says that it has reviewed the CCTV for the period when Mr 
P was in its branch. It says that at the time when Mr P attended the branch there were no 
cashiers free. It also says that a member of staff invited him to use the instant deposit 
machine to make his lodgment. The member of staff took him to the machine and Mr P didnt 
appear to have any issues using the machine. TSB also says that its practice is to 
encourage all of its customers to use digital options when visiting a branch.
Mr P was not satisfied with what TSB said and so he referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into his complaint. She said that Mr P hadnt told TSB that he would 
prefer to use a cashier and he hadnt refused to use the machine.  So, in the circumstances 
her view was that TSB had treated Mr P fairly. 
Mr P did not agree and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. For mainly the same reasons as our 
investigator I wont be upholding this complaint.
I can see that Mr Ps complaint is that he was treated differently to another customer that 
attended the branch a short time after him. I can understand why he wouldve believed that 
hed been treated differently. I can see that the next customer was able to use a cashier. 
Mr P says that the only reason he was asked to use a cashier was because of how he 
looked TSB says that its policy and practice is to encourage all its customers to use the 
digital options that are available in branch. When cashiers are not free this means that a 
customer is still able to complete a transaction quickly and efficiently. 
TSB also says that at the point in time when Mr P visited the branch none of its cashiers was 
available. A cashier did become free shortly afterwards but at that stage Mr P had already 
started to make his lodgment using the machine. Having thought about this, on balance, I 
think that the reason why Mr P was invited to use the machine was because there were no cashiers immediately available when he arrived. Im also satisfied that, because it was TSBs 
policy to ask customers to use the machine when cashiers were not free, Mr P was treated 
in the same way as TSBs other customers wouldve been treated. Mr P couldve declined to 
use the machine if he wasnt comfortable using that option. If hed declined to use the 
machine then he wouldve been next in line when a cashier did become free.
I can also see that Mr P didnt appear to have any difficulty using the machine and he was 
able to make the lodgment to his account. Having considered everything, I think that TSB 
acted fairly and reasonably when it invited him to use the machine as an alternative to 
having to wait until a cashier became free.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint against TSB Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman