DRN-4049836
The complaint
Mr Z has complained that he is unhappy with the quality of a car he acquired in August 2022, 
using a hire-purchase agreement with MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo).
What happened
Mr Z acquired a used Mercedes in August 2022, using a hire-purchase agreement with 
MotoNovo. The car was nearly seven and a half years old, with a mileage of 47,771. The 
cost of the car was £27,990, and Mr Z borrowed the full amount over a term of 60 months, 
with a monthly repayment of £587.56.
Mr Z complained to MotoNovo in November 2022 that the car had scratches over the 
bodywork, the bumper needed respraying, the interior entertainment screen had a white dot 
and the vehicle had suffered from a previous poor alloy respray. He told MotoNovo he would 
like to hand the vehicle back rather than get it repaired as he felt uncomfortable with it and 
already having so many problems, he did not want any more cropping up in the future.
MotoNovo commissioned an inspection report from an independent business to investigate 
the complaint. In summary, MotoNovo responded to Mr Z to say that dealership was happy 
to respray the bumper and alloys following the comments made by the independent 
engineer, but otherwise the issues raised were commensurate with the age and mileage of 
the car. MotoNovo also said it would make a payment of £100.00 to acknowledge the 
inconvenience caused during the time Mr Z had had the cosmetic issues with the car, but 
otherwise would not be upholding his complaint.
Mr Z was not happy with MotoNovos response, so he brought his complaint to this service. 
He also obtained his own independent report on the condition of the car, and sent in a copy. 
Since the complaint was brought to us, the bumper has been resprayed and the alloys 
refurbished and resprayed at no cost to Mr Z, as outlined in MotoNovos response and 
evidenced by invoices. MotoNovo has said it isnt aware of any unhappiness with the repairs 
on the part of Mr Z. However, Mr Z says he wishes to reject the vehicle.
 
Our investigator looked into Mr Zs complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr Z didnt 
agree, and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Zs complaint. Ill explain why.
Because MotoNovo supplied the car under a hire-purchase agreement, its responsible for a 
complaint about the quality, and theres an implied term that the car was of satisfactory 
quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a reasonable person 
would expect, taking into account all of the relevant circumstances such as (amongst other 
things) the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. When considering satisfactory 
quality, I also need to look at whether the car is durable  that is, the components within the 
car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time.
In this case of course, the car was around seven and a half years old, with a mileage of 
47,771 when Mr Z acquired it. And the price was lower than that of a new car. So its 
reasonable to expect that parts of the car would have suffered a degree of wear and tear, 
and that a car of this age would likely need repair and maintenance sooner than a newer car. 
Ive taken account of the relevant law, in particular the Consumer Rights Act 2015, (CRA). 
There are certain times, set out in the CRA, when a consumer is entitled to reject goods, in 
this case the car, if they dont conform to contract  a short term right to reject within 30 days 
of taking delivery, or a final right to reject if a repair or replacement hasnt resulted in the car 
subsequently conforming  that is, it then being of satisfactory quality.
I set out above the information that Mr Z and MotoNovo provided about the sequence of 
events. MotoNovo sent in copies of the hire purchase agreement, notes of its contact with Mr 
Z, and the independent report. Mr Z sent in a copy of the independent report that he 
obtained. 
Mr Z has made reference to the possibility of a mileage discrepancy, or the car having 
previously been involved in an accident. But he didnt provide any specific reasons why he 
thought this might have been the case, and I have no evidence to suggest anything 
untoward, so I will not consider this further.
Turning to the particular issues Mr Z raised - scratches over the bodywork, the bumper 
needed respraying, the interior entertainment screen had a white dot and the vehicle had 
suffered from a previous poor alloy respray  Ive looked carefully at all of the evidence 
provided by both parties. 
I can see that the car passed an MOT test in February 2022  six months before Mr Z 
acquired the car  with two advisory points but nothing that indicates particular faults. The 
independent report provided by MotoNovo and carried out in December 2022 states the 
following:
White scuff marking was noted on the rear bumper which would be considered only 
commensurate with the age and mileage of the vehicle although we understand the 
selling dealer has offered to repaint the bumper.
Observing then the interior of the vehicle and in particular the ICE screen. A small 
white mark similar to a scuff mark was noted on the left-hand side of the glass.
The nearside front A pillar lacquer was peeling.
We would further confirm that the drivers seat electronic adjustment required the 
button to be constantly repressed failing to maintain an automatic action as is 
originally intended.
After inspection of the above vehicle, we would confirm defects to the paintwork and 
road wheels as above reported. It is our opinion however, that the general condition 
of the vehicle is commensurate with its age and mileage although we would also 
consider that the road wheels have been repainted to a poor standard although some 
scuffing has occurred during the present ownership of the vehicle since purchase.
We note from the information provided in our instructions that the vehicle has been 
on hire for 70 days and has covered 2,229 miles. However, we note that the vehicle 
has now covered 4,137 miles since hire to the date of our inspection on the 06/12/22.
The independent report Mr Z obtained in February 2023 (through a different company) 
states:The drivers door check strap is clicking, and requires a new hinge.
The drivers door strap hinge is worn and clicking and requires replacing.
There are light chips and damage to interior seat upholstery.
The drivers seat runners require lubricating.
The sat nav display screen face is damaged.
A service is overdue.
There is a light creaking from the suspension.
The coolant level is slightly low and requires topping up.
Issues with the front left tyre.
Rear tyres starting to perish.
Alloy wheels resprayed not refurbed. Wheel bolt chrome covers missing.
Damage around vehicle, scuffs and dents around vehicle.
Left A pillar lacquer peeling has been resprayed prior requires rectifying. Left rear 
door shows excessive filler and respray, sanding marks evident in paint, requires 
new door or professional repair. Left rear quarter resprayed with light filler.
Right rear quarter shows rubbing down marks near rear bumper. Requires 
respraying.
Right rear quarter paint rubbed down possibly when bumper resprayed.
Rear bumper resprayed, orange peel evident. Scratches on bumper and 
imperfections in paint. Left side rear bumper not flush with quarter
Left front mud guard damaged and not fitted correctly.
Front discs worn but pads okay.
Rear discs lipped but pads okay.
Rear gators for struts perishing.
The first report noted that the alloys had previously been poorly repaired, and that further 
scuffing had occurred since Mr Z acquired the car. A repair was carried out in January 2023, 
along with the respraying of the bumper, as I noted above, and Mr Z hasnt suggested he is 
unhappy with the repairs. 
The other issues raised by Mr Z were scratches on the bodywork and the mark on the 
display screen, refenced in both reports. The first report noted that these were 
commensurate with the age and mileage of the car, and I consider that these can reasonably 
be attributed to general wear and tear. 
The first report was closer to the date Mr Z acquired the car, and the engineer concluded 
that general condition of the vehicle was commensurate with its age and mileage. I have no 
reason to think that the items mentioned in the report were attributable to anything other than 
reasonable wear and tear.
The second inspection was of a type generally designed to provide information to allow a 
prospective purchaser to decide whether they wish to purchase a vehicle, and as such it 
doesnt offer a view on whether the items noted are commensurate with the age and mileage 
of the car. 
The second report noted a longer list of items, and Mr Z argued that, for example, the 
quarter panel had been damaged, but this wasnt picked up in the first report. Ive thought 
about what Mr Z has said. However, Ive kept in mind that the two reports were carried out 
two months apart, and in that time the mileage increased by 2,123. And by the time of the 
second report Mr Z had had the car for some six months, and had travelled 6,260 miles 
since acquiring it. So I cant fairly say whether this was present at the point of supply, and in 
any case it seems likely that it is attributable to wear and tear, along with the other items 
listed.I accept the dealer agreed to complete some repairs free of charge, but these items were of 
a cosmetic nature and didnt affect Mr Zs ability to use the car. And given that the first report 
identified these items as reasonable for the age and mileage of the car, I could not fairly 
require MotoNovo to rectify them. Additionally, as Ive explained above, all of the items were 
noted in the first report as being commensurate with the age and mileage the car. Overall, 
Ive simply not seen enough to persuade me that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the 
point of supply.
MotoNovo has paid Mr Z £100 for the inconvenience of dealing with the cosmetic items. And 
taking everything into account Ive concluded that I cant fairly require MotoNovo to do 
anything more. So I am not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I have decided not to uphold Mr Zs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman