DRN-3538644
Complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) registered a fraud prevention marker 
against him.
Background
In March 2021, Mr A received a payment of £350.21, into his current account. £250 of these 
funds were immediately withdrawn and £90.95 of the remaining funds were used in a debit 
card purchase. Mr A then subsequently received payments of £419, £455 and £497.55 into 
his savings account. The amounts from the first two payments were immediately transferred 
on to a third party. 
Lloyds subsequently received notifications from the third-party banks responsible for sending 
the payments to Mr As accounts stating the payees of the funds had reported being victims 
of fraud. Lloyds reviewed Mr As account and as a result of its investigation, it decided to 
close Mr As account and record a fraud prevention marker.
After learning of the fraud prevention marker, Mr A complained that it had been applied 
unfairly. Lloyds didnt uphold Mr As complaint. As Mr A remained dissatisfied, Mr A referred 
the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr As concerns. She didnt think that Lloyds had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr A unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr A disagreed and the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Lloyds has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility  
relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, it isnt 
required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr A is guilty of fraud or a financial crime, 
but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. The 
relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Lloyds must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Mr As account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Lloyds also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr A was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Mr A allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an illegitimate 
payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr As complaint, I need to decide whether I think Lloyds had enough 
evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr As account and that his actions suggest he 
was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Lloyds did have enough 
to record a fraud prevention marker here. Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Mr As 
accounts in March 2021, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Mr A was complicit in allowing his account to receive 
these illegitimate funds. 
Mr A said that one of his friends asked him to accept some money into his account. He said 
his friend told him that he was selling some items and asked if he could arrange for the funds 
to be paid into his account and for Mr A to then withdraw them in cash for him  Mr A said he 
agreed to help his friend out and provided him with his sort code and his current account 
number. 
Ive thought about what Mr A has said. But even though Ive tried to give him the benefit of 
the doubt here, Im afraid that there are a number of things which dont add up and which 
mean I cant reasonably conclude that he was an unwitting participant. I firstly say this 
because Mr As version of events doesnt explain how both his current account and savings 
account ended up receiving fraudulent funds. Theres no plausible reason why Mr As friend 
would need to transfer funds from sales to two of Mr As accounts.
Secondly Mr As version of events doesnt explain how and why some of the funds were 
transferred to a third-party. Ive thought about what Mr A has said about believing that the 
third-party would be holding the funds for his friend. However, if that were the case that 
doesnt explain why the funds needed to go into Mr As account in the first place, instead of 
going directly to the third party.
Im afraid that the available evidence and Mr A being unable to provide anything 
contemporaneous to corroborate what, on the face of things, appears an implausible version 
of events means that I cant reasonably conclude he was an unwitting participant here. 
Instead, I think its more likely than not he was complicit in his account receiving fraudulent 
funds. 
Overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Lloyds did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Mr As account. And it was also reasonably 
entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not that Mr A was complicit in this. As this is 
the case, I dont think that it was unfair for Lloyds to record a fraud prevention marker in the 
circumstances that it did. So Im not upholding this complaint and Im not requiring Lloyds to 
take any action in relation to the fraud marker. 
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr A  especially given what hes said about 
the effect the marker is having on him. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my 
decision and that hell appreciate why a fraud marker has been recorded against him. 
Furthermore, Mr A might find that hes able to open an account with another bank as long as 
he applies for a Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or any such equivalent.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman