DRN-2309526
The complaint
Miss O complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax changed her address on her 
account without her consent, with the result her card was cancelled while she was abroad. 
Miss Os also unhappy that, after shed been told her address had been corrected, another 
letter was sent to the wrong address. Miss O wants a full investigation and explanation and 
appropriate compensation for whats happened.
What happened
Miss O was abroad in February 2020 when she found her Halifax rewards card wasnt 
working. She contacted Halifax and was told there wasnt a problem. However, when she got 
back to the UK she found that her card had been cancelled because Halifax had changed 
the address on her account. A new card had been sent to this old address.
Miss O said she hadnt changed her address and couldnt understand how the change had 
happened. She said she hadnt lived at this other address since 2011 and was concerned 
that her account security had been breached.
Miss Os also unhappy that, after Halifax assured her it had corrected her address on its 
system, it sent another letter to the wrong address which suggested the problem was still 
there. Miss O wanted Halifax to provide her with a detailed explanation for what had 
happened and assurance it wouldnt happen again as well. In addition, she didnt feel the 
compensation shed received to date was sufficient for the worry and inconvenience shed 
had.
Halifax said, in December 2019, it had received details of a complaint brought by Miss O 
about a card that she hadnt received. The complaint showed a different address to the one 
it had on its system at that time. As the complaint related to a missing card, the advisor 
assumed the different addresses might be the problem and shed updated Miss Os records 
to show the address on the complaint.  Halifax agreed, however, that it shouldnt have done 
this without Miss Os express consent. 
Halifax also acknowledged that Miss O had been given incorrect information when shed 
contacted it to say her card wasnt working and that it had later made another mistake by 
cancelling all of her cards and not the just one sent to the wrong address. It apologised and 
arranged to correct Miss Os address on its system. It also offered Miss O £275 
compensation for her distress and inconvenience as well as reimbursing the cost of her 
overseas calls.
With regard to the second letter sent to the wrong address, Halifax said this letter had been 
generated before the address change had taken effect and it hadnt been to stop it from 
going out. It offered Miss O a further £50 for not explaining this to her at the time.
Our investigator felt Halifax had dealt with the complaint fairly and had taken appropriate 
steps to prevent it happening again. In the circumstances she felt the compensation already 
paid was reasonable and she wouldnt be asking Halifax to do anything more.
Miss O didnt agree and asked for her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know this isnt the decision Miss O was hoping for but, having reviewed the information for 
this complaint, I wont be asking Halifax to do anything more as Ill now explain.
Ive seen that in December 2019, Halifax received a complaint from Miss O through this 
service.  The complaint information showed Miss Os address to be different to the one 
Halifax currently held for her. The advisor felt this might be the underlying problem that had 
led to the complaint and so she updated Miss Os address details on the system. And 
because the address was changed, Halifax also cancelled her rewards card and sent 
another one to this new address. That was a mistake, as Halifax has acknowledged, as the 
address shouldnt have been changed without clear instructions from Miss O.
Miss Os set out very clearly why shes so upset by whats happened. I understand that the 
fact her card was cancelled and another one sent to an old address would make her anxious 
that thered been some unauthorised activity on her account. However as soon as Halifax 
was told about the problem it investigated the complaint, corrected Miss Os address and 
offered compensation for the upset this had caused.  I think that was reasonable and what 
Id expect it to have done in the circumstances.
Unfortunately, that wasnt the end of this problem and in March 2020, Miss O found Halifax 
had sent another letter to her at the wrong address. I can understand that Miss O was 
concerned that despite its assurances, Halifax hadnt resolved the problem but as Halifax 
has explained, the letter had been generated by the system before the correction to her 
address had taken effect and once it was in process, it couldnt be stopped. It apologised for 
not explaining this to her sooner and awarded her a further £50 compensation.
Ive seen Miss O feels Halifax hasnt given her a clear explanation for what happened but I 
cant agree. Its explained why the mistake happened and taken steps internally and 
externally to put the mistake right and ensure it doesnt happen again. That seems fair to me 
and I dont think there was much more it could have done. 
I note that Halifax has paid Miss O £325 compensation (£275 + £50) for the upset and 
inconvenience shes had as a result of whats happened. I realise Miss O doesnt feel thats 
enough but taking into account that this was put right quickly and that there was no actual 
financial loss, I consider that it is fair and in line with Id have awarded for a complaint of this 
type. 
For the reasons set out above, I consider Halifax has dealt with this complaint fairly and I 
wont therefore be asking it to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Os complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 December 2020.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman