DRN-1489071
 
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium (PPI) policy taken out in 2004 in connection with 
a credit card.
Our adjudicator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. Mrs H disagreed with the 
adjudicator's conclusions, so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my conclusions on the balance 
of probabilities - that is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and I've set out my reasons below:
Mrs H says she doesn't remember PPI being offered to her, and she wouldn't have 
agreed to buy it if it had been offered. I've noted everything Mrs H has said. The 
difficulty I have is that I can't be sure what was discussed between Mrs H and Capital 
One when the policy was sold. I'm also mindful that these events took place many 
years ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time. Capital 
One has told us that the PPI was sold when Mrs H phoned to activate her credit card. 
From what we know about Capital One's sales processes at the time, during that 
type of call, on balance I think it's likely that Capital One would've made it clear to 
Mrs H that the policy was optional - although I can understand why she may 
not remember this. Without anything else to support what Mrs H has told me, I don't 
think I can safely say that Capital One didn't make her aware that she had a choice 
about buying the PPI.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs H so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for her. That means it didn't have to ask about any other means she had to 
cover her repayments if she couldn't work. Mrs H had to decide for herself whether or 
not the PPI was right for her. But even if Capital One had recommended the PPI to 
Mrs H, it doesn't look as though it was unsuitable for her, based on what I've seen of 
her circumstances at the time. The PPI would've paid out in addition to Mrs H's 
employer sick pay, and would've meant she could use that sick pay to cover other 
expenses. And it would've meant she didn't need to rely on her parents. Its possible the information Capital One gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of Mrs H's circumstances at the time it 
doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover - so it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks 
like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put Mrs H off taking out the cover. 
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs 
H.
 
Ive thought about everything Mrs H has said - including what she's said about a successful 
PPI claim against Capital One by her husband. But we assess each individual case on its 
own merits. And having done so in this case, for the reasons I've explained, I'm not 
persuaded that Mrs H's PPI policy was mis-sold. 
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs H about that. Because Capital One didnt 
tell Mrs H, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case. 
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Mrs H any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman