DRN-3361332
The complaint
Mr A complains that Marks and Spencer Financial Services Plc trading as M&S Bank
recorded a default on his credit file despite agreeing a payment holiday.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Mr A had a credit card with M&S Bank. Between May and July 2020 M&S Bank put a 
payment holiday in place. The payment holiday meant Mr A didnt have to make any 
payments for three months without impact to his credit file. Interest continued to accrue 
and be added to the debt during this time so the balance was going up.
In August 2020 Mr A contacted M&S Bank again to discuss extending the payment 
holiday. M&S Bank asked Mr A about his circumstances. Mr A explained he wasnt 
working and wasnt sure when a new job would be found. M&S Bank completed an income 
and expenditure assessment and found Mr A was operating at a deficit of around £1,000 a 
month.
M&S Bank told Mr A it couldnt offer another payment holiday but agreed to a no 
affordability hold (payment plan) for six months. The call handler explained that no 
interest or charges would accrue during this period, but arrears would grow and be 
reported to the credit reference agencies.
Mr A called M&S Bank back a short time later and asked about the impact of the 
arrangement to his credit file. Mr A was incorrectly told there would be no impact to his 
credit file. The payment plan was put in place.
Over the following months, M&S Bank sent Mr A correspondence about his credit card, 
including a default notice and a formal demand. M&S Bank went on to close Mr As credit 
card and record a default on his credit file.
Mr A complained to M&S Bank and it issued a final response. M&S Bank apologised Mr 
A had been incorrectly told there would be no impact to his credit file by proceeding with 
the agreed plan and paid him £75. But M&S Bank said the correct position had been set 
out during the preceding call with Mr A and didnt agree to amend his credit file.
Mr A referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought M&S Bank had dealt with Mr As case fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr 
A asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been reasonably brief in setting out the background above as all parties broadly agree 
about the timeline for Mr As complaint. M&S Bank has provided two phone recordings that 
show what Mr A discussed when the payment plan was offered as an option. The call 
recordings also show Mr A was later incorrectly told by M&S Bank that there would be no 
impact to his credit file.
I understand why Mr A is upset and agree he was given the wrong information before the 
payment plan was put in place. Mr A has asked for the default and adverse information to 
be removed from his credit file. I need to decide whether M&S Banks error resulted in Mr 
As account defaulting. To put it another way, I need to consider what Mr A wouldve done 
had M&S Bank not incorrectly told him the payment plan would have no impact on his credit 
file.
In April 2020 the Financial Conduct Authority issued guidance to lenders for customers 
experiencing short term financial difficulties as a direct result of the pandemic. The 
guidance meant businesses could offer a payment break for an initial three month period 
without an impact to the consumers credit file. Thats the approach M&S Bank took in May 
2020 when it approved the first payment break. But the approach used didnt stop interest 
and charges being applied to the debt so the outstanding balance increased each month.
The guidance says businesses should only approve a payment deferral for a maximum of 
six months. And, if the nature of the financial difficulties the borrower is experiencing isnt 
reasonably short term, businesses were obliged to consider other options in terms of 
providing forbearance and breathing space.
Ive listened to the August 2020 call Mr A had with M&S Bank. Mr A confirmed he wasnt 
sure when he would be able to return to work. At that point, one payment holiday had 
been approved but the level of debt was increasing. I think it was a reasonable point for 
M&S Bank to consider Mr As circumstances and whether another payment break on the 
same terms was right for him. To do that, M&S Bank completed an income and 
expenditure assessment and asked Mr A about his circumstances. The information on Mr 
As income and expenditure assessment indicated he wasnt able to afford to make 
payments to his credit card. And Mr A confirmed he was unclear when he would be 
working again.
Im satisfied this was a reasonable point for M&S Bank to consider offering a different type 
of support. And whilst I understand arrears were reported, the no payment hold meant the 
level of debt stopped increasing as no further interest or charges were applied from that 
point. In addition, M&S Bank agreed to send Mr A correspondence about the credit card 
but stopped its collections process for six months. I think thats reasonable in the 
circumstances.
In response to the investigator, Mr A confirmed he started working again in March 2021 and 
couldve started making payments again prior to that date by using income support. But the 
maximum period M&S Bank could approve a payment holiday for without impact to Mr As 
credit file was six months. So the latest point it Mr A couldve had a payment holiday without 
impact to his credit file was November 2020. And, at that point, the level of debt wouldve 
increased.
I know my decision will come as a disappointment for Mr A, but I think the business 
decision not to approve a further payment holiday was reasonable. Mr A has told us he 
couldve started making payments again in 2021. But I wouldnt expect M&S Bank to 
accept payments from benefits or income support unless Mr A could show they were 
affordable. Mr A told us he started working again in March 2021, but by that point the 
arrears wouldve reached a point where M&S could close and default the credit card.M&S Bank has apologised to Mr A that its member of staff gave him the wrong information 
and sent him a cheque for £75. Whilst Im pleased M&S Bank has apologised, I dont think 
the £75 settlement fairly reflects how the issues raised have affected Mr A. Im satisfied 
that, following his call in September 2020, Mr A thought there would be no impact to his 
credit file and its clear he was extremely upset when he found a default had been 
recorded. As Ive said above, Im satisfied Mr As account would most likely have closed 
and defaulted even if hed been given the correct information. But its clear the error caused 
Mr A a reasonable level of trouble and upset in this case.
So whilst I dont intend to tell M&S Bank to amend Mr As credit file I do intend to increase 
the settlement to £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
I invited both parties to send me any additional information they wanted me to consider 
before I reached my final decision. Neither party supplied new information for me to 
consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided new information I see no reason to change the conclusions I 
reached in my provisional decision. I still think Mr As complaint should be upheld, for the 
same reasons. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint and direct Marks and Spencer Financial 
Services Plc trading as M&S Bank to pay hi a total of £200 (less any compensation already 
paid).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman