DRN-2118408
The complaint
Ms R is unhappy about incorrect information given to her by Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited (Advantage) and repairs carried out to her car under her car insurance. Ms R also 
complains about having to pay her excess when she says she wasnt at fault and feels the 
general service she received from Advantage hasnt been reasonable. 
  
All references to Advantage include agents appointed to act on Advantages behalf.
What happened
Ms R was involved in an accident in November 2019 which she reported to Advantage. Over 
the next couple of months, Ms R received conflicting information about her car, in particular, 
whether it was a total loss or repairable as well as the location of her car. Ms R also 
experienced problems when she went to collect her car on two occasions which meant she 
had to leave her car with the repairer both times. Ms Rs car was then later repaired and 
collected.
Ultimately, it took Advantage a month to take Ms Rs car to the repairers from the salvage 
agent. Her car was finally repaired on 27 January  nearly two months after shed had the 
accident. During this time, she was given a courtesy car to use. Ms R complained to 
Advantage about the incorrect information she had received, problems with the repairs to her 
car and having to pay her £940 excess when she feels this was a non-fault claim. 
Advantage responded and agreed the service hadnt been reasonable. They accepted:
- they had incorrectly advised Ms R that her car was a total loss more than once; 
- there had been delay in collecting Ms Rs car; and
- the communication with Ms R couldve been better. 
In relation to the excess, Advantage said the excess is the part of the claim that Ms R has to 
pay and is not something that is covered under the policy. They also explained they had 
instructed solicitors to assist Ms R in attempting to recover the excess.
 
Overall, they upheld the complaint and, as well as apologising for the service, they offered 
compensation of £537 to be paid to Ms Rs account. Advantage said £47 of this sum was for 
fuel costs Ms R had to pay to the company who provided her with a courtesy car who had 
charged her for not returning the car with a full tank of fuel. Theyve confirmed the money 
was paid to Ms R in February 2020.  
Our investigator looked into things for Ms R and agreed the service provided by Advantage 
hadnt been reasonable. However, she felt the offer of compensation was fair and also 
recommended that Advantage should keep Ms R better updated with the progress of her 
claim. 
Ms R disagreed with our investigators view so the matter has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided Advantages payment of £537 is a fair way to resolve matters 
and so I dont uphold her complaint in this matter. I understand Ms R will be disappointed by 
this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Firstly, Ive looked at the service given to Ms R including the communications Advantage 
have had with her. The key facts about this part of the complaint arent in dispute. Advantage 
have admitted they got things wrong when they gave Ms R incorrect information on a 
number of occasions, delayed in carrying out repairs to her car and they accept the 
communication couldve been better. The only issue I have to decide is whether the amount 
of compensation theyve offered is fair and reasonable.
I think its right that Advantage should compensate Ms R for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by their poor service throughout this claim. Ms R has told us the situation with 
Advantage caused her anxiety and that shes been through an extremely distressing time. 
An accident is a stressful event so consumers look to their insurers to help them through the 
process and to cause minimal impact to an already worrying situation. That hasnt happened 
here and its understandable Ms R was caused confusion and worry when told different 
things about her car. I feel its reasonable for Advantage to pay compensation to reflect the 
distress to Ms R as well as the inconvenience in having to make trips to the garage to collect 
her car when there were still problems with it. 
The period between the accident being reported and Ms Rs car being repaired was around 
two months. So, while there has been distress and inconvenience to Ms R, this has been 
over a limited period  albeit a period which was longer than it shouldve been. I also think 
the impact of the delay was limited though because Ms R did have the use of a courtesy car 
during this time. So, taking everything into account, I feel the compensation already paid by 
Advantage is fair and reasonable in the circumstances and reflects the distress, worry, 
confusion and inconvenience caused to Ms R. Its also important for me to focus on the 
additional distress and inconvenience caused by the poor service of Advantage and beyond 
the accident and impact of this in itself as this isnt something Advantage is responsible for. 
I can see our investigator has also recommended Advantage should keep Ms R better 
updated on the position with liability. And Id like to take the opportunity to remind Advantage 
of its general obligation to keep Ms R updated as well as the industry standards set out in 
the Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook. 
    
Ms R doesnt agree she should pay her excess as she says she wasnt at fault for the 
accident. Ive looked at Ms Rs insurance policy booklet which sets out the terms and 
conditions of her policy and this explains the excess is the part of the claim that she must 
pay even if the accident isnt her fault. The booklet also says that Ms R needs to pay the 
excess before her car is delivered. The insurance schedule shows that Ms Rs excess is 
£940. So, from what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Advantage to have 
expected Ms R to pay her excess of £940. Advantage have explained to Ms R they have 
passed the matter to solicitors who will attempt to recover the excess. Understandably, this 
can only be done once liability has been accepted by the third-party driver, so I dont think 
Advantage have acted unfairly in relation to this part of the complaint.   
In summary, I dont uphold Ms Rs complaint in this matter and agree the money paid to Ms 
R is a fair and reasonable way to resolve this complaint. I know Ms R will be disappointed 
with this outcome and Im sorry to hear this has been a particularly distressing and difficult 
time for her. But my decision brings to an end what we  in trying to resolve her dispute with 
Advantage  can do for her.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman