DRN-4278421
The complaint
Mrs F complained her claim was unfairly declined by Domestic & General Insurance Plc 
(D&G) under her cooker protection policy.
What happened
Mrs F had some repairs made to her cooker under her policy in 2020, but when she made a 
further claim in 2023, D&G declined the claim after reviewing the report provided by the 
engineer who inspected the cooker. 
Mrs F thought the cooker shouldve been replaced by D&G as it was beyond economical 
repair. However, D&G said the claim wasnt covered by the policy as the appliance was 
found to be rusted and corroded.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He thought D&G had been reasonable 
to decline the claim in line with the policy terms as it had provided evidence the cooker was 
rusted and corroded. Mrs F disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
D&G said the circumstances of the claim were excluded from the policy. Ive checked the 
policy and it states that any loss, damage or impairment to functionality caused by 
corrosion is excluded from the policy. Therefore, if D&G has provided evidence of corrosion, 
then Im likely to say it has been fair in declining the claim.
D&G has provided a call recording of its engineers report been read out. I can hear that rust 
had corroded the cavity of the cooker, which subsequently caused the wiring to be brittle and 
burn. 
I appreciate Mrs F disagrees with the engineers report and has provided some of her own 
photographs of her cooker. She said the rust was on the outside of the cooker and didnt 
impact the wires. Unfortunately, I cant see anything in the photographs that makes me 
doubt what the engineer reported. For me to not be persuaded by D&Gs expert report, Id 
need to see contrary evidence from an expert representing Mrs F. As I havent seen this, I 
wont be able to uphold this complaint.
Mrs F said the exclusion wasnt pointed out to her when the policy was sold. However, Ive 
seen the policy documents that were sent to Mrs F when she took out the policy. These 
show the exclusion in the policy which D&G has used to decline the claim. Therefore, I cant 
reasonably say Mrs F wasnt aware of the policy terms.
In summary, as Mrs F has been unable to provide any contrary expert evidence to support 
her view, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Domestic & General 
Insurance Plc to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman