DRN-2219956
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out to protect a 
mortgage.
Ms J says Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax mis-sold her the PPI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make Ms J aware that the PPI was optional and gain her consent before 
adding it to her mortgage. Ms J has told us she was sold the policy in 1993 when she 
applied for her mortgage. Halifax has told us the policy was taken later in 1996 and has used 
the dates Ms J started paying for the policy to support this. While I appreciate Ms J feels the 
policy was taken out at the same time as the mortgage, I havent seen enough evidence 
provided by either Ms J or Halifax to support this.
With the information available I think Ms J applied for the PPI in 1996 after her mortgage had 
been agreed. There is limited information available from the time of the sale, but this isnt 
surprising as the sale took place a long time ago and businesses arent required to keep this 
type of information indefinitely. As the evidence shows the PPI policy started sometime after 
the mortgage, I think Ms J would have been aware the PPI was not required for her 
mortgage to be agreed, and she chose to have it.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Ms J, so it had to check that the PPI was right for her. Ms J 
has told us she would have been entitled to generous sick pay when she took the policy, she 
also had some savings and could have relied on family if she was unable to make her 
repayments, so she didnt need the policy. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to
Ms Js sick pay and for longer than she would have received full pay. The PPI would also 
have protected Ms Js savings so they could be used towards any other expenses she may 
have had. And while Ms Js family would have wanted to help, this offer would have been 
dependent on their circumstances at the time, which could have changed, so I dont think 
this offer of help could be guaranteed.
Based on what Ive seen of Ms Js circumstances at the time she wasnt affected by any of
the exclusions to, or limits on the PPI cover and Ms J seemed to have had a need for the 
cover. So, I think it was right for her.
I thought about everything Ms J has told us, but for the reasons explained above these 
points dont change my decision
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman