DRN-1397564
The complaint
Mr A complains that Madison CF UK Limited (Madison) made unnecessary credit searches 
on his credit file. He also complains that it misused his personal data, and provided him with 
another individuals personal data.
What happened
In May 2019 Mr A complained to Madison about a number of credit searches he says he 
discovered on his credit file. He said these were not related to the loan application he'd 
made, and he believed they would damage his credit rating.
He said he received a response from Madison that was addressed to another person. He 
said this put him in a state of panic as it raised serious data handling concerns about the 
safety of his own personal data held by Madison.
He said Madison didn't respond to his complaint until August 2019. He said that it told him it 
couldn't find details of his loan account on its system. And he says it didnt address any of 
his complaint points. He said he was surprised it couldn't find his loan account - he 
didn't know if this meant Madison had closed his account as settled in full, or if the 
mishandling of his personal data was more serious than hed anticipated.
He said he was told by Madison that it had been system issues that had prevented it from 
locating his account. He said it still didn't respond to his complaint points and had told him it 
wouldn't investigate his complaint further.
Madison said that Mr C held a loan account with it under its 118 118 Money brand. In August 
2019 it sent two responses to Mr C's compliant. In the first it said it couldn't find details of 
an account in his name. It also explained the type of searches that are typically found on a 
credit report.
In the second, it apologised for not finding his account details. It said this was due to a 
system error. It also confirmed there was no privacy breach or mishandling of his data. It 
also explained that it carried out searches on his credit file as outlined in the terms and 
conditions of the credit agreement. It then provided Mr C with information about the searches 
it had done on his credit file.
It also told him the searches wouldn't impact his credit score. And it wouldn't amend his file, 
or offer him compensation.
One of our investigators looked into his complaint. He reviewed the credit searches it had 
done and didn't think it had done anything wrong. He also looked at Mr C's complaint that 
Madison had committed a data breach, and used someone else's surname in one of its 
responses to him. He didn't find evidence of Madison misusing Mr C's data, and he 
explained why addressing him by the wrong surname wouldn't have impacted his personal 
data.
He agreed that Mr C had received some poor service from Madison, but felt that its apology 
was reasonable in the circumstances.Mr C disagreed and asked for an ombudsman decision. He felt that Madison calling him by 
another surname and not being able to find his details would be "extremely unlikely to 
happen without some serious personal data mishandling that potentially affects a number of 
customers".
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Im not upholding this complaint, for the 
same reasons as our investigator.
The credit searches
Mr C was concerned to find Madison had conducted a number of credit searches in his 
name. He was worried that the searches would affect his credit score.
I've looked at the terms and conditions of the account - section 7 of the agreement explains 
how Madison will use his personal information. It says in Section 7.3:
"We will make periodic searches at the credit reference agencies and fraud prevention 
agencies to manage your account with us"
It explained the reason for the searches - the first being an anti-money laundering check, the 
second being a "quick check" search option chosen by Mr C for him to see if he might be 
eligible for a credit card from Madison. It has also confirmed that these were "soft 
searches" and would not affect his credit score.
Looking at the credit searches I'm satisfied that Madison hasn't done anything wrong.
Data breach
Mr C was concerned to receive a response from Madison that was addressed to another 
individual. I can understand why he was concerned, but as our investigator explained, this 
was not a misuse of Mr C's personal data. So I can't say that Madison has misused his 
personal information. 
I note that Mr C's concerns about his personal data were made worse when Madison said it 
couldn't locate his account. It has admitted this was the case and it has apologised. Mr C 
says that the reason his account couldn't be located must be due to some form of data 
breach. I don't come to the same conclusion - Madison couldn't find his account, for 
whatever reason. This doesn't mean that they've misused his personal data or committed a 
data breach. And there's no evidence that it did so. So I'm not upholding this part of his 
complaint.
Mr C has expressed his fears that Madison has mishandled his personal data. I've looked at  
each of the points he's raised and can find no evidence to show any actual misuse of his 
data. It was disappointing that Madison addressed him as someone else, and unfortunate 
that it couldn't locate his account - but these do not constitute misuse or mishandling of his 
personal data. So I'm not upholding this part of his complaint.
I can see that Mr C has lost trust in Madison, and he fears that it may expose his personal 
data to others without his consent. He says he believes that these events could not have happened without some mishandling of his personal data. But I haven't seen any evidence 
of that, so I won't be asking Madison to take any action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I'm not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2020.
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman