DRN-3994105
The complaint
Mr S complains that Aviva Life and Pensions UK Ltd delayed sending him information, 
meaning he was unable to access his pension before the end of the 2020/21 tax year.
What happened
Mr S first approached Aviva in 2020 to discuss accessing his pension. Following further 
exchanges at the beginning of 2021, Aviva said theyd send Mr S an Options Selection Pack 
(OSP). Aviva also confirmed Mr S fund value - £15,308.59 - and advised him his policy with 
them had a Guaranteed Annuity Rate (GAR), and the minimum age to take GAR benefits 
was 60. Aviva told Mr S to expect the OSP by 17 February 2021 (although it seems it wasnt 
received until a week or so later). An OSP was also emailed to Mr S on 5 February 2021.
Mr S called Aviva to complain on 18 February 2021  he was unhappy he hadnt yet 
received the OSP by post. A further copy was sent. These were also emailed to Mr S on 
21 February 2021. Aviva offered Mr S £50 compensation for the delays. Mr S called Aviva 
two days later for assistance in completing them. Two further days later, Mr S again spoke to 
Aviva, unhappy hed received two OSPs with only one containing a Personal Information 
Form (PIF)  which was necessary to complete and return if Mr S was to take a lifetime 
income option. 
Aviva responded to Mr S complaint on 1 March, acknowledging thered been problems 
providing him with the OSP. But they said he was now in possession of the necessary 
documents and so minimal inconvenience had been caused  and £50 compensation 
already offered was sufficient. 
Mr S returned the completed OSP and PIF forms the following day. He asked for retirement 
quotes to be sent. Mr S phoned to chase these up on 12 March and was told to expect them 
to arrive by 18 March. On 24 March, Mr S again phoned Aviva to chase the documents, to 
be told the documents hadnt been issued. A further complaint was raised about the delays, 
which Aviva upheld and offered a further £100 compensation. 
Mr S was unhappy because the delays meant he was unable to take his pension in that tax 
year. He said hed wanted to take the fund as one lump sum  he was self-employed, and 
his trading had been affected by the Covid lockdown. Taking the benefit in the following tax 
year meant hed end up paying more tax. So, on 7 April, he chose to take a lifetime annuity.
Aviva responded to Mr S latest complaint. They again acknowledged their delay in sending 
Mr S the further option documents (sent on 24 March rather than 18 March as promised), but 
said even had they sent it on time there wouldnt have been enough time to process his 
lifetime annuity request before the end of the tax year. Further, he only became eligible for 
his GAR 3 days before the end of the tax year (a bank holiday weekend). And that being so, 
its £150 compensation payments were fair.  
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr S brought his complaint to us. He explained that it was 
always his intention to take the whole of his pension as one lump sum, and that Avivas 
delays had prevented him from being able to do that in the most tax-efficient way. 
One of our investigators considered Mr S complaint but felt Avivas compensation offer of 
£150 was sufficient. Whilst acknowledging Avivas delays, our Investigator felt he hadnt 
seen enough evidence in the communications between Mr S and Aviva to show it was Mr S 
intention to take the lump sum. The Investigator also thought once Mr S decided to take the 
annuity option there wasnt enough time left for this to be paid before the end of the tax year.
Mr S wasnt happy with this outcome. He reiterated that his retirement options were 
hampered by Avivas failings. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an 
Ombudsman. Having considered Mr S complaint, I reached a different conclusion to our 
Investigator, and issued a Provisional Decision (PD), in which I said as follows: 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Aviva admit they caused delays in the provision of information and forms to Mr S. But 
Avivas response to this complaint is essentially based on there only having been one period 
of delay  between 18 and 24 March 2021 (the delay in sending the vesting quote 
documentation). Having looked very carefully at the information available to me, I think there 
were other small delays that need to be considered here. Ill explain. 
Mr S approached Aviva on 25 January 2021, asking for an OSP to be sent. He was told hed 
receive it by 17 February. This is 18 working days after the call, and is I think a fair timescale 
within which Aviva would have been expected to provide the OSP. 
But its clear from Avivas copy phone notes there were some problems with this being sent 
(and received) on time. Mr S phoned Aviva in the interim, and it appears the OSP was 
emailed to him at his request (the notes suggest on 5 February). But it appears the posted 
documents werent received until after Mr S phoned Aviva again on 18 February. And upon 
receipt of the first set of OSP forms, and Mr S having spoken to Aviva on 23 February to 
seek assistance in completing them, it became clear the PIF form had been omitted. Aviva 
confirmed they did receive completed forms (including the PIF form) on 2 March 2021.
So, the first thing for me to consider is whether there were any avoidable delays caused by 
Aviva during the above period. And I think there were  and that its fair to proceed on the 
basis Mr S should have received a complete set of OSP forms by 17 February  as Ive said, 
I think 18 days was enough time to prepare the OSP forms and send them to Mr S.
That being so, I need to consider how long it would have then taken Mr S to review, digest 
their contents and return them. Mr S phoned Aviva to ask for assistance in completing them 
before returning his signed forms, and theres no reason to think this wouldnt also have 
happened if the complete set of OSP forms had arrived on time. So, I need to make some 
reasonable assumptions here. And I think its fair and reasonable to assume if Mr S had 
received the forms on 17 February (Wednesday), hed have needed time to consider them, 
call Aviva, and then sign and return the forms. So, I think its reasonable to assume Aviva 
would likely have received the completed forms on Wednesday 24 February.
Aviva have already agreed it would have taken 12 working days from receipt of the OSP to 
calculate the information requested by Mr S, and send the results  the vesting quotes - to 
him (based on what did happen in this case  receiving the signed forms on 2 March and 
agreeing that the vesting quotes would be sent by 18 March). Applying that 12-day period to 
the what should have happened timescale, means Aviva should have sent the vesting 
quotes on Friday 12 March  with Mr S likely receiving them the following day.   
I now need to consider how long it would likely have taken Mr S to decide which option to 
choose (hed been sent details for an annuity, lump sum, and fund transfer), and whether it would have been possible to return the relevant forms in enough time for that choice to be 
processed before the end of the tax year. 
Deciding which choice I think Mr S would have made, had the OSP forms been sent on time, 
is important here. Both Aviva and our Investigator have assessed the complaint essentially 
on the basis Mr S was only interested in the annuity option  and this does appear to have 
been the only realistic option available after the OSP delays had occurred. But Mr S has said 
that taking the full lump sum (after tax) before the end of the 2020/21 tax year was always 
his preferred option. And I think, having considered the evidence available to me, the lump 
sum was Mr S initially preferred choice, and I think he would most likely have chosen that 
option had it been feasible before the end of the tax year. Ill explain why.  
Ive listened to the call Mr S made to our service when he brought his complaint to us, and in 
this he twice mentions the lump sum option was always his preferred choice. I dont doubt 
his sentiments at the time of this call, but its more important to consider what he told Aviva 
in the period after he first approached them to start the process of accessing his pension. 
Im aware Mr S phoned Aviva on various dates between January and March 2021, and I 
asked Aviva to provide some of these call recordings so I can understand exactly what Mr S 
said, but Aviva havent done this. Instead I have copies of their internal call recording notes 
which record Avivas summary of what was discussed. So Ill consider these, alongside 
letters Aviva sent to Mr S during this period, in reaching a conclusion on this point.
To begin with, there were various calls between 25 January and 23 February 2021. The 
phone notes for these record Aviva explained theyd need to undertake a manual calculation 
(because there was a GAR) before quotes could be provided, and how a GAR worked. They 
record Mr S asked how much his policy was worth and how much hed get in retirement. 
They record he was unhappy he wasnt told in the 25 January call he could have had the 
OSP emailed to him (it then was, on 4 February) and hard copy forms still hadnt arrived in 
the post. And there is an apology by Aviva for the delays in sending these forms on time, 
and £50 compensation is offered and accepted. However, there is nothing in these notes 
making any reference to Mr S expressing a preference for a lump sum being taken. 
The note from a call on 25 February, in which Mr S complains the first OSP Aviva sent didnt 
contain the PIF form, records Mr S concern that this omission meant he could have ended 
up with reduced benefits. This may suggest  because the PIF form was really only relevant 
if Mr S was going to take an annuity  that this option was still being considered by Mr S at 
that time. Again, this call note makes no mention of the lump sum option. And a later phone 
note records Mr S asked for quotes for the lump sum, annuity, and whole-sum transfer 
options. This suggests Mr S was still thinking about which option to choose.  And in a further 
call, the note records Mr S said he wanted payments to start from 5th April 2021 to fall within 
the next tax year (Ill assume the date should have read 6th April). Again, no record in the 
notes of the lump sum option being raised by Mr S or discussed, and the contents suggest 
all options appeared to be under consideration at that time.  
But Aviva sent a letter to Mr S dated 24 March 2021, which began:
Thank you for your recent enquiry about taking your retirement benefits as a lump 
sum, details of this option are enclosed. 
This opening sentence suggests, at some point previously, Mr S told Aviva a lump sum was 
his preferred option. It seems a clearly worded response to specific comment that Mr S 
raised. But its not apparent from Avivas call notes when or how he told Aviva this. Regardless I think he must have said it, otherwise thered be no reasonable explanation for 
the letter beginning in that way. 
I acknowledge this letter was sent only six working days before the end of the tax year, 
suggesting it wasnt until that date Mr S decided that this was his preferred option  which 
wouldnt have given enough time for signed forms to have been returned and processed 
before the end of the tax year. But the timing of that letter must be viewed within the context 
of the delayed sequence of events that did occur. It wouldnt have been sent, and previous 
phone calls wouldnt have been made by Mr S chasing updates (which I think likely 
prompted that letter being sent), or needed to be made, had the complete set of OSP forms 
been sent on time. Instead, I think its fair to conclude that, armed with the full information by 
12 March (as above), Mr S would have chosen the lump sum option at that time. 
That being so, would Mr S have been able to return the signed lump-sum option forms in 
time for them to be processed, and funds paid, before the end of the tax year? If I assume 
its likely the vesting quotes were received on Friday 12 March, and Mr S completed and 
returned them on Monday 15 March, Aviva would have received them on Tuesday 16 March. 
Aviva advised it takes 48 hours to scan documents to their file (taking it to Thursday 18 
March), meaning Aviva would likely have started working on the request on Friday 19 March.  
Aviva told us theyd usually take ten working days after receipt/scanning to process a 
request. This would make Thursday 1 April 2021 the tenth day. This happens to be the final 
working day of the 2020/21 financial year - the Easter Bank Holiday occurred between 
Friday 2 and Monday 5 April, and as 5 April was the last day of that tax year  and I accept 
Aviva wouldnt have been processing requests over the bank holiday weekend, as these are 
not working days  meaning Thursday 1 April was the final day on which Aviva could 
process any option request in that tax year.
This is a tight schedule, and the successful processing of the lump-sum option assumes 
there were no problems along the way. Nevertheless, Ive taken account of all of Avivas 
stated process timeframes - and also allowed periods for Mr S to properly consider his 
options  and this still arrives at an outcome where the lump-sum option was achievable. 
So, on that basis Im satisfied - on the evidence Ive been provided with  there was enough 
time for Mr S to have chosen the lump sum option had a complete set of OSP forms been 
sent on time, and further that its most likely he would have chosen that option. 
Putting things right
Where I think a business has acted unfairly, or made a mistake, I would usually ask that 
business to put their consumer back into the position they would have been in, had that 
mistake not happened. But here, that is not possible.
Ive said I think Mr S would have taken the lump sum option, which would have meant hed 
have received a net sum of £11,757.99 (after deduction of £3,550.60 tax). But what did 
happen was that Mr S received a tax-free lump sum of £3,827.15 at the beginning of the 
following tax year, together with a yearly annuity of £1,114.93. This annuity has been in 
payment since the 2021/22 tax year. I dont know how much tax Mr S has paid on his 
annuity, but assuming it was charged at a 20% tax rate, he would still have received close to 
£6,000 net by now. Further, its not possible to cancel an annuity once its been purchased. 
Which means here, I cant put Mr S back in the position he would have been in. 
Instead, Ill consider the distress and inconvenience Mr S has likely experienced as a result 
of the mistakes Aviva made. Theyve already compensated him for the inconvenience caused by the administration delays  and I think the £150 paid fairly reflects this distress. 
But I think its clear Mr S experienced further distress and inconvenience as a result of being 
unable to choose his preferred lump sum option, and further compensation should be paid in 
relation to this. Attaching a value to the distress experienced here is not an exact science but 
having considered everything I think £500 fairly reflects that distress. And this is what Im 
minded to ask Aviva to pay Mr S here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have responded to my PD. Mr S has accepted my recommendation, but Aviva 
have not. They disagree it was Mr S intention to choose the full lump sum option. 
Aviva have now provided the call recordings Id asked for prior to issuing my PD (25 
January, 4, 18 and 23 February, and 12 March 2021). Aviva pointed out Mr S made no 
comment in these calls suggesting his preference was the lump sum option, and that he 
mainly talks about the annuity and GAR options. Having listened to all these calls, I agree. 
But I dont think the content of these calls is the determining factor here. 
What seems clear from these calls is that Mr S remained confused about what a GAR was, 
and much of the time spent on the calls was discussing this  and even after one call agent 
(on 4 February) tried to explain what a GAR was, Mr S responded by saying he didnt 
understand a word of what he was told. The call concluded with Mr S saying hell wait to 
receive the OSP. So, I think its fair to conclude Mr S was unable to form a view on what his 
best option was until at least after receiving the OSP (which he received by post on 23 
February 2021)  because he didnt fully understand what his options entailed. 
That confusion is still evident in Mr S call with Aviva on 23 February, and culminates in Mr S 
returning the OSP documents (Aviva received these on 2 March 2021) asking for quotes for 
the lump sum, and the annuity options  so it appears clear Mr S was still considering his 
options at this time. And the last call Ive been provided with, on 12 March, begins with Mr S 
enquiring when hell get his vesting quotes. Mr S also asks about the timing of payments, 
and whether payments will be made before or after the end of the tax year. I dont think he 
expresses a preference about this on this call, and nor does he mention it may be beneficial 
for him to be paid within the 2020/21 tax year, but it appears clear the timing of the payments 
is something that is on his mind. 
In Avivas PD response, they also comment on their 24 March 2021 letter. They say it was 
Mr S returned OSP forms (which they received on 2 March), in which he asked for the 
various quotes, that resulted in that letter being sent. Having looked again very carefully at 
the sequence of events here, I dont agree. Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute that Mr S asked for vesting quotes for the lump sum, and the annuity 
options. And Aviva agree these should have been sent to Mr S on 18 March. A letter 
enclosing Mr S vesting quotes was generated on that date, but wasnt sent (again, not in 
dispute). It appears it was this letter that was generated following the receipt of the OSP. 
The letter that was sent on 24 March, which begins by making a specific reference to Mr S 
wanting to take the full lump sum, appears to be a different one. There was a phone call 
between Mr S and Aviva on 24 March, in which Avivas phone notes suggest Mr S was 
chasing his quotes. It was as a result of this call that it becomes apparent the 18 March letter hadnt been sent, and a further complaint is raised. I havent been provided with this call 
recording, so Im unable to confirm precisely what was said. 
Notwithstanding, I still think the evidence Ive seen suggests Avivas 24 March letter  
referencing Mr Ss wish to take a lump sum  was likely sent following his call to them on the 
same date. And further, that Mr S had by this time decided the lump sum was his preferred 
option. This conclusion is supported by the notes on Avivas system following another call 
two days later, which records:
[Mr S] said he started this in January this year and with the terrible service now 
being told that this will not be paid within this tax year.[Mr S] said he was going to 
take a lump sum as he is self-employed so this is why he wanted to be paid in this 
tax year, he has to review his options and he will need to seek an (sic) financial 
advisor on this before he can make this big decision
So, whilst I agree with Aviva that Mr S said he was going to seek advice about his options as 
late as 26 March (so, too late to have returned the relevant vesting quote paperwork and be 
paid in the 2020/21 tax year), I disagree when they say this suggests he hadnt made up his 
mind by then. For the reasons Ive explained above, I think I think its clear he had  and that 
his preferred option was the lump sum. 
So, repeating what I said in my PD, had the OSP and later the vesting quotes been sent 
when I think they should have been, some of the above phone calls wouldnt have happened 
 they wouldnt have been necessary. And had they been sent on time Mr S would likely 
have settled on his preferred option (lump sum) earlier than he eventually did. This wouldve 
meant that Mr S would have had enough time to return the lump sum form for it to be 
processed before the end of the 2020/21 tax year. And, as Ive concluded above, Im 
satisfied this is what I think Mr S would likely have done, and it was Avivas delays that 
prevented that from happening. Accordingly, Ive not seen anything that compels me to 
change my proposed PD outcome, and for the reasons set out in my PD, I think Aviva 
should pay Mr S a further £500 D&I.
My final decision
I uphold Mr S complaint against Aviva Life and Pensions UK Ltd, and require them to pay 
Mr S a further £500 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023. 
Mark Evans
Ombudsman