DRN-1656963
The complaint
Mr A complains that Saga Services Limited renewed his motorbike insurance policy without 
letting him know beforehand. He also unhappy with how he was spoken to when he queried 
the renewal. 
For ease of reading any reference to Saga Services Limited includes its agents. 
What happened
Mr A took out an insurance policy through Saga to insure his motorbike. When the policy 
was due to renew Saga wrote to Mr A to let him know. As Saga didnt hear back they 
renewed his policy and sent him a text to say a direct debit had been set up. Mr A called 
Saga and complained, he said he never received the renewal letter so didnt know about the 
policy renewing. He said hed moved address a few months before but the address his bike 
was kept at hadnt changed. He also said Saga had always communicated with him via e-
mail or text so didnt know think it was fair to send the renewal by post. 
Saga looked into Mr As complaint and didnt uphold it. They said they always send renewal 
invitations by post and that Mr A hadnt updated his address with them. As a gesture of 
goodwill Saga agreed to refund the cancellation charge of £50 if Mr A wanted to cancel the 
policy. Mr A didnt think this was fair and brought his complaint to us. 
Our investigator reviewed Mr As complaint and didnt recommend it was upheld. She found 
that Mr As circumstances had changed which meant he didnt have a permanent address, 
but had set up a post redirect service. She also found that Saga always sends its renewal 
invitation by post and that it had been sent to the address Saga had on file. Our investigator 
also listened to the call Mr A had with Saga where he said they were aggressive and had 
tried to intimidate him but didnt think Saga had done anything wrong. 
Mr A didnt agree, he said Saga always e-mailed him regarding renewals and doesnt agree 
its fair for them to send some communication by post and others by e-mail. He also didnt 
agree that the adviser at Saga wasnt aggressive or rude to him. 
As Mr A didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The documents sent to Mr A when he took this policy out through Saga say To ensure you 
stay covered and to save you time, your policy including any optional products taken will 
automatically renew unless you contact us after you receive your renewal offer. To opt out of 
the automatic renewal process call Customer Services. 
When Mr As policy was due to renewal Saga wrote to him a month before to let him know, 
along with the details of the renewal. I understand Mr A didnt receive this letter and thinks it 
may have got lost in the post redirection he had set up. Im satisfied Saga giving Mr A a 
months notice is reasonable, so Ive looked at whether it was fair and reasonable to post 
this rather than e-mail it. 
Mr A explained due to his personal circumstances he didnt have a permanent address, but 
he did have a post redirection set up. Hes also said Saga always e-mailed him about 
renewals before and has provided copies of these e-mails. Ive looked at the e-mails and Im 
not persuaded they are renewal invitations. The e-mails Mr A has provided are marketing 
ones sent around the same time as a renewal. Saga has also said these marketing e-mails 
relate to another policy Mr A has through them, and that the marketing e-mails for this policy 
werent turned on. Saga have also confirmed all renewal invitations are sent via post for all 
its customers. 
I understand Mr As frustrated at not receiving his renewal invitation via e-mail, but I dont 
think Saga have done anything wrong by sending them via post. So, Im not going to tell 
them to do anything different. 
Ive also listened to the call Mr A had with Saga. In the call the customer service adviser 
discovers Mr As address has changed and tries to find him another quote. Mr A says he 
would rather cancel the policy as Saga hadnt given him the opportunity to check the market 
before renewing. Sagas adviser agrees to do this for Mr A and then goes on to explain that 
if he does cancel there would be some costs involved. When the adviser goes on to explain 
the costs and also why she doesnt think Saga did anything wrong, Mr A says shes being 
threatening and trying to intimidate him. From listening to the call, I disagree. The adviser 
was explaining what costs were involved and only providing information I would expect to be 
provided. I therefore dont think Saga did anything wrong in this call. 
I can see when Mr A complained Saga agreed to refund the £50 cancellation fee as a 
gesture of goodwill. As I dont think Saga have done anything wrong, I think they did more 
than they needed to in not charging the cancellation fee in this case. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above my final decision is that its fair and reasonable for Saga 
Services Limited to waive the £50 cancellation fee. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman