DRN-3265230
The complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) wont refund the money he 
lost, after he fell victim to a scam.
What happened
In April 2020, Mr H received a call from Bank of Scotlands account review team, regarding a 
payment for £2,600 which he had made and which had left his account on 17 April 2020. At 
the time Mr H told Bank of Scotland that he hadnt authorised the payment and he didnt 
recognise it, or another payment for £500 that he had made on 15 April 2020. 
Bank of Scotland looked into things and issued a final response on 8 May 2020, not 
upholding the complaint. It found the transactions had been carried out from Mr Hs device 
and from an IP address that had been used for previous logins. As there was no explanation 
for how somebody else could have carried out the transactions it didnt agree to refund Mr H. 
It did find that the service it provided could have been better and paid Mr H £50 in 
recognition of this.
Around a week later, Mr H contacted Bank of Scotland again. He explained that he had been 
looking through his social media and statements and after doing so, he had realised that it 
was him who had made the payments after all. He added that he had been going through a 
tough time with anxiety, and completely forgot that it was him who had made the 
transactions. Mr H went on to say that the payments had been made as a result of him 
falling victim to an investment scam.
Mr H said around March 2020 he was off work with anxiety due to COVID, his uncle had 
passed away and his parents were stuck abroad. Around the same time he got in contact 
with a lady he had seen on Instagram who claimed to be a stockbroker. Mr H has said that 
the page seemed professional and it had several thousand followers and many testimonials. 
The lady asked Mr H to invest money. Hes said that he had no previous knowledge of 
investing or what to do, but after several conversations he trusted what the lady was telling 
him and he was convinced to invest. Mr H has said that he was initially asked to invest 
£1,000 and that he could expect to see a return of around $10,000 in three to four days. But 
Mr H has said that he was in some financial difficulty at the time. But the lady said if he 
invested £500, he could still expect a return of £2,500 to £3,000 and he could expect to 
receive these returns in three to four working days.
 
Believing everything to be genuine, Mr H went ahead and, on 15 April 2020, made an initial 
payment of £500 to account details he was given. Hes told us that he received login details 
to a site, where he could see a live account of his investment. A couple of days later the lady 
contacted Mr H again to say that his investments had exceeded expectations. Mr H has said 
he was told the returns were over $15,000, but that he needed to make a payment for 
£2,600 to withdraw his profits. And that on receipt of the payment, his returns would be with 
him by the end of the day.
Mr H was given different account details to make the second payment to. Still believing 
everything to be genuine he went ahead and made a payment for £2,600, but he didnt 
receive his returns. Mr H contacted the lady and he was told the returns would be with him 
after the weekend, but they still didnt arrive. Mr H has said he was then told that his 
investments stood at over $20,000 and this was what he could see on the account that he 
logged into. But that to release the money he would need to pay a further £700. Mr H has 
said that it was at this point that he started to become suspicious. 
Mr H didnt make this further payment. When his money still wasnt returned, Mr H has said 
he continued to try and contact the person he had been dealing with, but he didnt receive a 
response. Hes said the lady changed their profile name and unfollowed him and eventually 
the Instagram account was closed altogether, and he was no longer able to get hold of her.
Unknown to him at the time he made the payments, Mr H had been dealing with a fraudster. 
Mr H believes that Bank of Scotland should return the money he has lost. Hes said that he 
had never invested before, which is why he didnt do any due diligence and research before 
going ahead with the payments. He added that hed been suffering with anxiety and the 
fraudster had taken advantage of that. 
Bank of Scotland contacted the receiving bank, but no funds remained. Bank of Scotland is a 
signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model CRM Code, 
which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams like 
this in all but a limited number of circumstances. Bank of Scotland says one or more of those 
exceptions applies in this case. In summary, it says Mr H should have carried out checks to 
confirm the person he was speaking to, was who they said they were and it would need to 
know he had tried to confirm he was dealing with a legitimate investment, offering a 
reasonable return. 
Mr H then brought his complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into it. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In summary, he said this 
because he couldnt see that Mr H had carried out any checks to confirm who he was 
dealing with and that the rate of return being promised to him, ought to have raised some 
suspicions. 
Mr H didnt accept our investigators view and so the complaint was passed to me for a 
decision.
On 6 January 2022, I issued a provisional decision explaining why I did not intend to uphold 
this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I said;
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
While I know it will be disappointing for Mr H, having considered everything Im not minded 
to uphold his complaint. I do understand this has been a difficult time for him, and I dont 
doubt that he has been the victim of a cruel scam. But I dont think Bank of Scotland has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in not refunding Mr H the money he sadly lost.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. 
However, where the consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a 
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer 
even though they authorised the payment. When thinking about what is fair and reasonable 
in this case, Ive considered whether Bank of Scotland should have reimbursed Mr H in line 
with the provisions of the CRM Code it has agreed to adhere to, and whether it ought to 
have done more to protect Mr H from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
The circumstances where a firm may not choose to reimburse are limited and it is for the firm 
to establish that a customer failed to meet their requisite level of care, as set out in the Code. 
One such circumstance might be when it can be demonstrated that the customer made the 
payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
- the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay 
- the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or 
- the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate 
Bank of Scotland has argued that Mr H didnt have a reasonable basis for believing the 
payment he was making was for genuine goods or services. 
Ive thought carefully about whether this exception to reimbursement applies in Mr Hs case. 
And, on balance, I dont think he has made the payments whilst having a reasonable basis 
for belief that all was genuine. Ill explain why. 
I think the returns Mr H was being offered were too good to be true and I think from the 
outset ought to have caused Mr H to reasonably have had some doubts about what was 
being offered. The fraudster told Mr H that he could expect a return of around $10,000 within 
just a few days, against an initial investment of £1,000. Im not persuaded that a promise of 
such a high return, within such a short period of time was plausible and I think ought to have 
caused Mr H to ask further questions and to check the legitimacy of what he was being 
offered. 
Mr H has said that he hadnt invested before, so he didnt carry out any due diligence before 
going ahead. While I dont doubt the offer of such returns would have appeared enticing, 
considering how high these returns were, I think its reasonable to have expected Mr H to 
look into things further before proceeding. Especially considering that hes said he was in 
some financial difficulty at the time and no doubt the amount he went on to pay represented 
a significant sum to him. And with his lack of investment experience I think its fair and 
reasonable to have expected Mr H to be more prudent in establishing the risks of the 
investment he was about to make. 
But Mr H has confirmed he didnt carry out any checks or due diligence on the company the 
fraudster indicated they were broking for, nor have any discussion about any potential risks. 
Alongside this, the payments went to two individual names  rather than to a trading 
company, which I think should have raised Mr Hs suspicions further, especially considering 
the names were not the same as the person Mr H was speaking to.
As an inexperienced investor Im mindful that Mr H may not have had an abundance of 
knowledge of what checks may have been suitable to protect him. But Ive found that a 
simple google search on the company his trading platform was supposedly with, delivers a 
number of prominent warnings indicating this may be a scam (that pre date the payments Mr 
H was making) and the firm doesnt appear to be detailed on either Companies House or the FCA register. With this in mind, Im persuaded that its more likely than not even the most 
basic of searches would have raised further red flags about the legitimacy of the investment.
Mr H has said that the Instagram page had a large number of followers and testimonies  
but Im not persuaded this in and of itself should have been enough for Mr H to accept that 
things were genuinely as they seem  especially given the other red flags that I think were 
present in this case. 
My reasoning above relates mainly to the first payment Mr H has made, but it also follows for 
the second. And alongside this, when Mr H has made the second payment, he hasnt 
questioned why he had to make further payments before being allowed access to the returns 
the fraudster indicated he had made, when I think he reasonably ought to have done. 
Ive also thought carefully about what Mr H has told us about the anxiety he has been 
suffering and that he said he was suffering this at the time of the payments. The CRM Code 
does refer to customers being reimbursed, despite exceptions applying, if the individual was 
vulnerable to the extent that they were unable to protect themselves from the scam. 
But from what Ive seen and from what Mr H has told us, I cant fairly say that applies to the 
circumstances in this case. Mr H was seeking the opportunity to invest himself and made 
initial contact, rather than being cold called or pressured into making the payments. Overall, 
Ive not seen enough to fairly say that Mr H was unable to protect himself from this scam. In 
saying this, I want to make it clear that I am in no way taking away from or doubting the 
anxiety and mental health issues that Mr H has told us he suffers from. Im not saying his 
anxiety had no impact on him at the time, but it doesnt seem to be the case that it would be 
unreasonable to expect him to have been able to protect himself. 
Overall, Im not minded to say that Mr H had a reasonable basis for believing he was making 
a legitimate investment, and so the bank has fairly declined his claim under the CRM Code.
Is there any other reason Bank of Scotland ought to refund Mr H? 
Bank of Scotland have also said that Mr H would have been shown warnings at the time he 
made the payments. Under the CRM Code, Bank of Scotland is required to present an 
effective warning where it identifies there is a risk of its customer being scammed. 
Bank of Scotland hasnt provided details of what warning(s) it showed, but it also has not 
relied on this as a reason to decline Mr Hs claim. Having looked at the payments Mr H 
made, I dont consider that they were so remarkable that Bank of Scotland ought to have 
believed that there was a scam risk. While I appreciate the amount Mr H has lost represents 
a significant amount for him, the payments werent so large or unusual that I think they ought 
to have raised concerns for the bank, to the point where I could reasonably have expected 
them to provide a warning.
I invited further comments and evidence from both parties.
Bank of Scotland responded to my provisional decision. It did not have any further points or 
information to add.
Mr H responded, disagreeing with my provisional decision. In summary, he said that he 
wasnt thinking straight at the time the payments were made and was off work with stress 
and anxiety. Hes said he was spending a lot of time on his phone, looking at social media.  
He added that the lady who approached him was very professional and her Instagram profile 
showed many people that had invested with her and got the returns. Hes said he saw an 
opportunity to get a bit more money and went for it. He said the scammer made him feel the investment was genuine and they were persistent in asking him to invest, and that he felt 
pressured to make the investment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Mr H doesnt agree with my provisional findings. But in responding, I 
dont think hes given me any other new information that would change my mind, so I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision.
For the reasons explained in my provisional decision, I find that the offering itself was too 
good to be true from the outset and to the extent that it ought to have raised significant doubt 
on Mr Hs part. The suggestion that an investment could increase ten-fold doesnt sound 
feasible, particularly when the timeframe given was only a few days. Im persuaded this 
should have led Mr H to have questioned the proposed opportunity and checks ought to 
have been carried out. 
I appreciate the social media platform may have had followers and what looked like success 
stories and appeared professional. But given the nature of the platform used it wasnt really 
possible for Mr H to verify what he was seeing. And it also doesnt appear any attempts were 
made to do so. I dont find it was reasonable to rely on these features to judge the 
investment as genuine, at least not in the face of the other concerning elements present, 
such as the rate of returns that were being offered. I appreciate Mr H didnt have experience 
in investing. But that doesnt remove the need to carry out reasonable checks and to have a 
reasonable basis for belief before making a payment.
I do understand that this came at a difficult time for Mr H and hes described his 
vulnerabilities to us. But, for the reasons explained in my provisional decision  Mr H sought 
the investment himself and from what Ive seen I cant fairly or reasonably conclude that he 
was unable to protect himself from this type of scam. So, Im satisfied Bank of Scotland were 
fair to decline his claim under the CRM code.
The final consideration I have to make is whether the bank did all it could to try and recover 
the money Mr H lost. The evidence Ive seen, persuades me Bank of Scotland did act 
quickly and reviewed the receiving account, but unfortunately no funds remained and it took 
the step to close the beneficiary account. This is in line with what I could fairly and 
reasonably expect it to do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland trading as 
Halifax. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman