DRN-3451654
The complaint
Mr J complains that TRANSUNION INTERNATIONAL UK LIMITED (TransUnion)didnt deal 
with his dispute, about a default incorrectly showing on his credit report, properly.
What happened
Around August 2021, Mr J raised a dispute with TransUnion as he noticed a default was 
showing on his credit report.
TransUnion responded to Mr J telling him his dispute had been unsuccessful and the 
information would continue to show on his credit report.
Mr J was unhappy with this as he had spoken to the credit provider himself and they had told 
him it was a mistake and a default would be removed. So, Mr J brought his complaint to this 
service.
This service wrote to TransUnion on several occasions, beginning in December 2021, asking 
for it to provide a business file. As it didn't, in March 2022, our investigator issued findings on 
information we held, given to us by Mr J. In summary he said:
He wasn't able to tell if TransUnion had raised the dispute correctly with the credit provider, 
as it had failed to provide any information. In the absence of any evidence from TransUnion, 
but with the knowledge the credit provider ha said the default was a mistake, he upheld Mr 
J's complaint and asked TransUnion to pay £150 for the trouble and upset it caused.
TransUnion responded saying it had never had any correspondence about this complaint 
and would like more details. After much back-and-forth, where the investigator showed the 
numerous times, hed requested information about the case, TransUnion provided a 
response with screenshots of two disputes, which it says were raised on Mr J's account. It 
went on to say the credit provider had not provided it with the changes at the time and so it 
didn't think it had done anything wrong and disagreed with the investigators 
recommendation of £150 compensation.
Our investigator still felt the complaint was one that should be upheld for the following 
reason:
The two screenshots provided are from July 2020, and July 2021 neither show any reference 
to either Mr J nor the credit provider, but both appear to have been upheld disputes. As he 
couldnt see the nature of the dispute, the investigator couldnt say for sure if they had been 
raised correctly. But if these disputes do relate to the default, Mr J was arguing shouldnt be 
there, it appears the disputes were not unsuccessful as TransUnion had told Mr J. And so, it 
should still pay Mr J £150 in compensation for the incorrect information it had given him and 
for its lack of action in correcting the file. TransUnion didnt respond to the investigator and 
so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I will be upholding it and for broadly the same reasons as the investigator, 
so theres not much I can usefully add here, but Ill explain my thoughts.
TransUnion has been able to show screenshots of two disputes  it says relate to Mr Js 
account although I have seen no evidence they do. Nor have I seen evidence that they 
relate to the exact credit provider that Mr Js dispute was about. But they are from the times 
that Mr J has told us he has raised disputes. So, on balance I think its likely they are the 
disputes relating to Mr Js account.
From those screenshots the responses indicate the disputes were successful. The July 2020 
one says:
Hi, Account deleted from the credit file. Thanks
The July 2021 one says:
Hi The customer needs to wait 30/60 days for auto update. Thanks
Based on this, and without any further explanation from TransUnion it appears the disputes 
were successful and Mr Js credit file would be amended. However, when TransUnion wrote 
to Mr J it said the dispute of July 2021 was unsuccessful and the information would remain 
on his file. This was incorrect and caused a great deal of upset to Mr J and so I think he 
should be compensated for the incorrect information it gave.
As far as I have seen the information on his credit file has since been updated by the credit 
provider. So, nothing needs to be done about this now. 
Putting things right
TransUnion should pay Mr J £150 for the upset and worry it caused him by providing 
incorrect information to him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Js complaint about 
TRANSUNION INTERNATIONAL UK LIMITED. And I now require it to:
Pay Mr J £150 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman