The complaint
Mrs S brings a complaint on behalf of the estate of her late husband, Mr S. She says Zurich 
Assurance Ltd unfairly refused a claim on their joint life assurance policy.
Zurich says it could not meet a claim because of misrepresentation on the application form - 
so it has instead cancelled the policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S applied for a decreasing term assurance policy with Zurich on 13 October 
2013, through an independent financial adviser (IFA). The policy was taken out to replace 
an existing term assurance policy that they had held since April 2008. Within the existing 
policy, Mr S had disclosed that he was a smoker. On the new policy, he was recorded as a 
non-smoker. The new policy had an initial sum assured of £100,000 and an eight-year term.
Sadly, Mr S was diagnosed with a type of cancer. In December 2018, Mrs S made a claim to 
Zurich for terminal illness benefit. Mr S passed away in January 2019, and Zurich instead 
considered a claim for life assurance benefit.
After obtaining a copy of Mr Ss medical records, Zurich told Mrs S in February 2019 that it 
could not pay the claim, and it told Mrs S that it believed Mr S had incorrectly answered one 
question on the application relating to smoking cigarettes, cigars or pipe tobacco in the last 
twelve months. Mr S had answered no to that question. But Zurich said his medical records 
showed that in January 2013 he was recorded as being a light smoker, with a usage of one 
to nine cigarettes per day.
Zurich said Mr and Mrs S were sent a copy of their application on 16 October 2013 to check 
and ensure the accuracy of their answers. Despite this, Mr S did not change the incorrect 
answer he had given about his smoking history. As a result, it would have offered Mr S 
insurance on different terms. However, because it felt Mr Ss actions were deliberate, it 
voided the policy altogether, and returned all the premiums Mr and Mrs S had paid (totalling 
£3570.84) to Mrs S. Mrs S says she has never cashed the premium refund cheque.
Mrs S complained. She said she didnt even know her husband had smoked, and certainly 
not in the year prior to the policy application. In March 2019, Zurich issued a response to the 
complaint. It said it was a reasonable expectation that Mr S should have answered the 
question differently, as it was clear and unambiguous. It therefore had made the right 
decision to refuse the claim and instead cancel the policy altogether.
Mrs Ss IFA also wrote to Zurich appealing the decision in April 2019. He explained that it 
was entirely plausible that Mr S believed he hadnt smoked in the last twelve months given 
the policy application took place several months after he had ceased smoking, with a test 
showing as such. He felt Zurich should have paid the claim, but merely adjusted the 
premium to account for smoker rates.
DRN-1808294However, Zurich said it was not minded to change its view. It recognised that Mr S had 
undertaken a smoking test in June 2013 to assess whether he had recently smoked. But that 
didnt alter that Mr S had answered the question put to him on the policy application 
incorrectly, because he had smoked earlier in 2013. Since Mr S had not made an accurate 
representation at the time, Zurich maintained that relevant law allowed it to amend the 
insurance contract now  particularly noting that the terms and conditions of the policy 
allowed it to do so.
In June 2019, Mrs S brought her complaint to this service. She said Mr S had taken care 
with his financial adviser to complete the application carefully, disclosing that he suffered 
from high blood pressure when making the application. It had been 15 months since he last 
smoked, and he wasnt misleading Zurich when he answered the question about smoking.
Mrs S also said that if Zurich wanted to, it could have obtained a copy of Mr Ss medical 
records. She should not be placed at fault for the fact it did not do so. In any event, Mrs S 
submits that her view is that Mr Ss medical records were substituted with another patient, as 
there were other errors on the record taken by a nurse, who has since left the GP practice. 
She thought it was relevant that Mr S did undergo a smoking test, with a reading indicating 
he was a non-smoker. Zurich ought to have required him to undertake a cotinine or CO test 
and/or reviewed the result of the test taken by Mr Ss GP.
Our investigator thought that the complaint should be upheld, but not on the basis suggested 
by Mrs S. He said he appreciated that Mrs S felt Mr Ss GP records were incorrect, but this 
was a matter of process for Mrs S to follow if she believed they ought to be amended. 
Nonetheless, he felt Zurich was entitled to rely on the records, and they showed Mr S was 
recorded as a smoker within the twelve months preceding the application.
Our investigator agreed there had been a misrepresentation. But he did not accept that 
Zurich had reached the right categorisation for the type of misrepresentation. He did not 
consider Zurich had shown Mr S acted deliberately. He felt the type of categorisation was 
careless as defined by the Association of British Insurers (ABI) within its Association of 
British Insurers Code of Practice on Misrepresentation and Treating Customers Fairly.
He therefore proposed that Zurich ought to pay Mrs S a proportionate claim payment, as if it 
had applied smokers rates to Mr Ss policy from the start. To this, he felt Zurich ought to pay 
£750 to Mrs S for the upset it had caused at what was already a very upsetting time for her. 
Mrs S said she was unhappy with the outcome. She reiterated that Zurich ought to pay the 
full claim, because Mr S hadnt misrepresented when completing the policy application. She 
also said that it wasnt fair to base the misrepresentation decision on a disputed medical 
record. Her view is that Mr S truly believed he was a non-smoker. This had to be the case, 
because the policy they already held included a disclosure for smoking. There wouldnt have 
been any logic in taking out a replacement policy otherwise. 
Zurich disagreed and asked for the matter to be passed to an ombudsman. It said it didnt 
have underwriting manual pages, but it would merely have applied smoker rates to Mr Ss 
application using premium rates tables.
Nonetheless, Zurich reiterated that this was irrelevant because it concluded Mr Ss actions 
were deliberate; the ABI Code doesnt allow for careless misrepresentation in respect of a 
lifestyle action and such scenarios should be treated as deliberate misrepresentation and the 
policy rescinded. Zurich referred to the September 2019 ABI Code of Practice which says 
that in relation to lifestyle questions, consumers need to give a particularly credible explanation for the misrepresentation for it to not be considered deliberate or reckless. 
Zurich also said that in the medical evidence, Mrs S was present in April 2018 when Mr S 
saw a consultant regarding his cancer. That consultant recorded that Mr S was an ex-
smoker of around two years. It therefore didnt accept that Mrs S did not know her husband 
had smoked previously, but it wasnt in any event responsible for what Mr S may or may not 
have disclosed to Mrs S.  It therefore said it wasnt liable for any upset caused to Mrs S, 
since it was within its rights to cancel the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator.
I know Mrs S feels strongly that the right outcome for the upheld complaint should be a full 
claim payment. But for the reasons Ill explain, I agree with our investigator that the claim 
payment ought to be a proportionate amount. Ill set out my reasons for that below. 
When applying for insurance, if an applicant doesnt tell his or her insurer relevant 
information in response to a clear question its known as misrepresentation. 
Industry guidance and relevant law on consumer disclosures in insurance contracts allows 
an insurer to consider if any misrepresentation occurred from the outset of a policy. If the 
circumstances around a claim prompt an insurer to believe a misrepresentation may have 
occurred within an application, its entitled to consider what ought to have happened at that 
time. That is what Zurich has done.
When Zurich received information from Mr Ss GP in order to assess the claim, there was a 
record of his history of smoking. It was different from the 2013 policy application, and 
therefore Zurich had cause to revisit what was disclosed at the time Mr and Mrs S sought 
their joint policy. 
So, it falls to me to look at what Mr S was asked, and determine if I think he made a 
misrepresentation, upon which Zurich could amend or avoid the policy. The correct position 
to decide what ought to have happened at the time of the application is to look at what Mr S 
was asked in 2013 against the relevant medical records up to that time.
Mr S was asked:
 
  Tobacco and smoking
Please be aware that you may be asked to undergo a saliva test to confirm your 
answers.
Have you smoked any cigarettes, cigars or pipe tobacco or used any nicotine or 
replacement products in the last twelve months?
 
Mr S answered  no to that question.  
I appreciate Mrs S has made a number of points about how she disputes the accuracy of the 
medical records. Zurich has referred to eight records from 2004 to 2017, four of which confirm Mr S was a smoker and the remaining four as an ex-smoker or non-smoker. The 
only records relevant in the preceding twelve months records Mr S as a smoker, then later 
as having given up.
I can see that Mrs S has undertaken communications with Mr Ss GP about her view of the 
inaccuracy of a number of records, but specifically one which records Mr S as a light 
smoker dated 4 January 2013. Mrs S says quite understandably- that she and Mrs S would 
not have sought a replacement policy with their IFA if it wasnt for the fact Mr Ss smoking 
status has changed. 
I accept Mrs Ss point, and I have no reason to doubt her and Mr Ss intention when applying 
for their replacement policy. But that doesnt mean I must disregard the other medical 
evidence from the relevant twelve-month period preceding the policy application.
The GP (Dr C) provided a letter dated 17 April 2019 to Zurich, in order to explain Mr Ss 
records further. In that letter, it was recorded that:
 
With regard to his smoking status, when I rang him on the 4th January 2013 to find 
out his smoking status, he informed me that he smoked. On the 13th June 2013, 
when he came to see me in person, he informed that he has stopped smoking. [Mr S] 
requested his smoking status to be confirmed by the carbon monoxide test (CO). At 
this point, I requested him to make an appointment with the practice nurse. On the 
14th June 2013, [Mr S had] made an appointment with the practice nurse. The CO 
level recorded by the nurse is 1, which is a reading of a Non- smoker. In all 
possibilities, for the CO level to be 1, he needs to have been a non-smoker for a 
while.
I note the GP did not place a precise time frame on how long Mr S hadnt smoked for. 
However, Dr C was clear that Mr S said on 4 January 2013 that he smoked, and therefore 
Mr S would have given up smoking sometime after this date and ahead of the June test. I 
have not seen any clear reason to doubt or disregard the record or recollections of Mr Ss 
GP.  
I realise our investigator has explained that if the medical record was amended, this might 
have a bearing on the outcome of the complaint  but I do not share that view. My 
understanding of relevant data protection rights is that the right to rectification of a record by 
a data subject (Mr S) where the information recorded is factually inaccurate does not extend 
to clinical opinions but a note can be added that a patient disagrees. However, Mr S has 
sadly passed away and the record cannot therefore be amended by Mrs S on his behalf as 
she was not party to the telephone call that took place on 4 January 2013.
In any event, even if I was wrong about that, I do not agree that the GP evidence is likely 
wrong or that there is any objective counter-evidence to the record of the telephone call. As 
it stands, Mr S had an intermittent history of smoking. This is borne out by the later medical 
evidence following his cancer diagnosis, where his smoking history was looked at 
retrospectively. And, the GP notes show a history of starting and stopping light smoking 
over several years. 
In particular, the reason I do not accept that the GP record is wrong is because of the 
smoking test that Mr S undertook in June 2013. Mrs S agrees that Mr S underwent this test, 
the results of which showed he did not smoke and likely had not smoked for some time. I 
accept that. The medical records show that Mr S had asked specifically for the test, because 
he had stopped smoking. And the GP says the result shows he hadnt smoked for some time.
In my view that shows, on balance, that the record five months prior in January 2013 was 
likely accurate  it would not follow that Mr S would have required a test to show there was a 
change in his smoking status if he had already stopped smoking several months before. 
I therefore believe there was a misrepresentation. And once thats been established, 
relevant law on disclosure in consumer insurance contracts says that it should be classed as 
either deliberate/reckless or careless.
For the reasons Ill go on to explain, I disagree with Zurichs categorisation of the 
misrepresentation as deliberate or reckless.
I dont believe Mr S intended to deceive Zurich or acted without any care at all. Firstly, he 
made other disclosures on the application. Secondly, it is not disputed by either party that at 
the time of the application, the most recent medical evidence (of June 2013) records Mr S as 
a non-smoker, verified by testing undertaken at the GP surgery. 
Nonetheless, I consider Mr S needed to show more care when answering and checking the 
question. Mr and Mrs S were sent a copy of their policy application to check on 16 October 
2013, and this set out the consequences of incorrect or incomplete information. It said:
Please take reasonable care to answer all the questions honestly and to the best of 
your knowledge. You need to let us know about any change to your personal health, 
family history, occupation, travel or place of residence, hazardous activities, alcohol 
consumption, smoking habits or use of recreational drugs that occurs before the plan 
starts if that change makes any of the answers to the questions we asked you wrong 
or incomplete. If you haven't answered the questions correctly the plan may be 
cancelled, or its terms may be changed, or a claim may be rejected or not fully paid. 
Cancelling a plan means that no cover or other benefits will be provided.
Turning to the question Mr S was asked, it gave a clear period of twelve months. That pre-
dated his June 2013 test. He is recorded nine months prior to the application as having been 
a smoker. And given he had a specific test to confirm he had since given up smoking, I 
believe that is something Mr S ought reasonably to have been able to recall. That Mr S (for 
reasons unknown) decided not to disclose his previous smoker status was not the fault of 
Zurich. It relied on him answering questions accurately. Though it was an oversight, I think 
Mr Ss actions best fit the careless category.
Zurich says that the ABI Code makes clear Mr Ss actions were deliberate or reckless. It 
says that because the Code says (7.4.4) deliberate or reckless categorisation is more likely 
to apply since lifestyle information is usually more familiar and easier for customers to 
understand, it follows that customers should give a particularly credible and convincing 
explanation for clearly evidenced misrepresentation not to be classified as deliberate or 
reckless.
However, I disagree with Zurichs interpretation of the Code. After the section it relies on, the 
Code points to two specific scenarios (annexes 14 and 15) for misrepresentation of smoking 
history  one where a consumer has acted deliberately or recklessly, and the other 
carelessly.
Mr Ss circumstances unmistakeably fit the careless example. I will not repeat the examples 
in full here, but the careless example sets out where a consumer was a smoker six months before the policy began and at the time of the claim, but she has a credible explanation for 
temporary cessation of smoking during pregnancy. Contrastingly, the deliberate scenario 
gives an example of a consumer who following a claim for cancer, the insurer finds that his 
medical records show that he was a heavy smoker three months before he took out the 
policy and also after the start of the policy.
Mr Ss circumstances are a far better fit with the first example, not the second.
Notwithstanding that I believe Mr S ought to have answered the question positively, I 
disagree with Zurichs conclusion that he behaved in a deliberate or reckless manner. The 
Code also says that, under notes on misrepresentation that is deliberate or reckless that 
the overall principle is that the remedy of avoiding a policy from the outset should be 
confined to the most serious cases of misrepresentation.
It goes on to clarify how this category does not apply where  (7.3.1) Having investigated 
the matter, the customer has a credible explanation supported by the facts for the 
misrepresentation having occurred and/or there are other credible mitigating circumstances.
Mr S was recorded as a light smoker some nine months before the application. But medical 
testing shows that four months before the application he had ceased smoking and had a CO 
level of 1, the lowest reading (where a smoker is likely 10 or over). This is quite clearly a 
credible explanation for Mr Ss actions, particularly where he is no longer able to answer 
precisely why he did not properly disclose his history.
Careless misrepresentation includes anything from an understandable oversight to serious 
negligence, and I think Mr Ss actions sit in that range of responses. 
Zurich has voided the policy, because in incidences of deliberate misrepresentation it can do 
so, as well as consider withholding the policy premiums (though I note it has returned these).
In the event of careless misrepresentation, an insurer should consider a proportionate 
remedy. This means the outcome will depend on what the underwriting decision would have 
been had the misrepresentation not occurred at the time. If insurance could have been 
offered under different terms or for a different cost, an insurer can amend the contract to 
reflect this. Zurich has confirmed that if a claim had been payable, it would have applied 
retrospective smokers rates to the policy.
I conclude that it ought to have paid the claim on a proportionate basis, rather than voiding it 
altogether
In addition, I agree that a payment of £750 is an appropriate amount for the actions of 
Zurich. While it contends that it has not unreasonably added to Mrs Ss upset at a naturally 
difficult time, I disagree.
Zurich cancelled Mr and Mrs Ss life assurance policy incorrectly, rather than pay a claim. 
While this was a decision open to it on the evidence (and one where Mrs S could pursue a 
complaint to this service about it), it was made contrary to the medical evidence that I have 
seen. And the consequence of the decision left Mrs S without life cover for the remaining 
term of the policy. This has added to her distress, and she should be appropriately 
compensated for that. The proposed award by our investigator is in the range of the types of 
amounts this service awards for these types of actions.Putting things right
I realise this outcome will not be precisely what Mrs S has hoped for. But I must be fair to 
both parties in a complaint and reach a reasonable outcome, whilst being mindful of relevant 
law and guidance. For the reasons set out in detail above, I believe a proportionate claim 
ought to have been paid to Mrs S for an instance of careless misrepresentation by Mr S 
within the 2013 policy application.
Zurich should calculate the value of Mr and Mrs Ss term assurance policy (because it had a 
decreasing term) as at February 2019. This was the date when it informed Mrs S of the claim 
outcome. It should then apply smokers rates to the sum assured, using the applicable 
premium rates table from October 2013.
If Mrs S has not cashed her premium refund cheque, no further deduction should be made 
from the claim value. If she has cashed the cheque, then Zurich will be entitled to subtract 
this refund from the claim value.  Zurich must then pay the sum of the above calculation to 
Mrs S.
Interest should be added to the claim payment at gross rate of 8% simple per annum from 
the original claim decision on 11 February 2019, to the date of settlement.
If Zurich considers it is legally obliged to deduct income tax from the interest paid, it
should issue a tax deduction certificate with the payment. Mrs S may be able to reclaim the 
tax paid from HM Revenue and Customs, if applicable.
Zurich must also pay Mrs S £750 for the upset and distress it has caused Mrs S by 
cancelling her policy, where the misrepresentation alleged was by Mr S, not her. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Zurich Assurance Ltd must make a proportionate claim payment, 
using the calculation I have set out in putting matters right above. To this sum it must add 
interest and pay Mrs S a further £750 for the upset she has been caused by the loss of her 
life assurance policy. 
I make no other award.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
Jo Storey
Ombudsman