DRN-3951629
The complaint
B, a limited company, complains Arthur J. Gallagher (UK) Ltd (AJG) have caused delays and 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience when renewing an insurance policy.
B is being represented by its director, who Ill refer to as Mr H.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill summarise the key 
points Ive focused on within my decision.
AJG sent renewal documents to B in early March 2022 and Mr H is unhappy that the 
renewal dates hadnt been brought in line with other policies he held with AJG
The policy didnt provide cover for terrorism, and he felt the documents had been 
sent without much time to review and respond
Mr H say there were issues trying to speak with AJG on the phone and communicate 
with it about the policy which took time away from his day job
Having reviewed the policy documents, Mr H decided to take on cover elsewhere 
which left a premium to be refunded
AJG informed Mr H that the refund could take between 60 and 90 days. Mr H was 
unhappy with this timeframe and says he still hasnt received the refund
Mr H was also unhappy that an administration charge would be applied by AJG
Mr H raised a complaint and requested the premium money to be refunded and 
compensation for the substantial time taken to deal with matters
AJG didnt uphold the complaint but agreed to waive its administration charge
Our investigator reviewed the complaint but didnt uphold it. He recognised that B 
wouldve been inconvenienced with having to deal with the renewal process, and that 
the refund had taken longer than quoted. However, he explained that our service 
cant award compensation to a limited company, as theres no evidence that the 
actual business has suffered
Mr H disagreed with our investigators outcome, so the complaint has been passed to 
me, an Ombudsman, to make a decision on it
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 23 January 2023. This is what I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand from Mr H that he says he had two other policies that were renewing around
the same time. However, this complaint only focuses on the relevant policy for company B. B
is the named policy holder albeit I acknowledge that Mr H explains these properties are all
overseen by his management company which Ill refer to as A. But the complainant here is
for B as the policy holder, meaning I can only look at Bs complaint in this case and therefore
only consider any inconvenience to B  not A. I say this as A may have represented B in
setting the policy up, but I cannot make an award to a representative or agent in line with our
rules.
Mr H discussed with AJG in 2021 about aligning the renewals for all three properties so they
renewed on the same date of the 23 March 2022, he says AJG over complicated the
process and it didnt happen. Which then led to AJG bringing forward the renewal date on
the policy for company B to align with the other policies.
As Ive outlined above, I can only consider Bs policy in this complaint. And its not in dispute
that the renewal for Bs policy was due to take place on 23 March 2022 as B initially wished.
B says the renewal document for its policy was sent without sufficient notice. There isnt a
set time when the renewal has to be offered, but the relevant rules say, in good time. Wed
expect most sellers to send a renewal invite around 14-30 days in advance of the renewal
date and in this case Mr H says he received the renewal documents for Bs property on 7
March 2022 for renewal on 23 March 2022.
So, Im satisfied that this was sufficient time if the renewal had gone ahead.
But  I acknowledge B says as result of AJGs failings, of not bringing the policy renewal
dates on all three policies to the same renewal date as requested the previous year (2021).
This meant the renewal date would have had to change to the 11 March on Bs policy for this
years renewal which gave B a limited time to review the renewal. Mr H has said he also felt
exasperated when trying to sort this out with AJG that it didnt return a call. I can see AJG
thought it had addressed Bs concerns by way of an email but if it had spoken to B, it may
have been able to have addressed the issues in a more efficient manner.
However, as the renewal didnt go ahead and as B subsequently decided to change
insurers. I see no reason to direct AJG to do anything further on this point.
B has also complained that terrorism cover was excluded from the policy when the renewal
documents were sent. B says this was a failing that AJG hadnt brought this omission to its
attention, especially as the rest of As/Mr Hs portfolio was insured for terrorism. However,
AJG has highlighted it hadnt been part of the policy issued in 2021. AJG also provided that
first policy based on like for like cover that had been arranged by the previous broker. Its not
uncommon for Insurers/brokers to issue renewals or offer business on a like for like basis
and I consider this reasonable, I wouldnt expect AJG to go through the same process at
renewal as when a policy is first sold. The onus is on B to review their documents and
ensure it has the cover in place that it requires.
When B spoke to AJG about this cover, it was able to offer a policy that would include it. I
havent identified any failing by AJG on this point. And in any case, even if I were persuaded
AJG had made mistakes here, Ive been given nothing to suggest there has been any
detriment to B as a result (for instance, no claim for terrorism being declined as a result).
B has also said the terms of renewal (premiums) were not competitive as he obtained a
policy elsewhere for cheaper. I fail to see any impact of such a concern  given B went
elsewhere anyway. So again, even if I agreed AJG had made a mistake here, I wouldnt look
to make a direction or award on this point.
B decided to take on cover elsewhere and AJG informed it of the refund of premium due
which would take 60-90 days to be returned. AJG has explained it has to follow a terms ofbusiness arrangement with the Insurer so it had to request the funds back from the insurer
and pay it forward so this would take some time. But I note, the refund was initiated in March
2022 and wasnt sent until August 2022, so this is much longer than the quoted timeframe
from AJG. Its also not clear why AJG asked for Bs banking details to pay it by BACs but
then sent cheques instead.
However, AJG have evidenced that a cheque was generated in August 2022; for this policy
and a cheque for one of the other policies in the portfolio. But my understanding is Mr H has
said the payments have not been received and AJG have confirmed the cheques hadnt
been cashed when we checked. Having seen AJGs system notes, it seems most likely to
me that the cheques were sent to B. I acknowledge these werent cashed, so its possible
these werent received, but I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to hold AJG
responsible for any issues with postal issues.
Our Investigator has asked AJG to make contact with Mr H to see if an alternative payment
method could be used whilst this complaint was waiting for an Ombudsman to review it. I
note that AJG have also waived the administration charges prior to the complaint coming to
this service which I think is fair in the circumstances of this complaint.
But its clear to me that AJG had not met its own timeframes with sending the cheque. And it
seems this was likely sent around two months after the period it said the funds would be
received. So, Ive thought about the impact on B as a limited company.
Mr H as the director of B wants AJG to pay him compensation for the frustration and
inconvenience to him. He points to the impact on his day job which isnt running this
business, but the complaint here has been made by B and Mr H is acting as a representative
of B. As our investigator pointed out, B is a legal entity, so I cant make a compensation
award to B for the distress Mr H has suffered. However, I can make an award to B for
inconvenience B has experienced.
B has explained that his tenants have a full repairing and insuring lease, so its the tenant
that bears the costs of the insurance policies, repairs, and maintenance on the property. B
has said the refunds that AJG shouldve returned have therefore not been returned to the
tenant. And the fact that this hasnt been done yet has caused it reputational damage and
embarrassment and compromises the relationship between landlord and tenant.
However, I think there has been an element of inconvenience caused to B as a result of its
delays in issuing payment and this will have had an impact on the tenant/landlord
relationship as this shouldve been repaid to the tenant.
My provisional decision
For the above reasons Im intending to uphold this complaint. And I intend to direct Arthur J.
Gallagher (UK) Ltd to do the following:
Pay B £200 for the inconvenience caused to its business as a result of the delays on 
its part
Pay the outstanding refund of £165.70 to B as it has agreed
To account for the delay in sending the cheque, B should also pay 8% simple interest 
between the 90th day after the date of cancellation and the date the cheque was sent 
on 4 August 2022
Responses to provisional decision
Mr H on behalf of B hasnt responded.AJG has accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive received no further comments to my provisional decision, Im satisfied that my 
provisional decision represents an outcome thats fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
For the above reasons I uphold this complaint. And direct Arthur J. Gallagher (UK) Ltd to do 
the following:
Pay B £200 for the inconvenience caused to its business as a result of the delays on 
its part
Pay the outstanding refund of £165.70 to B as it has agreed
To account for the delay in sending the cheque, B should also pay 8% simple interest 
between the 90th day after the date of cancellation and the date the cheque was sent 
on 4 August 2022
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman