DRN-1214951
 
Complaint
Mr C says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr C was sold the policy when he took out a loan in 1988. To pay for the PPI, its cost was 
added onto the loan as an upfront payment. This is called a single premium policy.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs case.
Having done that, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Neither side still have the original documents from the time, which is understandable given 
that this sale was over three decades ago and the account involved has long since closed. 
Indeed, under data protection rules, HSBC were required to dispose of Mr Cs data rather 
than hold onto it for too long. Meanwhile, Mr C doesnt remember being given a choice about 
buying PPI, and I also think thats understandable given just how long ago this sale was, and 
since buying insurance is not often memorable. Ive thought carefully about whats most 
likely to have happened based on the limited information I have.
It would have been a very serious failing for HSBC to have misled Mr C into having PPI. But 
I have no evidence which shows thats what HSBC did here. Nor have I seen any wider 
problems with their sales process at the time  from what I can see, it looks like the PPIs 
costs wouldve been set out separately to the loans costs and not as part and parcel of the 
loan. And this sale was too long ago for me to expect HSBC to be able to produce 
documents from the time to defend itself now. So I dont have a fair basis on which to 
conclude HSBC misled Mr C. I think its more likely that they followed a relatively standard 
sales process, gave him a choice, and he chose PPI at the time  though I can certainly 
understand if Mr C no longer recalls doing so after so many years.
Its not clear whether HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr C, or not. The requirements were 
stricter on HSBC if they did recommend it, so to be fair to Mr C, Ive assumed they did. That 
means they had to check the policy was right for him  and based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time, I think it was. For instance, it looks like Mr C wouldve been 
eligible for the cover and wouldnt have been affected by any of its main exclusions.Mr C may have had good sick pay through work, though understandably he wasnt able to 
show us how much it was due to the time thats passed. But it looks like if he was off sick the 
PPI couldve covered him for the full length of the loan, so it would most likely have covered 
him for longer than his sick pay lasted. And the policy wouldve paid out on top of his work 
benefits. Mr C doesnt seem to have had any alternative cover. And while I understand 
Mr Cs family may have been happy to help, there was always the chance theyd be unable 
to help when needed. So the policy couldve been useful for Mr C in case he was off sick or 
lost his job.
From what Ive seen of the sales process, it looks like the PPIs cost wouldve been set out 
clearly  including the premium, the interest payable on the premium and the total cost. So it 
wouldve been clear how much the PPI would cost Mr C if he kept the policy for its full term. 
And given how long the policy would have paid out for, it seems that if Mr C made a 
successful claim he couldve got back quite a bit more than he paid for it. 
Mr C would probably have only got back only a limited refund of the PPI premium if he 
cancelled the policy early. But I havent seen anything to suggest he thought hed repay the 
loan early.
Lastly, its possible that HSBC didnt point out all of the main things the policy didnt cover. 
But as I said above, Mr C doesnt appear to have been affected by any of those things.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman