DRN-1915936
The complaint
Mr M complains that a car that was supplied to him under a conditional sale agreement with 
Close Brothers Limited, trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance, wasnt of satisfactory 
quality.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and have been set out by the 
investigator so I wont repeat them again here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
a used car was supplied to Mr M under a conditional sale agreement with Close 
Brothers that he electronically signed in August 2018;
Close Brothers, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time - whether or not it was of satisfactory quality will 
depend on a number of factors, including the age and mileage of the car and the 
price that was paid for it;
the car that was supplied to Mr M was more than eight years old, had been driven for 
108,000 miles and had a price of £2,990;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
Mr M has described the issues that hes had with the car and he returned it to the 
dealer for some repairs in September 2018  he says that he then had issues with 
the cars turbo and acceleration so returned it to the dealer again in October 2018;
he returned the car to the dealer again in December 2018 and complained about a 
number of issues with it  including the engine management warning light, alternator, 
power steering, central locking, acceleration and lights  the car was repaired in 
January 2019 but he says that he had another issue with the engine management 
warning light in February 2019;
hed already contacted Close Brothers about his issues with the car so complained to 
it again and paid £30 for a diagnostic report  which has been refunded to him;
the car was towed to a garage in May 2019 with a suspected blown head gasket and 
other issues and Mr M paid £55 for another diagnostic report which said that there 
had been a possible head gasket fault when the car was supplied to Mr M  he 
complained again to Close Brothers;
it arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent expert in July 2019  the 
inspection report recorded the cars mileage as 113,360 and concluded that there 
were faults with the car but that:  on the balance of probability the vehicle would 
not have been in this condition at finance inception  so Close Brothers didnt uphold 
his complaint;
Mr M complained to this service and he says that hes made a statutory off-road 
notification about the car;
our investigator thought that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to Mr M and recommended that Close Brothers should: end the agreement 
and collect the car; refund any deposit paid by Mr M, with interest; remove the 
agreement from his credit file; refund the monthly payments made by Mr M since he 
stopped using the car in May 2019; reimburse him for the £55 cost of the diagnostic 
report; and pay him £250 for the trouble and upset caused;
this is a finely balance complaint because the car that was supplied to Mr M was 
more than eight years old and had been driven for 108,000 miles when it was 
supplied and hes been able to use it for about nine months and in that time hes 
driven more than 5,000 miles in it;
the independent report says that the cars faulty but that it wouldnt have been in that 
condition when the car was supplied to Mr M  but the car broke-down in May 2019 
and its clear that the car wasnt in that condition in August 2018;
Mr M has described the ongoing issues that hes had with the car since it was 
supplied to him, including turbo and acceleration issues, and the car has been 
repaired but the issues have continued;
I consider it to be more likely than not that there were issues with the car that were 
either present or developing when the car was supplied to him, those issues havent 
been properly repaired and have caused or contributed to the car breaking down in 
May 2019; and
for those reasons I consider it to be more likely than not that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr M and I find that it would be fair and 
reasonable in these circumstances for Close Brothers to allow Mr M to reject the car.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Close Brothers to end the conditional sale 
agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from Mr M  both at no cost to him. The 
cash price of the car was £2,990 and the amount of credit provided to Mr M was £2,990 - 
Ive seen no evidence to show that Mr M paid a deposit for the car so Im not making a 
finding that Close Brothers should refund any deposit to him. But I find that it should remove 
any information about the agreement from Mr Ms credit file.
Mr M hasnt been able to use the car since it broke down in May 2019  and hes since 
made a statutory off-road notification about it. I find that it would be fair and reasonable for 
Close Brothers to refund to him the monthly payments that hes made since the car broke 
down, with interest. But Im not persuaded that it should refund any of the other monthly 
payments to him  I consider that it can keep them as payment for the use that hes had 
from the car. I also find that Close Brothers should refund to Mr M the £55 that he paid for 
the diagnostic report, with interest. 
These events have clearly caused distress and inconvenience for Mr M. I find that it would 
be fair and reasonable for Close Brothers to pay him £250 to compensate him for that 
distress and inconvenience.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint and I order Close Brothers Limited, trading as 
Close Brothers Motor Finance, to:
1. End the conditional sale agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from 
Mr M  both at no cost to him.
2. Refund to Mr M the monthly payments that hes made under the agreement since 
the car broke down in May 2019.
3. Pay £55 to Mr M to reimburse him for the cost of the diagnostic report.
4. Pay interest on the amounts at 2 and 3 above at an annual rate of 8% simple 
from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
5. Remove any information about the agreement from Mr Ms credit file.
6. Pay £250 to Mr M to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that 
hes been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Close Brothers to deduct tax from the interest payment 
referred to at 4 above. Close Brothers must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax 
its deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman