DRN-4195852
The complaint
Mr W complains that Lendable Ltd trading as Zable lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
In September 2021 Mr W applied for a credit card with Zable. Zable approved the application 
and gave Mr W a card with an initial credit limit of £500. The credit limit was increased to 
£800 in January 2022.
Mr W complained that Zable had lent to him irresponsibly.
Zable didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks before lending to Mr W.
Mr W remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that Zable had carried out reasonable 
and proportionate checks and that the lending decision was fair.
Mr W didnt agree. He said that his bank statements showed that he was heavily reliant on 
his overdraft at the time he applied for the card and that he had taken out several cards to 
fund his gambling addiction.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
out website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering Mr Ws complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, Zable needed to complete reasonable and proportionate checks to 
ensure that Mr W could sustainably repay what was being lent to him.
Theres no set list of checks that a lender has to complete. But lenders are required to have 
regard to things like the amount being lent, the total amount repayable, the monthly 
repayment and the consumers individual circumstances when deciding whats reasonable 
and proportionate.
Ive looked at the checks that Zable carried out before approving the application. Mr W 
declared that he was employed with a net monthly income of £1975. Zable verified this 
income using an industry tool.
Zable also carried out a credit check. This showed that Mr W had 3 credit cards, 2 mail order 
accounts, an unsecured loan, 4 current accounts, a utility account and 2 telephone accounts. 
All of the accounts were up to date except for one of the phone accounts which had 
defaulted. There was no evidence on Mr Ws credit file of missed payments, arrears or 
CCJs.
Zable carried out an affordability check using the information it had gathered. This showed 
that (based on making payment of 3% of existing credit commitments and the minimum 
payment of 5% on the new card) that Mr W would be using around 20% of his monthly 
income to repay credit.
Based on these checks, Zable found the credit to be affordable for Mr W.
Based on what Ive seen, I think the checks completed by Zable were reasonable and 
proportionate, having regard to the relatively low credit limit on the account. There was 
nothing in the information gathered which wouldve given Zable cause for concern, or which 
wouldve necessitated further checks.
These same checks were completed before the credit limit was increased. There hadnt 
been any significant changes in Mr Ws financial position since the account was opened. So 
again, Im satisfied that the checks were reasonable and proportionate.
Ive gone on to consider whether the lending decision was fair.
The information gathered by Zable showed that Mr W was paying his existing credit 
commitments on time. There was nothing in the information to suggest that Mr Z was 
struggling financially, or that he was overly reliant on credit.
The information also showed that Mr W had sufficient monthly disposable income to afford 
the credit. There was nothing to suggest that Mr W was unlikely to be able to sustainably 
repay the lending. Because of this, I think the lending decisions in respect of both the 
account opening and the credit limit increase were fair.
I appreciate that Mr Ws bank statements may have shown that he had a gambling addiction. 
However, theres no obligation on a lender to look at bank statements and as Ive said 
above, Im satisfied that the checks carried out by Zable were reasonable and proportionate. 
So, I cant say that Zable has done anything wrong by not looking at Mr Ws bank 
statements. Nor can I say that Zable ought to have been aware that Mr W had a gambling 
addiction, because theres nothing to suggest this in the information obtained from the credit 
file and I cant see that Mr W made Zable aware of these issues.
Taking all the information into account, Im not persuaded that Zable lent irresponsibly to Mr 
W.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman