DRN-3990887
The complaint
Miss H says that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance) (BPF) didnt fairly or reasonably deal with claims under sections 75 (S75) and 
140A (S140A) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) in relation to a timeshare 
product she purchased in July 2009.
Miss H is assisted in bringing her complaint by a professional representative (PR).  
What happened
In or around July 2009, Miss H purchased a timeshare product from a supplier (who Ill refer 
to as S) as an upgrade to an existing product she held. The total cost of the upgrade 
purchased was £12,400. This amount was funded by a fixed sum loan agreement with BPF 
over a term of 180 months in Miss Hs name.
In or around June 2017, the PR wrote to BPF on Miss Hs behalf to initiate a claim/complaint 
under S75 and S140A of the CCA. The letter of claim/complaint was supported by a witness 
statement from Miss H. The PR said S had made certain representations to Miss H about 
the product which turned out not to be true. Some of these representations related 
specifically to Miss Hs original timeshare product. But as this wasnt financed under a 
related finance agreement, Im unable to consider those as part of this complaint.
The PR listed the various representations Miss H said S made about the product upgrade 
purchased (and funded by the loan from BPF). These included:
membership could be used all year round and the booking system made it easy to 
book holidays at any time;
membership would allow accommodation that slept up to eight people;
friends or family could use the membership at no additional cost without Miss H 
needing to be a member of the visiting party;
the membership could be rented out with money received easily covering 
maintenance costs;
the membership could be disposed of on the secondhand market and could therefore 
be used as an investment; and
future holidays would be secured at 2009 prices, so not subject to the usual 
inflationary cost of holidays.
The PR also thought those misrepresentations, amongst other things, led to an unfair 
debtor-creditor relationship under S140A.
Further, the PR believe the High Court ruling in the case of Link Financial Ltd v Wilson 
(2014) meant the terms of the agreement specifically relating to the consequences of non-
payment of annual maintenance fees means the relationship was unfair.
The PR went on to acknowledge that the normal limitation for a claim under S75 is six years 
from the date on which the cause of action accrued. However, they believe section 32 of the 
Limitation Act 1980 (LA) applies as where the action is based upon fraud or deliberate 
concealment of facts, the period of limitation doesnt begin until the point Miss H discovered 
the fraud or concealment. And because Miss H didnt discover the membership was 
unrentable and unsaleable until 2013, PR believe Miss Hs claim isnt out of time under the 
LA.
The PR went on to point out that they didnt believe any limitation applies to Miss Hs S140A 
claim as the loan was still outstanding at the time of the claim, so the debtor-creditor 
relationship was ongoing.
In Miss Hs witness statement, she said that the representatives of S didnt afford her 
sufficient time to read all the paperwork and documentation.  And as she tried to do so, she 
was continually interrupted. Miss H says she wasnt informed of any cooling-off period.  
Its also suggested Miss H had voiced concerns, at the time of the sale, about her ability to 
sustainably afford the finance and maintenance cost commitment under the agreements, 
due to her financial circumstances at the time. But Miss H says Ss representative had 
reassured her it was possible for sufficient income to be generated from renting out the 
membership to cover those commitments. Although included in Miss Hs statement, I cant 
see that the aspect of affordability was specifically included within the PRs letter of 
claim/complaint to BPF.
BPF responded to Miss Hs claim in November 2017 and said they were unable to uphold 
her complaint. In doing so, they explained why they didnt agree with the alleged 
misrepresentations. They also didnt agree there was any unfair relationship. And in relation 
to the court ruling referred to by the PR, they said that all complaints are dealt with on an 
individual basis and on their own merits.
Miss H wasnt happy with BPFs response, so the PR referred her complaint to this service. 
They said BPFs response is unsatisfactory. In particular, the PR said BPF had:
failed to consider the statement of Miss H suggesting that the representations had 
been fabricated;
failed to weigh up evidence and decide on the balance of probabilities and failed to 
refer to or disclose any supporting documentation;
refuted the existence of an unfair relationship without providing any reason;
failed to take into account relevant case law; and
failed to act objectively and treat Miss H fairly and reasonably by reference to all the 
evidence and circumstances.
One of our investigators considered all the evidence and arguments available. Having done 
so, they thought Miss Hs claims of misrepresentation were brought too late under the time 
limits detailed within the LA. They also didnt agree there was any evidence of fraud or 
concealment that could bring cause for any limitation to be postponed under S32 of the LA. 
Further, our investigator didnt think it likely that a court would find any unfair relationship 
existed under S140A. And finally, our investigator wasnt able to find any evidence to support 
any assertion that it should have been reasonably foreseeable that the loan wasnt 
sustainably affordable for Miss H. 
Miss H didnt agree with our investigators findings and asked that her complaint be referred 
to an ombudsman for a decision. The PR referenced another decision issued by this service 
to support the claim of unfairness and explained in more detail why they felt BPFs response 
to the claim wasnt satisfactory. In particular they referenced where they believed the 
burden of proof lies together with alleged failings of relevant applicable regulations.
As an informal agreement couldnt be reached, Ive been asked to consider Miss Hs 
complaint further.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant Considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) Handbook means Im required to take into account; relevant law and 
regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the relevant time.
Section 75 of the CCA (S75) provides protection for consumers for goods or services 
bought using credit. Miss H paid for the timeshare upgrade product with a restricted use 
fixed sum loan agreement, and it isnt in dispute that S75 applies here. So, this means that 
Miss H is afforded the protection offered to borrowers like her under those provisions. And 
as a result, Ive taken this section into account when deciding whats fair in the 
circumstances of this case.
S140A looks at the fairness of the relationship between Miss H and BPF arising out of the 
credit agreement (taken together with any related agreement). And because the timeshare 
product purchase was funded under the credit agreement, it is deemed to be a related 
agreement. Only a court has the power to make a determination under S140A. But as its 
relevant law, Ive considered it when deciding what I believe is fair and reasonable. 
Section 56 says that any negotiations between Miss H and S, as the vendor/supplier, are 
deemed to have been conducted by S as an agent of BPF. 
Given the facts of Miss Hs complaint, relevant law also includes the Limitation Act 1980 
(LA). This is because the original transaction - the purchase funded by a loan with BPF - 
took place in 2009. Only a court is able to make a ruling under the LA, but as its relevant 
law, Ive considered the effect this might also have.
There are other regulations that may apply specifically to misrepresentation, the sale of 
timeshare products, unfair trading and unfair terms. As Ive already mentioned, the specifics 
of Miss Hs complaint relate to how BPF handled and responded to her claims under the 
CCA. But I have considered the impact of the various related regulations and how they might 
apply here.
In considering the various points raised by the PR, I want to take this opportunity to clarify 
this services role in considering Miss Hs complaint. Its important to recognise that the 
complaint considered specifically relates to whether I believe BPFs response to her claim 
was fair and reasonable given all the evidence and information available to me. 
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, my decision is 
made on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what I 
think is more likely than not to have happened given the evidence thats available from the 
time and the wider circumstances. In doing so, it isnt my role to address every single point 
thats been made in my decision. And for that reason, Im only going to refer to what I believe 
are the most salient points having considered everything thats been said and provided.
Its also relevant to stress that this services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution 
Service (ADR) is to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. While the decision of an 
ombudsman can be legally binding, if accepted by the consumer, we do not provide a legal 
service and cant make legal findings  that is the role of the courts. Where a consumer 
doesnt accept the findings of an ombudsman, this doesnt prejudice their right to pursue any 
claim in other ways. 
The claim of misrepresentation under S75Miss H says the supplier misrepresented the nature of the purchase agreement and benefits 
to her when she bought it, And the PR believe this could bring cause for a claim under S75.
But a section 75 claim is an action (that is, court action) to recover any sum by virtue of any 
enactment under section 9 of the LA. And the limitation period under that provision is six 
years from the date on which the cause of action accrued. So here, Miss H had to make a 
claim within six years of when she entered into the purchase contract and credit agreement 
 which the PR confirm was in July 2009. Thats because this is when they say Miss H lost 
out having relied upon the alleged false statements of fact at that time.
Details of the alleged misrepresentations were submitted by the PR to BPF in June 2017. 
But as this is almost eight years after Miss H first says she lost out; I believe a court is likely 
to find that her claim falls outside of the time limit permitted in the LA. So, I cant fairly say 
that BPFs response ultimately appears unreasonable here.
Could the limitation period be postponed?
The PR suggests that Section 32 of the LA (S32) applies in that it permits the usual 
limitation(s) to be postponed. S32(1)(b) says that, if any fact relevant to the debtors right of 
action has been deliberately concealed, the period of limitation doesnt begin until the debtor 
(Miss H) has discovered the concealment, or it could with reasonable diligence have been 
discovered by her  and S32(2) says that deliberate commission of a breach of duty which is 
unlikely to be discovered for some time amounts to deliberate concealment of the facts in the 
breach.
I realise Miss H will be disappointed, but I dont think its likely a court would decide the 
limitation period in relation to her S75 claim could be postponed. The PR suggest that Miss 
S didnt discover that the product wasnt rentable or saleable until 2013. This is around four 
years after the product was purchased. However, Miss H suggested that she agreed to 
complete the purchase having been told she could rent out the timeshare in order to cover 
the ongoing associated maintenance and finance costs. On that basis, if this wasnt 
achievable, I think it wouldve been apparent (or reasonably discoverable) far sooner than 
2013. 
In any event, I dont consider theres enough evidence here to show that theres been 
deliberate concealment of any relevant information. The PRs arguments are based upon 
what they believe were false representations made to Miss S as to the benefits of 
purchasing the loan which were only identified when the PR were instructed. But I dont think 
any of the evidence provided supports the claim that the purchase agreement and loan were 
fraudulently misrepresented to Miss S. 
The unfair relationship claim under S140A
A claim under Section 140A is a claim for a sum recoverable by statute  which is also 
governed by Section 9 of the LA. As a result, the time limit for making such a claim is also 
six years from the date on which the cause for action accrued. However, the trigger point 
here is slightly different. Any relationship between Miss H and BPF continues while the 
finance agreement remains live. So, that relationship only ends once the agreement ends 
and the borrowing under it has been repaid. And as Miss Hs loan remained outstanding at 
the point of her claim, I believe any claim under S140A is likely to have been made in time 
under the provisions of the LA.
So, having decided that its likely Miss Hs claims for misrepresentation under S75 are likely 
to be out of time, Ive considered whether any of these mightve led to the existence of an 
unfair debtor-creditor relationship under S140A. 
BPF have said that Miss H was provided with copies of the relevant paperwork at the time of 
the sale, including the 14-day statutory cancellation notices for the purchase agreement and 
the loan. Theyve also confirmed that the only document(s) sent later related to her 
membership certificate, once the transaction completed.Ive seen a copy of the original purchase agreement and accompanying terms and 
conditions which Miss H appears to have signed on 4 July 2009. This includes a section 
entitled (in block capitals) IMPORTANT  YOU SHOULD READ THIS CAREFULLY. YOUR 
RIGHT TO CANCEL THIS AGREEMENT.
The loan agreement also includes Miss Hs rights to cancel in bold type face immediately 
above where she signed and dated it. And in doing so, she also confirms that shed received 
an exact copy of the form and a document with information about the agreement. So, in the 
absence of any evidence to the contrary from the time of sale, theres nothing to support any 
assertion that documents werent provided, and/or cancellation rights werent highlighted to 
Miss H.
BPF have also confirmed that all reservations are made via (Ss) Membership Services team 
and there is no online booking service. This supports Miss Hs statement. However, Ive not 
found anything within the documentation that provides any guarantees or assurances about 
booking availability. Particularly as Miss Hs membership didnt provide for designated 
accommodation on a designated date. Theres very little information (if any) supporting Miss 
Hs assertions that she was unable to secure bookings either in terms of evidence from the 
time, how far in advance bookings were attempted or otherwise. 
Under Section 2(d)(1) Rights of Occupation it says that Holiday Owners may apply for 
particular Weekly Periods to be allocated to them up to two years in advance. So, I dont 
think it would be unreasonable to expect booking opportunities to become more limited the 
closer to a preferred booking date theyre attempted. 
BPF also said that S confirmed that Miss H was free to privately rent out her membership or 
transfer it, should she wish. Ive found nothing within the documentation from the time that 
suggests these are services provided by S. In fact, section 9 of the Legal Documentation 
explicitly states that A Holiday Owner maypermit another person or persons to take 
advantage of the Exclusive Rights of Occupation to which his Holiday Certificate relates 
provided that if he wishes to do so he shall give the Management Company not less than 14 
days prior notice in writing of his intention to do so, together with the name and address of 
such person. 
So, while I havent found any suggestion that S would be able to facilitate a sale or rental on 
Miss Hs behalf, I also cant find any reason why Miss H couldnt have sought to benefit from 
these opportunities herself, should she have wanted/needed to. And accepting that demand 
may well vary from time to time, Im not persuaded this is something within Ss sphere of 
influence.
BPF have also confirmed that S dont offer a resale or buy back option. Or that memberships 
were ever sold as an investment. Theres certainly nothing within any of the documentation 
from the time of sale to suggest this was the case. So, while Miss H may have interpreted 
Ss verbal assurances she could derive a rental income as suggesting the product was an 
investment, theres nothing that leads me to believe the product was sold to Miss H for 
specific investment purposes. Or that this was a major feature of the product.
As regards the payment of annual maintenance fees, the PR believes the purchase 
agreement terms made the relationship unfair as any non-payment would result in 
cancellation of Miss Hs occupation rights under it. In particular theyve referenced the court 
ruling in the appeal case of Link Financial Ltd vs Wilson (2014). Ive considered the courts 
ruling here within the context of the agreement Miss H entered into with S. And I believe the 
circumstances are very different. 
In particular, section 6 of Miss Hs timeshare Legal Documentation covers Suspension and 
cancellation of exclusive rights of occupation. In summary, where there is a breach of the 
agreement - here, thats non-payment of contractual annual maintenance fees - it says, 
Rights of Occupation may be suspended and they would issue a notice giving 60 days to 
remedy the breach (i.e., pay any outstanding fees). If not remedied, a further notice would be issued giving another 60 days. And if not then remedied, rights would be cancelled and sold 
by S as soon as possible. It also says that any sale proceeds (after remedying any breach 
and deduction of any expenses incurred) would then be returned to the former Holiday 
Owner  here thats Miss H. So, I dont agree that the agreement means Miss H wouldnt 
receive the financial benefit of any remaining asset value. And having thought about this, I 
dont think its likely a court would decide the terms of the agreement risked making the 
debtor-creditor relationship with BPF unfair under S140A.
Was the loan unaffordable?
As Ive already mentioned, I cant see that this formed part of the original claim/complaint 
raised with BPF by the PR. And because of that, BPF havent specifically responded to this 
aspect. But I am mindful that Miss H did reference affordability in her witness statement.
Accepting her comments, it appears Miss H continued to maintain all repayments on her 
loan up to the point her claim/complaint was submitted. So, even if I were to find that BPF 
failed to do everything it should have when it agreed to lend (and I make no such finding), Id 
have to be satisfied that the lending was sustainably unaffordable for Miss H before also 
concluding shed lost out as a result. 
I havent seen anything to persuade me that was the case, so I dont think theres any 
reason to uphold this aspect. And while I acknowledge the comments Miss H has made as 
regards subsequent changes in her financial situation after the loan was agreed, I cant fairly 
say that any of these circumstances were reasonably foreseeable by BPF.
Summary
Having considered everything said and provided by all parties here, I believe any claim for 
misrepresentation under S75 was made too late under the provisions of the LA. And I dont 
believe a court is likely to find a reason for that limitation to be postponed here. I also havent 
found anything that persuades me that a court is likely to find something that leads them to 
determine that an unfair debtor-creditor relationship existed. And because of that, I cant 
reasonably say that BPFs response to Miss Hs claims was unfair or unreasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Hs complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman