DRN-4111168
The complaint
Mr W complains about balance transfers and interest rates on his credit card from Zopa 
Bank Limited (Zopa).
What happened
Mr W applied for a Zopa credit card in June 2022 and this was agreed with a credit limit of 
£500, with a balance transfer limit of £1,500. The balance transfer offer was 0% interest until 
4 December 2022.
Mr W made two balance transfers totalling £1,329.26 on 8 June 2022. No interest was 
charged on the balance transfer sums until the statement dated 5 January 2023  which 
showed balance transfer interest of £33.74 was debited to the account. Purchase interest 
was also debited - £10.08.
Mr W complained. He said he wasnt aware there would be two separate amounts of 
interest. And he said the method by which balance transfers were made was impossible to 
do  as most credit card companies wouldnt deal with Zopa.
Zopa said the interest rates were set out in the terms and conditions of the account. They 
said that the way in which balance transfers are completed are unique to Zopa  as it 
requires the other credit card providers to use the sort code and account number, found in 
the Zopa app, plus the customer reference. Zopa provided a link to the webpage guidance. 
They said some credit card providers werent willing to use this method - and this was 
affecting some customers.
Mr W brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Zopas terms and conditions set out 
the interest rates  which Mr W agreed to in his application for the card. On how balance 
transfers are completed, our investigator said we dont have the power to tell Zopa how to 
operate their business, as we arent their regulator.
Mr W asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint, and so it has come to me to make a 
final decision. (continued)
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen Mr Ws comments to our investigator  so let me say at the outset that we are not a
consumer group (acting only for the consumer)  we dont take sides. We are independent 
and impartial and our role is to listen to both sides of a complaint, take evidence from both 
parties, and then decide on a fair and reasonable outcome. 
Mr W has raised two points in his complaint:
- He said he is unable to complete a balance transfer because of the unique method 
used by Zopa, so that meant he was paying more interest with other credit card 
companies as a result.
- He said he wasnt aware Zopa would charge two separate interest rates on the 
credit card.
In looking at Mr Ws complaint again, I hope Im able to provide some clarity on both aspects 
of his complaint.
Balance transfer: Zopa have said the way they complete these is unique and that some 
credit card businesses wont do it in the way theyve put in place. Mr W argues he has lost 
out as a result. I can see that Zopa asked him which companies these were, and how much 
he paid in interest  but he didnt give Zopa this information. 
But equally, Zopa did provide Mr W with some guidance about balance transfers in their final 
response. 
And most importantly, Ive seen that Mr W did complete two balance transfers on 8 June 
2022 for a total of £1,329.26  even though he said the method wasnt helpful. And so he did 
benefit from the interest free period on that amount from then until December 2022.
Interest rates: As both Zopa and our investigator have said, these are set out in the terms 
and conditions for the card - which Mr W signed up to in his application. 
But thats not the end of the story here. I believe Mr W is saying he didnt realise there were 
two interest rates on the card  one for purchases and one for balance transfers.
I looked at Mr Ws statements, and that is the case. So, after the interest free period for 
balance transfers ran out in December 2022, two amounts of interest are shown on Mr Ws 
statement  one for purchases and one for balance transfers. In January 2023, these were 
£10.08 and £33.74 respectively. On the statement dated 5 February 2023, purchase interest 
was £7.77 and balance transfer interest was £32.10. That is also set out in the terms and 
conditions, and its normal practice for credit card companies to do it this way  and it is 
intended to be helpful to customers.
But: Mr W hasnt lost out as a result  as the rates of interest for both purchases and 
balance transfers were the same - 2.59% per month (35.90% annual compound rate). The 
interest rates are shown on his statements. And on the level of interest rates, our service 
doesnt have the power to ask firms to change them.
I hope that helps Mr W  but having looked at Mr Ws complaint afresh, I am not upholding it.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman