DRN-2473526
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) reduced 
the limit on his credit card.
What happened
Mr M had a credit card with Barclaycard. He was given a payment holiday for three months 
from April 2020. In July 2020 they advised him that his credit limit was reduced from £6000 
to £3700. 
He complained that this was unreasonable. He needed to have an adequate credit limit to 
give him flexibility for his spending.
In August 2020, Barclaycard replied and said that Mr Ms limit was reduced following a 
review of his account history. This showed a high level of borrowing and a low payment 
pattern. They said that Mr M could ask for an increase after another four months.
Mr M brought his complaint to this service. In December 2020, our investigator said that 
Barclaycard hadnt done anything wrong. It was up to them to decide on what credit limits 
they offer their customers. She said that they were able to do this in line with their terms and 
conditions. And they didnt have to give advance notice of the change either.
Mr M asked that his complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We cannot tell Barclaycard how they should lend money  that is their business decision. 
Within their terms and conditions, they say We set your credit limit according to your 
circumstances, your account usage and history, information from other parts of the Barclays 
group, information we receive from credit reference agencies, and any other information we 
think is relevant. Well tell you what your credit limit is when we first open your account. Well 
then review it from time to time. If we change your credit limit, well write to let you know.
I can appreciate why Mr M is unhappy. Ive looked at his Barclaycard statements. I can see 
that he had made at least the minimum payments to the account throughout 2015 to 2019. 
The borrowing on the card fluctuated. His limit was increased from £5000 to £6000 in 
January 2019. 
But towards the end of 2019, the balance on the account had increased to very near the limit 
of £6000, and it wasnt reducing or fluctuating. Minimum payments were still being made but 
these were only covering the interest and new purchases. For four months between 
November 2019 and March 2020, Barclaycard added a note to his statement to warn him 
that the balance was nearing the credit limit  they were saying for him to be careful not to 
exceed his limit. So, I can see why they came to the decision that they did. Mr M was given a 
three-month payment holiday in April 2020 (under the coronavirus support scheme) and so 
there were no payments due. He has asked if that caused the decision. Barclaycard have 
said that it didnt. 
Barclaycard advised Mr M of the change by letter in July 2020. They did not have to give 
advanced notice of the change to Mr M as they also say If we reduce your credit limit based 
on an assessment of risk or your ability to repay, we have the right to not give you any notice 
beforehand if we think this would not be appropriate.
Barclaycard made the offer to Mr M that he could ask for an increase in his limit again after 
four months  which was in December 2020, so that option is open to him.
So, I cannot in all fairness say that Barclaycard have done anything wrong here and I wont 
be asking them to do anymore.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman