DRN-2930024
The complaint
Mr L says Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc trading as Post Office Financial Services has acted 
unfairly when setting up his investment bond, by misleading him about the interest rate. To 
resolve his complaint. Mr L wants the Post Office to honour the rate of 1.5% he was quoted.   
What happened
Mr L held a number of existing investment bonds with the Post Office. On 14 May 2020, one 
of the bonds matured, and Mr L called the Post Office to discuss placing the investment 
proceeds into another bond. He was told that there was a two-year Growth Bond Issue 40 
with an interest rate of 1.5% that he could apply for.  
Mr L accordingly completed an application form dated 26 May 2020 and returned this to the 
Post Office along with a note confirming that he wanted his funds to be placed into the 1.5% 
Growth Bond. It was received by the Post Office on 1 June 2020.  
On 23 June 2020, Mr L received a letter from the Post Office. The bond had been opened as 
requested, but with a lower interest rate of 0.7%. 
Mr L complained. He said the Post Office must have ignored his note, as it opened a 
different bond than the one he had asked for. 
On 13 August 2020, the Post Office rejected the complaint. It said the interest rate on offer 
had reduced a few days before Mr Ls application was received, and it had set up the bond 
correctly. 
Mr L therefore brought his complaint to this service, where it was considered by one of our 
investigators. Though he appreciated Mr L was disappointed by the rate reduction, he did 
note that the Post Office could change the fixed rate offer at any time within the policy terms. 
However, he did feel the Post Office could have taken steps to inform Mr L about the change 
and because it didnt, he followed up a complaint to see if the higher rate would be 
honoured. The Post Office could have identified this sooner  and potentially not opened the 
bond at all. For this error, he felt a payment for upset should be made to Mr L of £75.  
The Post Office said it did not agree with the recommendation for a compensation payment. 
It said customers may change their mind about the suitability of an account upon opening, 
which was why it offered a 14 day cooling off period with any fixed term account. It 
recognised that Mr L included a note asking for the 1.5% interest account, this wasnt 
available so it opened the 0.7% account instead. 
It said compensation for trouble and upset should be balanced against the ups and downs of 
daily life in dealing with organisations, and recognising that it can be an inconvenient time. 
Mr L had a clear opportunity to cancel the account and chose not to do so; the matter could 
have been avoided. It wouldnt look to compensate a customer simply because they are 
unhappy with the current interest rates on offer and wanted a return of funds; and certainly 
not because they may need to spend time to find another suitable bond on the market.  
In summary, the Post Office didnt think Mr L had been put to any inconvenience by it 
opening the new bond and he would have earned better interest in the 14-day cancellation 
period. In any event, he never cancelled the bond and continues to hold it even now. 
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change his view. He said he remained of the view that 
he questioned why Mr Ls note was ignored and the bond opened, when the Post Office was 
aware the interest rate was now far lower than what he expected. This is what caused 
distress, as it wasn't was he was told. 
The Post Office reiterated that the Financial Ombudsman Service website guide to distress 
and inconvenience payments makes clear that compensation wouldnt be awarded for just a 
minor inconvenience or upset. And it took the view Mr L could have made one call to cancel 
the bond. Though he chose not to do so, a payment wasnt warranted in the circumstances.  
Mr L said it was irrelevant that he could have just cancelled the investment (though the Post 
Office had never told him how), his frustration was about the fact the Post Office ignored his 
note and failed to tell him what it had done.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I also agree that this complaint should be upheld in part.  
Unfortunately, the bond Mr L was advised about via telephone was one which required a 
paper application, rather than an online one. By the time Mr L had returned his application, 
the Growth Bond Issue 40 had been withdrawn from sale on 21 May 2020, and replaced with 
the Growth Bond Issue 41 effective the following day with a reduced rate of 0.70%.   
The Post Office decided to change the rate on its bond and this was something it could 
decide on a commercial basis. It is correct that the policy terms of the bonds allow for 
changes of this nature, as it states:
Interest
12. The Fixed Rates on offer can change at any time. The rate of interest you receive 
will be the Fixed Rate that applies to the Fixed Term you select and that is on offer at 
the time your application is received.
However, Mr L didnt know that at the time. And what he says he is particularly upset about 
is the fact that the Post Office did not refer to the confirmed note he included with his 
application  asking for the 1.5% bond  until after it had taken a further month to process 
his complaint, and beyond the cancellation period.  
I recognise that the Post Office has said Mr L could have called it to cancel the application 
and avoided the wrong bond being opened. But, while that may be a reasonable step to 
minimise the impact of the bond being mistakenly opened contrary to Mr Ls noted request, it 
does not alter that I must also consider the impact of Post Office disregarding that note.  
And like our investigator, I believe that the Post Offices inaction (when it, too, could have 
placed one call or other communication to Mr L) had a notable impact on Mr L. He has 
described how he felt frustrated, upset and had to complain  and this could have 
reasonably been resolved with an explanation. The Post Office was in an informed position; 
it knew that it had recently closed the Issue 40 bond in favour of the new Issue 41 beginning on 22 May 2020. And that was after Mr L had returned his bond application, else he wouldnt 
have quoted an outdated interest rate being sought.    
Putting things right
I think the impact of this mistake is more than minimal and not just as mere consequence of 
a disruption to Mr Ls life. A disruption would be the need to cancel the new bond, but that 
isnt where Mr Ls unhappiness stems from, it was caused by the Post Office failing to 
acknowledge his written instructions  and that it knew it could no longer maintain the 
interest rate he had previously been quoted. I agree that in the circumstances, a small award 
of £75 is appropriate to reflect the upset caused by this oversight.    
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. In order to resolve the complaint Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc trading as 
Post Office Financial Services should pay £75 compensation to Mr L for the reasons given. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman