DRN-4006043
The complaint
Mr B complains that National Westminster Bank Plc didnt fairly or reasonably deal with his 
claims under Sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in relation to 
holiday products he purchased.
The claim, which is the subject of this complaint, is Mr Bs, because it relates to a credit card 
in his sole name. But as the holiday product was in Mr and Mrs Bs name, Ill refer to Mr and 
Mrs B throughout much of this decision.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B purchased membership of a holiday club from a third party (the Supplier) in 
2003 (the Time of Sale). The purchase price was £11,600 and they say they paid the 10% 
deposit using Mr Bs credit card with the remainder being paid by a CHAPS payment from 
their bank account.
Mr and Mrs B upgraded their membership in 2004 and 2007. They say the upgrades were 
paid for using their existing membership and through CHAPS payments. As the only 
payment made from Mr Bs credit card was in regard to the 2003 purchase my decision is in 
regard to this only.
Mr and Mrs B were unhappy with what happened at the time the holiday product was sold to 
them. In July 2018, Mr B - using a professional representative (PR) - made claims for 
misrepresentation and an unfair relationship under Sections 75 and 140A of the CCA. There 
were several reasons given for the claims which can be summarised as follows:
Section 75: Misrepresentation and breach of contract
Mr and Mrs B say they were induced into the agreements by a series of 
misrepresentations by the supplier.
Mr and Mrs B were led to believe they would be able to easily sell their holiday 
product if they no longer wanted it, but this wasnt true.
Mr and Mrs B were led to believe that membership was tailor-made to their needs 
and requirements. This turned out to be untrue.
Many of the original facilities provided at the resort were removed or changed.
Section 140A: Unfair Relationship
Mr and Mrs B were pressured to purchase the membership on the day and when 
they requested more time were told the offer was only available that day.
The sale of membership failed to comply with Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale 
and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010.
Mr and Mrs B were given inaccurate information about the product and its utility.
The supplier failed to ensure compliance and due diligence.
The supplier failed in his duty of care towards Mr and Mrs B.
The proper assessment of the fitness and propriety of Mr and Mrs B for the holiday 
products didnt take place.
The supplier failed to disclose to Mr and Mrs B that, although they were members, 
they had no voting rights, which allowed the supplier to vote against any future 
agreed sale.
The purchase agreement entered into by Mr and Mrs B was perpetual  which was in 
contravention of Spanish Law.
Mr B asked NatWest to refund the cost of his and Mrs Bs holiday product purchases.
NatWest investigated Mr Bs Section 75 claim but concluded that it didnt need to issue a 
refund. It said that there was no clear evidence for a breach of contract or misrepresentation. 
It further noted that the claim was made more than six years after the alleged 
misrepresentation occurred and so the claim was out of time under the relevant provisions of 
the Limitation Act 1980 (the LA). NatWest didnt comment on the claim under Section 140A.
Mr and Mrs B raised a complaint and as this wasnt resolved to their satisfaction, they 
referred their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman service.
Our investigator issued a view in April 2022. They concluded that:
The Section 75 claim for misrepresentation was made out of time under the LA in 
regard to the 2003 purchase.
The Section 140A claim was made out of time under the LA in regard to the 2003 
purchase.
As an existing credit card had been used to help pay for the purchase the lending 
hadnt been made irresponsibly.
The upgrades Mr and Mrs B acquired in 2004 and 2007, were paid for through a 
combination of the value of the existing membership and bank transfers. So, there 
was no basis on which Section 75 and 140A claims could be made.
Because of this, our investigator didnt think NatWest was wrong to decline Mr Bs request 
for refunds under the CCA.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with our investigators view. As a resolution couldnt be agreed, 
this complaint was passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint the contents of which are set out below. 
In this case we havent received evidence of the payment made using Mr Bs credit card in 
2003. However, NatWest hasnt disputed that Mr B can make Section 75 and 140A claims despite the only evidence of the transaction being Mr Bs recollection; and I dont think its 
necessary to make a formal finding on the debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement for the 
purpose of this decision because I think NatWest has a defence to the claims made by Mr B 
under the LA.
Section 75: Misrepresentation
When a consumer has a claim for misrepresentation against a supplier, they can, in certain 
circumstances, make a like claim against their lender under section 75 of the CCA. The 
claim against the lender effectively mirrors the claim the consumer could make against the 
supplier provided its made inside the relevant limitation period.
But a section 75 claim is an action to recover any sum by virtue of any enactment under 
section 9 of the Limitation Act 1980. And the limitation period under that provision is six 
years from the date on which the cause of action accrued.
Only a court can decide whether Mr Bs claim was made out of time under the Limitation Act 
1980. But the Acts still relevant here, as I need to take it into account in deciding whether 
NatWests response to the claim was reasonable.
The date on which the cause of action accrued is the point at which Mr and Mrs B entered 
into the purchase agreement. I say this because they entered into the agreement based on 
the alleged misrepresentation by the Supplier  which they relied on. And as Mr B has said 
he used his NatWest credit card to help pay for the purchase, it was when he used his credit 
card that he suffered the loss.
It follows therefore that I think the cause of action accrued in 2003 when Mr and Mrs B made 
their purchase, and this means that this claim had to be made within six years of that date. 
As the claim wasnt made until July 2018, I think its likely to have fallen outside of the time 
limit set out in the LA.
Section 140A: Unfair Relationship
Only a court has the power to decide whether the relationship between Mr B and NatWest 
was unfair for the purpose of Section 140A. But, as its relevant law, I have considered it 
here.
A claim under Section 140A is a claim for a sum recoverable by statue  which is governed 
by section 9 of the LA. So, the time limit for making a claim is six years from the date when 
the cause of action accrued.
Based on the relevant case law, it can be argued that the limitation period in regard to any 
unfair relationship can start when the credit relating to the related agreement has been paid 
off, rather than when the relevant credit agreement is formally brought to an end and the 
entire debtor-credit relationship ends. That said, consideration also needs to be given to 
whether there are continuing financial detriments and/or ongoing contractual obligations that 
continue to render the debtor-creditor relationship unfair.
In this case, Mr B has said he made the payment on his credit card in 2003. I have been 
provided with very limited information in regard to the 2003 purchase. Information has been 
sent showing ongoing management fees, but it isnt clear these are linked to the 2003 
purchase noting specifically that Mr and Mrs B have said they upgraded their membership in 
2004 and 2007. In light of the limited information available I do not find I have evidence that 
there was any ongoing unfairness arising from the 2003 purchase.As a result, once Mr B settled his outstanding balance paid on his credit card, I think its 
unlikely a court would likely find that the relationship between him and NatWest was unfair 
after that date as a result of the 2003 purchase. I havent received statements from the time 
of acquisition with the earliest statements being provided from 2007. These show that Mr B 
was clearing his credit card balance every month. Therefore, while I cannot say when the 
payment was cleared, as evidence shows this had happened by 2007 (and is likely to have 
happened much sooner) I find that this was more than six years before Mr B raised his 
claim.
Mr and Mrs B have also referred to commission being paid and that this was unfair. But as I 
have nothing to show there was an arrangement for commission to be paid between the 
Supplier and NatWest as the credit card provider, I cannot consider this aspect of their 
complaint.
For the reasons set out above, I think NatWest is likely to be entitled to rely on the LA as a 
defence to Mr Bs claim given its timing. Mr B is asking for a refund based on a payment he 
made with his credit card in 2003 and as the claim wasnt raised until 2018, I think it is likely 
to have been made out of time.
Section 75: Breach of contract
Mr and Mrs B have said that many of the original facilities provided at the resort were 
removed or changed. This could be considered as a breach of contract and the timeframe 
for this would be when the breach occurred. However, in this case I havent been provided 
with any details of the facilities that were moved or changed, nor the timing of this or the 
evidence from the contract that support this constituting a breach. Therefore, I do not have 
evidence to uphold this part of Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Irresponsible lending
It was alleged that the proper assessment of the fitness and propriety of Mr and Mrs B for 
the holiday products wasnt undertaken. I have taken this to include the allegation that 
proper affordability checks didnt take place. While I note this comment, neither Mr nor Mrs B 
were lent to at the time of the purchases. Instead, Mr B used an existing credit card with an 
existing line of credit, granted to him prior to the acquisition. He used this to part pay for the 
2003 acquisition. As there was no new lending decision by NatWest at the time of the 
acquisition I do not find that it was required to undertake and further checks at the point of 
purchase.
Perpetual purchase agreement
It is alleged that the purchase agreement was perpetual and in contravention of Spanish 
Law. However, I do not have the purchase agreement from 2003 or other related documents 
and so I havent seen anything to persuade me that the purchase agreement was perpetual 
or governed by Spanish law.
Neither party provided any further evidence in response to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.When doing that, Im required to take into account the relevant law and regulations; 
regulators rules, guidance and standards; and codes of practice and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time.
When evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, Ive made my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened given 
the available evidence and wider circumstances.
In this case Mr B has raised claims under Sections 75 and 140A of the CCA. Ultimately, it is 
for the courts to decide whether or not Mr Bs claims have expired under the LA. But, as far 
as I can see from the information available, such claims against NatWest are likely to have 
been made outside of the relevant time limit set out in the LA. And noting the lending was 
provided on an existing credit card, I do not find I have evidence to say the lending for this 
acquisition was irresponsible. Because of this, Im not persuaded that NatWest needs to do 
anything to put things right in this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman