DRN-4186285
The complaint
Ms K complains about the acts of Mr Y. She says he gave her unsuitable advice to switch 
her pensions to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) to be able to invest through a 
discretionary fund manager (DFM)  SVS Securities PLC (SVS). She says Pi Financial Ltd 
(Pi) is responsible because Mr Y was with a business that was an appointed representative 
of it at the relevant time. 
What happened
I can see from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) register that Mr Y worked for a 
business called Future Wealth Management Ltd (Future) between 13 May 2015 and 
11 October 2018. That business was an appointed representative of Pi between 
15 January 2015 and 5 March 2019.
Understandably, given the time thats passed, Ms Ks recollections of exactly who gave what 
advice have been contradictory at times. What seems clear however, is that in 2017 she was 
contacted by a Mr G about her pensions and met with him on 1 September 2017 to discuss 
her options. She was then sent a recommendation letter purporting to be from Mr Y dated 
18 September 2017. That recommendation letter was on Future headed paper with Mr Ys 
name at the bottom and read:
It was good to meet with you on 1st September 2017. I am now writing to confirm the 
content and outcome of our discussions
You will recall you were provided you [sic] with a copy of my Client Agreement on the 
1st September 2017 in which my terms of business and charging structure has been 
laid out. You instructed me to specifically limit my advice to Pension Planning, 
specifically setting up a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and I have acted 
accordingly. I have, therefore, only obtained the necessary information from you to 
advise on the above area. You should be aware that my recommendations may have 
differed if I had undertaken a full review of your financial circumstances
At the present time, your prime objective is to review your existing pension 
contract& set up a SIPP to provide you with greater investment choice and 
flexibility. You have been unhappy with the service you have received as you have 
never had a review and only receive an annual statement. You have not been 
satisfied with the growth in any of your pensions and wish to have an arrangement 
that allows you more flexibility in investment choice. You have requested that I 
research the market for a suitable SIPP provider with whom to invest all of your 
pension monies
Your only objective in retirement is that you wish to have a good standard of living 
and although your outgoings will be reduced you definitely want to know that you can 
still afford the standard of life to which you have become accustomed
You completed a risk profile questionnaire and this confirmed you would be classed 
as a balanced investor. You agreed with this and feel this is a fair reflection of your 
understanding of financial products and your goals and aspirations
It was clear, given your requirement to have flexibility in terms of where your pension 
monies are invested, that a SIPP would be the best vehicle to allow you to do this
As previously outlined you wish to have your monies managed by an appropriate 
DFM with whom I will be recommending for you, having researched the market
As part of my duty of care to you I have considered the proposed portfolio and 
believe it suitable for you based on your current attitude to risk and capacity for 
loss
After due consideration of your attitude to risk, tolerance and capacity we have 
agreed that the most suitable portfolio for you is within the Mixed Model 
PortfolioThe potential growth on this plan in comparison with the growth on your 
existing plans gives your pension monies a real opportunity to grow so that you have 
enough income in retirement and do not have to work on longer than you would like.
I believe that for you the active portfolio management that SVS Securities charges 
represent good value
Our fee structure is detailed in our client agreement which was given to you at your 
meeting.
An initial fee of 3.25% will be charged to meet the cost of our 
recommendation
There is an ongoing 1.00% charge of funds under management for ongoing 
service and advice, payable monthly.
Following this, Ms K moved her pensions  just under £38,000 in total  to a SIPP to be able 
to invest through SVS.
SVS went into administration in August 2019, and after trying to make a claim with the 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme, Ms K complained to Pi.
Pi didnt uphold the complaint because it said the advice had been given by Mr G, not Mr Y. 
Although it also had an agreement with Mr G, this was an introducer agreement and it said 
he wasnt allowed to provide any advice.
An investigator was satisfied we could consider Ms Ks complaint against Pi. In summary, he 
said there was no dispute that Mr G had been involved but he said the evidence suggested 
Mr Y of Future had also given advice and made arrangements and this was something that 
had been allowed under the appointed representative agreement. He was also satisfied the 
complaint should be upheld.
Pi didnt agree. Ive read and considered its response in full. In summary, it said Ms K had 
confirmed to it that the advice had been given solely by Mr G and this goes to our jurisdiction 
as Mr G was an introducer to Future and couldnt give advice. It said this is a question of law 
and not something that can be decided on a fair and reasonable basis. Whilst Ms K agreed 
with the investigators view, she felt that the £300 thatd been recommended as 
compensation for the trouble and upset shed been caused wasnt sufficient.The issue has therefore been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  jurisdiction
Ive considered all the evidence thats been provided. Having done so, Im satisfied this 
complaint is one that the Financial Ombudsman Service has jurisdiction to consider.
To carry out regulated activities a business needs to be authorised (Section 19 of the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA)). Future (and therefore Mr Y) wasnt 
directly authorised. Instead, it was an appointed representative of Pi. Pi is an authorised firm. 
Its authorised by the FCA to carry out a range of regulated activities including advising on 
investments and arranging deals in investments. We can therefore consider complaints 
about Pi. And this includes some complaints about its appointed representatives.
But this service cant look at all complaints. Before we can consider a complaint, we need to 
check, by reference to the DISP rules and the legislation from which those rules are derived, 
whether its one we have the power to look at.
DISP 2.3.1R says we can:
consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to an act or 
omission by a firm in carrying onregulated activitiesor any ancillary activities, 
including advice, carried on by the firm in connection with them.
Guidance for this rule at DISP 2.3.3G says that:
complaints about acts or omissions include those in respect of activities for which the 
firmis responsible, to the same extent as if he had expressly permitted it, for 
anything done or omitted by the representative in carrying on the business for which 
he has accepted responsibility.
And Section 39(3) FSMA says:
The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if 
he had expressly permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative in 
carrying on the business for which he has accepted responsibility.
The responsibility of a principal was considered by the judge in the case of Anderson v 
Sense Network [2018] EWHC 2834 (this case was the subject of an appeal, but the Court of 
Appeal issued a decision agreeing with the earlier decision). In the High Court, 
Mr Justice Jacobs said, at paragraph 33:
There is no indication in the wording of section 39, or in the case-law, that indicates 
that the business for which responsibility is accepted is to be determined not by 
reference to the contract, but by reference to the authorisations granted to the 
principal which are to be found in the Financial Services register.
So, a principal isnt automatically responsible for the actions of its appointed representatives 
and its necessary to go beyond looking at the activities Pi was authorised to do. 
To decide whether Pi is responsible here, there are three issues I need to consider:
What are the specific acts Ms K has complained about?
Are those acts regulated activities or ancillary to regulated activities?Did Pi accept responsibility for those acts?
What are the specific acts Ms K has complained about?
Ms K complains Mr Y gave her unsuitable advice to switch her pensions to a SIPP to invest 
through SVS.
Are those acts regulated activities or ancillary to regulated activities?
Section 22 FSMA defines regulated activities as follows:
(1) An activity is a regulated activity for the purposes of this Act if it is an activity of a 
specified kind which is carried on by way of business and 
(a) relates to an investment of a specified kind;
(4) Investment includes any asset, right or interest.
(5) Specified means specified in an order made by the Treasury.
The relevant Order is the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) 
Order 2001 (RAO). The rights under a personal pension scheme (which includes Ms Ks 
previous pensions and the SIPP she moved to) are specified as investments by a provision 
in Article 82 RAO. Advising on investments is a specified activity under Article 53 RAO. And 
making arrangements in relation to them is a specified activity under Article 25 RAO.
As Ive set out above, Ms Ks recollections of who advised her have been contradictory at 
times but the advice letter she received came from Mr Y. Pi says Mr Y didnt give advice and 
it was only Mr G that did.
Ive thought carefully about all of the evidence. Taking everything into account, Im satisfied 
its most likely Mr Y advised Ms K to switch her pensions and invest through SVS. This is 
something Ive decided as a question of fact  I agree with Pi that its not something to be 
decided on a fair and reasonable basis.
In the circumstances here, there are several things that satisfy me its most likely Mr Y 
advised Ms K:
The recommendation letter dated 18 September 2017 clearly gave advice and Im 
satisfied its most likely Mr Y was aware of the content of this letter and allowed it to 
be sent in his name, even if he didnt draft it himself. I say this because on other 
cases involving similar facts, Ive seen emails Mr Y has been copied into which make 
it clear he knew what was happening. Taking everything into account, I dont think 
theres enough to reasonably conclude the recommendation letter was created and 
sent without Mr Ys knowledge.
The SIPP application form named Mr Y as Ms Ks adviser  giving a Future email 
address and Pi as the firm name. It was also selected that advice had been given 
and SVS was named as the chosen DFM.
The SIPP operators key facts document named Mr Y of Future as Ms Ks adviser.A risk profile report dated 18 September 2017 was said to have been prepared by 
Mr Y.
Pi says it was Mr G who advised Ms K  and Ms K recollections previously have been that 
she received advice from Mr G. But just because Ms K received advice from someone else, 
that doesnt mean Mr Y didnt also give advice.
Taking everything into account, Im also satisfied that Mr Y carried out the regulated activity 
of making arrangements. In particular, Ive been provided with letters from Ms Ks previous 
pension providers addressed to Mr Y of Future on 1 November 2017 and 2 November 2017 
respectively which both thanked him for requesting details about Ms Ks pensions and 
provided information.
My conclusion therefore is that Mr Y did give advice to Ms K about the SIPP and 
investments and made arrangements in relation to these so regulated activities took place.
Did Pi accept responsibility for those acts?
Which business was Mr Y acting for?
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied Mr Y was acting as Future when he advised 
Ms K and made arrangements. The only mention of any other business is a risk profile report 
said to have been prepared by Mr Y on 18 September 2017 but under a different business 
name. This was signed on 17 October 2017. But the fact the recommendation letter was 
sent in his capacity at Future, the application documentation all referred to Future and the 
previous pension providers referred to him as representing Future satisfy me that he was 
acting as Future when he carried out the acts complained about here. Ive therefore gone on 
to consider whether Pi accepted responsibility for those acts under the agreement it had with 
Future.
The agreement with Future
The appointed representative agreement between Pi and Future says:
The Company appoints the Appointed Representative to provide Services for the 
Company on the terms set out in this Agreement and the Appointed Representative 
accepts such terms, with effect from 15th January 2015.
Services was defined as:
any Regulated Activity which the Company is authorised to undertake from time to 
time notified by it to the Appointed Representative and also giving advice, making 
arrangements (or offering or agreeing to do either) in relation to term assurance, 
mortgages, tax planning, long term care products and any other product offered in 
the giving of financial advice pursuant to this Agreement.
And Regulated Activity was defined as:
Any activity requiring authorisation under The Act or by the FCA and Regulated 
Activities means more than one of them. 
The agreement therefore is broad and envisages advice being given on, and arrangements 
made in relation to, investments. And Pi hasnt disputed that. So, Im satisfied that Pi did 
accept responsibility for Mr Y advising Ms K to switch her pensions and invest through SVS 
and making arrangements for that. My decision  jurisdiction 
For the reasons set out above, Im satisfied Pi is responsible under Section 39 FSMA for the 
acts being complained about and this is a complaint that we can look at.
What Ive decided  merits
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Im satisfied its most likely Mr Y advised Ms K to move her pensions to a SIPP to invest 
through SVS, Ive considered whether that advice was suitable. The kind of things I would 
expect Mr Y to consider when assessing suitability are:
The likely cost of the proposed arrangement compared to the existing arrangements.
The level of funds involved.
Ms Ks knowledge and experience.
Ms K was noted to have had a salary of £21,000 at the time and the pensions that were 
switched (just under £38,000) seem to have been Ms Ks only pensions. She was 50 at the 
time of the events complained about so approaching retirement age with a low capacity for 
loss. The recommendation letter of 18 September 2017 referred to her as a balanced 
investor according to the risk profile questionnaire she completed. And the risk profile report 
that was signed on 17 October 2017 showed her selected risk profile as Low medium. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied Ms K was a relatively low risk, inexperienced, 
investor and someone for whom traditional low-cost pension arrangements would have been 
appropriate.
The new arrangement Ms K entered wasnt a low cost or traditional pension arrangement. 
The SIPP was stated to have a set-up fee of £100 and an annual fee of £199. And the DFM 
service would also have had costs  both an initial management charge and ongoing 
transaction charges. Additionally, there were the adviser fees  an initial fee of 3.25% and an 
ongoing fee of 1%.
The letter of 18 September 2017 set out the reasons for recommending the SIPP as being 
that it would:
provide you with greater investment choice and flexibility. You have been unhappy 
with the service you have received as you have never had a review and only receive 
an annual statement. You have not been satisfied with the growth in any of your 
pensions and wish to have an arrangement that allows you more flexibility in 
investment choice.
But whilst the SIPP may have had some advantages, I havent seen anything that persuades 
me these benefits were needed by Ms K in her circumstances. Theres no evidence that 
Ms K  with her modest pension funds  needed access to a wider range of investments or 
that such funds wouldnt have been available with her previous pensions. And if there was a 
genuine desire by Ms K to consolidate her pensions into one fund, it seems likely thered 
have been cheaper options, such as a stakeholder pension, that would have met her needs. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied it ought to have been clear to Mr Y that there 
was no obvious justification for Ms K to move from her existing schemes and enter the arrangement she did. And this assessment is based on knowledge Mr Y ought to have had 
at the time  not what we now know about the failure of SVS.
In these circumstances Im satisfied advice to switch Ms Ks pensions to a SIPP to invest 
through SVS should never have been made as a recommendation. Im satisfied that if Mr Y 
hadnt given unsuitable advice, Ms K would have left her pensions as they were.
As Ive set out above, even if Mr Y didnt advise Ms K, he carried out the regulated activity of 
making arrangements. In conducting this regulated activity, he had to act in line with the 
FCAs Principles for Businesses. Of particular relevance here is Principle 6 which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
And COBS 2.1.1R says:
A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the clients best interests rule).
So, Im satisfied Mr Y would still have needed to consider whether it was in Ms Ks best 
interests to move her pensions to a SIPP for investment via a DFM. For the same reasons 
as set out above, Im not persuaded it was. And if it wasnt Mr Y that advised Ms K, then it 
seems likely he knew shed been advised by an unregulated introducer, and he should have 
taken this into account.
Pi has commented on the fact Mr G gave advice. But this decision is about Pis 
responsibility. And because Im satisfied Ms K wouldnt have moved her pensions to a SIPP 
to make the investments she did if Mr Y hadnt given the unsuitable advice or made the 
arrangements he did, I think its fair to ask Pi to compensate Ms K for the full measure of the 
loss she suffered from moving her pensions and making the investments she did.
The DISP rules set out that when an ombudsmans determination includes a money award, 
then that money award may be such amount as the ombudsman considers to be fair 
compensation for financial loss, whether or not a court would award compensation 
(DISP 3.7.2R). Someone else may also have given Ms K advice, but Pi had its own distinct 
regulatory obligations which, if met, Im satisfied would have resulted in the pension moves 
to the SIPP not taking place.
In making these findings, I take account of the potential contribution made by other parties to 
the losses suffered by Ms K. In my view, in considering what fair compensation looks like in 
this case, its reasonable to make an award against Pi that requires it to compensate Ms K 
for the full measure of her loss. But for Pis failings, Ms Ks pension moves wouldnt have 
occurred.
Im not asking Pi to account for loss that goes beyond the consequences of its failings. Im 
satisfied those failings have caused the full extent of the loss in question. That another party 
might also be responsible for that same loss is a distinct matter and that fact shouldnt 
impact on Ms Ks right to compensation from Pi for the full amount of her loss.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Ms K 
as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not been given unsuitable 
advice.I take the view that Ms K wouldnt have moved her pensions if everything had happened as it 
should have. Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Ms K's 
circumstances and objectives at the time.
In summary, Pi should:
1. Calculate the loss Ms K has suffered as a result of making the switches and investing 
through SVS.
2. Take ownership of the investments held in the SIPP if possible.
3. Pay compensation for the loss into Ms Ks pension in respect of her pension losses. 
If that isnt possible, pay compensation for the loss to Ms K direct. In either case, the 
payment should take into account necessary adjustments set out below.
4. Refund any adviser fees that were paid outside the SIPP, with interest added.
5. Pay Ms Ks SIPP fees for the next five years, in the event shes now not able to close 
her SIPP.
6. Pay compensation of £500 for the trouble and upset caused to Ms K.
7. Pay interest on the above if fair compensation isnt paid within 28 days of notification 
of acceptance by Ms K.
Ill explain how Pi should carry out the calculation set out above in further detail below:
1. Calculate the loss Ms K has suffered as a result of making the switches and 
investing through SVS
To do this, Pi should work out the likely value of Ms Ks pensions as at the date of my 
decision, had she left them where they were instead of switching to the SIPP.
Pi should ask Ms Ks former pension providers to calculate the current notional transfer 
values had she not switched her pensions. If there are any difficulties in obtaining a notional 
valuation, then a benchmark of 50% of the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return 
Index and 50% of the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by 
the Bank of England should be used to calculate the value. That is likely to be a reasonable 
proxy for the type of returns that could have been achieved if the pensions hadnt been 
switched.
The notional transfer values should be compared to the transfer value of the SIPP at the 
date of my decision and this will show the loss Ms K has suffered.
Any additional sum that Ms K paid into the SIPP should be added to the notional transfer 
value calculation proportionately at the point it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the SIPP should be deducted 
proportionately from the fair value calculations at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Pi totals all those payments and deducts 
that figure at the end.2. Take ownership of the investments
Ideally, the assets in the SIPP  the investments  could be removed from the SIPP. Ms K 
would then be able to close the SIPP, if she wishes, and avoid paying further fees for the 
SIPP. For calculating compensation, Pi should agree an amount with the SIPP provider as a 
commercial value for the investments. It should then pay the sum agreed plus any costs and 
take ownership of them.
If Pi is able to purchase the investments, then the price paid should be allowed for in the 
current transfer value (because itll have been paid into the SIPP to secure the investments).
If Pi is unable, or if there are any difficulties in buying the investments, it should give them a 
nil value for the purposes of calculating compensation. Pi may then ask Ms K to provide an 
undertaking to account to it for the net amount of any payment the SIPP might receive from 
the investments. That undertaking should allow for the effect of any tax and charges on the 
amount Ms K may receive from the investments and any eventual sums shed be able to 
access from the SIPP. Pi will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
3. Pay compensation to Ms K for the loss shes suffered in (1)
Since the loss Ms K has suffered is within her pension, its right that I try to restore the value 
of her pension provision if thats possible. So, if possible, the compensation for the loss 
should be paid into Ms Ks pension plan if it still exists. The compensation shouldnt be paid 
into the pension if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. Payment into 
the pension should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. This may 
mean the compensation should be increased to cover the charges and reduced to notionally 
allow for the income tax relief Ms K could claim. The notional allowance should be calculated 
using Ms Ks marginal rate of tax.
If its not possible to pay the compensation into Ms Ks pension, the compensation should be 
paid to Ms K direct. But had it been possible to pay the compensation into the pension, it 
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation for the loss paid to 
Ms K should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have 
been paid. The notional allowance should be calculated using Ms Ks marginal rate of tax in 
retirement. For example, if Ms K is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, the 
notional allowance would equate to a reduction in the total amount equivalent to the current 
basic rate of tax. However, if Ms K would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the 
notional allowance should be applied to 75% of the total amount.
4. Adviser fees
If any adviser fees were paid outside the SIPP, these should be refunded with interest added 
at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date they were paid until the date compensation is 
paid.
5. SIPP fees
If Ms K is unable to close her SIPP once compensation has been paid, Pi should pay an 
amount into the SIPP equivalent to five years worth of the fees (based on the most recent 
years fees) that will be payable on the SIPP. I say this because Ms K would not be in the 
SIPP but for the unsuitable advice. So, it wouldnt be fair for her to have to pay the fees to 
keep it open. And Im satisfied five years will allow sufficient time for things to be sorted out 
with the investments and the SIPP to be closed.6. Trouble and upset
Pay Ms K £500 for the trouble and upset caused. I note Ms Ks comment that the £300 the 
investigator recommended for this wasnt sufficient. Ive thought about this carefully and Im 
satisfied Ms K has been caused significant upset by the events this complaint relates to, and 
the loss of her pension fund. Taking everything into account, I think that a payment of £500 
is fair to compensate for that upset.
7. Pay interest
Pi should pay fair compensation as set out above within 28 days of being notified that Ms K 
has accepted my decision. If it doesnt, interest on the compensation due is to be paid from 
the date of the decision to the date of payment at the rate of 8% simple interest per year.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Pi deducts income tax from the interest, it 
should tell Ms K how much has been taken off. Pi should give Ms K a tax deduction 
certificate in respect of interest if Ms K asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax on interest 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Ms Ks complaint and require Pi Financial Ltd to pay Ms K fair 
compensation as set out above.
Pi Financial Ltd should provide details of its calculation to Ms K in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Laura Parker
Ombudsman