DRN-4031089
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that Aviva Insurance Limited declined their claim against their travel 
insurance policy. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr and Mrs O have travel insurance as a benefit of membership 
of a staff association. In February 2022, they booked a package holiday with intended 
departure and return dates of 5 June 2022 and 12 June 2022 respectively. The trip  
involved flights and a cruise. On the outbound journey there were two connecting flights 
and a transfer to the point of departure of the cruise. 
On the day of Mr and Mrs Os departure from the UK, the departure of their first flight 
was delayed. It was announced during the first flight that Mr and Mrs Os connecting 
flight had departed. So, Mr and Mrs O missed their connecting flight. I understand that 
there were no alternative flights which would get them to the point of departure of the 
cruise in time. Mr and Mrs O stayed for one night near the airport where theyd landed 
and returned home on 6 June 2022.
Mr and Mrs O made a claim against the policy in relation to unused and additional travel 
and accommodation costs and related items. Aviva declined the claim. It said that what 
happened here isnt covered by the policy. 
I understand that the airline refunded Mr and Mrs Os additional travel and 
accommodation costs. It declined a refund of unused travel and accommodation costs. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that Aviva had 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining the claim. That was because what happened 
here isnt covered by the policys terms and conditions. 
Mr and Mrs O didnt agree with the investigator. They said that the matter is of wider 
public interest and theres been a breach of contract. Mr and Mrs O say that they paid for 
an ABTA/ATOL protected holiday, but no one is accepting liability for their loss. They 
asked that an ombudsman consider their complaint, so it was passed to me to decide. 
As the investigator has explained, in this decision Im looking at whether Aviva acted 
fairly and reasonably in this case. This service has no power to consider complaints 
against ABTA or ATOL. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear and quite understandable that Mr and Mrs O have very strong feelings about this 
matter. Through no fault of their own, they missed out on their cruise. And theres a 
significant amount of money at stake. I trust that Mr and Mrs O wont take as a discourtesy 
the fact that I focus on what I consider to be the central issue, that is, whether Aviva acted 
fairly and reasonably in declining the claim. 
the relevant terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say  
as follows:
CANCELLATION, CURTAILMENT OR CHANGE OF ITINERARY
[]
Curtailment
If an Insured Person is forced to cut short an Insured Journey and return to the United 
Kingdom [] as a direct and necessary result of any cause numbered below We will 
reimburse up to the sum insured stated in The Schedule for each Insured Person for:-
(a) all non returnable deposits advance payments and other charges paid or due to be paid 
by the Insured Person for travel and accommodation in respect of the Insured Journey;
(b) the reasonable additional cost of travel and accommodation necessarily incurred to 
return the Insured Person to the United Kingdom []
[]
This section of the policy protects You for the necessary Cancellation, Curtailment or 
Change of Itinerary due to:-
(1) []
(6) Cancellation or Curtailment of scheduled public transport services consequent upon 
adverse weather conditions, strike, riot or civil commotion.
TRAVEL DELAY
We will compensate You for Travel Delay if the outward or homeward departure of an 
aircraft [] in which You have booked to travel is delayed due to strike, industrial action, 
adverse weather conditions, Natural Catastrophe, mechanical breakdown or structural defect 
affecting that aircraft [] which results in delay for at least 12 hours from the departure time 
indicated  by the carrier we will reimburse You by the amount stated in The Schedule per 
Insured Person, or;
If Your delay is for more than 24 hours as a direct result of strike, industrial action, adverse 
weather conditions, Natural Catastrophe, mechanical breakdown or structural defect 
affecting that aircraft [] and You abandon the Insured Journey We will reimburse You for 
all non returnable deposits advance payments and other charges paid or due to be paid for 
travel and accommodation in respect of the Insured Journey up to the sum insured stated in 
The Schedule for each Insured Person.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Aviva has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Ive considerable sympathy 
for the position Mr and Mrs O find themselves in but Im not upholding their complaint 
because I dont think that Aviva treated them unfairly or unreasonably. I say that because:   
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that the 
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. The airline told Mr O that the reason their initial flight was delayed was because the 
crew arrived late at the airport. Thats not something thats covered by the policy.  
The curtailment provisions in the policy cover curtailment of scheduled public 
transport services caused by adverse weather conditions, strike, riot or civil 
commotion. Thats not what happened here. 
Ive looked at the remaining sections of the policy. Based on what Ive seen, it 
doesnt appear that Mr and Mrs Os initial flight was delayed for at least 12 hours, 
as required by the travel delay section of the policy. But even if it was, that part of 
the policy covers delay caused by strike, industrial action, adverse weather 
conditions, natural catastrophe, mechanical breakdown or structural defect of the  
aircraft. Again, thats not what happened here. 
The policy provisions relating to change of itinerary cover additional travel and 
accommodation costs to enable the insured to continue their insured journey.                   
Mr and Mrs O didnt continue their insured journey. And the missed departure 
provisions cover additional travel and accommodation costs following an insureds 
late arrival at the departure point at the start of the trip. 
I dont think that Aviva was at fault in declining Mr and Mrs Os claim as what 
happened here isnt covered by the policy terms and conditions.
Ive thought about whether it would be fair and reasonable to direct Aviva to settle 
Mr and Mrs Os claim but there are no grounds on which I can fairly do so. I think 
its reasonable for an insurer to set out the risks its willing to cover when travel 
arrangements go awry, and the policy doesnt cover delay caused by staffing 
difficulties at the airline or airport. The policy clearly sets out the limitations of 
cover. It was up to Mr and Mrs O to decide whether the cover met their needs, 
bearing in mind the particular nature of their trip. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs O will be disappointed, but for the reasons Ive 
explained, I dont uphold their complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 June 2023. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman