DRN-4078077
The complaint
Mr D complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited made errors in the transfer of his cash 
Individual Savings Account (ISA) to a third party provider.
What happened
Mr D wanted to transfer his ISA to a third party, who I will refer to as Bank A. He spoke with 
Bank A and asked them to confirm that they had requested the transfer from Shawbrook, 
which they confirmed they did on 6 May 2022. But Shawbrook claimed they had not received 
this, so Bank A said that they would resend the transfer request. As the process was taking 
a long time to complete and interest rates improved with third parties, Mr D asked 
Shawbrook to transfer his cash ISA to a different third party, which I will refer to as Bank B. 
Mr D says that Shawbrook incorrectly told him that Bank B refused the payment, so they 
made the decision to transfer his ISA to Bank A without his knowledge. Due to the funds 
being transferred to Bank A, Mr D needed to close his Bank B ISA, as it was not used 
despite the amount of time and effort he spent setting up the account. Mr D made a 
complaint to Shawbrook. He said that as a result of the error, he received a lower interest 
rate with Bank A than if they had correctly transferred his money to Bank B. Mr D says he 
was promised a call back from Shawbrook but this didnt happen. 
Shawbrook partially upheld Mr Ds complaint. They said that they didnt receive a transfer 
request until 26 May 2022 from Bank A. They said that from their records, they could see Mr 
D contacted them via secure message on 28 May 2022 to request the cancellation of his ISA 
transfer to Bank A as he had found a new provider offering a more attractive interest rate. 
But due to an administrative error, when his message was reviewed on 2 June 2022, the 
appropriate action was not completed in full. As they received a payment request from Bank 
A (which Shawbrook says this indicated the transfer wasnt cancelled on Bank As system 
either), the request from Bank A was honoured with his funds being transferred to them on 8 
June 2022, which meant that when Bank B requested the payment on 9 June 2022, the 
transfer couldnt be processed to Bank B.
Shawbrook said that due to a system issue, there was a temporary delay with secure 
messages being uploaded to customer profiles, so when Mr D received a notification email 
informing him that he received a new secure message, the relevant message had not yet 
been added to his profile. They said all secure messages were successfully added to his 
profile on 27 May 2022. 
Shawbrook said they did attempt to call Mr D on 24 May 2022, and the call went to his 
voicemail, but they acknowledged they should have left him a message. They also said they 
could have done more on the phone calls they had with Mr D as they could have recognised 
there were two transfer requests open and they could have clarified with Mr D where he 
wanted his money to be transferred. They also apologised for giving him conflicting 
information via secure message on 9 June 2022, by telling him the correct information his 
ISA had been transferred to Bank A, then telling him later on the incorrect information that 
the funds had been transferred to Bank B. Shawbrook offered Mr D £100 compensation for 
the errors. Mr D brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Ds complaint. He said that while Shawbrook werent at fault for 
the initial transfer delays, they failed to act on Mr Ds cancellation request  which led to his 
funds being sent to the wrong provider. He was told incorrect information and lost interest. 
Due to the several mistakes and failings by Shawbrook, he thought the compensation should 
be £150.
Mr D asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, he said he thought more compensation should be offered (nearer to £300). He 
said Shawbrooks original response to his complaint didnt cover off all of his complaint 
points and Shawbrook ignored his additional points of complaint in July and August 2022, 
which caused him more stress and took extra time to write to them.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
I must explain to Mr D that complaint handling by a business isnt a regulated activity and as 
such, the issues hes raised that relate directly to how Shawbrook have investigated his 
complaint, such as deciding when they believe a complaint is resolved do not come under 
my powers to consider. Although he has said Shawbrook ignored his additional points of 
complaint in July and August 2022, which caused him more stress and took extra time 
writing to them, he was given the rights to our service on his final response letter dated 19 
July 2022, so he did not need to spend any extra time communicating with Shawbrook 
directly after 19 July 2022. 
Ive looked at Shawbrooks internal systems to see when they received the transfer request 
from Bank A. I know Mr D has said he instructed Bank A to request the funds early May, but 
there is no record of this on Shawbrooks systems, so I cant say that they have been at fault 
for the initial delay. I know Mr D sent Shawbrook information from Bank A dated 5 May 2022 
that they had submitted a request, but there is no evidence Shawbrook received this. Their 
internal system shows that the request was first received by Shawbrook on 26 May 2022 at 
14:29pm. Shawbrook would have 15 working days to process the transfer. 
Ive considered what has happened once the transfer request was made from Bank A and 
received by Shawbrook. Ive requested Mr Ds secure messages with Shawbrook over this 
timeframe. I can see that he sent Shawbrook a message to cancel the transfer request from 
Bank A on 28 May 2022 due to interest rates increasing elsewhere. He tells them that he 
will submit a request through the new provider. So here, Mr D gave them a clear instruction 
and also explained that a new request would be forthcoming. He also ended the message by 
asking Shawbrook to please confirm that the request has been cancelled. But Shawbrook 
did not cancel the request and they didnt confirm that this had been cancelled. 
Shawbrooks internal system shows that they received a new ISA transfer request on 31 
May 2022. It appears this is the request from Bank B. Mr D was sent a secure message this 
date informing him that his transfer request had been accepted. This prompted Mr D to give 
Shawbrook a phone call to find out where his ISA was being transferred to. Ive listened to 
the call and the call handler tells Mr D that it was being transferred to Bank B, but this was 
incorrect. So the call handler had set an expectation here to Mr D that his ISA was being 
transferred to the provider that he wanted it to be transferred to. But the call handler did not realise there was two open ISA transfer requests, which could have prevented a lot of errors 
if they had realised this and cancelled the request to Bank A which should have already 
been cancelled.
Shawbrook sent Mr D another secure message on 8 June 2022 to confirm they had 
transferred his funds to his new provider, but they didnt say who this was to. Mr D 
messaged them the following day to find out where they were transferred to, and they replied 
with the correct answer of Bank A. But this would have been distressing for Mr D to find out 
that they had sent the funds to Bank A instead of Bank B who offered the higher interest rate 
 especially after he had given clear instructions for the transfer to Bank A to be cancelled. 
But he would have suffered more inconvenience to find out why the funds werent sent to 
Bank B as instructed. 
Shawbrook sent Mr D another secure message to say his funds had been sent to Bank B, 
which was incorrect. Mr D then checked his Bank B ISA and saw no funds which would have 
been distressing for him. Then he was inconvenienced to find out after back and forth 
messages that his funds were actually transferred to Bank A, against his wishes. Mr D was 
later incorrectly told that Bank B rejected his transfer, but this was incorrect. The reason that 
his transfer to Bank B was unsuccessful was because his funds had already been 
transferred to Bank A. 
Ive also considered what happened regarding the call back Mr D was promised. I can see 
from Shawbrooks system notes that a call handler attempted to call Mr D on 24 May 2022. 
The system note is timestamped at 17:33pm, so it appears they did attempt to call Mr D, but 
they were unable to be connected with him. Shawbrook did send Mr D a secure message 
about this, but due to system issues on Shawbrooks end, Mr D would not have received this 
until a few days after the attempted call as this issue was only rectified on 27 May 2022. This 
would have been frustrating for Mr D. As a result of no voicemail being left and the system 
issues regarding the secure messages, this inconvenienced him as he rung back the 
following day to find out why nobody rang him. The call handler was not aware of any 
technical issue with secure messages, which led to more inconvenience by Mr D being 
asked to check his documents also. It was clear from the call Mr Ds frustration at receiving 
an email to say there was a new message for him, but when he logged onto his messages 
there were no new messages in his inbox. 
Ive considered what is a fair outcome for Mr Ds complaint. Im satisfied that Shawbrook 
cost Mr D the opportunity to receive a higher interest rate from Bank B when they transferred 
his ISA to Bank A. Mr D has provided us with a screenshot to show that his fixed rate ISA 
with Bank A earns 1.65% interest. Our investigator asked Mr D for information about the 
interest rate from Bank B for the account he opened. As Mr D could not recall this, our 
investigator rang Bank B for this information. Ive listened to this call recording and the call 
handler confirms that the interest rate during the timeframe was 1.75% on the account, so 
Mr D received 0.1% less interest with Bank A where his funds were incorrectly transferred to. 
Shawbrook have 15 working days to complete a transfer, so I cant say that the funds would 
have been attracting the interest from Bank B for the full year once the account was opened. 
And Mr D had already opened the account with Bank B in anticipation of receiving the funds 
from Shawbrook which would not be receiving interest before the funds were transferred into 
the account. In addition, there is no guarantee that Mr D would hold all of the funds in the 
account for the year  and the maturity date is not for another few months so there are 
factors which would mean it would be likely that Mr D would not have received interest on 
the transferred funds for a full 365 day period.
To try to ensure fairness to both sides, I asked Shawbrook to calculate 0.1% difference in 
the transferred balance. But I also didnt think it was fair for no interest to be paid on the first 15 working days as Shawbrook may have transferred the funds quicker than this time period 
if they had gotten things right first time. So Shawbrook have calculated interest on 350 days 
(if working days were used then it would have been 344 days interest for the calculation). 
This equates to Mr D losing out on £10.17 interest on the transferred balance as a result of 
Shawbrooks errors which would have been tax free as it was in an ISA. So Im satisfied that 
they should pay Mr D this money on top of any award for distress and inconvenience. 
Shawbrook offered £100 compensation. Our investigator recommended a total of £150 
compensation. But Im not persuaded that this recognises the impact of all of the errors 
made. I say this because there were numerous errors made over a period of weeks. Mr D 
was given incorrect or conflicting information several times, which resulted in him having to 
ring or message Shawbrook to find out the correct answer, only to be sometimes given the 
wrong answer again, which would have been distressing for Mr D. This also meant he was 
inconvenienced having to spend more time getting to the bottom of what happened. Not only 
did he have to face system issues with the secure messaging, (although this was only for a 
few days), it appeared to Mr D that nobody rang him back like they said they would, then he 
didnt receive his secure messages until days later. It would have been frustrating to receive 
emails about new secure messages only to find out there were no messages.
Mr D would have been distressed after giving his clear instruction to cancel the ISA transfer 
to Bank A. He asked for confirmation of this, but this didnt happen. He explained he would 
be submitting a request from a new provider, but Shawbrook still made a transfer to the old 
provider at a lower interest rate to Mr D. So Mr D in effect had wasted his time opening up 
Bank Bs ISA and then he was inconvenienced by having to close this down when 
Shawbrook incorrectly transferred his ISA to Bank A. When he was told his ISA was 
transferred to Bank B it would have been distressing for him to view this account and see 
that no funds had been credited to his account, and this would have been preventable if the 
chat agent didnt give him the wrong information. 
Im persuaded that an extra £125 compensation should be paid to Mr D to total £225 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. This added to the lost interest of £10.17 would 
result in £235.17 in total being paid for the events that happened here, which Im persuaded 
is fair. I know this may disappoint Mr D as he was wanting closer to £300 compensation. But 
compensation is a discretionary remedy that we sometimes award if we feel that a business 
has acted wrongfully and therefore caused distress and inconvenience to their customer 
over and above that which naturally flows from the event. When we recommend 
compensation, it is often modest and within our established guidelines. So it follows I intend 
to ask Shawbrook to put things right for Mr D. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Both parties accepted my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my decision 
and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to uphold this complaint. I said I intend to ask 
Shawbrook Bank Limited to pay Mr D a total of £225 compensation (minus any 
compensation they have already paid him) for distress and inconvenience. They should also pay him an extra £10.17 in interest which would have been tax free as being part of an ISA. 
Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome for the reasons given previously.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Shawbrook Bank Limited should pay Mr D a total of £225 
compensation (minus any compensation they have already paid him) for distress and 
inconvenience. They should also pay him an extra £10.17 in interest which would have been 
tax free as being part of an ISA. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman