DRN-3277128
The complaint
Mr R complains about Everyday Lending Limited trading as GeorgeBanco.com (ELL) and 
their decision to default his account.
What happened
In 21 May 2019, Mr R took out a loan for £7,500 with ELL. This loan was for a period of 36 
months with a monthly repayment of £365.48 and had a guarantor attached.
Mr R maintained payments on the account until September 2019, where a payment was 
missed. But Mr R made Septembers payment alongside his October payment, to ensure the 
account remained clear of arrears.
But Mr R then missed payments in both December 2019 and January 2020. Mr R made a 
payment in February and a partial payment of £70 in April but other than this, no payments 
were made between March and June 2020. So, arrears accrued on his account. 
ELL spoke to Mr R throughout February 2020 to arrange repayment of the arrears. And they 
remained in communication with Mr R in an attempt to agree an arrangement to repay these 
in April and May, before writing to Mr R in June to explain the arrangement had been broken 
and full payment was needed. A notice of arrears was sent on 14 July and as the arrears 
remained outstanding, a default notice was sent to Mr R and his guarantor in 20 August.
Mr Rs account remained in arrears, so the account was defaulted, and a marker placed on 
Mr Rs credit file in November 2020. Mr R was unhappy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr R didnt think ELLs decision to default the account was fair. He thought ELL had failed to 
take his payments automatically, which had led to him accruing the arrears which he then 
couldnt afford to repay in a lump sum. And he didnt think ELL had given him and his 
guarantor reasonable notice of the default as hed made payments around the time the 
default was applied. And he didnt think the default notice gave him and his guarantor 
enough time to settle the account. So, he wanted the default to be removed from his credit 
file. 
ELL responded and didnt agree. They thought theyd acted fairly throughout the lifetime of 
the account, attempting to arrange a repayment plan with Mr R that would clear the arrears 
without the need for the account to be defaulted. But as Mr R had been unable to clear the 
arrears, and had continued to miss several payments, they thought their decision to default 
the account was fair. And they thought theyd given Mr R and his guarantor reasonable 
notice of this. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr R remained 
unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought Mr R was made 
reasonably aware payments had been missed, and that hed been given reasonable 
opportunity to ensure they were paid to avoid arrears being accrued. So, they didnt think 
ELL had acted unfairly when deciding to default the account. And they thought ELL had 
acted reasonably, in line with guidance set by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO), 
when providing notice of and applying this default. So, they didnt think ELL needed to do 
anything more.
Mr R didnt agree. He thought hed made a series of payments between July and November, 
when the default notice was sent, and account was defaulted. And he didnt think ELL 
considered these payments which he thought they shouldve done. He thought it was clear 
hed been seeking confirmation of the total to settle the account and so, he didnt think his 
relationship with ELL had broken down and because of this, he didnt think a default was 
necessary. And finally, he didnt think ELL had given him or his guarantor enough time to 
settle the account in the default notice that was sent. So, he maintained his belief that the 
default had been applied unfairly and so, should be removed from his credit file.
Our investigator considered these points but didnt think they changed the outcome they 
reached. Mr R didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr R. I appreciate a default 
being recorded on his credit file is likely to make it more difficult for him to obtain future 
credit. So, I can understand the inconvenience and worry this will have caused Mr R and I 
recognise why Mr R would challenge the default as I think its clear he wanted to avoid this 
eventuality. But for me to say ELL have done something wrong, Id need to be satisfied 
theyd made a mistake when applying the default. Or, if I dont think they have, that they 
failed to give Mr R reasonable notice of their intentions which prevented Mr R from being 
able rectify his account. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive first thought about whether ELL acted fairly and correctly when applying the default. I 
can see that Mr R missed payments in December 2019 and January 2020, as well March, 
May, and June with only a partial payment of £70 being made in April. This meant Mr Rs 
account was in arrears by around £2,000 when they sent him a notice of arrears in July 
2020. And although Mr R did make payments to the account in July, August, September and 
October 2020, these payments only covered the monthly repayments required for those 
months. So, when the default was applied in November 2020, Mr Rs account was still in 
arrears by around £1,800. And this level of arrears amounted to around five months worth of 
payments. 
The ICO guidance explains that an account shouldnt be defaulted until the account is at 
least three months in arrears. And it explains that it would expect an account to be defaulted 
by the time a consumer is in arrears by six months at the latest. So, as ELL decided to apply 
the default when Mr Rs arrears were within this range, I cant say that theyve acted unfairly 
or wrongly when doing so.
I appreciate Mr R thinks this is unfair as he made payments to the account after the default 
notice was sent but the only way these payments would impact the default being applied is if 
they cleared the arrears. And Ive seen the loan statement which shows this wasnt the case.
I understand Mr R has also disputed the default, stating the relationship between himself and ELL hadnt broken down. And I recognise Mr R and ELL were in dialogue for an extended 
period of time as Mr R and his guarantor were seeking clarification on what the final 
settlement figure would be. But Ive considered this e-mail chain at length, as well as the 
system notes ELL have provided, and I think its clear Mr R had stated hed make payments 
on several occasions before failing to follow through with the promises he made. And on 
several occasions, Mr R and his guarantor extended the time they needed to clear the 
account, giving differing reasons such as travel and waiting for funds to clear. 
Because of this, I dont think I can say ELL were unfair to proceed to default the account as I 
dont think they had received any information that provided them with confirming the arrears 
could, or would, be cleared. As Mr R had failed to maintain an agreed arrangement, and 
failed to make payments on several occasions, I think ELL were fair to decide this 
represented as a breakdown in relationship as the arrears had failed be cleared over an 
extended period of time despite several attempts to arrange.
So, because of the above, I think ELL decision to default the account was fair and so, I 
would expect them to record this to Mr Rs credit file as they have an obligation to accurately 
report the way he maintained the account.
Ive then thought about whether I think ELL gave Mr R and his guarantor reasonable notice 
of their intention to default the account. I can see a default notice was sent to both Mr R and 
his guarantor on 20 August. And this was received by Mr Rs guarantor.
Im aware Mr R says he didnt receive the notice himself, but I can see notices were sent to 
both parties. And I think this is supported by the fact the guarantor received his copy. So, I 
think ELL did everything they could to send Mr R the notice and I dont think it is their fault, 
or their responsibility, if it failed to be delivered.
Within this notice, ELL gave Mr R and his guarantor until 7 September to pay the 
outstanding arrears. And I can see Mr R and his guarantor failed to do so. Mr R has said 
ELL didnt give either him or his guarantor enough time to comply with this deadline, as it 
was only received on that day. So, they dont think the default was fairly applied.
But the ICO guidelines explain a lender, in this case ELL, must notify a customer of their 
intention to register a default at least 28 days before doing so. And I can see a default wasnt 
registered against Mr R until November 2020, which is more than 28 days after the notice 
was sent. So, I think ELL complied with this guideline.
In fact, I can see ELL spoke to Mr R at the start of October 2020 and agreed another 
arrangement that would prevent any further reporting to Mr Rs credit file on the basis the 
arrears were cleared. And when Mr R didnt clear the arrears, the default was recorded.
So, I think ELL gave Mr R and his guarantor reasonable notice of their intention to default 
the account. And I think Mr R and his guarantor were reasonably aware of the actions they 
needed to take to prevent this. And I cant see that they made reasonable attempts to clear 
the arrears before the default was applied. Because of this, I cant say ELL have acted 
unfairly and so, I dont think they need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr R was hoping for. And I appreciate this leaves him 
with a default recorded on his credit file, which may impact his ability to obtain future credit. 
But as Ive explained above, I think the default marker ELL have placed on his credit file is 
an accurate reflection of the way he managed his account. Its also important to note that the 
sooner ELL applied the default and default marker, the sooner the default will disappear from 
Mr Rs credit file once the six-year time period has passed. As I dont think ELL had any 
evidence or information that satisfied them Mr R would be able to clear the arrears, I think they acted in Mr Rs best interests by proceeding to the default the account to prevent any 
further delays in reporting.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint about Everyday Lending 
Limited trading as GeorgeBanco.com. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman