DRN-3482046
The complaint
Mr T has complained that he is unhappy with the way that Revolut Ltd have dealt with his 
chargeback requests. 
What happened
Mr T attempted a payment of 789 Russian Rubles (RUB) to a merchant on 27 August 2021. 
The payment was declined twice. 
On 28 August 2021, 1544 RUB were taken from his account in respect of the two 
transactions and so he made a chargeback claim. 
A further payment of 749 RUB was taken on 20 September 2021, which Mr T said was 
unauthorised, and so he made a second chargeback claim. 
Revolut refunded half of the first chargeback as they said that they could see that it had 
been charged twice but they said they couldnt refund the full amount as 789 RUB was an 
authorised transaction and there was no evidence that the goods didnt arrive. 
Revolut said the September debit was a subscription. Mr T said he had no knowledge of this, 
and so Revolut have offered to refund this. 
Mr T was unhappy with this response and brought his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ts complaint and she thought that Revolut hadnt 
done anything wrong. 
Mr T disagreed with our investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision, so it 
has come to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not upheld Mr Ts complaint and I will explain my reasons below. 
The first chargeback
Mr T attempted to make an online payment to a merchant twice but it was declined both 
times. This meant that the merchant then represented the payment offline later that day. 
Revolut have explained that they dont have the option to decline offline payments, and so 
they had to authorise the payment request and pay the 1544 RUB.
When Mr T raised the chargeback request the following day he raised it on the basis of the 
amount being incorrect. The chargeback team accepted Mr Ts request, processed it, and on 
10 November 2021 they refunded Mr T half of the amount, which was for the duplicate 
payment, but as he had authorised the initial payment of 789 RUB to the merchant, they 
didnt refund that part of the payment. 
Mr T has subsequently said that he should have had a full refund of both payments as he 
didnt receive the item. Revolut have provided us with the transcript of the chat between Mr T 
and Revolut on 28 August when he raised the chargeback. I cant see that Mr T told them at 
any point that he didnt receive the item. In addition, when Revolut raised the chargeback 
with the merchant bank, the merchant provided evidence of the item being delivered. And 
so, I dont think Revolut have acted unfairly in not refunding the whole amount as Mr T had 
never disputed receipt and the evidence indicates it was received.   
 
The second chargeback
The payment on 20 September 2021 was recorded on Revoluts system as a subscription 
payment to the same provider.  
However, Mr T informed Revolut that he hadnt intended to set up a subscription payment 
and so he was advised to raise a chargeback request for this. 
Revolut have offered to refund the 7.87EUR charged as a gesture of goodwill, and I think 
this is a reasonable outcome. 
Delay
Mr T has said that he feels this took a long time to sort out and has asked for compensation. 
I can see that from the outset, Revolut were clear about the timescales involved. In their 
acknowledgements about the chargebacks they state that it could take up to 50 days for a 
response to be issued and customers are referred to the website where it says that it can 
take up to 12 weeks to process a chargeback. While I appreciate this is a long time to wait 
for an answer, this was notified to you and Revolut havent delayed more than they said.  
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint about 
Revolut Ltd.   
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman