DRN-3146873
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the transfer of his two pension plans to a new self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP) in 2015. He said that the transfer was unsuitable for his needs 
and led to him suffering a financial loss.
Mr C is represented in this complaint by a third party (Representative).
What happened
In 2015, a regulated financial advisory business, which I shall call Firm C, recorded the 
following information about Mr C:
He was 52, in good health, divorced and didnt have any financial dependants;
He was employed on an annual salary of £20,000;
His assets comprised his residential home valued at £220,000, cash savings of 
£30,000, investments of £5,000 and two pension plans (the subject of this complaint) 
valued in total at £88,631. The pension plans were invested in a balanced managed 
fund;
His liabilities comprised a mortgage of £131,000 secured against his residential 
home;
He had a high risk profile which was defined as, Your aim is to be reasonably 
speculative with your investments in the hope of high returns. The risk to your capital 
is high, and the value of the original investment may go down significantly as well as 
up significantly. Reasonably speculative portfolios typically have a higher proportion 
in equities and various global asset classes. You understand that investment returns 
cannot be guaranteed and you accept that you might get back less than you put in, 
especially in the short term;
He was concerned that the financial markets were overheating and his objective was 
to review his two pension plans with a view to reducing the potential for losses should 
there be a downturn in the markets; and
He was interested in transferring to a SIPP with a view to investing in more esoteric 
investment strategies to achieve his objective.
On 17 July 2015, Firm C issued a suitability report to Mr C recommending that he transfer 
the value of his two pension plans to a new SIPP and then invest money with a Discretionary 
Fund Manager (DFM) to align with his high risk profile. Firm C didnt specify in its 
suitability report the amount that should be invested with the DFM. Mr C accepted the 
recommendation.
On 30 July 2015, Firm C sent a paper application form to its recommended SIPP provider to 
set up a new account. On the same day, another business, Quays Wealth Management 
Limited (Quays Wealth), submitted an online application. Having received two applications 
from different businesses, the SIPP provider was unsure which business was meant to be 
representing Mr C. So it asked him to clarify his intentions by providing a signed letter of 
authority stipulating his preferred servicing agent. The SIPP provider subsequently received 
a letter of authority signed by Mr C on 30 July 2015 instructing it to transfer the servicing of 
his SIPP, including all renewal and trail fees, to Quays Wealth. 
That letter of authority was signed before the SIPP account opened on 26 August 2015. 
Over the next several weeks, Quays Wealth facilitated the transfer of Mr Cs two pension 
plans to the SIPP. On 3 November 2015, a total amount of £91,249.24 was transferred to 
the SIPP. The SIPP provider deducted £2,737.48 from the account in respect of the initial 
advice fee and paid this to Quays Wealth who forwarded it to Firm C.
On 10 November 2015, Quays Wealth instructed the SIPP provider to transfer £85,100 of 
the SIPP fund value to the DFM for investment. An agreement existed between Quays 
Wealth and the DFM. This set out the generally allowable assets and securities that could be 
held in a clients portfolio. It also confirmed that the DFM remained responsible for ensuring 
the investment remained consistent with the underlying clients risk profile. Mr C later 
suffered a substantial financial loss on his investment managed by the DFM. 
In 2017, the DFM was declared in default by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme 
(FSCS). Then, in 2018, Firm C was declared in default by the FSCS.
This complaint
Mr C was unhappy about the financial loss he suffered following the transfer to the SIPP. 
The Representative, on behalf of Mr C, complained to Quays Wealth about the suitability of 
the advice to transfer the value of his two pension plans to a new SIPP and to then invest 
money with the DFM. In summary, it said that Mr C was an inexperienced investor, had a 
conservative risk profile and a low capacity for loss. It thought that the recommendation to 
transfer didnt meet Mr Cs needs and was unsuitable because it exposed his pension fund 
to more risk than he was willing and able to tolerate. It said that the advice had led to Mr C 
suffering a financial loss of £101,687.43. To put things right, it requested compensation.
Quays Wealth didnt uphold this complaint. It explained that Firm C provided the pension 
transfer advice to Mr C and so that business was responsible for ensuring the recommended 
SIPP and underlying investment with the DFM was suitable for his needs. It explained that it 
had acted as a locum for Firm C and simply provided administrative services to it during the 
period in question. And that upon the closure of Firm C, it had then assumed the servicing 
rights for some of that businesss clients, including Mr C, through a transfer of agency. It said 
that in Mr Cs case, the transfer of agency was actioned and the initial advice fee of 
£2,737.48 was paid to it in error. It said that it forwarded the fee to Firm C because that 
business had provided the pension transfer advice to Mr C. Quays Wealth stated that the 
DFM stole Mr Cs money and that his claim for compensation should therefore be referred to 
the FSCS.
Based on the information provided by Quays Wealth, the Representative submitted a claim 
for compensation to the FSCS about Firm C. But the FSCS rejected Mr Cs claim for 
compensation. This was because the evidence the FSCS had received from the SIPP 
provider confirmed that Quays Wealth had been appointed as Mr Cs servicing agent before 
the SIPP account opened and the pension switch being completed in November 2015. This 
led the FSCS to conclude that Quays Wealth, and not Firm C, was responsible for ensuring 
that the SIPP and investment placed with the DFM was suitable for Mr Cs needs. Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He acknowledged that 
Firm C and not Quays Wealth provided the pension transfer advice to Mr C. But he thought 
that from the point Quays Wealth became the servicing agent to Mr Cs SIPP, it then had a 
regulatory duty, under COBS 2.1.1R, to act in his best interests. He concluded that this duty 
required Quays Wealth to assess the suitability of the proposed pension transfer it was 
facilitating. Our investigator said that the pension transfer led to Mr C incurring additional 
costs without good reason and the underlying investment in the DFM exposed his pension 
fund to an unsuitable level of investment risk. He thought that Mr Cs existing pension plans 
met his needs. So he concluded that had Quays Wealth carried out a suitability assessment, 
it likely wouldve advised against the pension transfer. To put things right, our investigator 
recommended that Quays Wealth carry out a loss assessment and, if this showed a loss, to 
pay redress to Mr C. He also recommended that Quays Wealth pay £300 to Mr C for the 
trouble and upset he had suffered.
Quays Wealth didnt accept our investigators opinion and provided additional comments and 
evidence. Our investigator considered this but wasnt persuaded to change his opinion. 
Since agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint has been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services
and Markets Act 2000 and the Dispute Resolution section in the FCAs handbook, I need to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards,
and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
Before I go on, Id like to clarify that the scope of this final decision is limited to the 
consideration of the acts and/or omissions of Quays Wealth in its dealings with Mr C. I wont 
be considering the acts and/or omissions of Firm C or the DFM because this complaint is not 
about those businesses. And Id like to make clear that the purpose of this final decision isnt 
to repeat or address every single point raised by the parties. So if I havent commented on 
any specific point its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. 
The following facts arent in dispute:
On 17 July 2015, Firm C issued a suitability report to Mr C recommending that he 
transfer the value of his two pension plans to a new SIPP and then invest money with 
a DFM to align with his high risk profile. The suitability report didnt specify how 
much money was recommended to be invested with the DFM;
On 30 July 2015, Mr C signed a letter of authority confirming that the servicing of his 
SIPP, including all renewal and trail fees, should be transferred to Quays Wealth; 
On 19 August 2015, Quays Wealth became authorised and regulated by the FCA, 
following which it was required to adhere to the regulators rules;
On 26 August 2015, the new SIPP account opened;
Over the following several weeks up to 10 November 2015, Quays Wealth facilitated 
the transfer of Mr Cs existing pension plans and then, following completion of the transfer, instructed the SIPP provider to transfer £85,100 of the SIPP fund value to 
the DFM for investment.
Quays Wealth said Firm C provided the advice about which Mr C has complained and that 
this complaint should therefore be about that business. It said its role in the transaction has 
been misunderstood by this service and that it cannot be held responsible for the advice 
provided by another business. Its stressed that its role in the transfer was as a locum for 
Firm C and that it simply provided administrative services. It said that its locum agreement 
didnt require it to check the suitability of the advice provided by another business. It also 
said that Mr C lost money on his investment due to the actions of the DFM which were 
outside of its control. Because of these reasons, it disagreed with our investigators view that 
it shouldve checked whether the recommended SIPP and subsequent investment in the 
DFM was suitable for Mr Cs needs or that its responsible for the financial loss that Mr C has 
suffered. 
I acknowledge that Firm C and not Quays Wealth advised Mr C to transfer and invest money 
with the DFM. Im satisfied that I understand Quays Wealths role in the transaction. This 
service has an inquisitorial remit when considering complaints  this means were able to 
look at whats relevant to a complaint, even if it hasnt been specifically outlined by the 
consumer or their representative, in order to consider what would be a fair and reasonable 
outcome. 
It seems to me that theres two questions I need to answer to decide this complaint about 
Quays Wealth, as follows:
1. Did Quays Wealth owe a duty of care to act in Mr Cs best interests in order to 
protect him from potential harm when it facilitated the pension transfer and, if so, did 
this extend to assessing the suitability of the transaction including the proposed 
investment in the DFM?
2. If the answer to the first question is yes, then was the transfer to the SIPP and 
investment in the DFM suitable based on Mr Cs needs and circumstances?
Ive considered these questions and all the evidence afresh including our investigators 
assessment. Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for 
these reasons:
The letter of authority signed by Mr C on 30 July 2015 confirmed his instruction to the 
SIPP provider to transfer the servicing of his account, including renewal and trail 
fees, to Quays Wealth. In my view, from 19 August 2015 when Quays Wealth 
became authorised and regulated by the FCA, it had a regulatory responsibility, 
under COBS 2.1.1R, to act fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of Mr C. Im satisfied that this regulatory responsibility extended to 
assessing the suitability of the pension transfer it was facilitating on Mr Cs behalf. I 
say this because I dont think it was reasonable in the circumstances for Quays 
Wealth to become the servicing agent for Mr Cs SIPP and then blindly implement the 
recommendation of another business without checking whether it was in its clients 
best interests;
Another key factor was time. Quays Wealth became authorised and regulated by the 
FCA, and also the servicing agent for the SIPP, about three months before the 
transfer was completed. Im satisfied that this timeframe provided Quays Wealth 
adequate time and opportunity to assess the suitability of Mr Cs SIPP including the proposed transfer and to put a stop to it if it had any concerns that it wasnt in Mr Cs 
best interests. I think this is a reasonable expectation;
Quays Wealth said it didnt assess the suitability of the transfer because it was acting 
as a locum for Firm C. But since Ive concluded that Quays Wealth shouldve 
assessed this, Ive considered it. Mr Cs two pension plans were invested in a 
balanced managed fund. It was recorded that Mr C was concerned the financial 
markets were overheating and wanted to review his two pension plans with a view to 
reducing the potential for losses should there be a downturn in the markets. The two 
pension plans represented the entirety of his private pension provision. The transfer 
to the SIPP led to higher costs and investment on a higher risk basis compared to the 
two existing pension plans. In my view, Mr C had simple investment requirements. 
Given that he wanted to de-risk, Im not convinced that he had a high risk profile or 
that he wanted to invest in more esoteric investment strategies through a SIPP at 
additional cost. The information recorded about his background and circumstances 
simply doesnt support this. Its my view that Mr Cs objective to de-risk couldve been 
achieved simply by switching to lower-risked rated funds on his existing pension 
plans and for a lower overall cost compared to the recommended SIPP and 
investment by the DFM. Therefore, its my conclusion that the transfer wasnt suitable 
based on Mr Cs needs and circumstances;
Quays Wealth didnt determine Mr Cs high risk profile or recommend he transfer to 
the SIPP and invest with the DFM. But the point Ive made above is that I think it had 
a regulatory duty to assess whether the transfer was in Mr Cs best interests and to 
stop the transaction if it had any concerns. I think that had Quays Wealth assessed 
whether the proposed transfer was in Mr Cs best interests, it wouldve informed him 
it wasnt suitable for the reasons Ive set out above. I say this because I dont think 
any competent business acting in Mr Cs best interests wouldve concluded that the 
transfer was suitable bearing in mind it involved investing the majority of his private 
pension provision on a higher risk basis and with additional cost when his objective to 
de-risk couldve been achieved through his existing pension plans; and
I acknowledge Quays Wealths comments about the actions of the DFM. But I dont 
think the issues concerning the DFM affect my decision. This is because had Quays 
Wealth stopped the transaction, as Ive concluded it ought to have done, investment 
in the DFM wouldnt have occurred. Because Quays Wealth failed to do this, Mr C 
ended up transferring to an unsuitable SIPP which led to him exposing the majority of 
his private pension provision to more risk than he was likely willing and able to 
tolerate, and higher costs without good reason. As such, its my view that Quays 
Wealth is liable for any financial loss Mr C has suffered as result of the pension 
transfer and investment with the DFM.
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr C as close as
possible to the position hed probably now be in but for Quays Wealths failings.
I think Mr C wouldve invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely what he wouldve 
done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given what was 
recorded about Mr Cs circumstances and objectives in July 2015. What Ive set out below is 
in line with that previously recommended by our investigator.
What must Quays Wealth do?To compensate Mr C fairly, Quays Wealth must compare the performance of Mr Cs SIPP 
with that of the benchmark shown below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, 
theres a loss and compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, 
no compensation is payable.
Quays Wealth must also pay any interest set out below.
If theres a loss, Quays Wealth must pay money into Mr Cs SIPP to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Quays Wealth shouldnt pay the compensation into the 
SIPP if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the SIPP isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it should 
be paid directly to Mr C as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for future 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss couldve been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% wouldve been taxed according to Mr Cs likely income tax 
rate in retirement  which Ive decided is likely to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 
15% overall from the future loss adequately reflects this.
Investment Status Benchmark From
(start date)To
(end date)Additional
interest
SIPP Still 
existsFor half the
investment:
FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Index;
For the other
half: 
Average
rate from fixed
rate bondsdate of
transferdate of
settlement8% simple a year 
from date of this 
final decision to 
date of settlement 
if settlement isnt 
made within 28 
days of Quays 
Wealth being 
notified of Mr Cs 
acceptance of 
this decision
In addition, Quays Wealth must:
pay Mr C £300 for the trouble and upset Im satisfied the loss in value of his pension 
fund has caused him; and
provide details of the calculation to Mr C in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Quays Wealth considers that its required 
by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C how 
much its taken off. It should also give Mr C a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so 
he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Actual value
This means the actual transfer value of the SIPP at the end date. If, at the end date, any 
underlying investment in the SIPP is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value
should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Quays Wealth should take 
ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the SIPP 
provider. This amount should be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as above. If Quays Wealth is unable to purchase the underlying investment(s) the actual value 
should be assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation. Quays Wealth may wish to 
require that Mr C provides an undertaking to pay it any amount he may receive from the 
underlying investment in the future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that 
would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the SIPP. Quays Wealth will need to meet any 
costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the SIPP wouldve been worth at the end date had it produced a return
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Quays Wealth 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank 
of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Apply those rates to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the SIPP should be deducted from
the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If theres many regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, 
Ill accept if Quays Wealth totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end 
instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of redress for the following reasons:
It was recorded that Mr C was concerned that the financial markets were overheating 
and wanted to review his two pension plans with a view to reducing the potential for 
losses should there be a downturn in the markets. Therefore, I think he wanted 
capital growth with a small risk to his capital;
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for an individual 
who wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital;
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for an individual who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return;
I consider that Mr C's true risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr C into that position. It doesnt mean that               
Mr C wouldve invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind 
of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Mr C couldve obtained from investments suited to 
his objective and risk profile.
Further information
The information about the average rate can be found on the Bank of Englands website by
searching for quoted household interest rates and then clicking on the related link to itsdatabase, or by entering this address https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/boeapps/database/, 
and then clicking on: Interest & exchange rates data / Quoted household interest rates / 
Deposit rates  Fixed rate bonds / 1 year (IUMWTFA) and then exporting the source data.
There is guidance on how to carry out calculations available on our website, which can be
found by following this link: https://www.financial-
ombudsman.org.uk/businesses/resolvingcomplaint/
understanding-compensation/compensation-investment-complaints. Alternatively, Quays 
Wealth can just type compensation for investment complaints into the search bar on our 
website: https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Quays Wealth Management Limited must redress Mr C as Ive
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman