DRN-2715302
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E have complained that, due to IT issues caused by Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc 
trading as Post Office Financial Services (referred to here as BOI), they missed out on their 
chosen mortgage interest rate product in September 2020 and had to take a new product at 
a higher rate of interest in October 2020. To settle the complaint Mr and Mrs E would like 
BOI to honour the pre-October 2020 interest rate product.
Mr and Mrs E are also unhappy at the way BOI dealt with their complaint.
What happened
The events leading up to the complaint have been set out in detail in correspondence 
between Mr and Mrs E, BOI and our investigator, so I will not repeat the details here. 
Briefly, Mr and Mrs E have a mortgage with BOI. It was on an interest rate product that was 
due to expire on 30 November 2020. Mr and Mrs E had applied for that product online, by 
registering on BOIs online mortgage hub and completing the application online. 
Mr and Mrs E say that they tried to access new interest rate products in August and 
September 2020, but the rates for existing customers were not displayed. Mr and Mrs E 
believe this was due to an IT error. 
On 18 September 2020 Mr E sent a message to BOI through the online hub and after that 
there were various attempts made between both BOI and Mr E to discuss the matter. It 
wasnt until 8 October 2020 that Mr and Mrs E were able to proceed with their application. By 
this time, however, products previously available in September 2020 had expired. 
Mr and Mrs E say that they have now had to take out a product at a rate of 2.71% (fixed to 
31 December 2022) which they say is costing them £300 a month more than the product 
they could have had in September 2020, but for BOIs IT errors. In January 2021 Mr and Mrs 
E asked BOI if it could offer them better rates, due to vulnerability. After investigating their 
circumstances, BOI explained to Mr E on 28 January 2021 that he and Mrs E didnt meet the 
criteria to be classified as vulnerable customers.
Mr and Mrs E complained to BOI that they hadnt been able to access the rates available in 
September 2020, but the bank didnt uphold the complaint. In its final response letter, BOI 
explained that, after receiving Mr Es online message,  it had tried numerous times to contact 
Mr and Mrs E by telephone, but wasnt able to do so. BOI said Mr and Mrs E werent 
registered for online access to new products, which is why they couldnt view the new rates 
online.
Mr and Mrs E were unhappy with BOIs response and complained to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. An investigator looked at what had happened, but didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld. Although she acknowledged Mr and Mrs E disputed the number 
of times BOI said it had tried to contact them, the banks records showed how many calls 
had actually been made. 
The investigator also obtained some further information from BOI about its online portal. The 
bank explained that Mr and Mrs E had registered for the online mortgage hub in September 
2018 when they applied for their previous product. Once the application was completed, the 
hub could only be used to send messages to BOI; to access new rates, further registration 
would be needed. The investigator noted Mr and Mrs E had tried to access the portal various 
times in September 2020, but theyd had password problems.
The investigator was satisfied that, after Mr E had messaged the bank in September 2020, 
sufficient steps had been taken by BOI to contact Mr and Mrs E. Whilst she noted that 
Mr and Mrs E couldnt have known theyd need to register again in order to access new 
rates, she clarified that we cant tell BOI how to run its business. 
Mr and Mrs E werent happy with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. They say that, during the pandemic when it was difficult to contact BOI 
over the phone, the bank failed to communicate the alternative options which they could use 
to manage their accounts. In particular, the second level of registration to access new 
products wasnt explained. Mr and Mrs E also dispute the number of times BOI tried to call 
them. Mr E says he only had two voicemails from BOI, and wasnt able to call back because 
he was busy at work.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. These are my 
reasons.
First of all, I accept that Mr and Mrs E couldnt have known that they would need to re-
register in order to access new rates online. BOI has explained that, once the September 
2018 application completed, this closed off the portal other than for messaging purposes. 
I dont have any power to tell BOI how to run its business, including how it sets up online 
access for customers. I can see that Mr E was able to message BOI via the portal. I can also 
see that there were various attempts to access it, but this wasnt successful due to password 
problems. 
But I see that, after receiving Mr Es message via the mortgage hub on 18 September 2020, 
BOI tried to contact him several times. Mr and Mrs E dispute the number of calls made by 
the bank, but they are shown in BOIs contemporaneous records. In any event, Mr E 
acknowledges he received two voicemails from the bank but was too busy to call back. 
Overall, Im satisfied BOIs efforts to contact Mr and Mrs E were reasonable. If two 
voicemails werent returned, I dont see what more the bank should have done. It wasnt until 
early October 2020 that Mr and Mrs E were able to discuss a new product with BOI.
The crux of this complaint is that Mr and Mrs E say they lost out on a lower interest rate 
product because they werent able to access the available rates before the end of 
September 2020. On their complaint form they have told us that they are £300 per month 
worse off as a result. 
Theyve not said what that specific product was which would have saved them so much 
money each month, but the rate Mr and Mrs E eventually took out in November 2020 was for 
a 60% loan-to-value (LTV) product at a fixed rate of 2.72% expiring on 31 December 2022. 
The monthly repayment during the fixed rate period is £634.88. What I have to decide is whether, in fact, Mr and Mrs Es current mortgage product is (as 
they claim) costing them £300 per month more than the available BOI products they say they 
could have taken out in September 2020  which would have given them a monthly 
repayment of around £335 (compared with the £634.88 they are now paying). 
Ive looked online and can see from BOIs intermediaries portal that the only 60% LTV 
two-year fixed rate products expiring on 31 December 2022 which were available up to 
24 September 2020 were at 2.87% or 3.11% - so at a higher rate of interest than the 2.71% 
two-year fixed rate product Mr and Mrs E actually took out in November 2020. Given this, Im 
not persuaded Mr and Mrs E had sourced a BOI product which was withdrawn in September 
2020 and which would have given them a monthly repayment of approximately £335 per 
month. So although Mr and Mrs E say they are now £300 a month worse off, the evidence 
doesnt persuade me that this is, in fact, the case.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs E were put to some inconvenience in trying to discuss a new 
product with BOI. But in all the circumstances, Im not persuaded that they are, as they have 
told us, £300 a month worse off on the rate they took out in November 2020 compared with 
the rate they say they could have taken out in September 2020.
Mr and Mrs E are also unhappy with the way in which BOI dealt with their complaint, but 
thats not something I can consider here. Our rules only allow us to consider complaints 
about regulated activities, and complaint-handling isnt a regulated activity. BOI had eight 
weeks from the date the complaint was made on 30 October 2020 to respond. The final 
response letter was issued on 17 November 2020 and addressed the complaint.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs E were hoping for. But after taking note of 
what theyve told us, Im not persuaded they have suffered any financial loss as a result of 
not being able to access the products available in September 2020.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman