DRN-4205146
The complaint
Mr G has complained about the way Wakam have handled his claim for the repairs to his car
under his taxi insurance policy.
Mr G also complained that he hadnt heard anything about pursuing a claim for his injuries
following the accident giving rise to his claim, but we havent considered this, as the claim
now seems to be progressing with the help of an agent appointed to support Mr G.
The claim for the repairs to Mr Gs car was handled by Wakams claim handling agent, but
for the sake of ease I have referred to Wakam throughout this decision. 
What happened
Mr Gs car was damaged in an accident on 29 September 2022. Wakam collected it and
took it to one of their approved repairers. Mr G chased Wakam to find out what was
happening on several occasions and eventually complained about the delay in repairing his
car. He didnt get a response from Wakam, so he asked us to consider his complaint.
Mr G eventually got his car back on 8 December 2022. He was unhappy with the standard of
the repairs and complained to Wakam about this. He took his car back to the approved
repairer on 13 December 2022 and has said they werent really interested in putting right the
problems and were quite confrontational. He complained to Wakam about this again on 22
December 2022 and hadnt heard anything further by the time our investigator considered
his complaint.
We asked Wakam to send their file on Mr Gs complaint on 30 January 2022. And our
investigator asked them to do this again on 3 March. At this point the investigator also made
Wakam aware that Mr G had complained about the poor standard of the repairs to his car
and the fact hed never received a response to this complaint. And the investigator asked for
some additional information.
Wakam still hadnt provided their file or any information on Mr Gs complaint by 13 March
2022. So, our investigator issued an opinion on Mr Gs complaint to both Wakam and Mr G.
In this he said that  in the absence of any reasonable explanation  the length of time
Wakam had taken to repair Mr Gs car was excessive and unfairly disruptive to Mr G. He
also said the photographs provided by Mr G supported what hed said about the poor
standard of repairs. The investigator recommended that Wakam should arrange to rectify the
defects in the repairs to Mr Gs car and pay him £200 in compensation for distress and
inconvenience.
Wakam did not respond to the investigators opinion. Mr G responded to say he was
happy with the investigators recommendations, but didnt want his car to go back to the
same approved repairer for the rectification work.
I issued a provisional decision on 7 June 2023 and set out what Id provisionally decided as 
follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied from what Mr G has said that there was an unacceptable delay in repairing his
car, which caused him unnecessary distress and inconvenience. This was not only because
he had to keep chasing Wakam, but also because the hire car he had didnt enable him to
work for all the taxi companies he was linked to. He also had an issue with getting his PCO
licence once he got his car back due to the delay. In addition to this, Mr G clearly
experienced distress and inconvenience as a result of the poor repairs to his car. Mr G also
lost income as a result of the delay repairing his car, but he has said he cant evidence this.
However, bearing in mind that Mr G lost income because of the delays and there were also
problems with the repairs, I think the distress and inconvenience he experienced was
significant and warrants a higher award in compensation than £200. So, Ive decided that
Wakam should pay Mr G £500.
I also agree with our investigator that the evidence provided by Mr G suggests the repairs to
his car were of a very poor standard. And that work is required to rectify the issues Mr G has
identified that have not been rectified already. For clarity Ive provided a list below:
the left hand side tyre had a massive gash on the tyre wall and was not replaced;
a severe colour mismatch on the left hand side wing;
the paint on the bumper is bubbling;
the door alignment is off;
there are new scratches and damage on the left hand side wing (white marks);
the drivers door which was replaced has a scratch; and
the whole colour of the car has been ruined with overspray.
I think Wakam should arrange and pay for the rectification work to be carried out as soon as
possible. They should also provide Mr G with or pay for him to hire a replacement car whilst
the work is being carried out. I also agree with Mr G that the work should not be carried out
by the same approved repairer. This is because he was not happy with their approach and
they werent really interested. Therefore, Wakam should, either arrange for it to be carried
out at another of their approved repairers, or ask Mr G to get an estimate for the work from a
repairer of his choice, which they can approve. They should then settle the invoice once the
work has been completed.
I gave the parties until 21 June 2023 to provide further comments and evidence in response 
to my provisional decision. 
Neither party has provided any further comments or evidence. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further comments or evidence, I see no reason to reach a 
different outcome to the one set out in my provisional decision for the reasons I also set out. 
Putting things right
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I consider the fair and reasonable 
outcome to Mr Gs complaint is for Wakam to arrange and pay for the rectification work, as 
set out as required in my provisional decision, to be carried out to his vehicle as soon aspossible.
Wakam should also provide Mr G with or pay for him to hire a replacement car whilst
the work is being carried out. 
I also agree with Mr G that the work should not be carried out by the same approved 
repairer. This is because he was not happy with their approach and they werent really 
interested. Therefore, Wakam should, either arrange for it to be carried out at another of 
their approved repairers, or ask Mr G to get an estimate for the work from a repairer of his 
choice, which they can approve. They should then settle the invoice once the work has been 
completed.
Wakam should also pay Mr G £500 in compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint about Wakam and order Wakam to do 
what Ive set out above in the Putting things right section. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman