DRN-1419094
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained about AIG UK Limiteds handling of their caravan insurance 
policy.
Reference to AIG includes their agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H claimed on their policy with AIG after damage was caused to their static 
caravan. Mr and Mrs H said their caravan was damaged as a result of storms at the end of 
November 2018.
AIG refused the claim saying the caravan had been poorly maintained and suffered from 
wear and tear. And, as a result, water entered the caravan and damaged an internal wall. 
AIG said the claim wasnt covered under the policy.
Mr and Mrs H brought their complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked into it. 
He felt that AIG had dealt with Mr and Mrs H fairly. As Mr and Mrs H didnt think that was 
fair, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs H, but Im not going to uphold their 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs H have made many detailed submissions and Ive considered all of those 
carefully. But, in this decision, I will focus on what I consider to be the key outstanding 
issues. 
Mr and Mrs H discovered an internal wall of their caravan had become loose. They said that 
was caused as a result of winds during heavy storms at the end of November 2018. The 
storms are well documented and were reported in the press. AIG said there is no evidence 
to show the damage to the caravan was storm related.
After Mr and Mrs H made their claim, AIG asked an engineer to inspect the caravan. The 
engineer said:
Having investigated the corner moulding, we noticed that there is a significant gap in 
the sealant and it is clear that, at some point since it was manufactured, there has 
been an attempt to reseal this moulding given the crude application of white sealant 
applied in areas around the moss-covered broken sealant. We discussed this with 
your Policyholder and her partner, but they have stated that they have not tried to 
reseal this themselves, so we presume the issue pre-dates the purchase.
AIG refused the claim saying there was no evidence that an insured event caused the 
damage. AIG referred to the general exclusions that said Wear and Tear Loss or damage 
arising from wear and tear (which shall include seepage of water through seams and seals 
into the Home) was excluded.
Mr and Mrs H asked their own expert to look at the caravan. He said there was no evidence 
of damp or water ingress within the caravan as would be expected if water had entered the 
caravan as AIG claimed. He also said all external joints and se[a]ms are watertight. He 
concluded: in my opinion the boards parting from the studding is due to from continual 
flexing of the exterior aluminium panels due to side winds and extreme temperatures 
(expansion in hot weather and contraction in cold). This has weakened and popped the 
adhesive which secured the internal wall boards.
AIG asked their engineer to consider the opinion of Mr and Mrs Hs expert. AIGs expert 
disagreed with Mr and Mrs Hs experts comment that the joints and seems were watertight. 
AIG provided photos taken by their engineer which show the moulding on the front right 
corner, which is the area where the damage occurred. Ive seen the photos and as AIGs 
engineer has said there is a gap in the sealant. 
Although AIG maintained their position that the damage was caused because of water 
ingress through the corner moulding, which was excluded as being wear and tear, they said 
the claim would still be excluded even if Mr and Mrs Hs experts opinion was correct. AIG 
said, according to Mr and Mrs Hs expert the proximate cause of the loss was atmospheric 
conditions, which have dried out the adhesive fixing the exterior aluminium panel and 
internal wallboard to the studwork, subsequently leading to winds popping off the panels.
AIGs engineer went onto say:
As stated in our preliminary report, we witnessed no ripping, tearing, piercing of the 
exterior panels consistent with storm damage and we are therefore confident that 
Storm is not the proximate cause of this loss.
We have reviewed the policy wording based upon the statement made by [Mr and 
Mrs Hs expert] and note that the claim is still capable of repudiation based upon the 
following exclusion listed on page 20 of the policy wording;
We will not pay for Damage caused by wear and tear, atmospheric or climatic 
conditions or any gradually operating cause.
I note that Mr and Mrs Hs expert didnt say the damage was caused as a result of the storm 
in November 2018 but instead was caused by atmospheric conditions.
So the expert evidence indicates that the damage to Mr and Mrs Hs caravan didn't occur 
because of the storm but happened as a result of either water getting into the caravan or the 
adhesive drying out over time. On the basis of the available evidence, I think AIGs decision 
to refuse the claim under either the wear and tear or atmospheric or climatic conditions 
exclusions was reasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 August 2020.
 
Mehmet OsmanOmbudsman