DRN-3130710
The complaint
Mr J complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclays Smart Investor (Barclays), 
did not execute his limit order to buy shares when the limit price was reached. He says he 
missed out on an increase in the share value and he wants Barclays to compensate him.
What happened
On 19 October 2020, Mr J placed an online limit order to buy 130,000 shares in a company 
which Ill refer to as T, at a limit price of 16.35p.
Mr J says, when the market opened on 21 October, Ts price was 15.88p and there was 
around 15 minutes before the price rose above the limit hed set of 16.35p. But Barclays 
failed to execute his order.
Barclays says limit orders arent guaranteed and that its likely the order wasnt accepted by 
the market because it was outside normal market size.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She couldnt 
conclude Barclays had made an error and that the order wasnt successful due to external 
market factors  and mainly due to the order exceeding normal market size.
Mr J didnt agree saying, in summary, that he wants a full explanation for why his order didnt 
execute when the price was reached for around 15 minutes.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Barclays makes it reasonably clear that it cannot guarantee an order will be executed. 
Its terms say (B 2.1):
All Orders are subject to market volume and Counterparty behaviour and willingness 
to deal. Orders may only be executed if there is a willing Counterparty and where the 
operation of the relevant Rules of a market or exchange permits execution.
And it explains that a limit order will only be executed by us when the conditions set by you 
related to your Order have been met. (B 2.2.5).
Mr Js order was to buy 130,000 T shares. That was more than eight times the normal 
market size for trading in the shares. For that reason, I wouldnt expect the order to be 
successfully dealt electronically, even if the limit price was reached. Barclays would most 
likely have needed to place the order manually.
The limit price was reached when the market opened on 21 October. But Barclays says the 
price was only within Mr Js requested limit for two seconds, before it rose above 16.35p. It 
wouldnt have been possible to try to place Mr Js order within this timeframe. And this price 
was unlikely to have been available for Mr Js order because it was outside of the normal 
market size.
Mr J says the price was within the limit hed set for around 15 minutes. But I dont find this to 
be the case. Barclays has provided details of the price movements when the market opened 
on 21 October and the trading that took place. I find this information supports what Barclays 
has told us. 
I dont find Barclays made a mistake here. Its not unreasonable that the order wasnt 
executed, taking into account the size of the order and the extremely short space of time the 
limit price was reached.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman