DRN-3472209
The complaint
Mr T complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt tell him that his credit file would be 
affected when it offered payment concessions for his mortgage during the Covid-19 
pandemic. He says having arrears on his credit file has stopped him getting a better interest 
rate.
What happened
Mr Ts income was reduced during the Covid-19 pandemic. Barclays agreed a three-month 
payment deferral for his mortgage. In accordance with guidelines issued by the regulator 
Barclays didnt record adverse data on Mr Ts credit file. After this, Barclays agreed two 
periods of interest only payments, totalling 12 months in total.
Mr T said if hed known the interest only payment concessions would result in arrears and 
affect his credit file hed have looked for another route, such as borrowing from family.
Barclays accepts it didnt tell Mr T at the outset that the interest only concessions would 
result in arrears and that this would be recorded on his credit file. It offered £100 
compensation. Barclays didnt agree to remove the arrears from Mr Ts credit file, saying this 
was correctly reported.
I sent a provisional decision to the parties. I said Barclays should have offered Mr T a 
second three-month payment deferral after the first payment deferral ended, in accordance 
with the regulators guidelines. I said Barclays should remove any adverse data recorded 
during the period the second payment deferral would have been in place (August to October 
2020). I said that as Mr T wasnt able to maintain his mortgage payments after this, hed 
most likely have needed an interest only concession, and it was fair for Barclays to record 
the resulting arrears on Mr Ts credit file.
Barclays responded to say it offered a full nine months of support to Mr T during the Covid-
19 pandemic without detriment to his credit file. It said it hadnt recorded any adverse data 
on Mr Ts credit file until April 2021 when it started to report arrears. 
I asked Mr T for a copy of his credit report. He asked that I issue a final decision without this. 
Mr T said he didnt ever have a copy of his credit report. He said the mortgage adviser he 
spoke to in April/May 2021 told him he couldnt get a new preferential interest rate because 
of his mortgage arrears. He says he then spoke to Barclays which told him it had reported 
the arrears to the credit reference agencies.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T agreed a six-month interest only payments concession with Barclays during which he 
made reduced monthly payments which only covered the interest applied to his mortgage 
account. As these payments were less than Mr Ts contractual monthly payment arrears 
accrued on his account. When the complaint came to us, Mr T and Barclays said Barclays 
had reported the arrears to the credit reference agencies.
Barclays accepts that it didnt inform Mr T at the outset about the consequences of making 
interest only payments, as it should have done.
What I have to consider is if Mr T would have acted differently if hed been given correct 
information. I should say here, that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I 
consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Barclays provided a recording of its call with Mr T in mid-January 2021, when the second 
six-month interest only payments concession was agreed. Ive listened to the recording, and 
Barclays did explain the consequences of the interest only payment concession.
During the call, Barclays told Mr T it was offering interest only payments as a forbearance 
option. It said Mr T would pay less than his contractual monthly payment for six months. 
Barclays said the difference between the payments made and the contractual monthly 
payment would accrue as arrears. It said the arrears would be reported to the credit 
reference bureau. Barclays said that at the end of the six months forbearance period Mr T 
would return to contractual monthly payments, which would be higher as a result of the 
reduced payments.
So Mr T was aware of the consequences of making reduced payments before the second 
six-month interest only payment concession and chose to go ahead. When Mr T contacted 
Barclays in mid-2020 he asked for interest only payments because he didnt think hed be 
able to maintain his contractual monthly payments. Taking all this into account, I think its 
likely that Mr T would have gone ahead with the first interest only payment concession even 
if hed been told about the arrears and impact on his credit file. It follows that I dont think its 
fair and reasonable to require Barclays to remove the arrears or negative data on Mr T's 
credit file for the whole period of the concessions.
However, this isnt the end of the matter. Mr T took a three-month payment deferral during 
May to July 2020. When this ended Mr T could have taken another three-month payment 
deferral which, in accordance with the regulators guidelines, wouldnt have impacted on his 
credit file. The guidelines required lenders to proactively offer this to customers who 
contacted them for assistance. I think when Mr T contacted Barclays after the first payment 
deferral, it should have told him he could take a second three-month payment deferral 
without it impacting his credit file.
I said in my provisional decision that Barclays should adjust Mr Ts account as if hed agreed 
a second three-month payment deferral for August to October 2020, including removing any 
adverse data recorded on his credit file for this period. This wouldnt have prevented Mr T 
from making payments to his mortgage account, if he had funds to do so. 
In response to my provisional decision, Barclays says it capitalised the arrears which 
accrued during August to October 2020 and it didnt record any adverse data on Mr Ts 
credit files for this period. In effect, Barclays says it had already done what I said in my 
provisional decision I intended to require it to do. 
As Ive said, while I think its generally fair for Barclays to record arrears resulting from the 
interest only payment concessions on Mr Ts credit files, I dont think its fair for Barclays to 
record adverse data for August to October 2020. However, Barclays says it didnt record 
adverse data on Mr Ts credit file until April 2021 and Mr T hasnt provided his credit report or other evidence to show otherwise. I cant fairly require Barclays to take action to remove 
adverse data from Mr Ts credit files which, it seems, it didnt report to the credit reference 
agencies.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman