DRN-1027558
 
The complaint
Mr C complains that Acromas Insurance Company Limited will not deal with a claim on his 
breakdown repair cover (BRC) policy. 
What happened
In summary, Mr C took out the BRC policy underwritten by Acromas. He called out 
assistance just over a month later and the roadside assistance agent suspected a worn 
flywheel. 
The car was seen by a garage and Acromas needed to gain access to the part before 
deciding whether this claim was covered by the policy. It instructed an independent engineer 
who said the flywheels condition was consistent with general wear and deterioration. And as 
the car had only covered 399 miles since the policy started the flywheel must have been in a 
worn condition before this. 
As the policy terms exclude any faults which existed prior to the purchase of cover and as it 
defined a mechanical or electrical failure as a sudden and unforeseen breaking of an insured 
part, Acromas said this problem fell outside the cover provided. It therefore declined Mr Cs 
claim.
Mr C is unhappy about this. He says the cars service record evidences there were no 
problems with it before the start of the policy. He wants Acromas to deal with his claim. 
Our investigator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said:
The policy terms and conditions say a mechanical or electrical failure is the sudden 
and unforeseen breaking of any insured part. The terms also exclude any faults 
which existed before the policy was purchased.
The independent engineer concluded that as the car had only been on cover for 33 
days and travelled 399 miles in that time, the flywheel must have been in a worn 
condition before this. And the failure wasnt a sudden mechanical failure.
Mr C says the manufacturer service record and MOT evidence no issue prior to 
starting the policy. But the service document doesnt indicate the level of service 
carried out by the manufacturers garage or show which components were checked. 
The MOT certificate checks the road worthiness of the car but the internal 
components arent checked and a worn flywheel wouldnt be identified.
She finds the independent engineers report and reasoning more persuasive. That is 
that the flywheel was most likely worn when the policy was bought. This is because 
the engineer could properly assess the flywheel after the removal of the gearbox 
which is unlikely to have happened during the manufacturers garages servicing. And 
based on the engineers expert opinion it wasnt feasible for the wear to have 
occurred in the space of time since Mr C took out the policy. 
So, Mr Cs claim doesnt meet the policy terms as the flywheel had a pre-existing 
issue and wasnt suddenly or unexpectedly broken. 
Mr C remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
It isnt for me to determine exactly what the fault in Mr Cs car was or when it arose. What I 
must consider is whether Acromas has carried out a reasonable investigation into what has 
happened, made a fair decision on the claim and acted in line with the policy terms and 
conditions.
In this case I think Acromas acted fairly by asking the garage to remove the gearbox so that 
access could be obtained to the flywheel. It also reasonably instructed an independent 
engineer to provide an expert opinion. 
The independent engineer concluded that the flywheel must have been in a worn condition 
when the policy was bought and its failure wasnt a sudden mechanical failure within the 
terms of the policy.
I think Acromas acted reasonably by relying on the independent engineers expert opinion. 
And its decision to decline to deal with Mr Cs claim under the terms of the policy was fair 
and reasonable.
I understand Mr C thinks his evidence, including from the service record and MOT, show that 
the flywheel issue wasnt a pre-existing problem. But the experts view is clear and I think 
Acromas was entitled to rely upon it when making its decision on the claim. I also agree with 
the investigator that its fair to give more weight to the experts view than to Mr Cs 
documentation.
Mr C may disagree with Acromas interpretation of the evidence and decision to decline his 
claim but I dont think its failed to comply with the policy terms or exercised its discretion 
unfairly or unreasonably when deciding to decline to deal with his claim as its done. 
I understand Mr Cs frustration and strength of feeling. But taking everything into account I 
dont think Acromas has done anything wrong. And I dont think I can fairly or reasonably 
require it to do anything more or differently. Overall I dont see a compelling reason to 
change the proposed outcome in this case.
Mr C has also complained about not getting a refund of premium when he later cancelled the 
policy. But thats being dealt with as a separate complaint and I cannot comment on it here.
We also cannot deal with his complaint about the damage he says was caused to the car by 
the roadside recovery agent as that isnt a regulated activity we can consider.
My final decision
For these reasons I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2020.Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman