DRN-4093901
The complaint
Mr L complains that Wakam applied a new rating factor to his pet insurance policy without 
giving him advance notice. He says this rating factor affected the price of his policy. 
What happened
Mr L says he switched his pet insurance provider as he was being offered terms which 
meant claims wouldnt impact the price at renewal as everyone pays a little so that no one 
pays a lot. Mr L says his renewals did increase each year, but he felt reassured the terms 
were being adhered to as his policy increased by only a relatively small percentage in 2021 
despite having made large claims in the previous year. Mr L says in 2023 his premium 
increased by 70% but after discussing this with Wakam, and increasing his excess, he was 
able to bring this down to around a 50% increase. Mr L says he found out that Wakam had 
changed their terms and were now taking previous claims into account when calculating 
premiums. Mr L says he wasnt informed about this change, so he complained. 
Wakam responded and explained theyre always striving to improve their products and 
services they offer to ensure they better suit the needs of their customers, so they take into 
account feedback from their customers. They said over the last couple of years theyve 
received feedback relating to the way they calculate renewal prices. They explained many 
customers  who might not have made claims  felt it wasnt fair to not take into account 
their pets claims history as they were in essence paying for other customers claims. These 
customers felt it was fairer to factor in personal claims history. Wakam said, as a result, they 
made the decision, in July 2022, to include personal claims history from the last 12 months 
alongside the normal factors that can impact the renewal price. Wakam explained, this 
meant if Mr L had made any claims in the last year, he may find this has affected his 
premium depending on how many claims he made and how much hed claimed for. 
Wakam explained veterinary costs are increasing which means they need to make sure 
premiums are fairly and correctly priced so theres enough money in their pot for when their 
customers need it. Wakam said Mr Ls pet dogs claims history caused an increase in the 
policy while his pet cats claims history reduced the increase a little. They explained the main 
increase was caused by a general price increase which affected all customers. They 
explained, as dogs age, the risk of age-related illness increases. And with Mr Ls dog being 
11 years old at the point of renewal, this had an impact on the renewal cost. They explained 
another contributing factor was the change in risk factor associated with Mr Ls dogs breed 
which affected all customer renewals for the same breed. Wakam said the price quoted is 
correct but they appreciate it came as a shock to Mr L so they offered £100 as a gesture of 
goodwill.         
Our investigator looked into things for Mr L. He thought Wakam hadnt acted unfairly in 
applying the claims factor to Mr Ls policy and felt their offer of £100 was reasonable for the 
shock caused to Mr L. Mr L disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided Wakams offer is a fair way to resolve matters. I understand  
Mr L will be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
I acknowledge Mr L is concerned, in particular, about Wakams decision to include personal 
claims history as one of the rating factors affecting the price of the policy. I do understand 
why Mr L is upset. He has provided screenshots from previous renewal notices which say 
We havent charged extra if you claimed last year and You wont be singled out for making 
a claim. Mr L says this was one of the factors which appealed to him about this policy - if he 
did need to make a claim, it wouldnt have an impact on the renewal price. I can see Mr Ls 
premium in 2022 was £1,219.15 with a monthly payment of £101.60, but this increased to a 
premium of £2,067.83 with a monthly payment of £172.32 in the quote provided for 2023.
Wakam confirm they made the decision to include personal claims history in July 2022  so 
this first affected Mr Ls 2023 renewal. Mr L may feel this is unfair, but Wakam, like all 
insurers, will review their approach to risks at different points and this will result in changes 
to the premium. They have explained this was a change across all their policies as they 
changed their approach. So in short, they have treated all customers the same with the 
change and Mr L hasnt been treated differently or unfairly when they chose to change their 
approach to factor in personal claims history. Insurers regularly monitor the market and 
change their approach in response to internal and external factors. In this case, this change 
was brought about following, what Wakam describe as, an extreme volume of feedback 
from their customers who felt the omission of a personal claims history rating factor was 
unfair. So I cant say Wakam have acted unfairly here in changing their approach  a change 
which applied equally to all their customers. 
I understand Mr L feels this change shouldve been communicated to him. Mr L says he 
made claims following the policy change date in July 2022 but also the six months prior to 
this. He says, had he been made aware of the change, he wouldve been more selective on 
the amount claimed in order to avoid a significant price increase. I do acknowledge Mr Ls 
concern here, but the change was implemented across all policies at a point which was 
around the half-way point in Mr Ls 2022 policy year. I havent seen any information which 
suggests this policy change decision was made prior to Mr Ls 2022 policy starting. So, while 
I cant say the change in policy decision shouldve been communicated any sooner than July 
2022, Ive thought about whether it couldve been communicated after this. As Ive 
mentioned above, insurers constantly monitor the market and rating factors change 
regularly. I dont think its reasonable to expect an insurer to write to all customers letting 
them know about a rating factor change. I think its reasonable in the circumstances for 
insurers to apply any changes to customers at renewal  and for this to be sent in advance 
of the renewal date to allow a customer to make an informed decision on whether to 
continue with the policy  and thats happened here.        
I think its also important to note that, while the personal claims history was a factor affecting 
the 2023 renewal price, it wasnt the only factor. Wakam have provided me with confidential 
business sensitive information to explain how Mr Ls price was calculated. Im afraid I cant 
share this with him because its commercially sensitive, but Ive checked it carefully. 
Wakam have provided a breakdown of the policy price and I can see one factor which has 
led to a price increase is a general price increase across all similar policy types which has 
affected all customers. The age of Mr Ls pets  in particular his pet dog - has had an impact 
on the price as well as the specific breed of Mr Ls dog. So, from the information Ive seen, 
Im satisfied the price Mr L was quoted has been calculated correctly and fairly and Ive seen 
no evidence that other Wakam customers in Mr Ls position will have been charged a lower 
premium.  
 I can see Wakam acknowledge the new premium came as a shock to Mr L so theyve 
offered £100 compensation  and I think thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I acknowledge Mr L will be disappointed by my decision. I do understand why hes 
concerned  he took out a policy on the basis his premium wouldnt be impacted by claims 
made. This appears to have been the case for a number of years until Wakam decided to 
change their approach in 2022  and was factored into Mr Ls 2023 renewal. I acknowledge 
this claims history then took into account the previous 12 months  but it wasnt unfair for 
Wakam to apply this rating factor in the way they did for Mr L at renewal. 
I wish to reassure Mr L Ive read and considered everything he has sent in, but if I havent 
mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought 
about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt 
intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
My final decision
Wakam have already made an offer to pay £100 compensation to settle the complaint, and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that Wakam should pay £100 to Mr L, if they havent done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman