DRN-1594037
 
The complaint
Mr H says he was mis-sold a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 1995. 
AXA France IARDs (AXA) taken responsibility for the sale for the purposes of this complaint.
What happened
The adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. They found that Mr H had no need 
for the PPI given his enhanced sick pay entitlement and the savings he said he held.
AXA didnt accept the adjudicators findings, so the case was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Hs case. 
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
AXA didnt advise Mr H to buy the policy, so it didnt need to look in to whether the policy 
was right for him. But it still had to make sure Mr H had enough information so he could 
make his own mind up as to whether it was right for him. I dont think AXA did this.
When AXA told Mr H the cost of the policy, I cant see that it explained all the costs involved. 
For example, that Mr H would still have to pay the PPI premiums even while he was 
claiming. And that the cost of the policy would be added to Mr Hs store card balance and 
that hed pay interest on it. 
Mr H says his employer  of two years  would have paid him in full for up to six months if he 
was off work sick and at half pay for up to another six months after that. Further, he says he 
had around £5,000 in savings he could have relied on. All of which seems plausible to me. 
So, I think if the costs and benefits involved in the PPI had been made clear, Mr H wouldnt 
have thought it was good value for money for him and he probably wouldnt have bought it.
AXA says Mr H was unlikely to have been entitled to as much sick pay as he claims since he 
was only a trainee. But the nature of his trainee role and his employer means I see no 
reason to ask for more information about that, or his savings. In part since that would mean 
asking him to obtain evidence from around 25 years ago.  
Overall, I believe AXA mis-sold the policy to Mr H and that it should put things right for him.
Putting things right
AXA should put Mr H in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.A. AXA should find out how much Mr H would have owed when he closed his store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mr H owed when he closed his account 
and what he would have owed if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what he got for the 
claim from the amount it owes him. 
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr H would have owed 
when he closed his account from when she closed it until he gets the refund. The interest 
rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when AXA works out what Mr H would have owed each month without PPI  Mr H 
paid more than enough to clear his balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mr H paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr H would have 
owed AXA something on his store card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D. AXA should tell Mr H what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, Im upholding the complaint. I require AXA France IARD to put things 
right for Mr H as explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman