DRN-3080102
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as M, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund 
money it lost, which it believes was the result of a scam.
Mr K, who is a director of M, brings the complaint on Ms behalf.
Background
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service.
In May 2017, Mr K paid £22,000 by bank transfer from his business account to another 
account. 
Mr K was looking to raise funds for a business venture and was advised by his public 
relations advisor to contact an individual who Ill refer to as Mr E. Mr K says he was told by 
Mr E hed need to pay £22,000 in legal fees beforehand. Mr K says he was shown a bank 
statement by Mr E, that led him to believe Mr E had over one billion pounds in his bank. On 
this basis, Mr K says he trusted that Mr E could assist in raising the funds he needed.
Mr K went to a Barclays branch to make the transfer. The transfer was made to an account 
that wasnt in Mr Es name  but a business name. Its not clear from Mr Ks testimony if he 
realised this before or after making the transfer, but either way it appears he was aware of 
the account name he had transferred the money to while still in his branch.
In February 2018, Mr K hadnt received any funds from Mr E. Hes also said he had since 
met with Mr E and had become suspicious, so raised the payment as a scam with Barclays. 
Barclays contacted the beneficiary bank but, by this time, no funds remained in the account.
Mr K complains that Barclays didnt complete sufficient checks when he made the payment. 
He says, as his account is a business account, he shouldve been advised on the payment 
and been asked for an invoice before it was processed.
Barclays says it contacted the beneficiary account provider in good time but was unable to 
recover any of Mr Ks funds. Barclays did acknowledge it took longer than expected to 
investigate Mr Ks complaint  and paid £200 to acknowledge the delays caused. 
Mr K didnt accept this outcome and brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
considered the complaint. She didnt think this was a scam. She thought it was more likely a 
civil dispute between Mr K and the business hed paid. She didnt find Barclays was liable to 
do more here.
Mr K didnt agree with the investigators findings. In summary, he said:
Hes the victim of a scam  Mr E used fake bank statements to trick him into making 
this payment. He would never have made the payment if he hadnt seen this forged 
document.
He was given no advice in branch against making this payment and wasnt asked to 
provide an invoice before making the payment.
Mr E wasnt a director of the business in question when he made the payment to him 
 he only later became a director.
I have been asked to review Mr Ks complaint and to reach a final decision. During the time 
Mr Ks complaint has been at our service, Mr K (representing M) has also taken Mr E 
personally to court. Mr K hasnt been able to provide transcripts of the court hearing to know 
specifically what was said on the case, but Mr K has provided documentation to show the 
court did not find in his favour. Mr K has also explained hes receiving pressure from 
investors in his company to receive a return on their funds.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
I have considerable sympathy for the situation Mr K now finds himself in. Mr K made the 
payment in good faith, based on the recommendation of a trusted advisor, but has received 
no returns. Hes also now incurred further legal fees and has, in addition, been ordered to 
pay Mr Es court fees. Hes also being pressured to make payments to investors which hes 
unable to do in the circumstances. However, when considering his complaint and Barclays 
liabilities, the first point I have to consider is whether there is sufficient evidence for me to 
conclude that Mr K has been the victim of a scam  or whether I consider this is more likely a 
civil dispute between Mr K and the business he paid.
Mr K has provided copies of the forged bank statements he says he received from Mr E, as 
well as evidence from the beneficiary bank confirming that these arent legitimate 
statements. While I understand Mr K has said he wouldnt have made the transfer was it not 
for these statements, I have to consider whether this necessarily proves fraudulent intent. 
Ive also taken into account that the bank statements provided by Mr K dont appear to 
anywhere include the personal details of Mr E  or the business who Mr K made payment to.
Having reviewed the evidence provided by the beneficiary bank provider, while I cant share 
specific details for data protection reasons, I can reassure Mr K that Ive thoroughly reviewed 
the evidence provided and dont think there are any hallmark signs of the account being 
used for fraudulent activity. I can also see that the beneficiary business was incorporated 
around eight years before Mr K made the transfer in question and that the business remains 
active still. I would argue it would be unusual for a business to be (and remain) active for this 
length of time if its intent was to scam people. While Mr E wasnt a director at the time he 
arranged for Mr K to make the payment, theres no reason why requests for payment cant 
be made for a business by individuals outside of this role.
Taking everything into consideration, I dont find the evidence here sufficient for me to 
conclude this was most likely a scam. Nor does the evidence persuade me it is more likely than not that the business Mr K dealt with was acting with fraudulent intent. In saying that, I 
recognise there is evidence here of the success of the business having potentially been 
exaggerated, as Mr K has evidenced. But that is not the same as finding fraudulent intent.
While I dont think Mr K was the victim of a scam, and therefore dont think Barclays needed 
to do more to prevent this payment, Ive nonetheless considered whether preventative 
measures by Barclays wouldve made any difference. In this case I dont think they wouldve. 
Mr K has explained he was placed in touch with Mr E by a trusted business advisor who 
works for a public relations company so even with scam advice from Barclays, I dont think 
Mr K wouldve doubted Mr Es legitimacy. Even if Mr K had decided to conduct further 
investigation, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think this wouldve caused Mr K to 
change his mind on making the payment as I dont think there is any clear evidence that the 
business he paid is run fraudulently.
Again Im very sorry to disappoint Mr K  its clear from the actions Mr K has since taken to 
recover his money that he feels very strongly about this complaint. But I do not find Barclays 
to have been at fault here, and so I cannot fairly find it liable to reimburse him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Ms complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman