DRN-1741125
The complaint
Mr S and Miss S say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy in 1996.
What happened
In 1996 Mr S and Miss S took out a mortgage with Nationwide. At the same time they were 
sold a PPI policy. The policy cost £16.76 per month. It covered Mr S and Miss S against not 
being able to work due to an accident, sickness or unemployment. The monthly benefit for 
the policy was £300 and the cover was split equally between Mr S and Miss S. In the event 
of a successful claim the policy could have paid the monthly benefit for up to 12 months. The 
policy was cancelled in 2002.
Mr S and Miss S complained to Nationwide that they had been mis-sold the policy. 
Nationwide didnt agree so they asked this service to step in.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld because Miss S was not eligible for 
the cover.
Nationwide disagreed with the adjudicators findings so the complaint has been passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done so I am upholding this complaint and I will explain why.
Nationwide has said it didnt give Mr S and Miss S advice. But it still had to give them clear, 
fair and not misleading information so they could make a fair choice over buying the policy.
I dont think Nationwide likely gave Mr S and Miss S clear information and I think this would 
have made a difference to them because I dont think Miss S was eligible for the cover. To 
be eligible for the policy Miss S would need to be in employment and working for over 16 
hours per week.
In both the original complaint to Nationwide and in the questionnaire completed for this 
service, Miss S said she was working less than 16 hours per week in 1996. I also note that 
Nationwide contacted Mr S and Miss S representatives in July 2019 to ask about Miss S 
working hours. During the telephone call Mr S could not recall the exact hours Miss S was 
working but replied that it wasnt a lot.
In response to the adjudicators opinion, Nationwide located and sent us a fact-find which 
Mr S and Miss S had completed with a Nationwide Financial Consultant in August 1996. This would have been around the time they were applying for a mortgage. I find it surprising that 
this wasnt supplied to this service with Nationwides initial business file.
The fact find shows that Miss S had recently begun working for a different employer to the 
one she gave in the questionnaires completed for Nationwide and this service. Nationwide 
says this shows Miss S recollections of her working hours at the time of the sale were mis-
remembered. And that her salary given on the fact find indicates she was likely working in 
excess of 16 hours per week when the policy was sold.
But I disagree. In my opinion the salary given in the fact find shows Miss S was almost 
certainly not working full-time. The fact find does not record the exact hours she was working 
but I dont think the salary recorded shows Miss S was working more than 16 hours.
Although it looks like Miss S changed employer in 1996 it doesnt follow that she increased 
her hours to over 16 per week. Following the discovery of the fact find our adjudicator 
contacted Miss S who confirmed she did change employer in 1996 but was still working less 
than 16 hours per week.
Taking everything into account I dont think its likely Miss S was working over 16 hours per 
week when the policy was sold. So I dont think Miss S was eligible for the policy.
I dont know how clear the policy information Nationwide gave to Mr S and Miss S was. But if 
Nationwide had given them clear information I dont think they would have bought the policy 
when Miss S was not eligible for the cover.  So Mr S and Miss S have lost out and 
Nationwide needs to do something to put things right.
In response to the adjudicators opinion Nationwide said the policy was right for Mr S. But 
Ive looked at the sale of the policy as a whole. The cover was split equally between Mr S 
and Miss S. That means half the cover was of no use to Mr S and Miss S. I dont think they 
would have bought the policy at all if they had been given information that made this clear to 
them. So in my view the whole policy was mis-sold.
 
Putting things right
Nationwide Building Society should put Mr S and Miss S in the position theyd be in now if 
they hadnt taken out PPI. So Nationwide Building Society should:
Pay Mr S and Miss S the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.   The rate 
of interest is 8% a year .
If Mr S and Miss S made a successful claim under the PPI policy, 
Nationwide Building Society can take off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes 
them.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide Building Society to take off tax from this 
interest. Nationwide Building Society must give Mr S and Miss S a certificate showing how 
much tax its taken off if they ask for one.My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint and direct Nationwide Building Society 
to pay Mr S and Miss S compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 June 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman