DRN-4164242
The complaint
Mr M complains about American International Group UK Limited (AIG)s handling of his 
claim under his gadget insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr M held gadget insurance with AIG. He damaged his phone and made a claim. AIG 
examined the phone and deemed it beyond economic repair. Due to this assessment, AIG 
(having applied the policy terms and conditions) offered to either replace the phone or 
provide a cash settlement. It was agreed that a cash settlement would be sent to Mr M. 
AIG had Mr Ms old bank details on file. And despite Mr M telling AIG that he had another 
bank account, and that the old bank account was closed, AIG sent the cash settlement to his 
old, closed account.
There was a delay in returning the cash to Mr Ms correct account, due to AIGs error. Mr M 
said that this caused him to repeatedly chase AIG via phone calls, whilst he was abroad. Mr 
M said that this was very expensive and caused him stress and frustration. So, he 
complained to AIG. 
In its final response, AIG accepted that it had provided poor service to Mr M. It apologised 
for the errors that it caused, and that Mr M had to chase for updates. It confirmed that the 
settlement had now been sent to the correct account. In addition, it said that for the trouble 
and upset caused it offered £205 compensation. It also reimbursed Mr Ms call costs of 
£263.73 (which was the amount that Mr M said it cost him to call AIG). Mr M wasnt happy 
with the outcome and as he had been given his referral rights, he referred a complaint to our 
service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She 
said that the main issue of the complaint was the level of compensation offered by AIG. She 
said that the total compensation amounted to £468.73, as AIG had accepted the poor 
service and delays. She said that she didnt believe that all of the calls made by Mr M to AIG 
were warranted, especially as he had also emailed AIG and received responses to the 
emails. So, he couldve contacted them by email to reduce his costs. But despite this, her 
view was that AIG had been fair and reasonable in the amount of compensation offered. So, 
she wouldnt be asking them to do anything further to resolve the complaint. 
AIG accepted the view, Mr M did not. He asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Mr M, but I hope my findings 
go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision and why I think it is fair. 
Mr M hasnt raised any further comments regarding our investigators view and as I 
understand that he wasnt happy with the amount of compensation offered, I think the main 
issue of this complaint is the level of compensation and whether it was fair in the 
circumstances of this complaint. So, Ive looked at the impact of AIGs errors on Mr M. 
AIG accepted that the standard of service, fell well below than it wouldve liked. And I note 
that it apologised to Mr M for the errors that occurred during the claim process. 
Mr M said that the errors caused him a level of stress. He also said that it affected his health, 
and he was suffering from illness. Whilst I empathise with Mr Ms health issues, he hasnt 
provided me with details of those health issues. Nor has he provided information to AIG and 
specifically how AIGs errors affected his health. 
Whilst I accept that Mr M wouldve been caused a level of distress, having applied our 
guidelines regarding compensation I do think that Mr M was caused to have more than the 
levels of frustration and annoyance by the errors made by AIG. I do think that Mr M spent a 
reasonable amount of time to sort out. Consequently, Im satisfied that the compensation of 
£205 is a fair and reasonable amount. 
In addition, I note that Mr M provided details about the call costs he incurred as a result of 
chasing AIG for updates. I think its fair and reasonable for AIG to have offered to reimburse 
those costs in full. I say this as I do think that Mr M couldve contacted AIG via email and so 
reduce his costs. I note that Mr M had emailed AIG and AIG had responded to those emails. 
So, I think that it was more likely than not that AIG wouldve still responded to those emails, 
had Mr M chosen to contact them in this way. 
Ultimately, AIG processed the cash settlement correctly within five working days of having 
received the old device back. And I dont think this was too excessive by way of a delay. 
Whilst I understand how disappointed Mr M will be, I think that AIG were fair and reasonable 
in its offer of compensation and in its offer to reimburse Mr Ms call costs. Consequently, I 
cant reasonably ask AIG to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman