DRN-3688286
The complaint
Mr U complains that Lloyds Bank PLC closed his accounts and loaded a fraud marker 
against his name.
What happened
Mr U held numerous accounts with Lloyds. In May 2020, Lloyds carried out a review of 
Mr Us accounts. As it was unhappy with the way he was operating his accounts, it took the 
commercial decision to close them. It gave him 60 days notice of closure.
It also loaded a fraud marker against his name using the Synectics Solutions database, as it 
felt Mr U was deliberately misusing the payments and Direct Debit systems to gain 
financially.
Mr U complained to Lloyds about its decision, but Lloyds responded stating that it didnt 
make an error in closing the account in line with the terms and conditions. 
Mr U remained unhappy with this, so he referred his complaint to our service. Lloyds 
reviewed its decision and decided to downgrade the marker it had placed against Mr U so 
that it was only shown internally. Therefore, the marker was no longer visible to other 
members of the database. It also offered to pay £100 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by the marker initially being visible to other members. 
An Investigator considered the evidence provided by both parties, but felt Lloyds should do 
more to put things right. Broadly, they felt the original marker was loaded unfairly and that 
the impact caused to Mr U wasnt reflected fairly in the compensation offered. They 
recommended Lloyds increase this to £400.
Lloyds agreed with the Investigators assessment, but Mr U didnt. He felt that the 
compensation didnt reflect the impact caused. He told our service that the marker affected 
his relationships, employment and business.
As Mr U disagreed with the Investigators opinion, the matter has now been passed to me for 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account closure
Banks do have the right to end their relationship with a customer, as long as this is done 
fairly and in line with the terms and conditions of the account. 
Here, Lloyds suspected Mr U of misusing its accounts. It was also unhappy with the way in 
which he was running them and decided it no longer wished to offer him its services. Lloyds 
had set out its ability to do this in the terms and conditions of its account: which Mr U agreed 
to.
Lloyds provided Mr U with 60 days notice so that he could find alternative banking facilities. 
This gave Mr U a reasonable amount of time to arrange his financial affairs and reduce the 
impact the account closures would cause. Therefore, I find Lloyds actions in relation to this 
complaint point are fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Fraud marker
Lloyds has already admitted that it made an error in recording a fraud marker against Mr Us 
name and making this visible to third-party organisations. It has now rectified this error by 
downgrading the fraud marker to make it visible only internally and not to third-party 
organisations. 
It has also agreed to pay the £400 in compensation for the impact this error caused Mr U  
as recommended by the Investigator.
But Mr U doesnt think this is a fair reflection of the impact caused. Mr U says that following 
on from the fraud marker being placed against him, he:
Lost his friends and his partner after they thought he was a fraudster.
Lost shareholders from his business, forcing him to resign as Director.
Was prevented from pursuing alternative business interests.
Was prevented from opening new business accounts.
Suffered mental health conditions due to the worry and stress.
However, Mr U has been unable to evidence any of the impact hes highlighted above or 
show how this was caused by the fraud marker. And where consequential losses are 
suffered as a result of a banks error, I only find it fair and reasonable for this to be 
corroborated.
Mr U did tell our service that hed obtain and provide this evidence back in August 2022, but 
none has been provided.
For these reasons, I dont find it fair or reasonable to expect Lloyds to pay Mr U for his loss 
in salary where he hasnt evidenced that salary. I must also consider the possibility that Mr U 
resigned his directorship of the business for other reasons and that this wasnt directly linked 
to the fraud marker placed against his name. This also applies to the breakdown in his 
relationships.
However, while Mr U has been unable to evidence any of the impact caused, or how this 
was caused by the marker, I do acknowledge that there would have undoubtedly been some 
distress and inconvenience caused.
Information recorded in fraud marker databases are accessible to members of that 
database. Therefore, I find it likely that the marker did impact Mr Us ability to access other 
financial products. I can only take into consideration how this impacted Mr U rather than the 
company he was Director of. 
I also find it likely that Mr U did experience some distress as a result of the marker placed. 
Mr U has explained that he suffered mentally by the stress caused in having his character 
brought into question, and Im persuaded that this was likely the case. Putting things right
For the above reasons, I find that Mr U has suffered distress and inconvenience as a result 
of the marker placed against his name. 
While I acknowledge Mr U believes the impact caused should be reflected in a substantially 
higher compensation payment, I dont find the amount hes asked for to be realistic. 
Therefore, I find that the £400 suggested in the Investigators assessment is a fair and 
reasonable amount to reflect this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Lloyds Bank PLC to pay 
Mr U £400 for the distress and inconvenience caused, without delay.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman