DRN-1357386
The complaint
Miss M and Mr S are unhappy that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited voided their 
home insurance policy (treated it as though it had never been in place) and by association 
declined their claim for water damage.
What happened
Miss M and Mr S took out a home insurance policy with Lloyds in September 2018. They told 
Lloyds that they would be occupying the property. In March 2019 they made a claim to 
Lloyds for damage caused by a water leak. 
After a visit to the property by its claims consultant Lloyds voided the policy. It said Miss M 
and Mr S hadnt given it correct information about the occupation of the property when theyd 
taken out the policy. That meant their claim wouldnt be covered. It refunded the premium.
Miss M said she, Mr S, family members and tradesmen had all been attending the property 
on almost a daily basis and Mr S had been staying there at weekends. So she didnt think it 
was fair to say it had been unoccupied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a consumer buys an insurance policy, theyll be asked to provide certain information. 
In simple terms the insurer is trying to assess how likely it is that the consumer will make a 
claim. It can be a misrepresentation if an answer given is inaccurate or incomplete. But the 
insurer will only be entitled to take action if its a qualifying misrepresentation in accordance  
with the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). The 
remedies available to the insurer for a qualifying misrepresentation include voiding the 
policy.
Under the terms of CIDRA, there are two main factors I need to take into account in 
deciding whether theres been a qualifying misrepresentation. These are how clear and 
specific the insurers questions were and whether the consumer took reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation.
Lloyds has supplied evidence of the exact questions Miss M and Mr S were asked before 
they took out the policy in September 2018 and the answers they gave. They were asked:
How is the property owned and occupied? 
How many adults live at the property?
What is the maximum number of days in a row that the home is left unoccupied?
After their application was agreed, Lloyds sent them a Statement of Insurance. This 
contained a list of the answers given during the application. Miss M and Mr S had told it they 
were the owners and occupiers, two adults lived at the property and the maximum number 
of days in a row that the home would be left unoccupied would be 30 days.
It is stated clearly at the top of the document that Miss M and Mr S should carefully check 
the details and contact Lloyds immediately if any of the information was incorrect.
I think Miss M and Mr S were asked clear questions about whether the property was 
occupied and lived in. 
Miss M told us Mr S stayed overnight at the property regularly, sleeping on a mattress or an 
airbed but she didnt as she was pregnant at the time. She said there was a hob in the 
kitchen and a functioning bathroom. She also said the property was never unoccupied for 
more than twelve days in a row and mostly not for more than five days in a row.
When making the claim, they told Lloyds that in September 2018 theyd only intended to 
redecorate two rooms and upgrade the boiler before moving in but further works had 
become necessary. When the damage happened in March 2019 they thought they were 
about three weeks away from being able to completely move in. Miss M said a new boiler 
had recently been installed. 
Im not persuaded that they took reasonable care in answering the question about 
occupation and how many adults were living at the property. The question didnt ask how 
long it would be before they both moved in. Lloyds wanted to know whether the property 
would actually be occupied and how many people were living in it at the time cover 
commenced.  
Essentially it seems to me as though Miss M and Mr S were more focussed on the narrow 
requirement that the property shouldnt be left unoccupied for 30 days in a row than the 
broader requirement that the property should actually be lived in. I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Lloyds to say that although Mr S had been staying there from time to time, 
Miss M and Mr S were actually living elsewhere. Thats because I dont think visiting the 
property almost every day to renovate it and staying overnight periodically is the same as 
living in a property. So although Mr S stayed at the property from time to time, my view on 
balance is that the property could reasonably be considered as having been unoccupied 
from the time the policy was first taken out.
Lloyds has provided evidence to show that if it had been told that the property would be 
unoccupied at the start of the policy term, it wouldnt have offered home insurance cover. 
I sympathise with Miss M and Mr S for the difficulties this has caused them but I think Lloyds 
view that they failed to take reasonable care was fair. And accordingly it was entitled to void 
their policy and decline the claim. 
Miss M also says that Lloyds actively encouraged her to make a claim and said doing so 
wouldnt adversely affect their future premiums. I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong in 
encouraging Miss M and Mr S to make a claim. Their property had been badly damaged by 
something which would potentially have been covered by their policy if it hadnt been for the 
misrepresentation referred to above. I think it would be unfair if insurers tried to put 
policyholders off from making claims. Unfortunately Miss M and Mr S are likely to find that 
their insurance premiums will be adversely affected because their policy has been voided. 
But, for the reasons explained above, I think the voidance was fair and so thats not Lloyds 
fault.Lastly, there are certain things I cant look into. Of relevance here, I can only look into things 
that Lloyds does that are regulated (known as regulated activities). Complaint handling isnt 
something thats regulated. So, regardless of how well or badly Lloyds might have handled 
Miss M and Mr Ss complaint, thats not something I can investigate or make a decision on. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M and Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman