DRN-3020221
The complaint
Mr H complains that Bamboo Limited was irresponsible to lend to him.
  
What happened
Mr H took out two loans from Bamboo between February 2019 and March 2020 as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Repayment Due Repaid
1 27 Feb 2019 £1,000 12m £112.92 22 Feb 2020 10 June 2019
2 10 Mar 2020 £1,000 18m £88.85 Withdrew
Mr H says that, at the time of the loans, he was struggling to pay essential bills and was 
borrowing money from one lender to repay another. He says his income changed between 
the loans and Bamboo didnt ask him any questions to confirm he could make the 
repayments. He says the loans caused him to get into further debt and he suffered financial 
hardship as a result.
Bamboo says it checked Mr Hs credit file and asked him about his income and his living 
arrangements. It says Mr Hs credit file indicated he was managing his finances well and it 
considered him to be creditworthy. Bamboo adds that it used statistical data to estimate 
expenditure other than housing costs, and reviewed Mr Hs credit report for debt servicing 
costs.
Bamboo says appropriate and proportionate checks were carried out, including a verification 
of Mr Hs income, and that its calculations showed the loan was sustainably affordable to 
Mr H. It adds that Mr H declared he would be using loan 1 to pay off some of his existing 
debt, thereby improving the affordability calculation going forwards. Finally, Bamboo says 
that Mr H repaid loan 1 within four months and withdrew from loan 2 before any payments or 
interest was due. Nevertheless, it offered to refund £75 as full and final settlement of the 
complaint.
As Mr H withdrew from loan 2, our adjudicator only considered the complaint about loan 1 
and recommended it should be upheld. She said she was not persuaded that the checks 
carried out by Bamboo were sufficient, but even without further information she considered 
the checks indicated further lending was irresponsible. She said that any payments made by 
Mr H above the principal should be refunded with 8% interest. She added that Bamboo 
should remove any negative information about the loan from his credit file.
Bamboo responded to say, in summary, that as this was Mr Hs first loan it was entitled to 
rely on what he said about his income and mortgage and that it was reasonable to use 
statistical data for his other regular expenditure. It said its checks were proportionate and 
Mr Hs self-declaration about his mortgage repayments were consistent with his credit file. 
Bamboo added that his credit file showed no defaults in six years and it had only reported 
positive information about the loans to the credit reference agencies, therefore causing no 
detriment.
Bamboo did acknowledge that Mr Hs combined overdraft stood at 67% of his income, but it 
said that as there were no missed credit payments it deduced Mr H was choosing to spend it 
on non-essential items. Bamboo said it also did not agree that the use of short-term loans 
was always indicative of someone in financial difficulty, especially as he was only utilising 
80% of his credit limits. It added that as the purpose of loan 1 was debt consolidation, the 
loan would not be increasing Mr Hs debt.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when Bamboo lent to Mr H. Its 
rules and guidance obliged it to lend responsibly. As set out in the regulators Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC), this meant that Bamboo needed to take reasonable and 
proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower could afford to meet its loan 
repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the agreement.
CONC 5.2A.4R states that:
A firm must undertake a reasonable assessment of the creditworthiness of a customer 
before:
1. entering into a regulated credit agreement; or
2. significantly increasing the amount of credit provided under a regulated credit 
agreement.
3. significantly increasing a credit limit for running-account credit under a regulated 
credit agreement.
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner was defined as being able to meet repayments out 
of normal income without the customer having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment the customer has a contractual or statutory obligation to 
make and without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers 
financial situation (CONC 5.2A.12R).
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checks:
the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
In addition, as per CONC 5.2A.16G (3): For the purpose of considering the customers 
income, it is not generally sufficient to rely solely on a statement of current income made by 
the customer without independent evidence (for example, in the form of information supplied 
by a credit reference agency or documentation of a third party supplied by the third party or 
by the customer).
And CONC 5.2A.17R (2) says: The firm must take reasonable steps to determine the 
amount, or make a reasonable estimate, of the customers current non-discretionary 
expenditure.
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Hs case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did Bamboo complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Hs 
loan applications to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? 
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
Did Bamboo make a fair lending decision?
Did Bamboo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Loan 1
With regard to the first question, I can see Bamboo asked Mr H about his income and 
verified this with a third-party data source. It also asked him about his mortgage costs and 
looked at his credit file to calculate his credit commitments, as well as using third party data 
to estimate his other expenditure.
These checks showed:
Mr Hs declared mortgage costs were in line with the £283 it showed in his credit file;
Mr H had 11 other credit accounts:
oSix loans, of which five had been taken out in the last year, with a combined 
balance of £12,853 and combined monthly repayments of around £600;
oTwo credit cards with a combined balance of £7,444 and a combined credit 
limit of £9,300;
oTwo current accounts with a combined overdraft of £1,324 and a combined 
overdraft limit of £1,400;
oA small balance on a new mail order account;
Five recently closed short-term loans.Mr Hs income was just under £2,000, so he was already committed to spending around half 
of it on credit repayments with a further 14% on his mortgage repayment. I acknowledge he 
told Bamboo that the £1,000 loan was for debt consolidation, but, given the extent of his 
existing borrowing (almost £22,000), I cant see his repayments going forwards would be 
significantly affected.
I acknowledge what Bamboo says about the credit file showing Mr H was making his 
repayments on time, but I cant agree that there were no indications he was in financial 
difficulty. Mr Hs credit card balances had hardly changed in the seven months displayed in 
Bamboos credit check and most of his repayments in the previous 12 months had been 
minimum payments. His overdrafts had steadily increased from £0 and he appeared to be 
showing a reliance on short-term lending.
I accept Bamboos calculations showed Mr H had a disposable income of over £300 per 
month, but, based on the above, I consider it unlikely that that was a true reflection of his 
financial circumstances. I say that because that appears to be in conflict with an increasing 
overdraft and minimum credit card repayments. Indeed, given the recent pattern of 
borrowing, I also find it possible that he may have had additional short-term loans that were 
not yet appearing on the credit file.
 
For the above reasons, I consider Bamboos checks should have included a full review of 
Mr Hs financial circumstances, including further verification of his expenditure. I accept this 
was Mr Hs first loan with Bamboo but given the information Bamboo found in his credit file, I 
dont find that using a statistical average figure for his expenditure is a proportional check, 
based on what the existing checks were showing.
So, in answer to the first question, I dont consider Bamboo completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks when assessing Mr Hs loan application.
Nevertheless, I find that Bamboo had enough information to indicate further lending was 
unsustainable to Mr H:
He was already committed to credit repayments of around 50% of his income;
He was making minimum repayments on his credit cards and the balances were not 
decreasing;
His overdrafts had gradually been increasing and now both were at or near their 
limits;
He appeared to be relying on short-term lending to make ends meet  hed settled 
three of such loans in the month prior to the Bamboo loan.
In summary, although I dont find Bamboo carried out proportionate checks, I find it already 
had enough information to consider further lending would be unsustainable to Mr H. Indeed, 
had Bamboo carried out proportionate checks, I think its unlikely they would have shown the 
lending was sustainable for him.
So I dont consider Bamboo made a fair lending decision for loan 1.Loan 2
As Bamboo says Mr H withdrew from this loan, with no payments made and no interest due, 
I will not consider this loan any further.
  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. Bamboo Limited should:
Add up the total amount of money Mr H received as a result of having been given 
loan 1. The repayments Mr H made should be deducted from this amount;
oIf this results in Mr H having paid more than he received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement);
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Hs credit file regarding loan 1.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo to deduct tax from this interest. Bamboo should 
give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman