DRN-4050767
The complaint
W, a limited company, complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly declined a claim under 
their Management Liability insurance policy. 
Where I refer to AXA, this includes the actions of its agents and claims handlers for which is 
takes responsibility. 
What happened
In August 2021, W made a claim on their policy to defend legal action being brought against 
them in the Employment Tribunal. 
But AXA declined the claim on the basis that:
Ws late notification of the claim was in breach of the policys reporting requirements, 
which is a condition precedent. This has prejudiced AXAs position as it was unable 
to participate in the defence of the claim at the early conciliation stage. 
W was in breach of the claims procedure condition by instructing legal representation 
without AXAs approval.
W had failed to make a fair presentation of the risk at the policys renewal.
W didnt think this was fair, so they raised a complaint. And when it wasnt upheld by AXA, 
they brought it to our Service. But our Investigator was satisfied that AXA hadnt done 
anything wrong or unfair. As W didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Late notification
The terms and conditions of Ws policy say:
Claims notification condition
You mustas soon as possible within the period of insurance or where this is not 
possible at the latest within 45 days after it expiresgive usnotice of any claim 
under this policy, in accordance with the terms of each section.
If you do not comply with this condition we have the right to refuse to pay your claim.
Its not in dispute that W received a letter before action in March 2021 threatening court 
action. This was followed by a letter of resignation in April 2021, and notification from ACAS 
of the intended claim under the early conciliation process in May 2021. These incidents fall 
within the June 2020 to May 2021 period of insurance. 
But W didnt notify AXA of the claim until August 2021  which was after the policy renewal 
in June 2021, and the receipt of the notice of claim from the Employment Tribunal in July 
2021. 
As such, Im satisfied that W didnt notify AXA of the claim as soon as possible or within 45 
days, nor was it notified within the period of insurance  as required by the policy. 
Under the policy terms, its a requirement for cover to be provided that claims are notified in 
accordance with the term set out above. The strict application of the policy term is that a 
breach of the condition means AXA has the right to refuse the claim. 
But that doesnt necessarily mean cover wouldnt be provided, if the late notification didnt 
prevent AXA from dealing with the claim. The Insurance Act 2015 says that if the breach 
couldnt have increased the risk of the loss, the insurer cant rely on it. This is in line with the 
FCAs Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) and our approach to claims 
involving late notification where wed expect an insurer to demonstrate that it has been 
prejudiced by the breach of condition. I must decide whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case.
So Ive considered the impact of the delay. And having done so, Im satisfied theres been a 
prejudice to AXA here. I say this because AXA wasnt given the opportunity to:
assess the merits of the claim and determine whether Ws refusal to pay the 
outstanding salary payments (which is the crux of the legal claim against them) was 
fair. The policy excludes claims where W had failed to pay amounts that theyre 
contractually obliged to pay so AXA wouldve needed to assess the grounds on 
which W had refused. 
participate in the early conciliation process. Had it have done so, it couldve used the 
opportunity to decide whether it was reasonable  or more economically viable  to 
pay the claim rather than the legal costs to defend it.
negotiate with the claimant, either before or after court proceedings had been 
initiated. 
Given that AXA would be on risk for Ws legal costs, along with any award for damages or 
costs made to the claimant, its reasonable for it to require full control over the claim and how 
its handled. Im persuaded that the late notification has prevented AXA from being able to 
do so, given that W had instructed solicitors and incurred costs, negotiations had taken 
place, and court proceedings issued before it was aware of the claims existence. 
Fair presentation
The terms and conditions of Ws policy say:
Fair presentation of risk condition
You have a duty to make a fair presentation of the risk which you wish to insure. This 
applies prior to the start of your policy, if any variation is required during the period of 
insurance and prior to each renewal.This was a commercial contract. The relevant law that applies here is the Insurance Act 
2015, which says that before a contract of insurance is entered into, the insured must make 
a fair presentation of the risk  known as the duty of fair presentation  to the insurer, 
which means:
disclosure of every material circumstance which the insured knows or ought to know, 
or
failing that, disclosure which gives the insurer sufficient information to put a prudent 
insurer on notice that it needs to make further enquiries for the purpose of revealing 
those material circumstances.
Prior to the policys renewal in June 2021, W had received a letter before action and contact 
from ACAS regarding the threat of legal action. As this is a material circumstance which was 
already at a stage where W couldve initiated a claim under the policy, W had a duty to notify 
AXA at the point the policy renewed whereby W was entering into a new contract of 
insurance. 
AXA has certain remedies available to it under the Insurance Act 2015 for failure to make a 
fair presentation. But as AXA has fairly declined the claim due to a breach of the claim 
notification condition, it hasnt applied any further remedies. So I dont need to consider this 
aspect any further than to say Im persuaded there was a breach here. 
Summary
Whilst Im aware AXA has highlighted other reasons why the claim isnt covered, I dont 
intend to address them all on the basis that Im satisfied its decision to decline the claim due 
to the two reasons above is fair in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman