DRN-1151326
The complaint
This complaint is in the name of the late Mr W and has been brought on his behalf by 
representatives. 
Mr Ws representatives say Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold him a Gold packaged bank account. 
What happened
Mr W opened a fee-free account with Lloyds in 1964. Sometime between January 1996 and 
September 2001, the account was upgraded to a Gold packaged account. Mr Ws 
representatives say he was pressured into taking the account.
Our adjudicator looked into the complaint and said she hadnt seen enough to say the 
account was mis-sold. Mr Ws representatives disagreed so the complaint has been passed 
to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about packaged bank accounts. Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr 
Ws complaint.
Having done so, I dont agree Mr Ws account was mis-sold. Ill explain my reasoning. 
Unsurprisingly, there isnt much evidence available for me to consider, especially from the 
time of the sale. Lloyds only has statements going back to September 2001, which isnt 
unreasonable considering this is over 18 years ago. The statements show that at that time, 
the account was already a Gold packaged account. But Lloyds internal systems dont show 
exactly when the upgrade occurred. The earliest confirmation we have of Gold accounts 
being available is January 1996. So, Mr W would have taken the Gold account at some point 
between these dates. 
When theres only limited information available to me, I must consider what I think is most 
likely to have happened in the circumstances. Mr Ws representatives have said he was 
pressured into taking the packaged account and that he didnt need any of the benefits. For 
me to agree that Mr W was pressured, Id have to agree its more likely that he was left with 
no other option but to upgrade the account, rather than keep the one he had. And I havent 
seen enough to safely conclude this. In addition to this, Mr W had previously held a fee free 
account with Lloyds for over 30 years, so I think its more likely he knew he had the option to 
keep his fee-free account if he wanted to. 
Both Mr Ws representatives and Lloyds agree that the account was recommended to Mr W. 
Though there are no longer any records to show what it was recommended for. This means 
Lloyds had to make sure that it was suitable for him based on his circumstances at the time. At the time of the sale, the account may have had worldwide travel insurance, card 
protection, purchase protection, preferential overdraft rates and travel accident insurance  
depending on when the account was upgraded. And the account fee at the time was £8 per 
month. 
I can see no reason why Mr W wouldnt have been able to use any of the benefits available 
on the account. His representatives have said that he didnt travel, and he had a mobility car 
which wouldnt have been covered under the breakdown cover. Having looked at the 
statements for Mr Ws account, I can see a payment to a travel company in 2002 so I think 
this could have been a benefit that interested Mr W. And I appreciate their comments about 
the breakdown cover, but this wasnt added as a benefit until 2004, so this wouldnt have 
made the account unsuitable for him at the time of the sale. Having considered everything, I 
think its more likely the account overall was suitable for Mr W at the time of the sale. 
Lloyds also had to make sure it gave Mr W enough information about the account so he 
could make sure he wanted it. It isnt possible for us to know exactly what Mr W was told 
when he was sold the Gold account. But I think its likely Lloyds would have told him about 
the general benefits seeing as it was trying to make the account sound attractive to him. As 
mentioned above, I see no reason why Mr W couldnt have used the benefits, so I dont think 
better information about the account would have made him change his mind about taking it 
out. 
One of the benefits of the Gold account was a fee waiver if the balance on the account was 
kept over a certain amount. Looking at the available statements from September 2001, I can 
see Mr W regularly maintained his balance above the required amount. There were only two 
occasions on which the balance dipped below limit for a fee waiver to apply, meaning since 
September 2001, Mr W was only charged two account fees. However, one of these account 
fees was then refunded just 4 days later. This suggests to me that it was more likely Mr W 
was aware of the fee waiver, and that he actively chose to keep his account balance above 
the limit. This means that Mr W received the benefits on the Gold account for free from 2001 
onwards, minus one account fee. 
Mr Ws representatives have questioned why Lloyds didnt make them aware the fee waiver 
had applied to Mr Ws account. Because we dont have statements from the time of the sale, 
it isnt clear if Mr W received the fee waiver from the start of the packaged account. So, we 
dont know if the fee waiver would have been a deciding factor in why Mr W took out the 
account. So, I can understand why Lloyds may not have mentioned this when the complaint 
was first raised. 
Based on the very limited information available to me, I think its more likely Lloyds gave Mr 
W a fair choice in taking the account. I also think it was suitable for him overall and that he 
understood what it entailed.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and the 
estate of Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 19 February 2020.
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman