DRN-4475841
The complaint
Mr B complains that Trinity Lane Insurance Company Limited rejected a claim on his motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
In October 2022 Mr B took out a motor insurance policy for his car, which was underwritten 
by Trinity. In December, he reported that the car had been stolen and made a claim on his 
policy.
Trinity looked into the claim but said Mr B had provided incorrect information when he 
bought the policy, as hed said he kept the car on his drive overnight but its investigation 
showed it had been kept on the road. Trinity said if it had known the car wasnt kept on a 
drive it would never have offered the insurance. So it declined the claim.
Mr B complained but Trinity didnt change its decision. So he referred the complaint to this 
Service but our investigator didnt think it should be upheld. He said Trinity had shown that 
Mr B had made a misrepresentation when he bought the policy and if it had known he kept 
the car on the road it wouldnt have agreed to insure the vehicle.
Mr B disagreed and requested an ombudsmans decision. He said he had another car that 
he kept on the road and Trinity had agreed to insure that car. So it wasnt correct to say it 
wouldnt insure his car unless it was parked on the drive.
Before making my decision I asked Trinity for evidence about this. Trinity asked for more 
time to provide the information, which was agreed, but we didnt receive any further 
comments. So I issued a provisional decision saying, on the basis of the evidence I had, I 
was minded to uphold the complaint. I set out my reasons as follows:
In making my decision I need to consider whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
of the case, taking into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time.
In this case, the relevant law is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract. If a consumer fails to do 
this the insurer has certain remedies, provided the misrepresentation is a qualifying 
misrepresentation.
For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it either would not have 
offered the insurance at all, or would have offered it on different terms, if the consumer 
hadnt made the misrepresentation.
Trinity says Mr B failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
said his car was kept on his drive at night. When considering this, Ive looked at what 
question Mr B was asked; the answer he gave; and whether that answer was correct.
Mr B was asked Where is the vehicle kept at night and answered Parked on Drive. 
When the claim was being investigated, Mr B signed a statement in which he said at three 
different points that his car was kept on the road  including that it has always been left 
parked locked and secured on the opposite side of [his road]. The statement included a 
Statement of Truth, meaning Mr B was confirming what he said in the statement was true. If 
what he said in the statement was true, then the answer he gave when he took out the policy 
cant have been true.
Looking at this and other evidence Trinity gathered including photos, Im satisfied Mr B made 
a misrepresentation when he said his car was kept on the drive.
But for it to be a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA Trinity has to show that, if Mr B 
had given the correct information when he bought the policy, it would have done something 
different (either not offering the policy at all, or offering it on different terms). 
Trinity said it wouldnt have agreed to insure Mr Bs car. It has referred to an email issued by 
an underwriter saying on street parking was unacceptable in the area where Mr B lived. If 
thats correct, then Id agree this would be a qualifying misrepresentation. However, Mr B 
says his other car was also insured by Trinity even though it knew that car was kept on the 
road. As this contradicted what Trinity had said, I asked for clarification about this but it 
hasnt provided any further evidence.
So I have Mr B saying Trinity did insure a car of his that was kept on the road rather than on 
his drive, and nothing from Trinity to confirm thats not the case.
In the absence of evidence from Trinity to contradict what Mr B says, I dont think it has 
shown there was a qualifying misrepresentation; that would require me to be satisfied it 
wouldnt insure a car kept on the road and the information from Mr B indicates that it would. 
This means, based on the evidence available, Im not satisfied Mr Bs misrepresentation was 
a qualifying one. So theres no basis under CIDRA for Trinity to take any action and it should 
not have rejected his claim. Im therefore minded to uphold the complaint. Trinity should 
accept the claim and settle it in line with the policy terms.
Neither party has replied to the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I have received no further comments, the position remains as it was when I issued my 
provisional decision  Mr B says Trinity did insure his other car although it knew the car was 
parked on the road and Trinity hasnt provided any evidence to contradict this. 
Trinity had the opportunity to provide evidence about this when we specifically asked about 
it, and again in reply to the provisional decision, but hasnt done so. 
In these circumstances, Im not satisfied it has shown there was a qualifying 
misrepresentation and on that basis, it wasnt fair to decline the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Trinity Lane Insurance Company 
Limited to settle the claim in line with the policy terms.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman