DRN-1894345
The complaint
Mr and Mrs U complain that they were misled when they bought home improvements from a 
company, Z, which has since ceased trading. The materials and installation were financed 
by Shawbrook Bank Limited under arrangements with Z, and so Mr and Mrs U say that 
Shawbrook is liable in the same way that Z would be. Mr and Mrs U have been represented 
by a claims management business, H.
What happened
In November 2016 Mr and Mrs U entered into a contract with Z for the supply and installation 
of certain home improvements. The contract recorded that they could pay cash or open a 
Lifestyle account which Z would arrange. They also signed a Portfolio agreement and 
subsidy analysis. That agreement recorded that, if Mr and Mrs U agreed to Z taking pictures 
of its work for promotional purposes, displaying an advertising board and providing an 
appraisal of the work, they would receive a subsidy. Further subsidies were listed, including 
a subsidy for using a Lifestyle account to pay for the work; the sales contract indicated that 
the price would be just over £1,000 lower with the Lifestyle account.
Mr and Mrs U agreed to the Lifestyle option and Z arranged a loan of a little over £7,000 
with Shawbrook. The loan agreement set out the amount borrowed, the number and level of 
monthly payments, the monthly and annual interest rate and APR and the total amount 
payable over the ten- year term of the loan. Mr and Mrs U signed it on 6 November 2016.
In 2017 Z was prosecuted by Trading Standards and fined £80,000. The offences concerned 
quoting artificially high prices before reducing them to give the impression of a bargain and 
stating that products would only be available for a limited time  pressuring customers into 
buying them. Z has since ceased trading. H has said that Z was found guilty of fraud; in fact, 
it appears that the prosecution was for a number of less serious counts of engaging in an 
unfair commercial practice. 
In or about May 2019 H referred Mr and Mrs Us complaint to Shawbrook on their behalf. 
Shawbrook did not accept that it had acted unfairly, and so the complaint was referred to this 
service. H said, in summary:
Z had unfairly pressured Mr and Mrs U into entering into the finance agreement.
The sales contract gave them 7 days to cancel, instead of the 14 days to which they 
were entitled.
Z and Shawbrook had breached a number of Financial Conduct Authority principles.
No affordability assessment had been undertaken.
The credit agreement was misrepresented to Mr and Mrs U.
The discount for entering into the credit agreement was much less than the total 
charge for credit in the credit agreement.
Shawbrook should not have allowed Z to sell its finance products in the way it did.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but was not minded to uphold it. H did not 
accept the investigators findings. It said that there were now problems with the installation 
and provided an indication of the costs of rectifying those problems  suggesting that those 
estimates indicated that Mr and Mrs U had paid an inflated price in 2016. The investigator 
said that, if the installation was faulty, that was a matter that Mr and Mrs U might be able to 
take up with Shawbrook. He did not change his overall view of the complaint, however, and 
H asked that an ombudsman review the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In keeping with this services role as an informal dispute resolution service, I have 
summarised Hs submissions here, but I have considered all that has been said very 
carefully before reaching my conclusions.
Mr and Mrs Us complaint here is largely about the acts and omissions of Z. In arranging the 
finance, however, Z was acting as (or, under the Consumer Credit Act 1974, was to be 
treated as acting as) Shawbrooks agent. Second, because the sale agreement was 
financed under arrangements between Z and Shawbrook, if Mr and Mrs U have a claim for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation against Z, they have a like claim against Shawbrook.
I note what H has said about the proceedings brought by Trading Standards in 2017. It says 
that the proceedings show  beyond any reasonable doubt that the sales process 
employed throughout [Z] was imbedded in their philosophy, their methodology and drilled 
into their sales staff through their in-house training academy  In fact, the report of the trial 
did not go that far. It said that the judge found that  the company had failed to keep a tight 
enough rein on some of its sales force. The report also said the offences had taken place in 
2013 and 2014 and that there had been a two-year investigation. 
What the proceedings actually concluded, therefore, was that some of Zs sales staff had 
been engaged in unfair practices two to three years before the sale to Mr and Mrs U. I dont 
believe it would be fair to draw from that an inference that the same practices were at play 
when Mr and Mrs U made their purchase. Its possible of course that they were, but my view 
is that there is nothing specific enough or persuasive enough in the evidence to suggest that 
was the case. 
Even if I were to find that Mr and Mrs U were misled, however, that does not amount to a 
breach of contract. Theres no suggestion that they did not receive what they paid for or, until 
very recently, that there was anything wrong with the products and services that were 
supplied. Ill discuss that later.
Shawbrook is liable as well if Mr and Mrs U have a claim for misrepresentation against Z. A 
misrepresentation is an untrue statement of fact made by one party to a contract and on 
which the other party reasonably relies in deciding to enter into that contract. As Ive 
indicated, there is very little evidence here about Mr and Mr Us experience, other than the 
contractual documents. They havent said what, if anything, they were told that wasnt true. 
Nor have they said what they would have done differently if they had been told something 
different about the deal.H has referred to a number of regulatory provisions which it says Z and/or Shawbrook have 
breached. Again, however, theres no evidence of how any such breaches have affected Mr 
and Mrs U. 
H says for example that the agreement with Z gave Mr and Mrs U only a 7-day cooling-off 
period, instead of 14 days. Generally, however, a fair remedy for providing an insufficient 
cancellation period is generally to treat the contract as if it included the correct period. In any 
event, theres no suggestion that Mr and Mrs U sought to cancel the contract within either 
timeframe. If there was a breach of regulations, it hasnt directly affected them.
H says too Shawbrook should have given Mr and Mrs U sufficient time to consider the pre-
contract information; it hasnt said however how long they did have, what they might have 
done differently if theyd been given longer, or what made them realise they had not had a 
chance to consider the paperwork. I note as well that Shawbrook says the loan was not 
completed until a month after it had been signed. 
H says that the documents showing a range of subsidies reducing the price by more than 
£4,000 are proof of misrepresentation and unfair practices on the part of Z and that Mr and 
Mrs U would not have made the purchase had they known the true position. I dont believe 
however that the documents do demonstrate that. In the absence of any further information 
about what actually happened, I think they showed clearly what the price would be, 
depending on how the purchase was financed. Mr and Mrs U paid the agreed price and 
appear to have been happy to do so.
But in any event the paperwork set out the difference between paying cash and taking out 
finance. The incentive being offered was genuine and clear.
H says too that Shawbrook did not carry out an assessment of affordability. Shawbrook says 
it did. I note though that Mr and Mrs U have made payments on time and at no point 
suggested they were having difficulty. Even if there was no assessment, again its not clear 
what impact that had on Mr and Mrs U.
Shortly after Mr and Mrs U signed the sales agreement, Z called them to make sure they 
understood the sale and finance agreement. In the course of that conversation Mrs U said 
that the sales visit had lasted three to four hours and that she and Mr U thought that was 
reasonable. Nevertheless, H submitted that the visit lasted over four hours and that its 
clients felt under pressure. If that were so, I think they might have mentioned it at the time or 
in the intervening two and a half years.      
H says that, if Mr and Mrs U had been told about the impending court case, they would not 
have placed an order and would have looked elsewhere. Theres no reason to think however 
that there was any discussion of trading standards breaches or of court action, or that Mr 
and Mrs U were told there was no action. They werent misled about it, and there was no 
obligation on the salesman to raise it  if indeed he was aware of it.  
Ive considered too the loan agreement itself.  As Ive indicated, it set out clearly the amount 
borrowed, the monthly and annual interest rate, the monthly payments, the APR and the 
total that would be due if the loan ran its course. Those are all matters required to be 
included in the credit agreement under The Consumer Credit (Agreements) Regulations 
2010; the credit agreement appeared to comply with those regulations. 
I should comment finally on the issue of the warranty. Mr and Mrs Us contract with Z 
included a ten-year warranty. H says that there is a breach of contract because Z is no 
longer trading and so would not be able to meet a claim under the warranty. There may be 
some merit in that argument. I note however the following:Many warranties of this nature are insurance-backed, and there is reference to that in 
Zs documents in this case. 
If Mr and Mrs U need to make a claim under the warranty, Shawbrook has 
acknowledged that they may be able to bring a claim against it under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. If it remains unresolved, this service may be able to 
consider any resulting complaint.
Because its not clear that Mr and Mrs U have suffered or will suffer any loss because Z cant 
now meet its warranty obligations, I dont believe its appropriate for me to make any award 
as a result. If they do suffer loss in the future, they may be able to raise a fresh complaint.
Because I have not made a finding in Mr and Mrs Us favour, I do not need to consider 
remedies. I note however that H has said in bringing this complaint that Mr and Mrs U should 
be able to rescind the sale contract and have a refund of all the money paid under the loan 
agreement. That would of course put them in the position of having home improvements 
carried out at no cost to themselves, but funded by Shawbrook. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Shawbrook Bank Limited to do anything more to 
resolve Mr and Mrs Us complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr U and Mrs U to accept or reject my decision before 11 March 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman