DRN-4152569
The complaint
Miss T complains UK Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line (UKI) did not complete all the 
required repairs to her car after she made a claim on her motor insurance policy, and it did 
not take her concerns seriously.
There are several parties and representatives of UKI involved throughout the complaint but 
for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to UKI.
What happened
In September 2021 whilst Miss T was stationary in her car, a third-party car hit her from 
behind causing her to hit the car in front. The car in front did not stop to exchange details. 
Miss T made a claim on her motor insurance policy.
UKI accepted the claim and repairs to the body work of her car were completed by its 
authorised repairer.
Miss T said her car did not work as expected when it was returned. An independent 
diagnostic check was undertaken on the car. Although this found a number of mechanical 
issues it did not attribute these to the collision in September 2021 and said they were 
general maintenance points and should have been picked up on servicing. 
In February 2022 Miss T had another accident whilst driving her car. This accident was 
reported to UKI. She said this accident was caused due to her car being unsafe because of 
mechanical issues that were not undertaken after the accident in September 2021. She 
wants UKI to remove the incident in February 2022 from her motor insurance record.
UKI said there was no evidence the mechanical issues found with her car could be linked to 
the accident in September 2021.
As Miss T was not happy with UKI, she brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. They looked into the case and said following 
their review of the reports provided they found no evidence that confirms the repairs carried 
out after the accident in September 2021 were inadequate. They also said there was no 
independent and verifiable evidence to confirm that accident-related issues remained with 
the car after B fixed it, which caused the second accident to occur. They did not think UKI 
should remove the accident which happened in February 2022 from Cs insurance record.
As Miss T is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I looked at the assessment that was completed on Miss Ts car after the accident in 
September 2021. UKIs authorised repairer found the damage to her car was only cosmetic 
and this was the work that was completed. It did not find any mechanical issues.
After the car was returned to Miss T, I saw she complained to UKI about mechanical faults 
with the fuel gauge.  Miss T also mentioned further mechanical faults, including issues with 
the steering and the engine made a loud noise.
I saw after Miss T made her complaint about the mechanical faults she thought were caused 
during the accident, UKI organised for a diagnostic inspection of the car to be completed. 
UKI said if damage was found that was related to the accident it would cover the repairs. I 
saw a full system scan was carried out to identify related faults to the fuel consumption 
calculation and it said no defect was found in the area of concern at accident repair. 
Part of the detailed diagnostic report was missing and as UKI were unable to provide this 
information from its authorised supplier who had undertaken the diagnostic, it said it would 
pay for a further independent assessment of Miss Ts car.
This was organised by Miss T and undertaken by the main dealer. I saw Miss T provided a 
copy of a visual health check completed by the main dealer that showed a list of mechanical 
work recommended. Miss T did not provide the diagnostic report that UKI had paid to be 
completed. I have not seen an explanation as to why this was not provided.
I saw UKI tried to obtain this diagnostic directly from the main dealer without success, but it 
was able to speak with them to discuss the faults on the visual health check.
The main dealer concluded the mechanical issues experienced with Miss Ts car were 
service and maintenance issues. The main dealer also said after completing the work on the 
car it had identified was required, the car was returned to Miss T without any issues, and it 
would not have given the car back to her if it was unsafe. 
I think UKI did take Miss Ts concerns about her car not working correctly seriously. It dealt 
with her concerns appropriately as it organised for the car to be looked at by both its own 
approved supplier and also with Miss Ts own choice of engineers. 
Despite detailed diagnostic reports not being provided in full, from either UKIs supplier or 
the main dealer engaged by Miss T, both suppliers concluded the mechanical work required 
to Miss Ts car was not caused by the accident in September 2021. And I have not seen any 
other verifiable evidence of mechanical damage to Miss Ts car that was caused by this 
accident. 
The evidence from the main dealer confirms Miss Ts car did not have any issues when it 
was returned to her, therefore any further incidents/accidents cannot be linked to mechanical 
faults from the accident in September 2021.
I do not uphold  Miss Ts complaint and I do not require UKI to do anything further in this 
case.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman