DRN-3651607
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined his travel insurance claim. 
Any reference to UKI includes all its agents.
What happened
Mr R has a travel insurance policy alongside his bank current account. The policy is 
underwritten by UKI.
On 19 December 2021, Mr R travelled to his destination as planned but on 28 December 
2021 (the day he was due to return to the UK) he tested positive for Covid-19. He was 
therefore unable to return to the UK on the scheduled flight and had to pay for an additional 
flight home.
He submitted a claim to UKI for the cost of his unused return flight. UKI assessed the claim 
and said it declined the claim for the cost of the unused flight. But it said it would consider 
the cost of the additional flight Mr R had paid. UKI also paid Mr R £50 for the way it had 
handled his claim. 
Unhappy with UKIs response, Mr R brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold the complaint. He said there is cover available for the cost of the additional 
flight on Mr Rs policy but theres no cover for the return unused flight. He didnt think UKI 
had treated Mr R unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances of what happened as UKI 
has offered to pay for the cost of the additional flight.
Our investigator also thought the £50 compensation offered by UKI to Mr R was fair in the 
circumstances. 
Mr R disagreed with the investigator and asked for the complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman. So, its been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly.
Ive started by looking at the policy terms and conditions of Mr Rs travel insurance policy as 
this forms the basis of his contract with UKI. 
Page 31 of his policy booklet sets out what cover is available for the circumstances Mr R 
found himself in. The section of the policy that applies states:
Section D
Emergency medical and related costs
What is covered
We will cover you for the following expenses if you die, are injured, become ill or are 
quarantined while on a trip:

2. Related Costs outside or inside your home area
Additional travel and accommodation expenses:

-that you have to pay to get home following emergency medical treatment 
and where you cannot use your return ticket.


This section of the policy explains that cover will only be provided for any additional travel 
expenses to get the policyholder home and if they were unable to use their return flight. 
In applying this to Mr Rs circumstances, there is cover available, but this is for the cost of 
the additional flight that Mr R incurred  not for the unused return flight he had booked 
initially and for which hes claiming for.
Having carefully considered the remaining sections of Mr Rs policy, there are no other 
sections of the policy that apply to the situation he found himself in. There simply is no cover 
for the claim Mr R has submitted. I appreciate that he is looking for UKI to pay the cost of his 
unused return flight but there are no sections of the policy that apply, and the event is not 
insured under his policy. As such, I dont think that UKI has treated Mr R unfairly or 
unreasonably in declining his claim for the unused return flight. I know this will be 
disappointing to Mr R but there are simply no other sections of the policy that apply to the 
situation he found himself in and that led to making the claim.
My understanding is that UKI has offered to review the claim for the additional flight cost and 
has asked Mr R for further information in relation to this flight. Its up to Mr R now whether he 
wants to pursue this course of action and should he wish to do so, he will need to contact 
UKI directly. This will, of course, be subject to the usual policy terms and conditions and any 
applicable excesses. 
I acknowledge that Mr R doesnt think £50 is fair compensation for the poor service he 
received from UKI. Ive reviewed this and having looked at what happened, I think this is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. I appreciate there were delays in handling the claim 
but, at the same time, UKI also asked for information from Mr R in order to assess the claim 
and which wasnt provided. Mr R has said he has provided UKI with all the information it 
needs, but I cant see that he has provided information about the additional flight he took to 
return to the UK.
Overall, taking everything into account, Im satisfied that UKI hasnt treated Mr R unfairly or 
unreasonably in declining his claim for the unused return flight. Im also satisfied that £50 
compensation for the way UKI handled the claim is fair and reasonable for what happened in 
the circumstances. It follows that I dont require UKI to do anything further. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint against U K Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman