DRN-4051677
The complaint
Ms K complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont provide her a lightweight foldable chair (or 
another suitable chair) to sit down on when she visits her local Lloyds branch.
What happened
Ms K is disabled, and she requires a chair to sit down on to complete her banking at her 
local Lloyds branch, as she says she is unable to stand in a static standing position for 
barely a minute. She says their staff have refused to provide her with a chair to sit down on 
and she wants them to provide a chair in branch. Ms K made a complaint to Lloyds. She said 
they had breached the Equality Act.
Lloyds did not uphold Ms Ks complaint. They said the branch she uses have explained that 
they provide seating for customers and make all the reasonable adjustments they can. 
Lloyds said they have health and safety rules in place which mean they cannot move the 
chairs. Lloyds said that Ms K mentioned to them that on a recent visit she was refused 
service, but when the complaint handler spoke to the branch, they said Ms K refused to be 
served unless they got her a chair that she needed, which was something they were unable 
to do. Lloyds said customers can use the chairs provided for any reason, and they can also 
hold positions in the queue if this supported her. Ms K brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Ms Ks complaint. She said Lloyds had offered to hold Ms Ks 
place in the queue while she sits in the seating area and call her forward when its her turn. 
She said although Ms Ks issue is standing once when she is being served by a cashier, the 
transaction shouldnt necessitate a lengthy wait and that the branch staff are willing to relay 
any information to the cashiers if this shortened the time Ms K would have to stand. 
Ms K did not agree to our investigators view of the complaint, and she asked what 
information our investigator relied on to reach her outcome. Our investigator provided 
redacted information to Ms K, who disputes what Lloyds have said about her refusing to be 
served in the branch unless there was a chair available to her.
Ms K asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. She asked me to listen to a call she 
had where she told our service that she didnt refuse to be served by Lloyds in December 
2022. She mentioned they only had big armchair type seats. She said that letters had been 
given to Lloyds about reasonable adjustments, but they didnt reply to these letters. Ms K 
said that she recently visited the branch, and it took seven minutes to complete her 
transactions and she would be unable to stand statically for seven minutes.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms K has said that she suspects Lloyds are not complying with their obligations under the 
Equality Act. Ive taken the Equality Act 2010 into account when deciding this complaint  
given that its relevant law  but Ive ultimately decided this complaint based on whats fair 
and reasonable. If Ms K wants a decision that Lloyds has breached the Equality Act 2010, 
then shed need to go to Court. 
Ms K has complained that Lloyds current chairs arent suitable for someone with a disability 
like hers, as they use big armchairs, which cant be moved around easy, like into the queue 
and in front of cashiers. She said these are different to the chairs they had prior to the 
pandemic. Ms K said that Lloyds ought to provide lightweight folding chairs that companies 
use in other offices. 
Weve asked Lloyds what they can and cannot do, and how they operate. I cant say, taking 
everything both sides have said into account, that Lloyds have been unfair or unreasonable 
here. I agree with Ms K, for example, that it would be helpful if customers in her position 
would be able to use a different type of chair than what Lloyds currently have available in the 
branch she uses, but Im satisfied that Lloyds have made reasonable adjustments for Ms K  
even if they might be different to the reasonable adjustments that Ms K wants them to offer 
her. 
I say this because Lloyds have confirmed that they can offer to hold Ms Ks position in the 
queue, so that she can be seated until it is her turn to use the counter. I mentioned to Lloyds 
about Ms Ks comments about a recent visit taking seven minutes to complete her 
transactions when she was at the counter. They told me they could help Ms K with this as 
anything completed electronically could be completed while she took a seat in the waiting 
area. They said it would only be cash transactions which would require her to be at the 
counter position as colleagues shouldnt be carrying cash across the counter. 
Lloyds have said that even if Ms K wanted cash in specific denominations, this should not be 
a problem, and this would be a fairly quick process  and theyve suggested that if specific 
denominations need to be retrieved from elsewhere then Ms K could again take a seat and 
return back to the counter when she is called back over. 
Ive listened to the call to hear what Ms K has said about her not refusing to be served in the 
branch unless a chair was moved to the counter queueing area. I asked Lloyds if they had 
any footage of Ms Ks branch visit here. They confirmed that due to the time thats passed 
they do not have this footage any longer. Ms Ks version of events differs to what the branch 
say happened here. When it comes to complaints where its one word against another, I 
have to consider the evidence available to me. I then have to weigh the evidence against the 
balance of probabilities, that is, whats more likely to have happened in the circumstances.
Im persuaded it's possible that Ms K asked for a chair to be moved to the queuing area to 
make it her branch experience easier for her, but the Lloyds staff were unable to do this (or 
allow another customer to do this) based on health and safety protocols they have in place. 
But Im unable to say with any certainty what happened here.
Ive considered what Ms K has said about Lloyds not responding to her letters. Ive looked at 
Lloyds system notes to see if there are any records of when Ms K provided letters to them, 
but there is no record of this. Thats not to say that Ms K didnt give Lloyds letters about the 
issues. Im satisfied that she did as they were acknowledged in a letter they sent her on 3 
January 2023, its just that there is no record of any other times when Ms K provided them 
letters. The branch manager acknowledged Ms K hand delivered two letters to the branch, 
so I cant say the letters she provided to them were ignored, but it appears that it took them 
longer to respond to Ms K than she expected them to, which Lloyds have apologised for. So 
it follows I dont require Lloyds to do anything further. My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman