DRN-4298789
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the way Lloyds Bank Plc has handled his claim for a refund of a 
payment he made using his Lloyds Bank debit card.
What happened
In September 2022, Mr B paid a supplier Ill call Business 1 £1,126.67 for some flooring. He 
says that when it arrived some of it was damaged  although theres also evidence to 
suggest that, for whatever reason, it wasnt the type of flooring Mr B wanted.
In any event, Mr B contacted the supplier to try to return the flooring and get a refund or 
replacement. When neither was forthcoming, Mr B contacted Lloyds Bank on 
10 November 2022.
Lloyds Bank raised a chargeback the same day  and applied a temporary credit of 
£1,126.67 to Mr Bs account.
Business 1 defended the claim on 9 December 2022. Lloyds Bank didnt accept its defence 
and explained why on 14 December 2022. This step is often called pre-arbitration or 
pre-arb.
A few days later, Business 1 collected the flooring from Mr B. (Mr B had arranged this with 
Business 1 separately  it was not part of the chargeback process.)
Again, Business 1 defended the claim on 12 January 2023. Lloyds Bank sent Mr B an email 
on the same day to say it was unable to continue with [his] dispute because Business 1 was 
willing to replace any damaged items. The email said Mr B should get in touch with 
Lloyds Bank within 10 days if he had any new information he wanted it to consider, 
otherwise it would re-debit the temporary credit. As it didnt hear from Mr B, it re-debited the 
temporary credit on 27 January 2023.
Since then, Business 1 has refunded £935.88 to Mr B and Mr B has initiated legal 
proceedings against Business 1 to recover the difference.
But Mr B referred a complaint to our service because he was unhappy with the way 
Lloyd Bank had handled his claim.
One of our investigators didnt think Lloyds Bank needed to take any further action.
Mr B doesnt think this is fair and has asked that an ombudsman make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important I first clarify the scope of my decision. Mr B has started legal proceedings 
against Business 1 to recover the difference between the amount he paid (£1,126.67) and 
the refund hes received (£935.88). In an email Mr B sent our investigator on 
14 August 2023, he says he doesnt want Lloyds Bank to pay him this money, so theres no 
possibility of double recovery and he says the outcome of the court case is therefore 
irrelevant. Instead, he wants Lloyds Bank to refund the interest it charged him for being 
overdrawn on his account after it re-debited the temporary credit. This is therefore all I will 
consider.
A chargeback is a way for a debit card provider to reclaim money from the suppliers bank 
when a consumer doesnt get the goods or services he paid for. It isnt a legal right and 
theres no guarantee the card provider will be able to recover the money this way. The 
process is subject to the rules of the scheme  which, in this case, are set by Visa  and a 
strict criteria and time limits apply. To be clear, Lloyds Bank doesnt set the rules and I cant 
change them.
In this case, Lloyds Bank raised a chargeback and initially rejected Business 1s defence. 
However, when Business 1 again defended the claim, it chose not to escalate the matter to 
the final stage of the process, which is when Visa makes a final decision. This final stage is 
called arbitration.
Mr B says he didnt receive the email Lloyds Bank sent him on 12 January 2023 and only 
learned of it on 31 January 2023, when it was too late to take any action. He says he doesnt 
understand why Lloyds Bank chose to send him an email on this occasion when it had 
previously communicated with him by text message. And he says there would have been 
ample opportunity to resolve the issue without going to court if Lloyds Bank had text or called 
him because, by this point, Business 1 had already collected the flooring. Finally, Mr B says 
he wouldnt have been able to access the email Lloyds Bank sent him on 12 January 2023 in 
any event because it was encrypted, and he says he wasnt sent an email asking him to set 
up a password until much later.
Ive seen a copy of the email Lloyds Bank sent Mr B on 12 January 2023. I appreciate that 
Mr B is very annoyed that he didnt receive it or wasnt able to access it  but Im satisfied 
that Lloyds Bank sent it. And, for completeness, I dont think it was unreasonable or 
inappropriate for Lloyds Bank to email Mr B on this occasion rather than text or call. After all, 
its a widely used and often helpful way for banks to communicate with their customers. 
I appreciate the point Mr B makes about only receiving an email to set up a password 
sometime later and its not clear to me what happened here. But even if I accept that Mr B 
couldnt access the email, it doesnt make a difference to the outcome of this complaint. I say 
this because to uphold this complaint and direct Lloyds Bank to refund any interest it 
charged him on his overdraft, Id need to be persuaded that Mr B could have provided new 
information on or around 12 January 2023, and that Lloyds Bank should have escalated the 
matter to Visa and that Visa would have determined the dispute in Mr Bs favour as a result. 
On the evidence Ive seen, I dont think thats likely.
In an email to our service, Mr B wrote: Had I received the email when it was sent, I could 
have intervened. The outcome of that intervention is impossible to determine as I was not 
given the opportunity. However, it is fair to say that the bank/Visa may have been more 
favourable had they known that the stock had been back with [Business 1] for over a month 
at this stage and therefore had no basis for a dispute. I disagree. While I appreciate that the 
flooring was collected by Business 1 on 19 December 2023, that doesnt mean Mr B is 
entitled to a full refund. Here, the dispute between Mr B and Business 1 is about the refund 
due, which turns on Mr Bs reasons for returning the flooring and the relevant terms and 
conditions, if they apply and how. A court will shortly decide whether Mr B was entitled to a full refund and nothing I say is intended to indicate an opinion on this point. However, for the 
purpose of this decision, it suffices to say that Business 1 has consistently defended this 
claim and pre-court mediation was unsuccessful, so Business 1 clearly feels as strongly 
about its position as Mr B does about his. Put simply, Ive seen insufficient evidence that 
Mr B could have said something on or around 12 January 2023 that would have proved 
decisive, and that hes therefore lost out because Lloyds Bank didnt escalate the dispute to 
arbitration. It follows that Im not going to tell it to refund any interest it charged him for being 
overdrawn on his account after it re-debited the temporary credit.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Christopher Reeves
Ombudsman