DRN-2310147
The complaint
Mr R complains that he was sold an unsuitable life policy by Barclays Bank UK PLC. He 
says he thought it would provide cover for the whole of his life, but it actually had a specified 
term, which has now ended.
What happened
In 2004 Mr R was aged 49, living with his partner and retired on medical grounds. He was 
looking to remortgage to consolidate some debt.
He was recommended a level term assurance policy (LTA) by Barclays. It provided £50,000 
of life cover over a term of 15 years for a monthly premium of £15.40. Although the new 
mortgage was to be on a capital repayment basis, a level term policy was recommended 
because the mortgage was an offset product that allowed Mr R to borrow back money paid 
to the mortgage.
In 2019 the policys term came to an end and Mr R made his complaint to Barclays. But it 
didnt think it had done anything wrong. It felt that policy had been suitable for Mr R, 
consistent with his circumstances and the mortgage term and amount.
Mr R referred the complaint to this service, but our investigator reached the same conclusion 
as Barclays and for broadly the same reasons. She added that the term assurance would 
likely have been cheaper than a whole of life policy and that the documentation produced at 
the time, including the application form that Mr R had signed, all made clear that the cover 
was for a term of 15 years.
The investigator noted that Mr R had had two existing term assurance in place at the time. 
But these only had four more years to run and provided much less cover, so she didnt think 
they wouldve been suitable to use for cover for the new mortgage. She also said Barclays 
had confirmed that Mr R remortgaged to a new provider in 2007, but she didnt think there 
wouldve been any responsibility on it to contact Mr R about the LTA to enquire about its 
ongoing suitability.
Mr R didnt accept the investigators view. He provided detailed further submissions, saying, 
in brief:
He was misinformed about the details of the cover  he trusted the adviser who was 
the expert professional.
What is the point of life insurance that doesnt cover you until you die?
He might as well have thrown his money down the drain.
Having discussed with the adviser what he thought he was going to get, he assumed 
the agreement wouldve been correct.
Unless there is documentary evidence to support the investigators view it should be 
changed.
 
Despite Mr Rs comments, the investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, so the 
matters been referred to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is more likely than not to have happened in 
light of the evidence and wider circumstances.
Its clear Mr R has strong feelings about Barclays actions. As noted, hes provided detailed 
submissions to support his complaint, which Ive read and considered in their entirety.
However, I trust that he wont take the fact that my findings focus on what I consider to be 
the central issues, and that theyre expressed in less detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of 
my decision isnt to address every point raised in detail, but to set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them.
I note Mr Rs recollections of the discussion he had with the adviser. And that he understood 
from those discussions that he was being provided with life cover that would last until his 
death. But I have to balance those recollections against the documentary evidence, of which 
there is quite a lot available, all of which shows that the policy was a term assurance that 
was going to last for 15 years.
Moreover, the recommendation was consistent with Mr Rs circumstances and with the other 
features of the mortgage. It matched the term and amount. And it was set up as a level, 
rather than decreasing, policy to take account of the offset feature, which I understand Mr R 
took advantage of. His existing cover was considered but was felt to be not appropriate 
because of the difference in terms and levels of cover.
All that being so, I dont think I can reasonably conclude that Barclays did anything wrong. It 
appears the adviser made a suitable recommendation. And, as the investigator noted, there 
was no responsibility on Barclays to check ongoing suitability of the policy once Mr R 
remortgaged in 2007.
I understand Mr R feels that the cover was a waste of money and cant understand why 
anyone would want life cover that didnt last for the whole of their life. But its very common 
for dedicated cover to be recommended and taken out for a specific new large liability like a 
mortgage, so that in the event of the policyholders death during the mortgage term the debt 
can be cleared, and circumstances be made more comfortable for those left behind.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2020.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman