DRN-1917613
The complaint
Mr D complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont refund a considerable 
number of payments, which total more than £5,000, made using his credit card to one online 
store. He also complains that NatWest allowed these payments despite them taking him 
over his credit card limit by a considerable amount.
What happened
Mr D agrees that he set up the online account in question and registered his credit card with 
it. He also agrees that he downloaded an application and made a number of in-app 
purchases. But he says that he was unhappy with the quality and delivery of the purchases 
and he believes that there were fraudulent transactions after the genuine purchases were 
made. In total, over a period of about a week, more than 60 payments were made from his 
credit card account, totalling more than £5,000. 
Mr D says that he complained to the online merchant but it didnt help him resolve the issues 
so he asked NatWest to help him but it hasnt done so. He also says that NatWest told him 
that it wouldnt allow him to exceed his credit limit but it then let him to do so by some 
£1,500. He also thinks that NatWest should have told him about the number and amount of 
these disputed payments because they were unusual activity for his account. 
NatWest says that when Mr D contacted it he told it that he wasnt happy with the quality of 
his purchases. NatWest told him that, to raise a chargeback, it needed Mr D to provide some 
evidence to support his claim. As Mr D said he couldnt do this NatWest didnt think a 
chargeback claim would be successful. It did pay Mr D £55.40 to cover the costs of the calls 
he had to make to NatWest about this matter and for the poor service it provided in giving 
wrong information about exceeding the credit limit.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld in part. He thought that Mr D had 
authorised the disputed transactions so it wasnt fair to ask NatWest to refund these. But he 
did think the bank should have done more to prevent the account going over its agreed limit 
by so much. NatWest has now agreed to refund £1,585.78, being the difference charged 
above Mr Ds credit limit plus interest.
Mr D responded to say, in summary, that he is certain that he didnt make or authorise some 
of the transactions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The payments
The disputed transactions took place in September 2019. The regulations relevant to these 
are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. In short, the basic position is that NatWest can 
hold Mr D liable for the disputed payments if the evidence suggests its more likely than not 
that he made them or authorised them. So my primary concern is to come to a view about 
whether or I not I think Mr D authorised these payments. But for me to be satisfied that these 
payments were authorised, I first need to determine how they were authenticated.
Authentication is the use of any procedure by which a bank is able to verify the use of a 
specific payment instrument, including its personalised security features. NatWest has 
provided evidence to show that the disputed transactions were all payments made through 
Mr Ds online account to which he had linked his NatWest credit card. He had provided the 
correct card details and CVV so Im satisfied Mr Ds genuine card details were used. 
The regulations relevant to this case say that it is not, on its own, enough for NatWest to 
hold Mr D liable, just because his genuine card information was used. So I also need to 
consider whether the evidence suggests its more likely than not that he consented to the 
disputed transactions being made.
Mr D had the card in his possession during the time the disputed transactions were 
happening. He accepts that he used it himself for genuine payments for In-App purchases 
through his online account. But Mr D disputes some of the transactions following the genuine 
ones, which he says he didnt authorise.
For an unauthorised person to carry out these online, In-App transactions they would have 
needed Mr Ds card and account details. And to make In-App purchases through Mr Ds 
online account they would also have needed his password or use facial or fingerprint 
recognition. This is because the online account requires a payment to be authenticated 
before making In-App purchases by either password, touch or face ID. I cant see how 
someone unknown to Mr D could have got hold of these details or used his app without him 
knowing and I dont believe the In-App purchases would have been of any benefit to any 
other person. So Im not persuaded that Mr D didnt authorise the transactions.
Chargeback
Under the MasterCard scheme rules Mr D is entitled to ask his card provider  NatWest - to 
try and recover all or part of the money hes paid, provided there is evidence for the claim. 
Its important to note that a chargeback isnt a right under the scheme. Rather, its good 
practice for a bank to try one if it has a good reason to do so, and there appears to be a fair 
chance that a chargeback request may succeed. But banks dont have to raise chargebacks 
if it looks likely that the cardholder would lose. 
MasterCard regulations require that the cardholder must have tried to resolve the dispute 
first so that the retailer has a chance to correct the problem. 
Importantly, chargebacks are decided based on the schemes rules, and not on the merits of 
the dispute. So before trying a chargeback, NatWest needed to ask Mr D to provide it with 
information about the transactions and what he had done to try to resolve his dispute with 
the relevant merchant.
Mr D asked NatWest to attempt a chargeback because he wasnt happy with the quality of 
the In-App purchases and he said they didnt work correctly. NatWest asked him to provide 
further information so that it could process a claim for him. But Mr D told NatWest that he 
didnt have any evidence.
Im not persuaded that NatWest made a mistake in not processing a chargeback claim for Mr 
D here. He was provided with the service he paid for  In-App purchases. I appreciate that 
he might have been disappointed with the quality of the purchases and how they worked, but this isnt a valid reason for a dispute under the MasterCard chargeback scheme. And 
NatWest doesnt have to raise a chargeback claim if it thinks its not likely to succeed.
NatWest considered this to be a matter between Mr D, his online account provider and the 
App producer and it suggested that Mr D sought a refund through his online account. It also 
suggested he could raise the matter with trading standards for advice. Im satisfied this 
wasnt a chargeback issue, as Mr D received the goods/services he paid for.
The credit limit
Mr D says that NatWest told him that he wouldnt be able to exceed his credit limit on the 
account. It accepts that it made a mistake by telling him this because it is possible for a 
customer to make a purchase, which will take the account over the credit limit. To resolve Mr 
Ds complaint NatWest has now agreed that it will, as a gesture of goodwill, refund the 
amount that Mr Ds account exceeded its limit as well as interest totalling £74.11. Having 
carefully considered everything that has happened I think this offer is fair.
Putting things right
I know Mr D will be very disappointed a lot of money was involved here, but for the reasons 
Ive given, I cant reasonably ask NatWest to refund all the disputed transactions. But I 
uphold his complaint about his credit limit. To put matters right NatWest should:
Refund £1,511.67 being the amount by which NatWest allowed Mr Ds account to 
exceed its credit limit
Refund the interest charged of £74.11
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require National Westminster Bank 
Plc to put matters right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2020.
 
Karen Wharton
Ombudsman