DRN-1767008
 
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy Claim Hunters Ltd are charging him a success fee for a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) claim he said he didnt give them authority to deal with.
What happened
In September 2019, Mr R received compensation for PPI from one of his lenders. Shortly 
after Claim Hunters asked him to pay them a fee for the successful claim. Mr R said hed 
never authorised Claim Hunters to act on his behalf. And another claims management 
company (CMC) had been paid a fee for the successful claim.
Claim Hunters said, in July 2019, Mr R had authorised them to act on his behalf after he 
completed an online enquiry. They said hed completed their process and had signed 
several letters of authority (LoA) that authorised them to make PPI claims with all of his 
lenders.
Claim Hunters said the LoA also included the terms and conditions that explained if Mr Rs 
claims were successful, they would charge a success fee of 20% plus VAT on any payment 
he got from his lenders. And as Mr R had got compensation from his lender they were 
justified in charging their fee. Claim Hunters said theyd also checked with the lender who 
confirmed they were the only CMC they had dealt with.
Mr R wasnt happy with Claim Hunters response, he said hed never signed the LoA.  And 
the signature on it wasnt his. He referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said the on-line enquiry had been completed with Mr Rs personal and 
contact details. And Claim Hunters had been given the details of all of Mr Rs lenders. Claim 
Hunters had also provided case notes showing they had contacted Mr R to update him about 
his claims. And that Mr R hadnt queried their involvement until theyd asked for their fee.
She said Claim Hunters had acted reasonably in making the claim and charging their 
success fee. Mr R disagreed and has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
When there are different versions of whats happened, as in this case, I need to make a 
decision based on what I think most likely happened. I can see the signature on the LoAs 
differ from Mr Rs.  But what I need to determine is whether I think its more likely than not 
that Mr R authorised Claim Hunters to act on his behalf to pursue his PPI claims.Claim Hunters have provided a screenshot of the details they recorded about Mr R, when 
the on-line enquiry was completed in July 2019. This includes his email address and mobile 
number, and the details of all of Mr Rs lenders. Ive seen that the contact details match the 
information Mr R has given to us. So, Im satisfied they are Mr Rs contact details.
Claim Hunters have provided case notes and details of correspondence they had with Mr R. 
I understand Mr R has said he never saw the emails but acknowledges he might have 
disposed of them as being spam emails. I cant say whether Mr R did receive the 
communications from Claim Hunters. But Claim Hunters held his correct details, so I think 
its more likely than not that these contacts were made. And I cant hold Claim Hunters 
responsible for Mr R not reading them.
But I can also see that Claim Hunters sent Mr R correspondence, before his successful 
claim, from one of his other lenders. This informed him that his claim with this lender wasnt 
successful. I cant see that after getting this information that Mr R questioned why Claim 
Hunters were dealing with PPI claims for him. Or any evidence that Mr R cancelled any 
association with Claim Hunters.
Mr R says the signature on the LoA isnt his, and so he shouldnt have to pay the success 
fee. I cant verify whether the signature on the LoA belongs to Mr R or not. But Claim 
Hunters have shown their process requires a signature, at the time of the on-line enquiry, 
before any PPI claim can progress.
So, as outlined above Im satisfied that Mr R had provided the details Claim Hunters 
had. And that he was aware that Claim Hunters were acting on his behalf. 
Mr R has said he never completed any further documentation for his claim to progress. But I 
can see the lender for his successful claim didnt ask for any further details. As the deadline 
for making PPI claims was the end of August 2019, they progressed his claim on receipt of 
the signed LoA. Mr Rs lender notified Claim Hunters about the success of Mr Rs claim, 
which shows Mr Rs lender saw Claim Hunters as being Mr Rs representative. The offer 
letter to compensate Mr R for mis-sold PPI was sent after the deadline for making PPI claims 
had passed. And I havent seen any evidence that Mr R had separately made a PPI claim 
direct to his lender himself.  
So, I think it would be unreasonable to say that the success fee should be waived, when 
Claim Hunters have provided a LoA which was accepted by Mr Rs lender, and resulted in a 
successful outcome for Mr R. 
The agreement Mr R had with Claim Hunters was on a No win No fee basis. This means 
Claim Hunters charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work 
they did. So, any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for free. Where a 
claim was successful, as was the case here, Claim Hunters would charge their fee of 20% 
plus VAT. 
I know Mr R will be disappointed by my decision. But on the evidence I have seen I think its 
more likely than not that he did consent to Claim Hunters acting on his behalf to make PPI 
claims to his lenders. And as the claim was successful Im satisfied Claim Hunters can 
charge their fee.
 
 
 My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2020.
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman