DRN-4049828
The complaint
Mr H complains that a car he acquired with credit from Secure Trust Bank Plc trading as V12 
Vehicle Finance (STB) wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
Mr H entered into a credit agreement with STB via an intermediary on 31 December 2021 to 
acquire a used car. The credit to buy the car was granted by STB under a hire purchase 
agreement. STB was the owner and Mr H was, in essence, paying for the use of it. As the 
owner of the car bought from the dealership, STB was responsible for the quality of the car.
The cash price of the car was £6,500 and the total payable under the agreement was 
£8,750. This was to be repaid in 52 monthly instalments of £165 with a final payment of £175 
(all figures rounded). I understand that the car was seven and a half years old at the time 
and had travelled 84,622 miles. 
Mr H complained to STB that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. He explained that the car 
broke down on 11 July 2022 when he was making a long distance journey and had to be 
towed home. There was a loud noise coming from the engine and the breakdown company 
thought that it was coming from the crank shaft or big end bearings. The breakdown 
companys report noted that the engine oil and coolant levels were ok. 
STB arranged an independent inspection which suggested that the problem was with the 
Diesel Particulate (DP) filter. The diagnostic scan reported fault codes consistent with this, 
for example issues with the induction system, and so it was possible that there was a build-
up of carbon deposits in the engine. The report found that the engine oil level was higher 
than recommended and concluded that the problem with the DP filter could have been 
discovered sooner had this been noticed. The report recommendations were to change the 
oil filter and the DP filter, clean the EGR valve and the induction system and then check if 
the engine noise persisted.
STB didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. It said that the car was likely to have been of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to him and that he was responsible for its repair as 
he should have been checking the oil levels regularly.  
Mr H wasnt happy with this response and referred his complaint to us. He said that there 
had been no warning lights or any indication of a fault before the car broke down and, as 
was his custom, he had checked the car before setting out on this long journey. Mr H said 
that car was beyond repair as it needed a new engine and so hes now paying for a car he 
cannot use. He said he entered the arrangement in good faith and in order to resolve this 
matter wished to continue the agreement with a replacement vehicle.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt recommend that it be upheld. They 
found that the problems with the car could have been prevented with regular inspection and 
that the car hadnt been of unsatisfactory quality when provided.
Mr H disagreed with this recommendation. He said that the oil level issue was contentious  
the breakdown company found no problem with the oil levels having carried out the 
inspection when the engine was cold, and the oil reading taken by the independent inspector 
had happened a long time after the event where all oil had dropped to the sump. In any 
case, the oil increase referred to wasnt noticeable. Mr H asked for his complaint to come to 
an ombudsman to review and it has come to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have taken into account the law and relevant regulatory rules including, for example, the 
Consumer Rights Act (CRA) 2015 which implies a term into any contract to supply goods 
that those goods will be of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory means what a reasonable person 
would expect, taking into account the description of the goods, the price and any other 
relevant circumstances. The relevant circumstances in this complaint would include, for 
example, the nature of the fault and the age and mileage of the car. The CRA says the 
quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and other things like their 
fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and 
durability. 
So if goods are found to be faulty, the first question is whether the fault was there or 
developing when the goods were supplied. It may be that a fault arose later through wear 
and tear caused by normal usage. Even if it was agreed that there was a fault with the goods 
which was present when they were supplied, it doesnt automatically follow that the goods 
didnt conform to the contract at the time and found to be of unsatisfactory quality. It depends 
on the circumstances. 
There is no dispute in this case that there is a fault with the car  it broke down and is in 
need of repair. The independent inspection found that the problem was likely with the DP 
filter, a part which can deteriorate through normal use. The report concluded that the sales 
agent had no responsibility to contribute to the repairs. Mr H didnt supply any independent 
evidence to the contrary.
I understand that the DP filter can be cleared by a process called regeneration which 
happens during driving. It may be that Mr Hs use of the car resulted in less than optimum 
clearing of the filter. It may also be the case that he could have spotted a problem with the 
filter sooner and perhaps avoided further damage to the car. Mr H told us that it was 
laughable to think the car broke down due to his lack of maintenance. He explained that he 
was used to inspecting vehicles before driving due to his job and his background, and I 
appreciate his strength of feeling on this point. But leaving this point aside, the fact remains 
that the DP filter is a part which deteriorates over time and requires looking after. 
The car was seven and a half years old and had travelled almost 85,000 miles when Mr H 
acquired it. I think its fair to say that this car might have needed repair or maintenance work 
sooner than a newer or less used model. From what Mr H told us he had driven the car 
almost 6,000 miles before it broke down. In these circumstances, I cant say that the filter 
problems were wholly unexpected and outside the likely range of issues such a car might 
have. Ive concluded that the breakdown of the car was ultimately down to wear and tear and 
so not a fault which was obviously there at the point of supply.
Altogether, I cant reasonably find that the car was of unsatisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to him. This means that Mr H doesnt have recourse to the options available to him 
under the CRA such as having the car repaired by STB at no cost to him or rejecting the car if that repair doesnt solve the problem. I am sorry that this leaves Mr H in the position of 
paying for a car which needs a potentially expensive repair in order to continue using it but I 
cant find STB liable for the repairs or a replacement in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint against Secure Trust 
Bank Plc trading as V12 Vehicle Finance and dont require it to take any action. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman