DRN-3324134
The complaint
Mr S complains about his insurer, Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead). His complaint 
relates to the decline of a claim under his home insurance policy for damage to a wall at his 
property in bad weather, as well as the time taken to assess the claim. 
Fairmead use agents to administer the policy. Reference to Fairmead includes these agents.
What happened
In January 2021 a section of a wall at Mr Ss property collapsed. At the time of the collapse 
there had been bad weather, including significant rainfall. Mr S contacted Fairmead about 
the damage and in the initial discussion Mr S was offered a choice of either appointing his 
own contractor to provide an estimate of the cost of repairing the damage, or Fairmead 
would appoint their own contractors. Mr S chose the first option. Mr S also then indicated he 
would engage a structural engineer (to check the foundations). Fairmead said it would be 
helpful if one of the contractors could provide a report on the cause of damage to the wall, 
although Mr S thought Fairmead would assess the damage. Mr S subsequently obtained an 
estimate in March 2021 from a builder that the rebuild cost of the wall would be £12,900.
Mr S engaged a structural engineer (O) who visited the property in May 2021 and produced 
a report in July 2021 (there was some delay due to illness of O). The report concluded a 
period of heavy rainfall in the two weeks preceding the collapse had caused the retained soil 
behind the wall to become saturated, overloading the wall and leading to the collapse. The 
build-up of water hadnt been able to drain away because of the continuous rainfall, but also 
because of the type of soil behind the wall (relatively impervious clay) and the absence of 
weepholes in the wall that would have provided a means of drainage.
Having received Os report, Fairmead appointed their own loss adjuster (D) to assess the 
claim and estimates of the cost of repair, as well as inspect the damage. Following their visit 
in late July, D declined Mr Ss claim in September 2021. In declining the claim, D said the 
wall was in a poor condition and based on a combination of construction techniques D 
considered werent good practice (the absence of weepholes or other drainage, as well as 
the absence of a substantial foundation). Based on this, D concluded the damage wasnt 
caused by a storm, but had occurred over a long period of time, as evidenced by the general 
condition of the wall and by wear and tear. D also noted a comment from Mr S during their 
visit that the wall had been affected by movement for around twelve years.
Unhappy at the rejection of his claim, Mr S complained to Fairmead. They rejected the 
complaint, confirming the decision to decline his claim. Fairmead confirmed their view the 
damage hadnt been caused by the insured peril of a storm, but had occurred over a long 
period, evidenced by the general condition of the wall. On the time taken to assess and 
decline the claim, Fairmead concluded it was Mr Ss decision to appoint his own contractors 
and structural engineers, and the cause of damage report wasnt received from the latter 
until July 2021. Based on this, Fairmead concluded theyd handled Mr Ss claim correctly.
 
Mr S challenged Fairmeads findings, who considered matters further. They concluded there 
was some initial confusion about who was being appointed, so they accepted a loss adjuster 
could have been appointed earlier. They also thought, as they didnt think storm conditions 
were present, they could have advised Mr S more clearly that cover for the claim wasnt 
confirmed and was dependent on receiving the structural engineers report. In recognition of 
the poor service and inconvenience, Fairmead offered Mr S £100 compensation.
Mr S then complained to this service. The main issue was that Fairmead shouldnt have 
declined his claim. He was also unhappy at the time taken to assess the claim, particularly 
the length of time before Fairmead sent a loss adjuster to inspect the damage.
Our investigator upheld the complaint, concluding Fairmead hadnt acted fairly. On the 
decline of his claim, the investigator concluded there was significant rainfall at the time of the 
walls collapse that would constitute storm conditions. However, he thought the damage to 
the wall wasnt the result of a one-off storm, rather it had been ongoing for some time. As the 
policy excluded damage from wear and tear, he didnt think Fairmead had declined the claim 
unfairly. But the investigator thought Fairmead should have appointed a loss adjuster 
sooner, meaning the decision to decline the claim would have been made sooner. This 
meant Mr S then had to repair the wall himself, at a time where weather conditions made it 
more difficult. The investigator didnt think the £100 compensation awarded by Fairmead 
fully recognised the trouble and upset to Mr S from the decline of his claim not happening 
sooner, thinking £300 would be fairer.
Mr S disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. He said that while £300 for the delay in assessing and then declining his claim 
wasnt unreasonable, it didnt recognise the financial loss and distress to him by having to 
repair the wall during the winter. He also thought D sending their contractors to survey the 
site in the summer gave him the impression that Fairmead were going to accept his claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Fairmead has acted fairly towards Mr S.
There are two main elements to Mr Ss complaint. First, the decision to decline his claim. 
Second, the time taken for Fairmead to assess the claim and reach their decision to decline 
it, particularly the delay in their appointing a loss adjuster.
In considering the first issue, Ive looked at the three key issues we consider involving 
damage caused by storms:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main (or dominant) cause of the damage?
On the first question, Ive looked at the information and evidence about the weather 
conditions on and around the date of the incident, using data from the nearest weather 
station from the source of weather data used by this service. Im satisfied that while there 
werent winds of a level that wed consider storm-force, there was significant rainfall that we 
would consider to be consistent with that in a storm. I recognise that Fairmead didnt 
consider there was a storm [event] that caused the collapse of the wall, but the more 
important question is what caused the wall to collapse (the second and third questions).Turning to those questions, Ive looked at the evidence, including the reports from O and D 
and photographs of the collapsed wall and the remaining section of the wall. Im persuaded 
by the findings and conclusions from both reports. Both point to factors that had been 
present over time, including the nature of the construction of the wall (including the absence 
of weepholes and other means of drainage). Also, the general condition of the wall at the 
time of the collapse and the absence of maintenance.  The overall conclusion from Ds 
report is that:
It is our consideration that while the loss has occurred following sustained and heavy 
rainfall the damage is due [to] movement over a long period of time exacerbated by 
poor construction detailing and a lack of maintenance
Im persuaded that the damage is most likely to have been the result of wear and tear issues 
that occurred gradually. And that the adverse weather conditions (the significant rainfall) 
would have highlighted the issues, rather than being the main or dominant cause of the 
damage. Looking at the terms and conditions of Mr Ss policy, under a section headed 
Making a Claim and Claims, Conditions applicable to the whole of this Insurance theres a 
reference to:
this Insurance does not cover loss or damage which had been caused purely by 
wear and tear  it is not a maintenance contract.
Based on this, Ive concluded that Fairmead acted reasonably in declining Mr Ss claim.
The second issue in Mr Ss complaint is the time taken to assess the claim and the decision 
to decline it, particularly the delay in Fairmead appointing a loss adjuster. Ive considered 
what Mr S and Fairmead have said about this, the email and other contacts, as well as the 
case notes for the claim from Fairmead. From this, Ive concluded that there was some initial 
misunderstanding between Mr S and Fairmead, particularly on the issue of assessing the 
claim and whether it would be covered (as opposed to obtaining estimates for the cost of 
repairing the wall). Mr S thought he was only being asked to obtain estimates for the cost of 
repair (not assessing the cause of the collapse). But it appears that Fairmead were waiting 
for the estimates before then assessing the claim. But it also appears that when Mr S told 
them he was thinking of engaging a structural engineer, they asked if the engineer (or the 
building contractors) could also supply a cause of damage report.
The case notes and timeline indicate that there were delays in Mr S getting estimates from 
builders (only one was initially provided) and there was a delay in O being able to inspect the 
damage and issue a report. But before that point, Fairmead decided to appoint their own 
loss adjuster, who subsequently inspected the damage and provided his report. Fairmead 
accept that they could have appointed a loss adjuster earlier than they did, albeit they had 
thought Mr Fs structural engineer would be providing a report on the cause of damage. 
When this didnt happen, I can understand why it was at that point they appointed their own 
loss adjuster. But, while Ive concluded that Fairmead could have appointed a loss adjuster 
earlier, I dont think it would have changed their decision to decline Mr Ss claim.
 
However, it did mean delay to the decline of the claim, which I think would have had an 
impact on Mr S. Ive considered what Mr S has said about the impact of the delay. 
Considering the circumstances, I think £300 is reasonable compensation for the delay. But 
as I dont think the delay changed the decision to decline the claim, I think Mr S would 
always have been in the position of having to repair the wall himself, albeit at a time of year 
that may have been less favourable. 
Ive also considered Mr Ss point about D sending contractors in the summer gave the 
impression that Fairmead were going to accept his claim. But I dont agree. Appointing a loss adjuster and their inspecting the damage doesnt, of itself, indicate that a claim will be 
accepted  rather it means that the claim will be assessed and a decision made as to 
whether its accepted or (as in this case) declined.
Taking all these points together, then Ive concluded that Fairmead acted fairly and 
reasonably in declining Mr Ss claim on the grounds that the damage hadnt been caused by 
an insured event but had occurred gradually over time. But I have concluded that they could 
have assessed and declined the claim sooner than they did, particularly if theyd appointed a 
loss adjuster earlier. I think £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this 
caused to Mr S is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the case. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Mr Ss complaint in part. I 
require Fairmead Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mr S £300 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman