DRN-3491746
The complaint
Mr S complains about Trading 212 UK Limited, referred to as the business.
In short, he says:
Hes unhappy that the business deleted his trading history so he can no longer see
the two limit sell orders (placed on 10 June 2021) on his order history.
Hes also unhappy that his sell order wasnt fulfilled, despite his sell limit order being
met.
A buy limit order placed on 20 July 2021 was fulfilled despite the set price not being
reached. Based on this, the 10 June 2021 sell order shouldve been fulfilled. 
To put things right, hed like compensation for financial loss and compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
What happened
In mid-March 2022, I issued my provisional decision, a copy of which is stated below and 
forms part of my final decision. In the decision I said:  
provisionally Im not minded to uphold this complaint.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr S says, I cant safely say that
the business behaved unreasonably.
But before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very
much recognise Mr Ss strength of feeling about this matter. He has provided submissions to
support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont 
take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as 
much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate
subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My
role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr S and the business, and reach what I think
is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best
industry practice, but unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide,
based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
In terms of the limit sell order on 10 June 2021, I note theres no persuasive evidence that
the business deliberately deleted/amended his trading history in respect of these two orders.
Despite what Mr S says, I think its unlikely the business deliberately did so and/or that it was
trying to hide any wrongdoing, bearing in mind the business couldnt have predicted Mr S
placing the buy order on 20 July 2021 which promoted him to complain. Im mindful that
the business questions whether Mr S even placed the orders in the first place, as it doesnt
have a record.
I note the business in its final response letter states:
upon reviewing your account, there seems to be no trace of such an order being
submitted, as shown on the screenshot
You have indeed placed an order on the 10th of June, however, it has been a Limit BUY
order, meant to purchase 3 shares of the stock GameStop. Furthermore, the target price
you've set, has been 245.00 USD.
In the circumstances, and on balance, I think its likely that the sell orders were probably
placed by Mr S on 10 June 2021, I note he appears to have an order number for one of
them. However, I think its more likely (than not) the orders were probably deleted by him a
short while later  possibly in error, before they could be registered by the business  and
thats why the business is unable to find any information relating to them. In other words, this
might explain why these orders werent dealt and the business maintains there were no sell
orders on 10 June 2021.
Despite what Mr S says, I cant confirm the full details of when exactly the orders were
placed, and what the prices were at the time. Im aware that the only order the business has
a record of from 10 June 2021 is in relation to the limit buy order, which I appreciate Mr S
says is totally different.
In the circumstances, I dont think it would be fair for me to comment upon the apparent
disparity between the what the business purportedly did on 10 June 2021 and what it did on
20 July 2021, if I cant be sure the earlier orders were placed and left long enough for the
business to record and action them.
I note the business has made its position clear  assuming Mr S did place the orders on 10
June 2021 with a limit of $300  it says it wouldnt have done anything wrong by not fulfilling
his limit sell order when the market was opened at $282.
Amongst other reasons, the business says that its chart presents users with indicative
values, so the price cant always be guaranteed. So, its possible that in this hypothetical
situation the limit order wasnt reached.
The business has also reminded Mr S of its execution policy, which states:
The prices are updated as frequently as the limitations of technology and communications
links allow but should be considered an indication of the live market price rather than a
quotation. The number and price of shares are indicative and may vary at execution of
market orders. This indicative price may vary from the price at which a trade may be
executed, depending on factors such as but not limited to movements in the foreign
exchange markets between the time that you placed the Instruction and the time that the
Instruction has been executed. The same applies if there is a delay between the time that
you place an Instruction and the time that the Instruction is executed. The platform may
show you the target profit in the currency of your account. This information is indicative and
not guaranteed.
Furthermore, I note the investigator explained the following to Mr S:
The order is only filled if the price is reached during market hours. I wouldn't expect Trading
212 to fulfil an order following a price dropping as the price doesn't have to decrease
incrementally. If the share price went from $301 to $282, your price of $300 wasn't reached.
Ultimately, the market opened at $282 and didn't reach $300 so your order wasn't filled and,I can't say Trading 212 made an error in not filling your order as your limit price wasn't
reached.
I also note the investigator went on to explain that the two dates Mr S refers to are separate
limit transactions; with different limits; one to buy and the other to sell; made in different
circumstances; and made more than a month apart. So, the business hasnt behaved
unreasonably by not selling on 10 June 2021 but buying on 20 July 2021.
Whether or not the business behaved reasonably in this hypothetical situation is in my view
academic, and for the reasons Ive explained above, its not something I can look into given
that I dont think the business deliberately deleted the messages and therefore failed to
action his instructions.
The above notwithstanding, based on what the business says, it seems that the starting
position is that unless a limit price is reached the business generally wont buy or sell as per
its customers instructions. However, the rule isnt set in stone, and it cant guarantee to
carry out a customers instruction all the time. In addition to this, the business also has some
discretion to take steps to obtain the best possible result (price) for its customer.
In my opinion, this broadly explains why on 20 July 2021 Mr Ss limit buy order was fulfilled
at $173.90  which was financially more beneficial to him  despite him placing a limit buy
order with a limit of $174.
In my opinion this scenario doesnt demonstrate contradictory or inconsistent behaviour. I
think it demonstrates the business trying to get the best results for its customer in line with its
terms and conditions. So, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr S
says, I cant safely say that the business behaved unreasonably on 20 July 2021.
I appreciate the price of $173.90 wasnt the same as $174, but I believe the business took
steps which were financially more beneficial to him. Even if I was to find that the business
acted incorrectly in this instance  which I dont  I cant safely say that Mr S has suffered a
financial loss and therefore I cant say that hed be entitled to any compensation in any
event. Ive also seen nothing to suggest that its behaviour on this occasion meant that its
previous or forthcoming behaviour might not be correct.
I note in recent correspondence the business said:
It should also be addressed, that all pending orders, such as Stop, Limit, Stop-Limit, are
executed in accordance with the market's conditions, thus, it is possible for such orders to be
executed at a price, different from the set limit.
I appreciate Mr S says that the terms and conditions are ambiguous and open to
interpretation, but I dont think that means the business has done anything wrong. It wouldve
been up to Mr S to ask and/or seek clarification if he didnt understand anything before going
ahead with the business. But if he failed to read and/or consider the terms and conditions
until now, its not something I can blame the business for.
On balance, I dont think what Mr S was previously told by the business about fulfilling orders
unless they meet the limit price, is contradictory when considered in the wider context of its
fuller terms and conditions. Given that it cant guarantee to fulfil a customers instructions all
of the time, I cant say the business has acted unreasonably in dealing with Mr Ss orders on
20 July 2021 for the reasons Ive explained above.
Ive seen nothing to suggest that the business wasnt entitled to use its discretion in the
interest of its customer  within its terms and conditions  when dealing with different orders.And despite what Mr S says, I dont think this is the same as simply saying itll only fill orders
as and when it seems fit.
I note the business has offered to pay Mr S £150 compensation as a gesture of goodwill. As
Im not upholding the complaint its not something that I can ask it to pay  however Id
expect it to do so, as it was made as a goodwill gesture in line with what Mr S wanted at the
time.
I appreciate Mr S will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive not upheld his complaint. I realise my
decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate his frustration, Im not persuaded to
require the business to do anything.
In other words, on the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold
this complaint and give Mr S what he wants.
I gave the parties an opportunity to respond to my provisional decision and provide any 
further submissions they wished me to consider before I considered my final decision. 
The business responded and said it had no further points to add. 
Mr S also responded but disagreed with my provisional decision. In summary, he made the 
following key points:
To put things right he wants the business to sell 60 of his shares at $300 which will 
give him £18,000 which hes owed. He also wants compensation for distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
The business has recently  in January 2022 and again in March 2022  changed its 
terms and conditions. As his complaint is before then, the previous terms and 
conditions will apply.  
After further research he found that his second order on 10 June 2021 was a sell limit 
order of $290 placed 2 minutes after the market opened. The price of GME reached 
$288 within the first five minutes of market opening, so how can a buy limit order set 
at $174 fill at $173.90 when the market opened at $175.12 and never dropped below 
 a difference of $1.22  but a sell limit order with a difference of $2 not fill?
The terms and conditions are binding. If the business has discretion surely it 
operates for both buying and selling. 
On 29 March 2022, the platform was completely unavailable between 14:40 and 
14:45 during which time he was unable to see any price updates or movements on 
many instruments for 15 minutes. During this time, he was unable to make an 
informed decision to sell. 
The above issue is suspiciously linked to the share price rise of Gamestop and is no 
coincidence that the downtime of the platform happens every time the share price of 
the instrument rises quickly  when the business stopped people from buying 
Gamestop in January 2021. The business completely failed to notify any of its 
customers. 
The business has blamed the quotes provider  a third party business - for this, but 
the third-party business has confirmed to him that it has no issues. 
During initial complaint Mr S was sent an email intended for someone else. He 
deleted the email after raising it with the business as directed. He thinks its likely that 
a correspondence addressed to him was probably sent to someone else. 
With everything that has happened the business integrity and security is undoubtedly 
under question.  What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, notwithstanding the latest submissions from Mr S, my decision not to 
uphold this complaint remains the same, principally for the same reasons as set out in my 
provisional decision. 
In other words, Im satisfied that no new material points have been made that persuade me 
to change my decision. In this instance Im still satisfied that the key points remain the same, 
and have been considered by me, in my provisional decision. 
Despite what Mr S says about the compensation he would like Im not going to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons Ive explained in my provisional decision, therefore I dont consider 
this point material. I appreciate what Mr S says about his recent research and findings, but 
Im not persuaded to change my decision. I appreciate Mr S has other things going on in his 
life, but despite being given additional time to reply he hasnt provided any further material 
evidence to support his submissions. 
That notwithstanding, even if hed been able to provide some proof, the point he makes in 
the main is one that Ive already considered in principle and explained in my provisional 
decision  albeit using different figures  and therefore I dont think is necessary to go 
through again. 
As I mentioned before, despite what Mr S says, in the circumstances, and on balance, I think 
its likely that the sell orders were probably placed by him on 10 June 2021, I note he has an 
order number for one of them. However, I think its more likely (than not) the orders were 
probably deleted by him a short while later  possibly in error, before they could be 
registered by the business  and thats why the business is unable to find any information 
relating to them. In other words, this might explain why these orders werent dealt with and 
the business maintains there were no sell orders on 10 June 2021.
Therefore, whether or not the business behaved reasonably in this hypothetical situation is 
in my view academic, and for the reasons Ive explained in my provisional decision, its not 
something I can look into given that I dont think the business deliberately deleted the 
messages and therefore failed to action his instructions. I appreciate Mr S disagrees with 
this, but I dont think its an unreasonable conclusion in the circumstances. 
I note what Mr S says about the order history becoming conveniently unavailable, but Im 
sure Mr S will appreciate that I havent seen the orders and thats why, for the reasons Ive 
explained, I cant make a definitive finding other than what I think  on a balance of 
probabilities  is more likely than not to have happened.   
I note what Mr S says about the rules applying both ways - for buying and selling. 
But in my opinion, this new scenario that Mr S alludes to still doesnt demonstrate 
contradictory or inconsistent behaviour. I still think it demonstrates the business trying to get 
the best results for its customer in line with its terms and conditions. So, on the face of the 
evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr S says, I still cant safely say that the business 
behaved unreasonably on 20 July 2021.
Im sorry to hear about Mr Ss experience on 29 March 2022, and the issue with regards to 
correspondence incorrectly sent to him, but thats not something I can consider as part of 
this complaint.  
 I appreciate Mr S will be thoroughly unhappy that I still havent changed my decision and 
havent given him what he wants. Whilst I appreciate his frustration, Im not going to ask the 
business to do anything. 
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint 
and give Mr S what he wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman