DRN-4117148
The complaint
S, a limited company, complains that it was mis-sold a commercial motor insurance policy by 
Ringsite Limited. This complaint is brought on Ss behalf by Mr B, its director. He is 
represented by Mrs H. 
What happened
The tools were stolen from Mr Bs van whilst it was parked overnight on his driveway. Mr B 
made a claim on his policy. But his insurer rejected the claim as it said Mr B hadnt complied 
with the policy requirement for the van to be stored overnight in a secure compound or 
guarded facility. Mr B complained that his broker, Ringsite, hadnt made this exclusion clear 
when he bought the policy and he thought it had mis-sold the policy. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought the 
overnight storage condition was onerous. And, although Ringsite had sent Mr B the policy 
documents, she thought it hadnt sufficiently been brought to Mr Bs attention. She thought 
that if it had then Mr B wouldnt have bought the policy as it was unsuitable. She thought 
Ringsite should cover the claim as if it had been successful, with interest.
Ringsite replied that the policy covered goods in transit, not tools. It said Mr B hadnt ever 
requested tools cover. It said cover for tools in a van overnight was a common exclusion in 
policies that provided tools cover. And so it wouldnt have been available to Mr B. It said it 
hadnt received any receipts or invoices for the unrecovered tools. Mr B replied that the 
policy didnt state that tools werent covered. He said Ringsites communication about the 
policy had been insufficient. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B said hed lost tools worth about £5,000 after thieves broke into his van. He also said 
that he lost work whilst he borrowed replacements. I can understand that this must be a 
difficult situation for him. I can see that his insurer declined cover due to the policy exclusion. 
But I cant consider that here as its a separate business to Ringsite. My consideration here 
is whether or not Ringsite recommended Mr B a suitable policy. 
Ringsite said the policy covered goods in transit, but not tools. However, I disagree. I can 
see that the insurer has explained that Section 4 of the policy covers Tools and Business 
Equipment. The policy schedule sets out that the cover for this is £10,000. And I can see 
that Ringsite, when it renewed Mr Bs cover, acknowledged that he required tools cover of 
£10,000. So I cant say that the policy just covers goods. 
The policy has the following exclusion from cover:
Damage due to theft or attempted theft of or from any unattended vehicle:
a unless it is securely locked at all points of access, and
b between 9pm and 6am the vehicle is in a securely locked building or guarded security 
park
I agree with Ringsite that this is a common exclusion in motor insurance policies for 
tradesmen. But we expect a broker in an advised sale to ensure that any recommended 
policy was suitable for the business needs and any key exclusions were highlighted. And it 
must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of their advice.
Ringsite said the policy was sold over the phone but its unable to provide the sales calls for 
me to review. However, Mr B has confirmed that he received the policy documents when he 
took out the policy. Whilst I would expect Mr B to then review the policy documents to ensure 
they met Ss needs I think the particular exclusion from overnight cover is significant. And I 
would expect it to be highlighted when Mr B bought the policy. But I havent seen evidence 
that this was done. 
Instead, I can see that Ringsite recommended the policy in an email to Mr B because it met 
his need for cover for his tools. Mr B kept his van overnight on his driveway. Im satisfied that 
Ringsite shouldnt have recommended the policy as it required Mr B to keep the vehicle 
parked overnight in a secure locked facility. I think if Mr B had been advised that the policy 
wouldnt cover his tools left overnight in the van, then he would have bought a different 
policy. And so I think Ringsite prejudiced Ss position by selling it a policy that was 
unsuitable. 
The insurer declined cover. So, to put things right for S, I think Ringsite should cover the 
claim for the loss of tools as if it had been successful. Mrs H has provided evidence to 
support this claim, and this can be provided to Ringsite. And, as S has been without its 
money for some time, I think Ringsite should reasonably add interest to this amount.
Putting things right
I require Ringsite Limited to cover Ss claim costs had the claim for the theft of the tools been 
successful. It should add interest to this amount at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the 
date of the claim to the date of settlement. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Ringsite Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman