DRN-3726545
The complaint
Mrs C complains about how Vitality Health Limited dealt with a claim against her private 
medical insurance policy.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mrs C has private medical insurance with Vitality which renews 
on 1 December each year. Following renewal in December 2021, Mrs C contacted 
Vitality about a claim for acupuncture and cognitive behaviour therapy (CBT). On            
7 April 2022, Vitality authorised Mrs Cs claim for acupuncture. Mrs C decided not to 
pursue her claim for CBT initially but has since organised treatment.  
Mrs C says that Vitality was aware of her medical needs and poor mental health and 
took too long to authorise her claim. She says that she contacted Vitality many times and 
that it ignored her instructions about how and when to contact her. Mrs C feels that 
Vitality should refund the premium. She says that as she didnt have CBT, her mental 
health suffered and she wasnt able to return to work full time in January 2022, as 
planned. Mrs C wants Vitality to compensate her for lost income.  
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that Vitality had 
responded to Mrs Cs claim in a timely way in the first half of December 2021. The 
investigator thought that Vitality should pay Mrs C compensation of £100 in relation to 
that. 
The investigator thought that Vitality made reasonable attempts to call Mrs C and her 
husband between 18 December 2021 and 3 February 2022. She didnt think it was 
appropriate to ask Vitality to refund the premium or pay compensation in relation to    
Mrs Cs loss of earnings. 
Neither Mrs C nor Vitality agreed with the investigator. Mrs C said that Vitality hadnt 
acted in accordance with her instructions about who and when to call. She said that 
when she returned Vitalitys voicemails, she had to hold for a long time and then Vitality 
didnt return her calls as promised. Mrs C said that Vitality insisted on contacting her by 
phone, rather than e-mail. She said that not being able to have the therapies she needed 
meant that she couldnt return to work full time. Mrs C provided a letter from her 
acupuncturist who confirmed that Mrs C had treatment between 1 December 2021 and 
30 June 2022 and that the treatment was curtailed because of the cost. 
Vitality didnt think that compensation of £100 was appropriate in this case. It said that it 
had caused Mrs C minor inconvenience when it didnt call her back on one occasion. 
Vitality said that it didnt want to set a precedent and that compensation of £50 was fair. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that UKI has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. I dont think that Vitality treated Mrs C fairly or reasonably here. Ill 
explain why. 
This service cant direct Vitality generally about how it conducts its business, but we 
can consider how it handled Mrs Cs claim. Ive looked carefully at the chronology of 
events. Vitalitys system notes suggest that it didnt log Mrs Cs call on                       
1 December 2021 as a claim and its common ground that it didnt call her back as 
promised. That meant that there was a delay in Vitality dealing with Mrs Cs claim. It 
wasnt until after Mrs C contacted Vitality again on 15 December 2021 that it 
attempted to contact her. 
Based on what Ive seen, from 18 December 2021 Vitality tried to contact Mrs C or 
her husband on several occasions. Ive noted what Mrs C has said about this. I dont 
think that Vitality was at fault in trying to contact Mrs Cs husband. Vitalitys notes of 
its call to Mrs C on 18 December 2021 indicate that Mrs Cs answer message 
directed it to her husbands number. 
I think that Vitality tried to contact Mrs C by phone between 18 December 2021 and 
13 January 2022. It appears that Mrs C sent messages to an old e-mail address she 
had for Vitality. I cant see that Mrs C asked Vitality to contact her by e-mail or 
explained her availability to receive calls until a phone conversation on                    
17 January 2022. I dont think that Vitality was at fault in its attempts to contact Mrs C 
from 18 December 2021 onwards. 
On 3 February 2022, Vitality asked Mrs C by e-mail when was the best time to call 
her about her claim. By then, Mrs C wished to pursue her complaint rather than her 
claim.  
I think that Vitality caused Mrs C distress and inconvenience when it didnt deal with 
the claim she made in early December 2021. I dont think its right for Vitality to 
characterise that as simply failing to return a call. Its delay meant that Mrs Cs claim 
didnt progress until after she contacted Vitality again on 15 December 2021. Vitality 
has referred to setting a precedent, but each case is determined on its own merits. 
Mrs C has explained why the treatment she sought was important for her and the 
effect of the delay. In all the circumstances I dont think that an apology is sufficient in 
this case. I think that compensation of £100 is fair and reasonable. In reaching that 
view, Ive taken into account the nature, extent and duration of Mrs Cs distress and 
inconvenience caused by Vitalitys delay in December 2021. 
There are no grounds on which I can fairly direct Vitality to refund the premium Mrs C 
paid. It subsequently authorised Mrs Cs claim and Vitality tells me that Mrs C has 
made another claim for treatment in January, February, and March 2022. 
In order for Mrs Cs claim for loss of earning to succeed, shed have to show that 
Vitalitys delay in December 2021 caused her loss of earnings. I dont think Mrs C 
has shown that Vitalitys delay in December 2021 was the sole or main reason that 
she didnt return to work full time in January 2022. Even if Vitality hadnt delayed   Mrs Cs claim initially, its unlikely that her treatments would have been completed in 
December 2021. 
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained, Vitality should pay Mrs C compensation of £100 in relation to 
her distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Cs complaint. I require Vitality Health Limited to pay 
Mrs C compensation of £100 in relation to her distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman