DRN-3712275
The complaint
Mr H complains that he was unfairly charged an early closure fee by Tesco Personal 
Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank when he transferred funds out of a fixed rate ISA. 
What happened
Mr H applied online for an ISA with Tesco Bank and it sent him a welcome pack on 4 June 
2022, including product details and the associated terms and condition. The terms said Mr H 
could withdraw his money without a charge within 30 days of receipt of the welcome pack. 
Mr H contacted Tesco Bank and an ISA transfer form was sent to him on 8 June 2022. 
The ISA funds were paid to Tesco Bank on 4 July 2022. A month later, Tesco Bank received 
a transfer request in favour of another ISA provider and forwarded Mr Hs funds on 5 August 
2022. An early closure fee of £186.27 (90 days interest) was applied. 
Mr H asked Tesco Bank to waive the fee and went on to raise a complaint. Tesco Bank sent 
Mr H a final response but didnt agree it had acted unfairly by applying the charge and didnt 
offer to refund it. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Hs complaint. They thought Tesco Bank had 
dealt with Mr Hs case fairly and didnt ask it to refund the fee. Mr H asked to appeal and 
said Tesco Bank had unfairly withdrawn an offer of compensation. As Mr H asked to appeal, 
his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H applied online for the ISA and was sent a welcome pack by Tesco Bank. Ive looked at 
the information provided about early closure in the welcome pack along with the ISAs terms 
and conditions. It says Mr H could withdraw his funds without a charge if he did so within the 
first 30 days the account was open. But Mr Hs ISA transfer request wasnt received by 
Tesco Bank until around two months after the account opened, outside of the first 30 days. 
That meant the early settlement charge was applied in line with the agreed terms. 
Mr H has told us Tesco Bank delayed sending him the transfer form. But Tesco Banks 
confirmed it doesnt provide a transfer form as part of its welcome pack. And a transfer form 
was sent to Mr H on 8 June 2022. So even allowing a margin for Tesco Bank to receive the 
transfer form back, Im satisfied there was sufficient time to complete the process in the first 
30 days. Im sorry to disappoint Mr H but I havent found evidence of delays by Tesco Bank. 
I can only tell Tesco Bank to refund Mr H if its made a mistake or treated him unfairly. Im 
sorry to disappoint Mr H, but I havent been persuaded thats the case. As Ive noted above, 
the charge was correctly applied, in line with the terms Mr H accepted. 
Mr H has told us he was offered compensation by Tesco Bank but its final response failed to 
make the same offer. In response to the investigator, Mr H has asked us to listen to the calls 
with Tesco Bank during the complaint investigation. I appreciate Mr Hs disappointment, but 
complaint handling in its own right (like withdrawing compensation) isnt something were 
able to consider. So, even if we accept Mr H was initially offered compensation, I wouldnt be 
able to make an award in respect of how Tesco Bank dealt with Mr Hs complaint. And I think 
its fair to note that Tesco Banks position was set out in detail within its written final 
response. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr H but as Im satisfied Tesco Banks applied the early settlement 
charge correctly and dealt with his complaint fairly Im not telling it to take further action.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman