DRN-2171243
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the settlement he received from Ageas Insurance Limited 
(Ageas) after his motorcycle was written off.  
What happened
Mr Bs motorcycle was assessed as a write-off (total loss) by Ageas following a no-fault 
accident in October 2019. Ageas said the pre-accident market value of Mr Bs motorbike was 
£3,092 and offered him this amount, less the £1,000 excess and a 20% deduction because 
the bike was previously a category C write-off, to settle his claim.  
Mr B disagreed with the valuation. He said he was aware when he bought the motorcycle 
that it had previously been written off, but he said it was fully repaired and was in pristine 
condition when he bought it. Mr B complained to Ageas. 
Ageas agent responded and didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. It said the valuation was based 
on the average of the three main valuation guides available to insurers. There was then a 
deduction of 20% applied due to the adverse history. Ageas said this deduction was not 
unreasonable because any future buyer might look to pay less than the market value, as the 
bike was a previous total loss.
Mr B was unhappy with the response from Ageas and referred this matter to our service. He 
said he valued the motorbike at just under £5,000 when he took out the policy, and said 
Ageas calculated his premiums based on that amount and so should use that as a valuation 
figure now. Mr B said hes in a position where he will have to find several thousand pounds 
to be able to buy a comparable motorbike. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said Mr Bs policy states hell be paid 
market value in the event of a claim. She said an amount of £4950 was listed on Mr Bs 
policy schedule, but there was nothing to suggest this was an agreed value policy instead of 
a UK market value policy, which is the most common type of policy in the UK. She said if this 
was an agreed value policy, the insurer would most likely have asked for a valuation and 
agreed the amount before the policy was taken out.
To determine market value, our investigator said shed expect Ageas to use the retail trade 
guides available. She said assessing the value of a used vehicle isnt an exact science. Our 
investigator looked at how Ageas used the guides and also checked the guides herself, and 
she said Ageas arrived at a figure that was higher than the one she calculated. So she was 
satisfied Ageas paid Mr B slightly more than an average of all three guides. 
Our investigator said it was fair for Ageas to make the 20% deduction because the motorbike 
had previously been written off and total loss vehicles can often be sold for a cheaper price 
than comparable vehicles that have not previously been written off.
Mr B was unhappy with the outcome and so this has come to me for a decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on 6 August 2020. I said I was intending to come to a different 
conclusion to that of our investigator and uphold Mr Bs complaint and ask Ageas to pay an 
amount of £3,729, less the excess and less the deduction made because the motorbike had 
previously been written off. I also said I thought Ageas should reduce the deduction related 
to the motorbike having been written off from 20% to 10%. I gave both parties the 
opportunity to respond. 
Ageas responded and has agreed to what I outlined in my provisional decision and said it 
calculated the shortfall owed to Mr B as £882.24. 
Mr B responded and did not agree with the outcome. He said his motorbike had an 
insurance valuation of £4950 and a valuation carried out prior to the accident indicated it was 
worth £5,000. Mr B said the previous owner dealt with all of the write off damage and the 
motorbike was back to being in pristine condition, so he would like the 10% reduction to be 
disregarded. Mr B also said his motorbike had very low mileage of around 10,000 miles. Mr 
B raised concerns that the motorbike was very seriously under-valued by both Ageas and its 
agent. And he was also concerned about what he says is a considerable difference between 
the settlement amount and the amount he believes he would have to pay to get a 
comparable motorbike.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. And while Ive considered the comments 
made by Mr B following the provisional decision, they havent changed my decision. 
Ive first of all looked at the type of policy Mr B took out  so whether it was an agreed value 
policy, which Mr B thinks it should be, or a market value policy. And Im satisfied its a market 
value policy. Ill explain why.
I can see that the policy schedule includes the value of £4,950 that Mr B placed on the 
motorbike. And the policy documents outline the type of cover provided. These say Mr B is 
covered: 
.if your motorcycle is damaged or destroyed up to the UK market value of your 
motorcycle, unless we have agreed a value with you which is detailed on your policy 
schedule. 
If Mr B had been applying for an agreed value policy, then he would have needed to do more 
than simply state how much he thinks the motorbike is worth while applying for the policy. 
The insurer would have needed to agree that the value entered on the application form 
represented the value they were willing to insure the motorbike for. And a valuation may 
have needed to be carried out to establish the true value of the bike. 
I appreciate that Mr B might not have known that this was the process that he had to go 
through to take out an agreed value policy. But I think its reasonable to expect both parties 
to have actively agreed to the valuation for this to be considered an agreed value policy. 
Market value is defined in Mr Bs policy as:
The cost of replacing your bike with another bike of the same make, specification, model, 
age, mileage and condition as your bike immediately before the loss or damage happened.Ageas used three motor vehicle guides to arrive at its valuation. These guides are based on 
extensive nationwide research of likely selling prices. So this service finds these guides 
more persuasive than other methods of valuing vehicles.
Ageas provided us with details of how it arrived at two of the valuations and so I dont intend 
to rely on the third (CAP) valuation because I cant see how that valuation was arrived at. 
Ive used the same two guides as Ageas  I would usually use a third (CAP) but it isnt 
available on this occasion  and Ive arrived at a different average valuation. 
The valuations calculated by Ageas were: 
Glasss £2,742
Cazana £3,540
The valuations I calculated were: 
Glasss £2,770
Cazana £4,688
The date used by Ageas when it calculated the valuations was incorrect. It used 5 November 
2019 when it should have used 5 October 2019, as this was the date of the loss and so best 
represents the pre-accident value. And Ive also used the retail franchise figure for Cazana, 
rather than the retail figure used by Ageas. The average of the two valuations Ive used is 
£3,729 and so Ageas should pay this, less the excess and less a deduction because the 
motorbike was previously written off, to Mr B. 
I realise that one of the valuation tools Ive used  Cazana  has given me a significantly 
higher valuation in July 2020 then it gave Ageas in November 2019. And the incorrect date 
used by Ageas doesnt account for this difference. But Cazana valuations are reviewed and 
amended when new data is received. So Im satisfied that the higher valuation is likely to be 
the most accurate, as it relies on the most recent data.  
Its important to point out that Ageas hasnt done anything wrong here. Its used the correct 
guide in the correct way. So although Im asking it to pay more, this is not because of an 
error on its part. Its just because one of the motor vehicle guides has provided a different 
valuation. 
Mr B also said he didnt think it was fair for Ageas to deduct 20% off the settlement value 
because the motorbike had previously been written off. Its certainly the case that vehicles 
that have previously been written off can be valued and sold at less. And while I think its fair 
to make a deduction of some sort, I think 20% is excessive specifically in relation to 
motorbikes. I think a more reasonable amount is 10%.  
I know my decision will disappoint Mr B, but Im satisfied that asking Ageas to make an 
additional payment of £882.24 is reasonable in the circumstances, for all the reasons Ive 
outlined above. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Ageas Insurance Limited to pay 
Mr B the sum of £882.24, in addition to the settlement payment already made. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Martina RyanOmbudsman