DRN-4473992
The complaint
Mr M has complained about his motor warranty insurer Motors Insurance Company Limited 
because it wont provide him any refund for unused years of his three-year warranty.
What happened
Mr M brought a three-year warranty for bodywork and alloy wheels. He made some claims 
and benefited from some repairs in the first year. But then he was involved in a non-fault 
accident and his car was declared a total loss by the car insurer. As Mr M now wouldnt be 
able to benefit from years two and three of the warranty, he asked Motors to cancel and 
refund the remaining years, or to transfer the warranty to his new car. 
Motors said that neither was allowed for in the terms and conditions. Mr M complained to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our Investigator noted that the policy explained that where the policy was being cancelled 
but there had been claims, no refund would be given. Also that if Mr M ceased to own the 
car, the warranty would end. She felt Motors had responded fairly and reasonably to Mr M, 
given the terms of the policy.
Mr M said he thought it was misleading. He said this warranty can be bought for a year, and 
even when more than one year is bought, theres a yearly entitlement. He said that made it 
appear as though this was an annual policy. He felt that he was being disadvantaged, having 
bought three-years upfront, which he felt wasnt fair. Our Investigator explained this is a 
three-year warranty, not an annual policy. She pointed out that often if an annual policy was 
cancelled during the year, with a claim having been made, no refund of premium would be 
given by the insurer. 
Mr M remained unhappy. His complaint was referred for an Ombudsmans consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr M feels its unfair that he bought a product he can no longer benefit 
from. I understand that is through no fault of his. But in considering this complaint I must take 
into account the terms and conditions to which Mr M agreed to when he bought the 
three-year warranty. And whilst Motors may sell warranties for other time periods  Mr M 
bought one for three-years. As our Investigator pointed out  this is not an annually renewing 
insurance policy  it is a warranty taken for a specific time period. 
The terms of the warranty are clear in that if a warranty holder wishes to cancel, they will not 
get a refund if successful claims have been made. Claims were made and settled for Mr M. 
The warranty also says that if the car ceases to belong to the warranty holder, the warranty 
will end. The car, due to its total loss, ceased to belong to Mr M. So Motors, in telling Mr M 
he could not have a refund and that it would not transfer the policy to another car, acted 
fairly and reasonably in line with the warranty terms. Terms which Mr M had agreed to when 
he bought and paid for the warranty.
I dont think Motors misled Mr M. I bear in mind that Motors did not sell the warranty to Mr M. 
But I dont see anything in its terms that are unclear or misleading. Clearly Mr M knew he 
had paid for three-years of cover  but that he could have chosen to purchase less or more. 
He knew that the warranty had certain restrictions, such as he could only make six claims in 
each year. But that did not mean that he had to renew or take out new cover each year. He 
bargained with Motors for three years of cover, with terms that clearly explained what would 
happen if he cancelled in between and/or ceased to own the car. I understand Mr M did not 
expect, when he arranged the warranty, that he would cease to own his car within those 
three-years. However, the warranty foresaw that possibility and accounted for it in the terms. 
I cant reasonably find Motors at fault for applying the terms of the warranty when 
considering Mr Ms request for a refund or transfer of it.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Motors Insurance Company 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman