DRN-2499184
The complaint
Mr G complains that Bank Of Baroda (UK) Limited refused to serve him when he visited a 
branch, and alleges numerous instances of poor customer service.
What happened
Mr G had a current account with Bank of Baroda (BoB). In February 2020 he visited a local 
branch, and he says that the staff refused to serve him, were abusive to him, and called the 
police. The bank wrote to him the same day to close his account, and later sent him a 
cheque for the closing balance.
Mr G complained to the bank, and then to our service, about how he was treated in the 
branch, and also complained about a number of other matters. He said he never received 
the cheque. He said that the bank had ended phone calls, refused to give him appointments, 
charged him for reasons he claimed were fabricated, ignored him when he visited the 
branch, blocked his card, failed to block payments when he asked, threatened to call the 
police on him, shouted at him and abused him. He says that on the day his account was 
closed, branch staff bullied and intimidated him, and when he left they sent people after him 
to follow him and assault him.
The bank denied all of these allegations. It provided a letter from another customer who had 
complained about Mr Gs conduct in the branch on the day his account was closed, 
describing him as abusive. It provided evidence that Mr G had gone back to the branch and 
cashed his cheque on the day after he had brought this complaint to our service. It provided 
phone logs which showed that only Mr G had ended a call, and statements to show why 
charges had been incurred. It said it had closed Mr Gs account because of his outrageous 
behaviour.
Our investigator did not uphold any aspect of this complaint, on the ground that it was 
completely unsupported by any evidence. He noted that Mr G had claimed to have filmed the 
staff on his phone and had offered to provide the video and some photographs, but had 
never actually provided anything. Mr G said this was because his phone had been in a repair 
shop since March 2020 and the shop had been closed ever since due to the covid lockdown, 
but the investigator was not persuaded that this was true, because the lockdown had been 
lifted since then. He accepted the evidence provided by the bank.
Mr G did not accept the investigators opinion. He insisted that the investigator should obtain 
further evidence from the bank. The investigator asked the bank for CCTV, but this had only 
been kept for 45 days. Mr G asked for an ombudsman to review his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold any of it. I will explain why.
First of all, I have seen the cheque, which is endorsed to the effect that it has been cashed, 
and the date that was done, which is one day before Mr G brought this complaint to us. 
I accept that the cheque was cashed in branch by Mr G, who then told us the next day that 
he had never received it. That suggests that he is not a credible witness. Consequently, I will 
not accept his allegations unless they are supported by corroborating evidence from other 
sources.
Some of Mr Gs allegations against the bank are quite improbable, such that I would not 
have taken his word for them without some supporting evidence anyway. I am referring to 
the allegations that the branch staff shouted abuse at him and then  having just called the 
police  sent people after him to hit him. These allegations rather strain credulity, and are 
completely unsupported by any evidence. Indeed, they are actually contradicted by the 
evidence of another customer who wrote a letter the next day to complain to the bank about 
his experience, in which he says that another customer (who I think I can safely infer was 
Mr G) had been shouting foul language at the top of his voice and been very disruptive.
I do not believe Mr Gs explanation for why he cannot provide the video evidence and 
photographs he says he took on his phone during this incident. I dont believe that such 
evidence ever existed, or that the events happened in the way that he describes, or at all. 
I think it is far more likely that Mr G was abusive, and that this is why the bank staff called 
the police, and is why they closed his account. I find that they were entitled to do so.
I have seen Mr Gs bank statements, which clearly set out the reasons why he incurred 
charges. His payments kept being returned unpaid due to him not having enough money in 
his account. The fact that the account balance was less than the relevant statements is 
clear. There are some entries described as minimum balance charge, and it is possible that 
Mr G is referring to these, since it was not immediately obvious to me what they were. But 
they are explained by some other evidence Mr G sent to us  an email from PayPal dated 
1 April 2020  in which PayPal told him it was withdrawing a service it had been providing to 
him called Minimum Balance Manager, because BoB had declined two payments from 
Mr Gs bank account to PayPal in respect of this service. So I am satisfied that all of the 
charges Mr G incurred were properly charged.
The phone logs show only one call which was terminated early, and that one was ended by 
Mr G.
Mr Gs card was blocked because he had reported it as lost. Ive seen no evidence to 
suggest that it was blocked for any improper reason. Indeed, there is no evidence to support 
anything that Mr G has told us. His remaining allegations have not even been particularised 
with any specific details which could be investigated at all, despite my colleague asking Mr G 
to provide more information, such as dates, and amounts of payments. I have not looked into 
them, since I do not think there is anything to them.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold any of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2021. But it is not necessary for him to reply, and if 
we dont hear from him then we will assume that he rejects my decision. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman