DRN-2749125
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs B complain about how Covea Insurance Plc dealt with and settled a claim they 
made under their household insurance policy following an escape of water.
 
What happened
 Mr and Mrs B held a household insurance policy with Covea, which commenced on 23 
October 2019. On 16 July 2020, they contacted Covea to report an escape of water in their 
kitchen. They said this had been recently discovered by a contractor who discovered wet 
timbers while a new washing machine was being fitted. The contractor told Mr and Mrs B this 
could indicate there was an escape of water under the floor.
Mr and Mrs B instructed a plumber to attend their home who stopped the leak but 
recommended that they arrange a further investigation. So, on 10 August 2020, Mr and Mrs 
B asked a local builder to assess their kitchen to clarify what had been causing the escape 
of water. They informed Mr and Mrs B that the damage was extensive and estimated that it 
would cost £3860 to put right. 
Mr and Mrs B provided Covea with their builders estimate together with photographs and a 
cause of damage report from the builder. As the costs exceeded £1000, Covea informed Mr 
and Mrs B theyd need to provide a second estimate.
Mr and Mrs B couldnt obtain another estimate for the reinstatement works. So, Covea 
instructed a buildings inspector, which Ill refer to as B, to undertake an inspection of the 
damage within their home. 
B attended Mr and Mrs Bs property on 12 August 2020 and informed them that they were 
declining their claim. Mr and Mrs B said B was rude and abrupt and spent less than five 
minutes in their home. Mr and Mrs B also stated they didnt receive any correspondence 
from Covea explaining why their claim had been repudiated until 8 September. In this 
correspondence Covea explained that it thought the damage was longstanding and, as such, 
pre-dated the inception of Mr and Mrs Bs policy. 
Mr and Mrs B thought the reason Covea had declined their claim was unfair. So, they 
complained to about how it had assessed and settled their claim. They said theyd reported 
the escape of water as soon as they became aware of it. And they refuted the suggestion 
that the damage was longstanding. They said theyd only bought their property in around 
2014 and had obtained a survey prior to doing so, which hadnt indicated any damage to the 
floorboards or an escape of water within the property. They also added that theyd had a 
new kitchen professionally installed a few years ago and there was no escape of water 
evident at that time. But Covea didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint and told them they 
should approach their previous insurer to discuss the damage further. 
Being dissatisfied with Coveas response to their complaint, Mr and Mrs B referred it to our 
service. Our investigator looked into what happened and, while they empathised with Mr and 
Mrs B, they also thought the damage was longstanding. They werent persuaded it had 
occurred during the time Mr and Mrs B were insured with Covea. So, they didnt think it had 
acted unfairly in declining Mr and Mrs Bs claim. But they did think there had been avoidable 
delays in how Covea had progressed Mr and Mrs Bs claim and they recommended it pay 
them £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this would have caused. But Mr 
and Mrs B rejected our investigators assessment of their complaint and asked for it to be 
assessed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Our service is impartial, we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint, and we dont regulate or punish businesses. Ive considered all the available 
evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of 
it is here, I must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. 
I can see Mr and Mrs B have gone to some trouble to provide our service with some very 
detailed submissions. I want to assure them that Ive read everything theyve sent us. I hope 
theyll understand if I dont address every comment theyve made in this decision. I intend to 
concentrate on what I consider is key to the complaint.
Id like to say at the outset that Im sorry to hear about what happened to Mr and Mrs B. I 
realise this has had a big impact on them. And I can appreciate how distressing it must have 
been for Covea to decline to settle their claim. Ive carefully considered what happened and 
whether Covea made an error it needs to put right.
Theres no dispute that water damage occurred to Mr and Mrs Bs property and that their 
kitchen incurred substantial damage as a result of an escape of water. However, theres a 
dispute between Mr and Mrs B, Covea and its appointed agents about the correct outcome 
of this claim. 
Damage from an escape of water is covered by Mr and Mrs Bs policy, but the crux of this 
complaint is whether they ought to have noticed the damage to their property before they 
reported it to Covea. In addition, because Mr and Mrs Bs policy with Covea commenced on 
23 October 2019, the damage in question would have to have occurred after that date. 
Ive carefully considered the evidence from Mr and Mrs B, Covea and B. I can see that Mr 
and Mrs B have questioned the independence of B. But our service thinks its right for an 
insurer to instruct a buildings inspector with expertise to inspect a customers property to 
assist it in determining the cause of damage. Here Covea appointed B to do that and I cant 
fairly find it acted unfairly in doing so. 
Mr and Mrs B also said B spent five minutes in their home before declining their claim. But 
Bs report is detailed and thorough. It spans 28 pages and includes numerous photographs 
showing the condition of the Mr and Mrs Bs kitchen. The photographs are time stamped and 
indicate that B was at Mr and Mrs Bs home for longer than theyve suggested.  
The available evidence demonstrates that the escape of water happened as a result of a 
perished copper pipe. Im satisfied this caused a slow constant leak, rather than a sudden 
loss of a large volume of water.
Ive seen photographs of Mr and Mrs Bs kitchen, which indicate that the water damage is 
extensive and widespread. The floorboards and joists are severely rotten. There is 
compelling evidence of this in Bs report. I can also see that Mr and Mrs Bs builder advised Covea that the rotten floorboards were breaking with their hand. They thought the pipe had 
been leaking for some time.
I think its unlikely that this damage has only happened since October 2019. Its more likely 
that the damage has been ongoing for several years. And I havent seen any evidence that 
persuades me that the damage occurred after Mr and Mrs B incepted their policy with 
Covea.
In the overall circumstances, I think Covea has shown our service reliable evidence to 
demonstrate that the escape of water has been present for some time. And Im satisfied it 
acted reasonably in concluding that the damage Mr and Mrs B reported occurred prior to the 
inception of their policy.  
The terms of their policy state that any loss or damage caused gradually, by wear and tear 
or poor maintenance is excluded. Their policy also excludes loss or damage caused by wet 
or dry rot.
Where an insurer seeks to repudiate a claim on the basis that the damage has been caused 
gradually, our approach would be to determine whether a policyholder ought reasonably to 
have been aware of the damage occurring.
Mr and Mrs B say they only became aware of the escape of water in around July 2020 when 
they were having a new appliance installed. They told our service they had a new kitchen 
installed by a professional builder a few years ago and appear to think this means its 
unlikely water was leaking at this point. But theres no evidence showing that the floorboards 
were taken up as part of the refurbishment process. So, its possible the water could have 
been leaking from underneath the floorboards at the point Mr and Mrs Bs new kitchen was 
fitted.
The damaged floorboards will have, largely, been concealed by kitchen units. This could 
make it difficult to see any damage to the flooring underneath. But the evidence Ive seen 
satisfies me that the damaged and weakened flooring was causing the kitchen unit and 
worktop to drop. This presented a significant opportunity for Mr and Mrs B to have concerns 
about the condition of their flooring, which might require investigative action. And I think they 
ought reasonably to have been aware of the damage occurring earlier. 
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, I dont think Covea has acted unfairly in 
relaying on an exclusion clause to decline Mr and Mrs Bs claim. I therefore wont be 
directing it to settle their claim. However, I do think Mr and Mrs B experienced shortfalls in 
the service they received from Covea. Ill set out, below, how I think these shortfalls should 
be resolved.
Putting things right
 I appreciate this has been a stressful situation for Mr and Mrs B. I can imagine that they 
thought at the start the claim was all going to be sorted out with minimal fuss. But, as our 
investigator identified during their assessment of this complaint, there were some avoidable 
delays in how Covea progressed Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. This led to their claim being 
repudiated around a month after it was reported to Covea. And I think our investigator was 
right to recommend that Covea pay compensation to recognise the distress and 
inconvenience this delay is bound to have caused.
I understand that both Mr and Mrs B suffer from health conditions, which exacerbated the 
distress and inconvenience theyd have ordinarily been caused as a result of what 
happened. They were unable to use their kitchen to cook meals. And they said they couldnt use their kitchen sink for around three weeks, which meant that they had to wash dirty 
dishes and pots upstairs in their bathroom sink during that time. They also had to wash their 
dirty clothing at a relatives home  15 miles away. This disruption and upheaval in Mr and 
Mrs Bs life could have been minimised had there not been the avoidable delays they 
experienced. 
Our investigator recommended £200 in compensation to recognise the trouble and upset Mr 
and Mrs B would have been caused as a result of what happened. Taking everything into 
account, Im satisfied that £200 is a fair and reasonable amount to resolve this complaint. Its 
in line with awards made by our service in comparable circumstances and its what I would 
have directed Covea to pay had no recommendation been made. Im therefore going to 
require Covea to pay £200 compensation to Mr and Mrs B.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Covea Insurance Plc should pay Mr 
and Mrs B £200 compensation to resolve this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman