DRN-4078161
The complaint
Mrs T and Mr T complain about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) handled 
a claim made on their motor insurance policy. They want compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused. Mr T is a named driver on Mrs Ts policy and represents her in this matter.
 
What happened
Mr T said another driver hit their parked car and damaged their fence. They made a claim to 
RSA. They said there were delays in finding a repairer, RSA didnt provide them with 
updates, the hire car wasnt suitable, and the claim made them feel ill. RSA agreed there 
had been delays due to problems with getting parts and it offered Mrs T £150 compensation 
for this. But Mr T said the hire car was costing them extra for fuel and RSA hadnt covered 
the cost of their damaged fence. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought there had 
been delays in finding a repairer and sourcing parts. But she thought RSAs compensation 
for this was fair. She thought RSA should have done more to assist Mr T with alternatives to 
hire, to better manage their expectations and to provide updates. She thought RSA should 
provide better updates as the repairs progressed. But she didnt think the policy covered the 
fence. 
RSA agreed. But Mr T replied that he hadnt accepted £150 compensation as he didnt think 
that was adequate. Mr T asked for an Ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to 
me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mrs T and Mr T feel stressed and frustrated by this matter. Their car 
and property were damaged through no fault of their own. And they have experienced delays 
and inconvenience during their claim. I think that any claim will cause a certain amount of 
upset and inconvenience. So Ive considered here how RSA handled their claim and if it did 
so fairly and promptly. 
I can see from the file that after the incident Mrs Ts car was recovered to a storage facility 
whilst RSA located a repairer. After a month, Mr T called RSA for an update. It was a further 
few months before a repairer was located and parts ordered. The car was then booked in for 
repairs. 
RSA upheld Mrs Ts complaint that this took too long, and it didnt keep them updated. It 
agreed there had been delays in allocating a repairer and sourcing parts and in providing a 
suitable courtesy car. It explained that this was due to industry-wide issues. It also agreed 
that it hadnt updated Mrs T sufficiently in this time. 
I agree that a four month wait for repairs to be made is excessive. And whilst I can see that 
RSA progressed the claim, I agree that it should have done more to keep Mrs T updated. I 
also think that RSA could have better managed Mrs Ts expectations about how long the 
repairs would take. I can see that its initial letter said that it could take some months. But I 
think that better updates from it and the repairer would have reassured Mrs T and Mr T. 
From what I can see, RSA provided Mrs T with a courtesy car whilst her car was out of 
action. So she was kept mobile. Mr T said the courtesy car first provided wasnt suitable for 
Mrs T. And I can see that RSA raised this with the car provider and a smaller car was later 
provided. In the meantime, I think RSA could have better liaised with the hire company and 
Mrs T to find a suitable car or to look at alternatives. 
Mr T said the courtesy car wasnt as economical to run as their own car. But I cant see that 
fuel costs are provided by the policys terms and conditions. So I dont require RSA to 
reimburse these. But I think RSA could have reasonably looked at alternatives, such as a 
loss of use payment if running the car was too costly. 
When a business makes a mistake, as RSA accepts it has done here, we expect it to restore 
the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact the 
error had on the consumer. 
Our Investigator thought RSA should better update Mrs T, and RSA agreed to do this. And, 
after the complaint came to our service, RSAs repairer took Mrs Ts car for repairs. So I 
cant see that it needs to do anything further to restore Mrs Ts position relating to this 
particular complaint. 
RSA offered Mrs T £150 compensation for the impact of its errors. And Im satisfied that this 
is fair and reasonable as its in keeping with our published guidance for the impact the errors 
had over a few months. So I dont require RSA to increase this. Mr T declined this offer. But 
RSA has confirmed that it is still available if Mrs T wants to accept it. 
Mr T wanted RSA to repair his fence damaged by the other car. But the damage to the fence 
isnt covered by Mrs Ts policy. Mr T said they didnt have home insurance. So RSA offered 
to forward estimates for the repair of the fence to the other drivers insurer. I can see that 
RSA has provided Mrs T with the contact details for the insurers agent. And I think RSA has 
done all it needs to do about the fence. I can understand that Mr T feels this to be another 
burden, but Im satisfied that RSA has acted within the policys terms and conditions.  
Mr T later raised concerns about the repairs made and RSA recorded this as a further 
complaint. Mr T provided us with RSAs response to this complaint, which it upheld. The 
garage rectified the issues and RSA offered Mrs T £50 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused. RSA said that if Mrs T remained unhappy, she should raise this with us. 
This is a separate complaint to her earlier complaint so I cant consider that here. I cant see 
that Mrs T has said that she was dissatisfied with RSAs response. But if she is, then Mrs T 
would have to ask us to look into this as a separate complaint within the six months following 
RSAs response.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I require Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited to pay Mrs T £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by its handling of her claim, as it has already offered to do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman