DRN-2003247
The complaint
Mr L complains that MBNA Limited have been applying interest and charges to his credit 
card when he says theyd told him it would be interest and charge free until January 2021.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a summary of some key events here. In July 2018 Mr L took out a credit card with MBNA. 
This included a promotion whereby purchases made in the first 60 days from account 
opening would be interest free until January 2021. The documents from the time record that 
purchases made after 10 September 2018 would be subject to the standard rate of interest. 
In October 2018 there was a phone call between Mr L and MBNA. The promotional rate had 
been removed as MBNA said Mr L hadnt made his monthly payments in line with the terms 
and conditions. The call note records that Mr L had had problems with his direct debit and 
MBNA agreed to reinstate the promotional offer for him. Mr L says that during this call he 
was told that his whole account would be interest free until January 2021.
In February 2020 Mr L contacted MBNA complaining that interest had been added to his 
account. MBNA explained that part of his balance was interest free as it related to payments 
from the first 60 days of his account (in line with the offer)  but that purchases since the end 
of the offer had correctly had interest applied. 
They also explained that they no longer had a copy of the call recording from October 2018 
to verify what had been said. But they offered to refund Mr L three months of interest that 
hed paid on the interest-bearing part of his account and to waive interest charges for a 
further six months. 
Mr L referred the matter to our service. One of our investigators didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld. He acknowledged that he couldnt be sure what was discussed on the call 
due to the lack of a recording. But on balance he thought the evidence made it more likely 
than not that Mr L wasnt told his whole account would be interest free as that was outside 
the terms and conditions of his agreement with MBNA. He concluded that MBNAs offer was 
generous and didnt recommend that they needed to do more. 
Mr L disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same outcome as our investigator and for essentially the 
same reasons. My reasons for this are:
Im satisfied the documentation from the start of the agreement makes clear that the 
interest free offer only applies to purchases made in the first 60 days after account 
opening. Ive not seen evidence to persuade me that Mr L was told this would apply 
to all purchases made on the card. 
When MBNAs agent reinstated the promotional offer, I dont think its likely they 
would have increased this to a deal even more favourable to Mr L, outside of the 
terms and conditions of the agreement.
Even if I were to accept that such an offer had been made in error (which I dont) Id 
expect MBNA to take steps to put things right. But this wouldnt necessarily include 
having to honour what was said.
I appreciate that Mr L says he had other options available to him for spending that wouldnt 
have incurred interest. And that he clearly wouldnt have spent on the card had he known the 
situation. I accept what Mr L says in this regard and I dont doubt that he was under the 
impression that all the spending was interest free. But Im not persuaded this was as a result 
of an error by MBNA or by them misleading him. The documentary evidence including the 
monthly statements are clear that the interest free offer only applied to purchases made by 
10 September 2018. 
I agree it would be preferable if the call recording was still available. But that doesnt mean 
that in its absence it would be fair to automatically find in Mr Ls favour. On balance, taking 
everything into consideration, Im not persuaded MBNA have treated Mr L unfairly here. I 
think its more likely than not that Mr L wasnt told his whole account would be interest free 
until 2021. I consider their offer to refund three months of interest and to provide a further six 
months interest free to be more than fair in the circumstances. So, Im not going to tell them 
to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman