DRN-4271324
The complaint
Mr P's complaint is about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limiteds settlement of a 
claim made under his home buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
In February 2022, Mr P contacted Liverpool Victoria to make a claim as his basement 
kitchen was flooded with foul water. Liverpool Victoria accepted the claim and appointed a 
loss adjuster to assess the damage. It also arranged cleaning and drying out of the property.
The kitchen was unusable. Alternative accommodation was discussed but nothing suitable 
for Mr P and his family could be found, so they stayed in the property with a temporary 
kitchen pod to use. I understand Liverpool Victoria paid Mr P a disturbance allowance.
Liverpool Victoria arranged for one of its contractors to assess the restoration works required 
and they produced a schedule of works. There was some discussion about the work that 
would be covered. Liverpool Victoria said there was no cover for the kitchen wall units that 
were not damaged by the flood but as they would not match the rest of the replacement 
kitchen, it agreed to pay 50% of the cost of the undamaged units and Mr P would have to 
pay the rest. 
Mr P was not happy that the contractor asked him to pay his contribution to the kitchen units 
up front and with the contractors reviews. Mr P also says they told him they would not be 
able to replace the kitchen until October 2022. Mr P says he thought it would take too long if 
Liverpool Victoria managed the repairs itself, so he asked for a cash payment instead and 
arranged the work himself. 
Liverpool Victoria asked Mr P if he wanted to provide a quote from his contractor but he 
declined. Liverpool Victorias contractors had assessed the works would cost £13,496.53 
plus £2,000 contribution from Mr P towards the matching units (so £15,496.53 in total). 
Liverpool Victoria therefore offered Mr P a cash settlement for the buildings element of the 
claim of £13,486.53 and Mr P accepted this in August 2022. Liverpool Victoria also said it 
would pay VAT on this, if Mr P provided evidence he paid VAT to his contractors.
Mr P had the work done. It started in June 2022 but most of the work was done through 
September and was completed on 1 October 2022. Mr P says the damage was worse than 
expected, once the work started and he had to pay an additional £5,388 for his contractor to 
complete the work. Mr P says he had to borrow from relatives to cover this and asked 
Liverpool Victoria to reimburse this additional cost. 
 
Liverpool Victoria agreed to assess the claim for further repairs. The loss adjuster attended 
the property in November 2022 to discuss the extra work. The loss adjuster also asked       
Mr Ps contractor for further information about this work. Liverpool Victoria agreed that there 
was some further insured damage and work required that was not in the original scope of 
works. It agreed to pay for replastering, decorating and electrical work to an area of wall 
which was damaged when the worktop was removed and work involved in removing and 
refitting a window (required to allow delivery of materials). Mr Ps contractor confirmed this 
cost £1,400-£1,600. Liverpool Victoria offered £1,500 for this work, as well as £200 for new 
stair carpet and £500 for a gas fire. It therefore made a total additional payment of £2,200 in 
November 2022. Liverpool Victoria did not agree to pay any of the remaining £3,188, which it 
said was for work unrelated to the claim. 
Mr P remained unhappy with this and brought his complaint to this service. Mr P has made a 
number of points in support of his complaint. I have considered everything he has said but 
have summarised the main points below: 
- Liverpool Victoria suggested a company to replace the kitchen that did not have a 
good reviews and as he and his family had been without a kitchen for around five 
months, he decided on a cash settlement.
- The cash settlement was based on an estimate of the work needed. The damage 
was much more extensive once his contractor started and estimates are always 
subject to change. 
- Liverpool Victorias loss adjuster only inspected the property once in February 2022 
and so did not see the extent of the damage that was found to the walls, plasterboard 
flooring and skirtings. 
- Liverpool Victorias contractor wanted payment of at least £1,300 in May 2022 for his 
contribution and they would not start work until theyd had payment. 
- They had a kitchen pod from March to September 2022 but it had to be removed, so 
the repairs could be done. 
- If Liverpool Victoria had paid for alternative accommodation as required under the 
policy it would have been far more than the amount they are asking for. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. He did not recommend that the complaint be 
upheld as he was satisfied that Liverpool Victoria had settled the claim in accordance with 
the policy terms. 
Mr P did not accept the Investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ps policy covers loss as a result of escape of water such as happened here. It also says: 
How we settle claims  Buildings
If the loss or damage to the buildings is covered by this insurance we may:
-arrange for repair or replacement using one of our suppliers; or
-pay the cost of repair; or
-make a cash payment
Cash payments
If we can offer a repair or replacement through one of our suppliers and you choose 
not to have the item repaired or replaced or you wish to use your own supplier, we 
will not pay more than the amount we would have paid our supplier.
Mr P has said he could not wait for Liverpool Victorias contractor to do the work as they had 
said they couldnt fit the new kitchen until October 2022. However I note his contractor did 
most of the work in September 2022, completing it on 1 October 2022. I do not therefore 
think there was any unnecessary delay in the claim process that would mean it would be 
reasonable to require Liverpool Victoria to disregard the policy terms. Mr P was also unhappy with the contractors reviews but I have not seen any convincing 
evidence that they were an unreasonable proposal from Liverpool Victoria and it would have 
been managing the claim in any event. The contractors also asked Mr P for payment of his 
contribution but I do not think this was inherently unreasonable. 
Liverpool Victoria was able to arrange the repair works and so given the above terms I think 
it is fair that the cash settlement was based on the amount that it would have cost it to do the 
repairs. I note it also asked Mr P if he wanted to get his own quote for the works before 
settling the claim but he declined. I do not therefore think that Liverpool Victoria acted 
unreasonably. 
When Mr P told Liverpool Victoria that some additional work to repair the insured damage 
was required, it reattended the property and sought further information. Mr Ps contractor 
confirmed the additional work and how much that had cost. I am satisfied that Liverpool 
Victorias agreement to pay the mid-point of the amounts he stated was reasonable. The 
contractor did not specify any other works that were required that had not been in the 
original scope. 
 
Mr P has said there was more damage found than had been apparent before work started  
and that Liverpool Victorias loss adjuster had only attended once before the cash payment 
and so could not have known the full extent of the damage. However, the scope of works 
was provided by its contractors that attended the property and there is no convincing 
evidence of any other additional work required, other than the works that Liverpool Victoria 
agreed to pay for in November 2022. As stated Mr Ps contractor did not identify any other 
matters not included in the original scope when asked by Liverpool Victoria. Mr Ps 
contractor may have charged slightly more for some of the work but that is a different matter. 
Liverpool Victoria is only required to pay what it would have paid its own contractor to do the 
work.  
Despite my sympathy for his position, I do not therefore consider that I can reasonably 
require Liverpool Victoria to make any further payment to Mr P. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman