DRN-4234371
Complaint
Mr L is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC hasnt refunded 54 payments made from his 
account that he says he didnt authorise.
Background
The background to this complaint is known to the parties so I dont intend to set it out in full 
here. Briefly, Mr L says that in October 2022 there were 54 transactions debited from his 
account. Each was a payment to Apple and made in connection with his Apple ID. He says 
that he didnt make any of these payments.
Barclays didnt agree to refund them. It concluded that Mr L authorised them and it also 
chose to close his account. Mr L wasnt happy with the response from Barclays and so he 
referred his complaint to this service. It was looked at by an Investigator who didnt uphold it. 
Mr L disagreed with the Investigators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me 
to consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The basic position is that Barclays can hold Mr L liable for the disputed payments if the 
evidence suggests that its more likely than not that he made them or authorised them. Mr L 
says that he didnt. I cant know for certain what happened here, so I have to reach my 
conclusion on the balance of probabilities  that is, is it more likely than not that he did 
authorised the transactions in light of the evidence?
The technical evidence provided by Barclays suggests that his card details were associated 
with his Apple ID at the time of the first disputed transaction. The later ones were made 
using the stored card details. Barclays has also shown that several of these transactions 
were paused and only processed when someone logged into Mr Ls mobile banking app to 
confirm that they had genuinely been made. 
Mr Ls mobile banking app is associated with a specific mobile device that has been 
assigned a unique identifier in Barclays system. Its records indicate that the same device 
had been associated with his account for around a year before the disputed transactions 
took place. In addition to that, Mr L confirmed to our Investigator that his mobile device was 
in his possession throughout this period and that it is secured using biometric authentication.
In view of that, Im afraid I cant see a plausible explanation as to how these payments 
couldve been made without Mr Ls involvement. Although a third party couldve obtained his 
card details, I dont find it plausible that they could also have compromised the security of his 
mobile device without his knowledge given that he says he didnt share his passcode with 
anyone. Similarly, I dont think its likely they could also have compromised the password 
protection for his Apple ID, nor is it clear why a third-party fraudster would want to do so.
I understand how strongly Mr L feels about his case and how disappointed he will be with my 
decision. However, my decision has to be informed by the evidence and that suggests its 
more likely than not that these transactions were carried out with his knowledge or his 
agreement. For that reason, Im satisfied its fair and reasonable for Barclays to hold him 
liable for them.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman