DRN-2792522
The complaint
Mr F complains that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
This complaint is about loans Mr Lender provided to Mr F as follows: 
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalmentsLoan 
AmountMaximum 
Repayment
1 10/04/2018 15/08/2018 6 £490.00 £254.14
2 21/09/2018 25/10/2018 6 £220.00 £96.50
3 31/10/2018 03/12/2018 6 £650.00 £242.56
4 05/01/2019 25/11/2019 12 £750.00 £158.29
5 13/02/2020 05/03/2020 6 £250.00 £121.66
When Mr F complained to Mr Lender it said all the loans had been provided only after 
responsible lending checks had been done. But it said it could have conducted further 
financial assessments before agreeing loan 5. So Mr Lender partly upheld Mr Fs complaint 
and said it would be refunding to Mr F all of the interest paid towards this loan, including 8% 
simple interest, and it would be willing to remove that loan entirely from his credit file. 
Mr F didnt feel that this offer went far enough to put everything right so he brought his 
complaint to us. He mainly said that he had payday loans in order to pay other loans and he 
got into gambling to try and win money to pay off the loans.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint in part. She felt she hadnt seen enough to say it was 
unfair for Mr Lender to have provided loans 1, 2 and 3 to Mr F. But our adjudicator explained 
why she thought that, in addition to upholding the complaint about loan 5 as Mr Lender had 
offered to do, it shouldve realised that loan 4 shouldnt have been lent. Our adjudicator set 
out the steps she said Mr Lender should take to put things right. 
Mr Lender didnt accept our adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. 
In brief summary, Mr Lender mainly said it had asked Mr F specifically if he was planning to 
use the funds it provided for gambling or to pay off any other short-term loans and he had 
said no  and confirmed he hadnt missed any payments on other loans. So Mr Lender felt it 
wouldve been disproportionate to ask to see bank statements at this stage in the borrowing 
relationship, especially as there was no evidence to suggest that Mr F was spending money 
on gambling or other high cost loans.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr F 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Mr F could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. 
This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make 
their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Fs complaint.As Mr Lender has already agreed to uphold Mr Fs complaint about loan 5, and offered 
appropriate redress, then I havent considered this loan further.
Like the adjudicator, I have also disregarded another loan that was approved and issued but 
effectively cancelled the same day so no costs were incurred and nothing was reported on 
Mr Fs credit file as far as I can see  so I dont need to consider this. 
As far as I can see, Mr F seems happy with this approach and he hasnt objected to what our 
adjudicator said with respect to not upholding his complaint about loans 1, 2 and 3. So 
I dont think I need to say more about loans 1-3 except to say that I agree with our 
adjudicator about these loans.  
By loan 4, I think its fair to say that Mr F was showing signs that he might be struggling 
financially. By now he had been borrowing more or less continuously from Mr Lender over 
the previous 9 months. I dont think that the gap between paying loan 3 and taking out loan 4 
was long enough for Mr Lender reasonably to think that Mr F mightve put his finances in 
order during this period. And Mr Lender could see that loan 4 was around half as much 
again as the amount he had first borrowed and the largest single amount Mr F had applied to 
borrow (ignoring the loan not taken up). Also, he was signing up to pay it back over a year  
possibly to keep down the monthly repayments. 
Given all of this information, I think that by this point Mr Lender should have taken steps to 
verify what Mr F was saying to ensure it had a proper understanding of his financial situation. 
I think it needed to do this so that it could make an informed assessment about whether the 
loan would be sustainably affordable over the next 12 months. 
Mr F has provided his bank statements so Ive looked through these to see what Mr Lender 
was likely to have found out if it had carried out more robust checking of Mr Fs 
circumstances. 
To be clear, Im not suggesting the lender should necessarily have looked at bank 
statements  the rules arent prescriptive. 
But in the absence of other evidence, I think these give a reasonable guide as to Mr Fs 
finances at the time. 
And had Mr Lender looked in more depth at Mr Fs finances, as I think a proportionate check 
in these particular circumstances wouldve required it to do, it would likely have seen that he 
was facing serious problems managing his money.
I think it would have seen that Mr F was regularly spending significant amounts on what 
appear to be gambling transactions. 
And also that he was taking out multiple loans from other providers of high cost credit to 
supplement his income  he was paying at least 5 other high cost lenders in the month 
running up to applying for loan 4 and he spent more that month on gambling than he earned. 
All the indications are that Mr F wasnt using this sort of borrowing for its intended purpose of 
covering a short term cash flow problem and he wasnt managing his money responsibly at 
the time. I think if Mr Lender had seen this information it shouldve realised that there was a 
significant risk that loan 4 was unsustainable. 
And so Mr Lender shouldnt have provided loan 4  or any further borrowing.  This means, overall, in addition to loan 5 that Mr Lender has already agreed to uphold, Im 
upholding the complaint about loan 4.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mr Lender should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened if it hadnt provided lending to Mr F, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr F may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. 
If this wasnt a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or 
relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). 
But even if he had done that, the information that would have been available to such a 
lender and how they would (or ought to) have treated an application which may or may not 
have been the same is now impossible to reconstruct accurately. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and 
substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr F in a compliant 
way at this time. 
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr F would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. 
This means it wouldnt be fair now to reduce Mr Lenders liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
So, in addition to taking the steps Mr Lender said it would in relation to loan 5 (which it 
should do now if it hasnt already) Mr Lender should also: 
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr F towards interest, fees and 
charges on loan 4 not including anything it has already refunded.
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr F which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr F originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Pay to Mr F the amounts calculated in "A" and "B".
D. Remove all adverse entries from Mr Fs credit file for loan 4. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For these reasons, I partly uphold Mr Fs complaint and PDL Finance Limited (trading as 
Mr Lender) should take the steps Ive set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman