DRN-3378167
The complaint
Mr M complains about a fraud prevention marker recorded by BMW Financial Services(GB) 
Limited trading as BMW Financial Services.
What happened
In April 2017, Mr M went to a dealership to look at replacing his car. He says he spoke to a 
salesperson at the dealership about a hire purchase agreement with BMW, to finance the 
cost of a car. During the discussion, Mr M says he weighed up various alternatives to the 
hire purchase agreement. But in the end, he decided to go ahead with it.
Mr M says because he met with the dealer late in the day, the dealer said hed complete the 
application using the information Mr M had given him. The dealer also took a deposit from 
Mr M and told him to return the next day to complete the sale.
The following day, Mr M says the dealer called him and said the application had been 
declined. When Mr M asked why, he says the dealer told him to check with a credit 
reference agency, but continued to discuss other lenders who may have been able to help. 
Mr M chose not to further his enquiry with the dealer and bought a car elsewhere.
Over three years later, Mr M says a potential employer decided to withdraw an offer of a job, 
based on a fraud prevention marker BMW had recorded with CIFAS. He says at first, BMW 
couldnt tell him why the fraud marker was recorded. So, Mr M complained to BMW and 
asked them to remove it.
In their final response to Mr Ms complaint, BMW said that during the application process, 
Mr M had provided incorrect information about his address history. And that a previous 
address that hadnt been disclosed, had adverse information connected to it from other 
agreements in Mr Ms name. BMW explained to Mr M that the fraud marker wouldnt be 
removed.
Mr M didnt accept BMWs response to his concerns and brought his complaint to us. One of 
our investigators looked into Mr Ms case and found that BMW hadnt treated him fairly. She 
said she was persuaded by Mr Ms side of the argument, in that he didnt deliberately 
mislead BMW. She found that not enough investigation was done at the time, to justify a 
fraud marker being recorded with CIFAS.
The investigator concluded that BMW should remove the fraud marker with CIFAS and pay 
Mr M £250 for the distress and inconvenience he had experienced.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigators findings and said BMW should pay more than the 
£250 suggested. He said hed found it difficulty to find employment due to BMWs actions. 
BMW also disagreed with the investigator conclusions, so Mr Ms case has been passed to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This case is about an application for a hire purchase agreement, which is a regulated 
financial product. As such, we are able to consider complaints about it.
Mr M has explained that the dealer told him he would complete the application for the hire 
purchase agreement with the information hed been given. Mr M says he left the dealership, 
but was willing to provide proof of everything he had been asked for. 
BMW says Mr M provided incorrect information about his previous address history. And that 
one of Mr Ms previous addresses was connected to some adverse information. So, Ive 
considered if Mr M misled BMW, or that the dealer completed the application without getting 
the correct information from Mr M.
Ive seen the notes recorded by BMW, the day after the application was made. I can see that 
the decision not to lend to Mr M was taken by BMW before usual business hours. I think this 
supports Mr Ms argument, that he left the dealership when it had closed and the application 
was completed afterwards, by the dealer.
I think Mr M has been consistent and credible with the details surrounding his visit to the 
dealership. I also think Mr Ms recollection of events is persuasive and that on balance, I 
dont think he was present when the dealer processed the application. I think it follows that 
Mr M wasnt able to fully answer the questions about his previous address.
Aside from how the application for the hire purchase agreement was processed, I also need 
to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. 
On this point, BMW needed to have more than just a suspicion or concern, but they were not 
required to prove beyond all reasonable doubt that Mr M had done something wrong. They 
need to be able to show they had reasonable grounds to believe that fraud or a financial 
crime had been committed or attempted, with appropriate supporting evidence.
Ive considered if BMW asked any questions of Mr M, after they saw his previous address 
history had been entered incorrectly. BMWs records dont show that they tried to find out if 
there was a problem with the application, or to establish Mr Ms reasons for not disclosing 
his full address history.
I can see from BMWs records that they had other concerns, about the affordability of the 
hire purchase agreement. But, I dont think BMW did enough to rigorously test their 
suspicion that Mr M had committed fraud or a financial crime.
Previously, Ive said Im persuaded by what Mr M says. Hes told us he was willing and able 
to support various details about his employment, income and address history. I think its 
likely Mr M was aware of the adverse information connected to his previous address. But, on 
balance, I dont think Mr M was given sufficient opportunity to explain what had happened, 
when the dealer processed the application.
In all the circumstances, I dont think BMW made attempts at enough depth to clarify their 
concerns about Mr M, to be able to confidently report what had happened to the police. I 
think BMW have treated Mr M unfairly, so I think they should put the matter right. Overall, I 
think its fair for BMW to remove the fraud prevention marker they recorded with CIFAS in 
April 2017. Ive thought carefully about the impact Mr M says BMWs actions have had on his personal 
circumstances. Mr M has told us about his current financial situation and that a job offer was 
withdrawn shortly after the application in 2017.
I agree that the fraud prevention marker has led Mr M to experience some distress and 
inconvenience, since BMW recorded it with CIFAS. And it must have been very worrying for 
him, when he found out about the marker in 2020. But, I dont think the withdrawn job offers 
Mr M says hes suffered from, can be solely linked to the fraud prevention marker recorded 
by BMW.
Having considered everything, I think its fair for BMW to pay Mr M £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience he experienced when BMW recorded the fraud prevention marker with 
CIFAS. 
Putting things right
BMW should:
- remove the fraud marker recorded with CIFAS against Mr Ms name on 20 April 
2017; and
- pay Mr M £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and BMW Financial 
Services(GB) Limited trading as BMW Financial Services should put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman