DRN-2727038
The complaint
Mr C says FCL Consumer Finance Ltd  trading as Smart Pig lent to him irresponsibly. He 
says that he was over indebted at the time of lending. He thinks that Smart Pig should have 
seen this and not lent to him. 
What happened
This complaint is about eight payday loans Smart Pig provided to Mr C between 
January 2016 and April 2018.
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedterm date ended
1 02/01/2016 £100 11/01/2016 11/01/2016
2 10/02/2016 £350 08/04/2016 08/04/2016
3 17/06/2016 £350 03/10/2016 06/10/2016
4 06/12/2017 £350 09/01/2017 16/01/2017
5 16/02/2017 £350 24/04/2017 24/04/2017
6 17/06/2017 £350 02/10/2017 02/10/2017
7 06/11/2017 £350 15/01/2018 16/01/2017
8 14/02/2018 £350 23/04/2018 23/04/2018
Smart Pig is a specialist high cost lender that only provides loans to students. The above 
table shows that Smart Pig approved one loan an academic term for Mr C, over the time it 
lent to him. And, other than loan 1, these were for the maximum amounts that Smart Pig 
would lend, that is £350. Mr C repaid £525 for these loans
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. She thought that the loans 2 to 5 werent 
affordable for Mr C. And from loan 6 the lending pattern itself was harmful. 
I cant see that Smart Pig has responded to the adjudicators opinion. Mr C didnt disagree 
with what our adjudicator said. As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been 
passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Smart Pig needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Smart Pig should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Cs complaint in part and have explained why below.
Mr C didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loan 1. Because of this, I dont think 
there is any ongoing disagreement about this loan. So, I wont be making a decision about it. 
But it was part of the borrowing relationship Mr C had with Smart Pig. So, it is something I 
will take into account when considering the other loans he took.
As our adjudicator explained Smart Pig took some information at the time of sale of loans 2 
to 5. Mr Cs income was recorded as being around £4,075 for each academic term (around 
three months). Smart Pig used bands to find out about Mr Cs expenditure. For example, it 
recorded that he spent between £0 and £150 on food. Using the maximum he could spend in 
these ranges his expenditure was recorded as being around £3,600 over the same period. 
So, this would leave Mr C with very little, if any, left over for any unforeseen expenditure he 
mayve had over the, approximately, three-month term of the loans. Because of this, in my 
view, this shows that these loans may not have been affordable. 
Smart Pig has said that it isnt always reasonable to assume that Mr C would spend near the 
top of the bands under which it assessed his affordability. I dont agree with this. Smart Pig 
has to ensure that the loans were affordable for Mr C. It had information that demonstrated 
this may not be case. If it didnt have any further information about this then it wasnt 
responsible to lend to him.  
But even if Smart Pig had made further checks I dont think this would have made a 
difference here. Mr C has provided some detail about his circumstances which includes his 
bank statements. These show that his income and expenditure werent far away from what 
was recorded at the time of sale. And they show that Mr C was spending near the top of the ranges that Smart Pig had used top assess affordability, and sometimes more. This 
reinforces my opinion that the lending wasnt affordable or responsible. Because of the 
above, Im upholding Mr Cs complaint about loans 2 to 5
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loans 6 to 8 because I 
dont think that it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of Smart Pigs 
lending history with Mr C, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which Smart Pig 
should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. 
And so Smart Pig should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Cs case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
6. I say this because:
At this point Smart Pig ought to have realised Mr C was not managing to repay his 
loans sustainably. Mr C had taken out six loans in just over a year and a half. As I 
said above, Mr C was taking one loan a term now, and there was no sign of this 
coming to an end - in the near future. 
So Smart Pig ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr C was having to 
borrow further to cover the hole repaying his previous loans were leaving in his 
finances and that Mr Cs indebtedness was not decreasing. This is particularly likely 
given that the expenditure information showed that Mr C had very little, if any, spare 
income. 
Mr Cs first loan was for £100 and loans 2 to 6 were for £350. Mr C had quickly taken 
the maximum he could borrow and again this showed no signs of changing. At this 
point Smart Pig ought to have known that Mr C was not likely borrowing to meet a 
temporary shortfall in his income but to meet an ongoing need. 
Mr C didnt make any real inroads to the amount he owed Smart Pig. He continued to 
take one loan a term going forwards while he was student. Mr C had paid large 
amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Smart Pig over an extended period.
I think that Mr C lost out because Smart Pig continued to provide borrowing from loan six 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Cs indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for shorter-term use over an extended period of 
time.
the length of time over which Mr C borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mr Cs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im also upholding the complaint about loans 6 to 8 and Smart Pig should put things 
right.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Smart Pig should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it stopped lending to Mr C from loan 2, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr C may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr C in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr C would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Smart Pigs liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Smart Pig shouldnt have given Mr C loans 2 to 8.
A) Smart Pig should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr C towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Smart Pig should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr C 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr C originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Smart Pig should pay Mr C the total of A plus B.
D) Smart Pig should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Mr Cs credit file in 
relation to loans 2 to 5. The overall pattern of Mr Cs borrowing for loans 6 to 8 means any 
information recorded about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from 
Mr Cs credit file. If Smart Pig has sold any of the loans Smart Pig should ask the debt 
purchaser to do the same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Smart Pig to deduct tax from this interest. Smart Pig 
should give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax Smart Pig has deducted, if they ask for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mr Cs complaint. FCL Consumer Finance Ltd 
should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman