DRN-2662533
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited (Markerstudy) has 
undervalued his taxi following a total loss claim.
What happened
The background to this complaint, and my provisional findings on it, can be found in my 
provisional decision dated 12 February 2021, the relevant text of which I have included 
below: 
What happened
Mr S was involved in an accident and his taxi was written off. Markerstudy inspected the taxi 
and offered to pay Mr S the market value of the taxi, which it says is £4,900. 
But Mr S doesnt agree with this. He says his taxi is worth in excess of £10,000.  
An investigator from our service looked at this complaint. The investigator was satisfied that 
the valuation placed on the taxi by Markerstudy is fair. 
But Mr S doesnt agree and he has asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive provisionally decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I intend upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr S is unhappy with the valuation that Markerstudy has placed on his taxi. He says that he 
paid £30,500 for this vehicle in April 2015. He says it has a full-service history and hes 
provided a letter from his local Mercedes main dealer confirming that the vehicle was in 
perfect condition, and any repairs he had carried out on the vehicle were completed with 
genuine Mercedes parts. Hes also provided a number of invoices from Mercedes to support 
this. Mr S also says that he had received a number of offers of in excess £10,000 to sell the 
taxi in the months preceding the incident, and he refused these as they were too low. He 
says he was always honest with Markerstudy about the value of the taxi, and always gave a 
fair valuation at renewal. All he wants now is for Markerstudy to pay him a fair market value 
for his vehicle.
Our approach is to consider whether Markerstudy has settled Mr Ss claim in line with the 
terms and conditions of his policy, fairly and reasonably. So, I have considered the terms of 
the policy and the offer made in order to determine whether Markerstudy has acted fairly. I 
can see that in the event the taxi cant be repaired, Markerstudy wont pay more than the 
market value of the taxi at the time of the loss.
Under the heading Total Loss Offer and Settlement the policy says The most we will pay 
will be the market value of your vehicle (including its spare parts or attached accessories if 
they have been lost as well) or the amount proposed or last declared to Underwriters as the 
vehicles value (including its attached spare parts and attached accessories) whichever is 
the less. 
When we look at complaints about vehicle valuations, we look at motor trade guides for 
valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these persuasive because their valuations are based 
on nationwide research and likely selling prices. The guides refer to advertised and auction 
prices to work out what the likely selling price for the same vehicle would be. This takes into 
account all the specifications of the vehicle as well as any extras and the mileage. If a guide 
price is significantly higher or lower than the others, we may think its reasonable to ignore it. 
This depends on the value of the vehicle.
Customers sometimes say the amount theyve been paid is unfair because theyve seen 
similar vehicles advertised at higher prices. We wouldnt normally place much weight on 
adverts to decide whether a valuation is fair. Differences in mileage or year of registration 
can significantly affect value, and sometimes the vehicle actually ends up selling for a lower 
price than advertised. Adverts may be helpful if the complaint involves a classic or rare 
model. Or if they strongly indicate that the guides could be wrong. 
Mr S has provided some advertisements to support his loss. But the advertisements hes 
provided show wildly different valuations, and this seems to be because of varying different 
mileage on each. The advertisements hes provided are not like for like in terms of vehicle 
age and mileage.
Ive checked three motor trade guides for the value of Mr Ss taxi at the time of the incident. 
The CAP valuation guide has advised that it doesnt value taxis as standard. But it has 
provided a bespoke retail value for us of £6,000 to £6,500, exclusive of VAT. We had the 
same issue with the Glass valuation tool. However, Markerstudy was able to obtain a 
valuation of £5,655 from Glass, again exclusive VAT. The Cazana valuation tool was able to 
provide a valuation, and it valued Mr Ss taxi at £5,585, again exclusive of VAT.
Markerstudy has placed a valuation of £6,125 on this vehicle. And looking at the three guide 
prices together our approach would be to say this is fair. But I need to make it clear that the 
valuations provided by the valuation guides are all exclusive of VAT. So, if Mr S isnt VAT 
registered, Markerstudy needs to pay Mr S the valuation above plus 20% VAT.
Weve asked Markerstudy to breakdown its offer. It has advised that the offer it made is 
exclusive of VAT. So, weve asked Mr S to confirm whether he is VAT registered. I 
appreciate that Markerstudy were under the impression that Mr S was VAT registered. But 
Mr S has confirmed to us that he isnt. And because of this Markerstudy need to include VAT 
in the valuation it places on Mrs Ss vehicle.
However, Markerstudy has advised us that this vehicle was a Category D write off before it 
was involved in this incident. It provided us with evidence to support to show that this vehicle 
was written off following an incident in October 2014. But Mr S says he wasnt aware of this. 
He says he cant remember if he completed a HPI check at the time he purchased the 
vehicle. 
Usually if a vehicle is deemed a previous write off, we would allow Markerstudy to deduct up 
to 20% from the pre-accident value. The only way we would say this wasnt fair is if it was 
very clear that the consumer had been deceived at the time of sale. But we would expect the 
consumer to carry out their own checks before they purchase the vehicle. In this case Mr S 
has provided us a with a copy of the agreement and payment history for this vehicle. Hes 
also said he cant remember if he did a HPI check. But in terms of reasonable care, as a 
minimum we would usually expect the consumer to demonstrate that they had carried out some form of check on the cars history. And Mr S hasnt done this. So, I think Markerstudy 
should be allowed to deduct 20% off its valuation because the vehicle is a previous Category 
D write off.
But what seems to have happened here is that Markerstudy has taken the valuation 
excluding VAT and then deducted a further 20% because the vehicle was a Category D write 
off. Mr S has confirmed he is not VAT registered, so I think Markerstudy needed to take its 
valuation of £6,125, add 20% to include VAT, and then deduct 20% again, to account for the 
Category D write off deduction. This would leave a valuation of £6,125 for this vehicle. And 
this is what Markerstudy needs to pay. I understand Mr S hasnt received any payment for 
this claim yet. So, 8% simple interest should be added to this amount starting from the date 
of the claim. 
Other considerations
Mr S has also said he doesnt feel like Markerstudy has treated him fairly as he has had to 
rent a vehicle and he hasnt been provided with a replacement. However, as far as Im aware 
he hasnt raised this with Markerstudy. Mr S would need to complain to Markerstudy in the 
first instance so it can review the issue and provide him with an answer.
Mr S has also said that he was honest with the value of his vehicle at each renewal and no 
one had told him that the vehicle was worth less than he had been declaring. Even though 
Markerstudy havent dealt with this, I can explain to Mr S that the value he gives at renewal, 
is not considered the market value of the vehicle. This value is a rough estimate hes asked 
to provide and its used to price his insurance at renewal. The market value is the price a 
vehicle is worth at the time it needs to be replaced. And this value is changing all the time 
due to many criteria such as age, mileage, market popularity etc. In this instance the market 
value of this vehicle is £6,125.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have now replied to my provisional decision, and a number of issues have now 
been clarified. Initially Mr S replied with a further query about a vehicle tax refund and about 
retaining the salvage of the vehicle. I cant deal with either of these new issues in this 
decision, and I would ask Mr S to direct these enquires back to Markerstudy.
Markerstudy also replied. It was satisfied with the valuation. But Markerstudy say it only 
made a deduction for VAT because Mr S declared in a telephone call that he was VAT 
registered. Markerstudy also say it had tried to pay Mr S for the vehicle, but hed returned 
the cheque. Markerstudy say that it shouldnt have to pay interest on the payment, as Mr S 
hadnt provided correct information, and it had tried to pay him. Markerstudy has now also 
confirmed that the third party has accepted liability and Mr Ss excess would be waived.
Markerstudy has provided me with a copy of the call recording from when Mr S originally 
took out this policy. And having listened to the call I agree; Mr S does say that he is VAT 
registered. On this basis we asked Mr S again whether he is VAT registered. Mr S advised 
again that he isnt, and hes now provided a statement from his accountant which says that 
hes not, and never has been VAT registered.
I think Mr S made a mistake when he declared at inception that he was VAT registered. And 
its clear from our conversations with him that he was slightly unsure what being VAT 
registered meant and its importance to the valuation of his vehicle. However, it is Mr Ss responsibility to give a fair representation of his situation, whilst answering any questions. 
Because of this Markerstudy should pay Mr S the correct valuation, inclusive of VAT but with 
a deduction because of its previous write off status only, as set out in my provisional 
decision. But I wont be asking Markerstudy to pay interest on this amount. 
Putting things right
Now that we have confirmation that Mr S isnt registered to pay VAT, Markerstudy should 
pay Mr S the full valuation of £6,125 as set out in my provisional decision. However, its 
more likely than not that the lower valuation would never have been offered to Mr S if hed 
been more careful when answering the questions at inception. So, I agree that Markerstudy 
shouldnt have to pay 8% simple interest on this amount.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint, and direct Markerstudy Insurance 
Company Limited to pay Mr S £6,125 only to settle this claim.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman