DRN-3292935
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Fitzroy Wealth Management Limited (Fitzroy) gave her unsuitable 
advice to transfer the value of her deferred benefits in two final salary occupational pension 
schemes (OPSs) to a personal pension plan (PPP).
What happened
After meeting Fitzroy during a review they were holding for her husband, Mrs K contacted 
them in November 2016 to arrange a meeting. She wanted to consider transferring two 
defined benefit deferred pensions from her former employers schemes. She said shed 
heard transferring a defined benefit pension may not be a good idea. But she wanted to find 
out more. Fitzroy met with Mrs K in late November 2016. Two further meetings took place in 
March 2017.
Fitzroy completed a Fact Find, a Knowledge and Experience Assessment and took Mrs K 
through a Risk Profile Questionnaire in March 2017. The notes on the Fact Find said that its 
aim was to review existing pension provision with a view to accessing TFC. These 
documents recorded Mrs Ks circumstances at the time of the advice as follows: 
She was 59 years old and planned to retire at age 65 (although one of the Transfer 
Value Analysis (TVAS) reports indicated a desired retirement age of 61)
She was married with two children in their 20s
She had an annual income of £11,000
She owned her house with her husband, with net equity of around £150,000
She had £6,000 in an ISA and £45,000 in her and her husbands joint bank account
She and her husband had overall monthly expenditure of around £1,000
She had a limited knowledge of investments
She had a moderately balanced attitude to risk
She wanted access to tax-free cash to pay around £6,000 for eye surgery
Her main priority was to maintain her standard of living during retirement
Her deferred pensions had a combined transfer value of £88,117.81. So a maximum 
of £22,029.45 could be taken as tax-free cash.
A note on charges was also shared with Mrs K in March 2017. She agreed to the passive 
wealth management service where her existing investments would be monitored, researched 
and advised on. Fitzroy would charge her a 1% annual fee of assets under management 
with a minimum of £250 each year for this service.
Fitzroy completed a Suitability Report in May 2017. This covered Mrs Ks options. It 
explained that Mrs K had one deferred pension that could pay her £859.27 each year from 
age 65. Or a tax-free cash lump sum of £3,802 at age 65 and a reduced annual pension of 
£570.34. The other pension could pay her an annual pension of £2,487 at age 59. Or a tax-
free cash lump sum of £12,413 at age 59 and a reduced annual pension of £1,862. Both 
deferred pensions also provided spouses pensions of 50% of Mrs Ks pension.
The critical yield for the larger pension at the normal retirement age of 60 was over 50% 
whether tax-free cash was taken or not. The critical yield for the smaller pension, at the 
normal retirement age of 65, was 16.61% if no tax-free cash were taken. And 13.39% if Mrs 
K took tax-free cash. 
It also noted that the service charges on the recommended investment approach would 
initially be around 0.3% each year. And the investment charges would initially be 0.1% on 
half of her investment and 1.65% on the other half. The report also explained the advisers 
initial fee would be 4.5% of the total transferred funds to meet the costs of our 
recommendation and implementation of these recommendations, which equated to 
£3,965.30.
After assessing Mrs Ks circumstances, Fitzroy advised her to transfer her deferred benefits 
from the OPSs into a PPP with another provider. The adviser explained the reasons for his 
recommendation in the Suitability Report. These were stated as the results of the TVAS 
report. And because Mrs K would be able to access her tax-free cash, have a wider choice 
of funds to invest in and have improved death benefits.
Mrs K completed both applications to transfer. And the transfers took place in May 2017.
But in March 2020, Mrs K complained to Fitzroy through a claims management company.  
She said she complained because colleagues had told her transferring her pension was a 
bad idea and shed probably lost a lot of money. She felt that the advice to transfer her 
defined benefit deferred pensions into a PPP hadnt been in her best interests. And that she 
was considerably worse off due to the transfer. She wanted to be put back into the position 
she wouldve been in had the transfer not been advised.
Fitzroy issued their final response letter in April 2020. They didnt uphold the complaint. They 
said that theyd conducted a thorough interview and fact find with Mrs K. They said that 
theyd carried out an assessment of Mrs Ks attitude to risk and shed been deemed a 
moderately balanced investor. Fitzroy said that Mrs K wanted the maximum tax-free cash 
from her pensions so that she could afford eye surgery. And that she hadnt needed income 
from her pensions yet as she was still working. They also said that Mrs K mustve been 
happy with their advice as shed never questioned it in subsequent meetings. And noted that 
shed recommended her adviser to her husband as she was pleased with the service shed 
had from them.
Unhappy with this response, Mrs K brought her complaint to this service. We asked Fitzroy 
to confirm their reasons for advising Mrs K to transfer into a PPP, given the critical yield 
figures reported were very high. Fitzroy asked us to refer to the Suitability and TVAS reports. 
Our investigator felt the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied that Fitzroys advice 
to transfer both of her defined benefit schemes was unsuitable. 
To put things right, she recommended that Fitzroy should undertake a redress calculation in 
line with the pension review methodology. She also felt that Fitzroy should pay Mrs K £300 
for the distress and inconvenience theyd caused her. 
Fitzroy didnt agree with our investigator. But submitted no further comments on their findings. So the complaint came to me for a review.
I issued a provisional decision on 5 January 2020. It said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I intend to uphold it. But I disagree with our investigator that compensation 
should be paid for distress and inconvenience. Ill explain why. 
Advice about transferring defined benefit OPS benefits should start from the assumption that 
a transfer wont be suitable. So a business should only have recommended a transfer if it 
could clearly demonstrate on the evidence available at the time that it was in the customer's 
best interests. Otherwise, it shouldve recommended that the consumer remain in the OPS. 
So Ive considered all the evidence and information provided by both Mrs K and Fitzroy to 
assess whether the advice she received was suitable and in her best interests.
Key predictors of whether such transfers will be suitable are the consumers attitude to risk, 
their capacity for risk (including how much of their total pension provision the transfer 
represents) and he critical yield. The critical yield is the rate of investment return that would 
need to be achieved after the transfer to ensure the PPP had the same value at retirement  
in terms of annuity purchasing power - as the benefits that wouldve been provided by the 
OPS. Ill consider this first.
I first looked at the TVAS reports. These showed that high critical yields would be needed if 
the transfer was going to prove to be in Mrs Ks best interests, from a purely financial 
perspective. 
It appears that Mrs K was looking to retire at age 65, although the Suitability Report gives a 
desired retirement age of 61 for the larger of two schemes. The larger of her two deferred 
benefits entitlements had a normal retirement age of 60. But the smaller one had a normal 
retirement age of 65. The Suitability Report fails to give a single retirement age so that the 
pensions could be compared properly with the projected outcomes after a transfer.  
As detailed above, the critical yield for the larger pension at the normal retirement age of 60 
was over 50% whether tax-free cash was taken or not. And for the smaller pension it was 
16.61% if no tax-free cash were taken at the normal retirement age of 65. Or 13.39% if tax-
free cash was taken. 
At the time of the advice, pension providers were required to issue pension illustrations using 
maximum assumed future growth rates of 2% (lower rate growth), 5% (intermediate rate 
growth) and 8% (higher rate growth). The critical yields calculated in Mrs Ks case, simply to 
match the benefits being given up, were very high  and considerably higher than even the 
higher rate growth. I acknowledge that Mrs K was relatively close to her retirement age. 
Therefore there would be a relatively short investment time. But I still consider that the 
critical yields are a reliable indicator of whether the transfer value offered is good value. And 
high critical yields suggest the transfer value offered was poor value in return for the OPS 
benefits Mrs K would be giving up. 
I also need to consider Mrs Ks attitude to risk when considering the critical yields calculated. 
Shed been assessed as having a moderately balanced attitude to risk. This attitude to risk is 
inconsistent with the critical yields required. This is because, the higher the critical yields, the 
more risk that needs to be taken on in order to have a chance of attaining that yield. So Im 
not persuaded that the critical yields would be attainable. I acknowledge that a transfer wont always be unsuitable even if the critical yields are high. 
But, as Ive said, the critical yield does give an indication as to whether the transfer value on 
offer is reasonably representative of the benefits being relinquished. But I consider that the 
critical yield was too high in this case. And this suggests that transferring, from a financial 
perspective, wouldnt be in Mrs Ks best interests.
The TVAS report for the larger pension states that the estimated annual pension at the 
normal retirement age of 60 is £2,839. The Suitability Report quotes an annual pension at 
age 59 of £2,487. Im not clear where this figure has been taken from, or why age 59 has 
been used. The Suitability Report concludes that Mrs K would be able to access a better 
annual pension at age 60 if she transferred. But the report doesnt compare the pensions at 
age 60. And the annual pension quoted at 60 if the transfer were to go ahead doesnt allow 
for the initial adviser charge, or the correct ongoing charges. 
The TVAS report for the smaller pension states that the estimated annual pension at the 
normal retirement age of 65 is £1,400. The Suitability Report quotes a different figure - 
£859.27. So the Suitability Report concludes that Mrs K would be able to access a better 
annual pension if she transferred. But thats not correct based on the £1,400 quoted in the 
TVAS report. The TVAS report for the smaller pension shows that the capital value of 
benefits payable on death before retirement would be lower after the transfer. As for the 
larger pension, the post-transfer figures shown dont take account of the adviser fees that 
Mrs K would need to pay for the transfer to take place. If they had been included in those 
figures, the report wouldve shown that the transfer value offered fell even shorter, and that 
the critical yield would have been correspondingly higher.
Both TVAS reports indicate that Mrs K would be able to access a higher amount of tax-free 
cash if she transferred. But neither report includes the impact of the initial adviser fee on the 
amount of tax-free cash that Mrs K could take. I also note that both TVAS reports fail to allow 
for the actual investment charges Mrs K would incur, including the ongoing adviser charge of 
1%. Therefore I consider that the figures in the TVAS report dont show the true picture. 
And while the Suitability Report does reference the initial fees, it doesnt allow for them in the 
figures it shows. This again distorts the picture. Overall, Im not persuaded that the Suitability 
Report was a fair and representative reflection of the true benefits of the transfers that were 
being recommended. 
Other reasons Mrs K mightve wanted to transfer
The Fact Find records only three objectives as high priority for Mrs K. All of the other 
objectives are recorded as being of no priority. Mrs Ks priorities were recorded as:
-Maintaining her standard of living in retirement
-Repaying her mortgage
-Raising capital
Theres a handwritten note in the Fact Find that states that Mrs Ks husbands pensions tax-
free cash had been earmarked to repay the mortgage. So I consider that this priority was 
already covered elsewhere. Another handwritten note states: Client wants to raise max TFC 
available to assist with £6K eye surgery but does not want to use existing savings which is a 
reserve for emergencies.
Its clear that the Suitability Report focuses on the raising capital objective. But it doesnt 
specifically address the maintaining her standard of living in retirement objective. As I stated earlier, the annual pension figures it shows are calculated at different retirement ages. 
I wouldve expected to see a direct comparison of the pensions amounts available at a single 
retirement age so that the benefits could be fairly compared. But the report didnt do this. So 
it didnt  for example  reflect the late retirement factors that were applicable in the larger of 
Mrs Ks OPS. And it appears that the pension shown at age 65 for the smaller pension is 
incorrect. So I dont consider that the report clearly shows Mrs K what pension she couldve 
expected at age 65 under her existing arrangements. 
Ive considered what Fitzroy said in their final response letter. I also considered the factors a 
business should take into account to demonstrate that the transfer was in Mrs Ks best 
interests. But I still dont think the advice to transfer was justified.
Mrs Ks situation at the time was fairly stable. She and her husband were both working and 
had no need of any additional income at that time. They had savings. But wanted to keep 
those as emergency funds. Fitzroy noted that Mrs K wanted to use some of her tax-free cash 
to pay for eye surgery. And that she didnt want to use her existing savings to pay for this. 
But Mrs K said this wasnt a critical need. And I consider that she wouldve had other options 
available to her to pay for the surgery. For example, new savings from net disposable 
income  which doesnt appear to have been discussed with Fitzroy. Or the use of some of 
her existing savings. I say this even though I appreciate that Mrs K told Fitzroy she didnt 
want to use her existing savings to pay for the surgery. This is because Ive seen no 
rationale for why Mrs Ks existing savings needed to be so high. In my view, given the 
valuable benefit guarantees which Mrs K would be relinquishing by transferring, a suitable 
recommendation would have been for Mrs K to use £6,000 of her existing savings. A 
£39,000 emergency fund would, by most standards, have still been consider ample. And if 
Mrs K had rejected that recommendation, and was determined to still transfer, Fitzroy could 
have categorised her as an insistent client.
And so, given the various alternative options open to Mrs K to fund the surgery, and the cost 
of the initial advice, Im also not persuaded that the advice to transfer either of the OPSs to a 
PPP was in her best interests on the basis of the capital raising objective, nor that of 
maintaining her standard of living. 
Fund choice
One of the reasons for the recommendation to transfer within the Suitability Report is that 
Mrs K would have a wider choice of funds to invest in. But I dont agree that this should be 
given as a reason to transfer. 
Mrs K is a relatively inexperienced investor. She was assessed as having a moderately 
balanced attitude to risk. So its unlikely shed be comfortable taking the risk involved in most 
pension transfers, especially as the critical yield for both transfers was so high. Fitzroy said 
that the fact that Mrs K had previously had an Additional Voluntary Contribution plan and an 
ISA showed that she was well aware how investments worked. But I dont consider that 
these examples show that she was an experienced investor, and that type of investment 
experience wouldnt in any case have equipped Mrs K with the type of financial knowledge 
which would make her independently aware of the consequences of a defined benefits 
transfer. 
But even if I were to conclude that the transfer was suitable for other reasons - which as set 
out above I dont - and I was then considering the matter of fund choice as a further potential 
issue on which the complaint should be upheld, I also dont consider that the funds that 
Fitzroy recommended were suitable for her, as theyre not consistent with her attitude to risk 
and retirement objectives. And even if it were needed as a further demonstration of the fundamental unsuitability of the 
transfer proposition, the ongoing investment fees, service charges and ongoing adviser fees 
 totalling around 2% each year - all detract from her retirement objective when compared 
with the complete lack of fees attached to the guaranteed benefits in the OPSs. 
Capacity for loss
In their final response letter, Fitzroy said that they didnt agree that Mrs K had a low capacity 
for loss. They said that their attitude to risk assessment tool had indicated that she was 
prepared to accept some falls in order to make higher returns than just investing in low risk 
investments.
But I consider that it shouldve been clear to Fitzroy that Mrs K had a low capacity for loss. 
This is because, from what I understand, the two OPSs that she transferred were her only 
pensions, other than the state pension. So Mrs K wouldve been highly reliant on the 
transfers in her retirement. From what Ive seen, its likely that Mrs K will be worse off after 
transferring her OPSs. Mrs K had also indicated that maintaining her standard of living in 
retirement was one of her highest priorities. So I consider that Fitzroy should have placed 
more emphasis on this objective when giving their advice.
Were there any benefits for Mrs K from transferring?
From what Ive seen, there were some potential benefits in transferring. Mrs K could access 
a flexible, rather than a fixed income. Shed told Fitzroy she didnt need an annual income 
from her pension yet, so the transfer wouldve met that objective. And the transfers did 
increase the tax-free cash she was able to access at that time. 
But I cant see that Mrs K had any pressing need to transfer when she did. She didnt require 
access to the tax-free cash from her defined benefit pensions at the time of the advice, as 
the eye surgery wasnt critical at that time. And I consider that other options to pay for the 
surgery were available to her if it had been. 
I dont think Fitzroy have demonstrated the transfer was in Mrs Ks best interests. In my view 
the advice was unsuitable. And without the unsuitable advice, Im satisfied Mrs K wouldnt 
have transferred her deferred benefits.
Our investigator recommended that, in addition to the redress outlined below, Fitzroy should 
pay Mrs K £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience she suffered due to losing 
the valuable benefits from her previous schemes. But, given the fair compensation Ive 
outlined below, I dont agree that such additional compensation is appropriate in this case. 
This is because the fair compensation Ive proposed puts Mrs K back into the position she 
wouldve been in if the unsuitable advice hadnt been given. And although I acknowledge 
that Mrs K will have had some concerns about her financial security in retirement as a result 
of learning that the advice may not have been suitable, Ive not seen enough evidence that 
the unsuitable advice has caused Mrs K any additional problems, such that an award in 
respect of, for example, distress and inconvenience, would be warranted here. Therefore I 
only intend to ask Fitzroy to pay Mrs K any compensation identified by the redress 
calculation detailed below.
Response to my provisional decision
Fitzroy didnt respond to my provisional decision.
Mrs K said she felt she should be paid compensation for the upset caused, as our 
investigator had recommended. Mrs K also said that the provisional decision had stated that shed contacted Fitzroy for a 
meeting, as she was considering transferring her two defined benefit schemes. But that this 
wasnt correct. Instead, a meeting with Fitzroy had been arranged for her husband. Mrs K 
said that during that meeting, Fitzroy mentioned to her that she could transfer her defined 
benefit schemes and that this would enable her to access her tax-free cash. Mrs K said that 
Fitzroy asked her if there was anything shed like to do with the money she could access 
from her pension. She said that she told Fitzroy she wouldnt like to do this as they were 
defined benefit schemes. But that they then told her that the rules had changed and she 
wouldnt lose any benefits from her defined benefit schemes, and her affairs would only 
improve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mrs K is disappointed that I didnt agree that compensation for the upset 
caused should be paid in this case. But I wasnt able to establish enough evidence that the 
unsuitable advice had caused Mrs K any additional problems. And as she hasnt provided 
any new evidence on this point Im unable to change that part of my decision.
Ive noted what Mrs K told me about the events leading up to her receiving advice from 
Fitzroy. 
No new information has come to light to change my opinion. So I remain of the view I set out 
in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mrs K, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider she wouldve 
remained in the occupational schemes. I therefore require Fitzroy Wealth Management 
Limited to undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review 
guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: 
Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mrs Ks acceptance of the decision.
Fitzroy Wealth Management Limited may wish to contact the Department for Work and 
Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mrs Ks contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension 
Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mrs Ks SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Ks pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it should be paid directly to Mrs K as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% 
would have been taxed according to her likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to 
be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects 
this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mrs K within 90 days of the date 
Fitzroy Wealth Management Limited receives notification of her acceptance of my final 
decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per 
year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in 
excess of 90 days, that it takes Fitzroy Wealth Management Limited to pay Mrs K.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. I require Fitzroy Wealth Management Limited to take the actions 
detailed in the Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman