DRN-4291403
The complaint
Mr P complains about American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) trading as 
American Expresss response to a claim he made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 (section 75)
What happened
In May 2020 Mr P bought a laptop from a third party retailer A. He paid £1,299 for the 
laptop using his American Express credit card. Unfortunately, after two and a half years Mr P 
became aware of a problem with his laptop, which wouldnt power on. He took the laptop 
(which by that stage was out of warranty) to A, who undertook a repair at a cost of £589.
Mr P didnt think it was right that he bear the cost of the repair. He felt it reasonable to expect 
a new laptop to last for a longer period. He believes the laptop wasnt of satisfactory quality, 
as it wasnt sufficiently durable as required under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA).
A was unwilling to cover the cost, so Mr P made a breach of contract claim to American 
Express under the connected lender liability provisions of section 75. This has the effect, in 
certain circumstances, of making the credit provider jointly and severally liable for a breach 
of contract claim against a retailer.
American Express declined to meet Mr Ps claim. It said the evidence he supplied wasnt 
enough to demonstrate the fault was connected to an inherent defect in the laptop. American 
Express added that because the problem arose more than six months from Mr Ps purchase, 
the CRA presumption that the fault was present at the point of supply didnt apply. It said that 
without a suitable report identifying an inherent fault or manufacturing defect, it wouldnt 
meet his claim. Mr P was unhappy with American Expresss stance and complained to us.
Our investigator didnt think American Express was acting unfairly in declining to meet Mr Ps 
claim. She considered it had handled Mr Ps claim correctly and that more evidence was 
required to demonstrate A (and by extension, American Express) was in breach of contract.
Mr P remains unhappy and has asked for this review. He made the following points:
Is it reasonable for so many major components to fail after 2.5 years if the item was 
durable and of satisfactory quality
The repairs have now been completed by A - so further evidence around faults 
cannot be obtained. But A maintained that once the laptop was sent off and opened 
up, should the damage be due to misuse/caused by owner, they would return it to 
me.
The fact that they actually then replaced more components than originally suggested 
without any additional charge suggests they accepted some form of 
responsibility/liability.
Does the ombudsman, as a reasonable individual, think it's normal and acceptable 
for the catastrophic failure that occurred here to be seen as in line with what a 
consumer should expect around such an item.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties accept the transaction falls within the ambit of section 75 and appear to be well-
versed in the relevant provisions. So I dont think its necessary for me to set them out again 
here. Rather, Ill focus on the way American Express dealt with Mr Ps breach of contract 
claim, which is founded in the terms implied into his contract with A under the CRA.
Having the right to bring a claim is not the same as saying that claim will be successful. The 
respondent is usually entitled to defend a claim brought against it. The question for me to 
address is whether, in light of the available evidence, American Express is treating Mr P 
unfairly in the way it has responded to his claim.
As Ive said, the CRA implies certain terms into consumer contracts for goods, digital content 
and services. One of those implied terms is that goods will be of satisfactory quality. If they 
are not, they are deemed not to conform to the contract. The presumption under the CRA is 
that where a lack of conformity to contract exists at any time within six months of delivery to 
the consumer, the goods are deemed not to have conformed at the point of supply.
Whether goods are of satisfactory quality is determined by reference to whether they meet 
the standard a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, taking account of matters 
such as price and description, and includes (among other things) freedom from minor 
defects, and durability.
It's not in dispute that there was a fault with the laptop that necessitated repair. But given 
that the problem didnt arise for over two years, American Express is entitled to say that the 
presumption of non-conformity at the point of supply doesnt apply to Mr Ps claim. The claim 
therefore falls to be determined on the evidence that points towards a latent fault or defect 
being present (though not apparent when Mr P acquired the laptop).
In this respect, I fully understand Mr Ps point about a reasonable expectation that a laptop 
would last rather longer than this one. While theres no definitive lifetime for such goods, I 
see no reason to think he could not reasonably have expected more than two to three years 
of unimpaired use.
However, I dont think such a finding is on its own particularly helpful. The durability of 
computer equipment can be affected by various factors, including heat, electrical and 
physical damage. The fact the laptop has developed a fault doesnt necessarily mean that it 
wasnt of satisfactory quality when Mr P bought it.
Further, because of the way computer circuitry operates, problems with certain hardware 
might have a knock-on effect on other components. I dont consider the fact that A replaced 
additional components indicates an acceptance of fault or liability. It could just as easily point 
to a cost-effective means of restoring the laptop to operation.
Ive examined As work authorisation compiled when it took Mr Ps laptop in for repair. It 
shows a flat rate repair cost estimate, and reads as follows:
Issue: Customer reports that the computer will no longer power on.Steps to Reproduce: We tried a revive and a restore but they failed with an error.
Cosmetic Condition: Dent front left. Chip along front. Scuffing rear right. Dent rear left.
Proposed Resolution: Chargeable replacement of the logic board required.
No backup. But customer has authorised us to go ahead. They are aware of the data loss.
Please be aware that if any liquid is found inside your computer during the repair then we 
will stop the repair and contact you to offer a requote of the repair.
Sending to depot for service. Repair turnaround is up to a maximum of 14 days.
That isnt quite what Mr P describes in his submissions following the investigators 
assessment. But in any event, there doesnt seem to have been any undertaking (or attempt) 
to establish the cause of the failure in the course of repair. So I dont believe I can properly 
conclude that the way in which A carried out the repair offers any appropriate evidence on 
which to reach a finding about whether the fault was present at the point of supply.
It's unfortunate that, having been repaired, the laptop may now offer little in the way of 
reliable evidence to establish this same point. That doesnt prevent Mr P from making 
suitable enquiries  either of A or of some other expert in the field  to obtain evidence that 
might demonstrate the most likely cause of the fault and support his claim. Indeed, I think its 
likely hed need to do so in order to persuade a court to uphold his claim for the cost of 
restoring the laptop to working order. And of course, its possible such evidence might point 
towards the fault being attributable to some other intervening event.
In the absence of persuasive evidence of the root cause of the fault to support that the 
laptop was not of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr P, I cant uphold his 
complaint. It follows Im satisfied American Express has properly considered its potential 
section 75 liability and was entitled to take the approach it has.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman