DRN-3047209
The complaint
Miss B has complained that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money lent to her 
irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss B was given a loan by 118 118 Money as follows:
Date 
takenAmount Term Monthly 
repaymentTotal 
amount 
repayableLoan status
10/03/17 £1000 24
months£97.05 £2,329.20 Outstanding 
When Miss B wasnt able to resolve her concerns about this lending direct with 118 118 
Money she brought her complaint to us.
One of our adjudicators investigated. She didnt think 118 118 Money had been wrong to 
provide Miss B with the loan and so our adjudicator didnt recommend upholding Miss Bs 
complaint.
Miss B didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment and the complaint has been passed to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Miss Bs complaint.
I think there are several key questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
 Did 118 118 Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss B would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way? If so, did it make a fair lending 
decision? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
 Did 118 118 Money act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
118 118 Money was required to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Miss B 
irresponsibly. 
This means that it had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
she could repay the loan in a sustainable way. 
The lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment - sometimes referred 
to as an affordability assessment or affordability check.
Checks had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. These 
checks could consider a number of different things, such as the loan amount, the repayment 
amounts and Miss Bs income and expenditure. But there was no set list of checks 118 118 
Money had to do.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
 the lower a borrowers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
 the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income)
 the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is likely to 
be greater and the borrower is required to make payments for an extended period).
Ive carefully considered all the evidence, arguments and information Ive seen and what it 
means for Miss B.
118 118 Money carried out some checks before it lent to Miss B. This included asking 
Miss B for information about her income and expenditure and carrying out credit checks. As 
a result, 118 118 Money said the loan was affordable for Miss B.
Ive seen a summary of the information gathered by 118 118 Money at the time, including 
information shown on Miss Bs credit report. 
Ive carefully considered whether the information that 118 118 Money was enough for it to 
make a fair lending decision or whether the information gathered at the time should 
reasonably have triggered further checks. 
On balance, I think 118 118 Money had enough information to be able to make a fair lending 
decision and its decision to provide the loan was reasonable. 
Ill explain why I say this. 
118 118 Money used industry standard verification checks to validate the information 
Miss B had provided in her application and was satisfied that she could rely on being 
paid at least £1,576 each month. It allowed for her declared spending on regular 
monthly outgoings, including an amount of £150 to cover her existing debt, and worked 
out that the loan monthly repayments should be sustainably affordable for her on these 
figures.
The credit report that 118 118 Money acquired showed that Miss B had a total outstanding 
balance on all her accounts of around £1,712 - £353 of this was in relation to unsecured 
loans and she owed £451 on a credit card, which still had some available credit left on it. The report showed that Miss B had small balances left to pay on 2 unsecured loans she had 
taken out within the last 6 months and she was satisfactorily repaying her other accounts.
There was a record of an outstanding £183 debt with a debt collection agency which had 
defaulted in 2011  but it didnt look like that was being actively pursued. So I think it was 
reasonable for 118 118 Money not to attach any particular significance to this information.
It isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a credit history showing 
other borrowing or an impaired credit record  and these things wouldnt necessarily be 
reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan application. 
118 118 Money could see that Miss B had no record of any county court judgements, 
bankruptcy or other indications that shed had any serious problems managing her money. 
Overall, I think it would have been fair for 118 118 Money to consider that Miss Bs credit 
report generally showed a positive payment history and that she was able to manage her 
credit. 
Taking things as a whole, I also think it would have been reasonable for 118 118 Money to 
consider that the monthly repayments on its loan were affordable for Miss B  taking into 
account the amount she had to pay each month towards her existing creditors, and what 
shed declared as her income and general living expenses.
In summary, I think the checks that 118 118 Money  carried out before lending to Miss B 
were reasonable and proportionate. 
I dont think more in-depth checks  such as requesting bank statements  were required. I 
think it was reasonable in the circumstances for 118 118 Money to have relied on the 
information that Miss B provided and what it found in its checks. 
If Miss B was in a more difficult financial position, this doesnt appear to be something that 
she shared with 118 118 Money  at that time, or something that proportionate checks would 
have uncovered. I dont think there was anything in the information that 118 118 Money  
gathered at the time which should have caused the lender any additional concerns about 
Miss Bs financial position when she applied for the loan - or that ought reasonably to have 
led the lender to conclude that her loan application should be declined.
Taking the evidence as a whole, I cant fairly conclude that 118 118 Money was wrong to 
provide the loan to Miss B. 
And I dont find that 118 118 Money has acted unfairly towards her in some other way.
I appreciate that my decision is going to disappoint Miss B, but I hope that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision. 
And if Miss B would like help to manage her finances or to speak to someone about her 
situation generally (particularly if shes unsure about how she should be making her 
repayments and finding it hard to sort this out) theres more information about how to get 
free debt advice and other help on our website  or we can provide contact details if she 
gives us a call.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman