DRN-2607065
The complaint
X complains that ReAssure Limited didnt tell him that it had received a pension sharing 
order notice for a pension he held with it. As a result when X contacted ReAssure to take his 
pension benefits he wasnt able to do so until he provided it with written confirmation that his 
pension wasnt subject to a pension sharing order.
What happened
In February 2020 X contacted ReAssure and instructed it to transfer his personal pension 
pot to a Retirement Account so that he could receive benefits from his pension.
When ReAssure checked its records it noted that it had received a pension sharing order 
notice for the pension X held with it. It said it had received notice in July 2018 that Xs ex-
partner would be applying for a pension sharing order.
ReAssure told X that before it could process his instruction it would need written confirmation 
that a pension sharing order wasnt in place.
X provided confirmation to ReAssure on 26 February 2020. It acknowledged receipt of this 
on 9 March 2020. It then phoned X on 11 March 2020 to confirm that it could process Xs 
instruction if he still wanted to take his pension benefits. 
Unfortunately, the value of Xs pension pot had fallen between the time he first contacted 
ReAssure to take his pension benefits and the date it confirmed that it could process his 
instruction. 
X complained to ReAssure. He said he felt it should have notified him when it received the 
pension sharing notice in 2018. He also complained about the length of time it took to update 
its records to show a pension sharing order wasnt in place.
ReAssure didnt uphold Xs complaint. It said that it only contacted policy holders upon 
receipt of a pension sharing notice (Form A) if contributions were being made to the policy. 
As X had stopped making contributions to this pension some years ago it said it wouldnt 
have contacted him when it received the pension sharing notice. 
It also said it usually aimed to complete requests from customers within ten working days 
and it had removed the notice from Xs pension within this timescale. 
X wasnt satisfied with ReAssures response and referred his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator said she didnt think Xs complaint should be upheld as she didnt think 
ReAssure had acted incorrectly. 
She explained that there was no requirement on ReAssure to tell X when it received the 
Form A from his ex-partners solicitor. She also said she didnt think it had caused any 
unnecessary delays when processing Xs notification that a pension sharing order wasnt in 
place.
She said she appreciated that X was disappointed that his fund value had reduced between 
the time he first told ReAssure he wanted to take his benefits and the time he was able to 
take them. But she said she couldnt reasonably say that ReAssure had caused X a financial 
loss as it had to make sure that a pension sharing order wasnt in place before allowing him 
to take benefits.
X didnt accept our investigators view. He accepted that ReAssure had followed its 
procedures, but he felt that its procedures were flawed. 
Our investigator said she thought that at the time ReAssure received the Form A notification 
Xs ex-partners solicitor should also have notified Xs solicitor about the possibility of a 
pension sharing order. But she said that she wouldnt be able to look into a complaint about 
any failings on the part of either Xs solicitor or his ex-partners solicitor in this matter as this 
was outside this services remit.
X said he remained of the view that ReAssures procedures were flawed and it should have 
notified him when it received the pension sharing notice in 2018.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sympathetic to Xs position and I do understand why he feels ReAssure should have 
contacted him when it received the pension sharing notice (Form A) in 2018. 
But in order to uphold Xs complaint I would need to be satisfied that ReAssure had acted 
incorrectly or treated X unfairly. 
As our investigator explained, there was no requirement on ReAssure to notify X when it 
received the pension sharing notice (Form A). It has explained that if X had been making 
contributions to his pension it would have notified him. This is because any contributions 
made would be included in the pension sharing order, if an order was made. As X wasnt 
contributing to his ReAssure pension it didnt need to check whether he still wanted to 
continue to make contributions.
I understand that where a pension sharing order is made by the courts and the order is 
implemented, the normal process is for the pension provider to write to both parties 
confirming this. But as ReAssure didnt receive instruction that a pension sharing order had 
been made it didnt write to X. 
I appreciate that X feels that ReAssures procedure is flawed and it should notify its 
customers when it receives a Form A, regardless of whether the customer is contributing to 
their pension. But I must take into account that there wasnt any requirement on it to do so.
As our investigator explained, I would have expected Xs ex-partners solicitor to have 
notified Xs solicitor that it had issued a pension sharing notice to Xs pension provider. 
There wasnt any requirement on ReAssure to notify X that it had received the Form A when 
he wasnt making contributions to this pension.
It is very unfortunate that the value of Xs pension pot fell during the time it took for X to 
provide written confirmation to ReAssure that no pension sharing arrangement applied to 
this pension pot and for ReAssure to process this confirmation. But I dont think ReAssure unduly delayed processing Xs confirmation. Reassure received Xs confirmation on 26 
February and acknowledged this on 9 March, nine working days later. 
I am also satisfied that Reassure acted correctly when it asked X to confirm that a pension 
sharing order wasnt in place before it processed his application to take benefits from his 
pension. 
I do appreciate that this is not the decision X was hoping for. But this service only 
determines complaints on their individual merits. We dont have the power to order a 
business to change its policies or procedures, that is the role of the industry regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). If X remains of the view that ReAssures procedures are 
flawed he may wish to raise this with the FCA.
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman