DRN-3070021
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K are unhappy with the way U K Insurance Limited (trading as Sainsbury's 
Home Insurance) (UKI) have dealt with the settlement of a claim, they made under their 
legal expenses policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs K each made a claim under their legal expenses insurance policy for assistance 
with costs associated with an employment dispute. UKI accepted their claims and provided a 
limit of indemnity of £200,000. This was exceeded by Mr and Mrs K around April 2019. After 
that point Mr and Mrs K were expected to fund the costs privately.
Mr and Mrs K were able to successfully recover 85% of their legal costs from the third party. 
And, having previously been told by UKI their privately funded costs would be covered first 
from any money they managed to recover  they didnt expect to end up having to pay out 
any money themselves.
UKI told Mr and Mrs K it had given them the incorrect information  the correct position was 
that any cost recovery made would be split between UKI and Mr and Mrs K on a percentage 
basis. It reminded Mr and Mrs K this was set out in the policy document and was correctly 
explained to their solicitors prior to the wrong information being given. Mr and Mrs K were 
unhappy about this and complained. 
UKI apologised for its mistake and offered Mr and Mrs K compensation of £50. At the time of 
issuing its response to the complaint, the full position on costs hadnt been assessed. 
However, UKI said it didnt think the incorrect information it gave changed the position Mr 
and Mrs K found themselves in, as the policy indemnity had already been exceeded by that 
point. Mr and Mrs K should therefore have already made provisions for funding privately, 
especially in light of the fact costs recovery in employment disputes is unusual. It also 
reminded Mr and Mrs K that it had already agreed to cover the costs they incurred prior to 
the insurance claim being accepted.
Mr and Mrs K disagreed and brought their complaint to this service. They said had they been 
given the correct information it was their understanding they may have been able to take out 
a separate insurance policy to cover any potential costs they may have had to meet.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and thought it should be upheld. She didnt think 
UKI had taken into account what action Mr and Mrs K could have taken if theyd been given 
the correct information. She recommended UKI meet all of the outstanding legal costs from 
the claim. She also recommended UKI pay Mr and Mrs K £250 compensation.
While UKI agreed to pay an increased amount of compensation it disagreed it needed to do 
anything more. It explained a costs assessment had taken place. And, in negotiation with Mr 
and Mrs Ks solicitor an agreement had been reached whereby Mr and Mrs K would 
contribute only £11,500 to the bill. Whereas originally, even with UKI covering Mr and 
Mrs Ks initial costs they would have needed to pay over £27,000. UKI therefore didnt think 
it had acted unreasonably and asked for an ombudsman to review the case.
The case has been passed to me to decide.
My provisional findings
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 14 September 2021. I said I intended to 
uphold the complaint, for the following reasons:
What is left for me to decide is whether it is reasonable for UKI to expect Mr and Mrs K to 
contribute towards the legal costs of their claim. Having considered everything, and while I 
appreciate this will be disappointing to Mr and Mrs K, for the following reasons I think UKI is 
acting reasonably here:
The policy is clear that should a successful costs recovery be made, the amount will 
be split between the parties
Mr and Mrs Ks solicitors were provided with the correct information in the first 
instance and this was sometime after the limit of indemnity for the insurance policy 
had been reached (and before the incorrect information was given)
The incorrect information was given to Mr and Mrs K some six months after they had 
been funding their case privately and incurring costs. I would have expected any 
private funding arrangements or potential ways to mitigate costs should have been 
explored with Mr and Mrs K by this point  it wouldnt have been UKIs responsibility 
to do this 
Mr and Mrs K have argued had they known to true position they may have been able 
to obtain a further insurance policy to ensure any additional costs were covered. I 
cant say for definite whether they would have been able to obtain such a policy at 
that point in the proceedings. But Im mindful that even if they had of been able to do 
so, the premium for such a policy would likely have been quite expensive and would 
have been an additional cost Mr and Mrs K would have had to cover in any event
Having looked at the calculations provided by UKI, Im satisfied it has fairly 
accounted for the errors it has made by providing cover for initial costs and some 
post indemnity costs. I think the amount requested from Mr and Mrs K is fair and 
reasonable
I agree Mr and Mrs K have been caused distress and inconvenience by UKIs error in 
addition to that which they would have been under due to the claim. I therefore 
recommend it pays each of them £250. Making a total compensation payment of 
£500.
Responses to my provisional decision 
UKI said it accepted my provisional decision and did not have any further comment to make. 
Mr and Mrs K disagreed with my provisional decision. They reiterated many of the points 
they had previously made including the following:
The fact they achieved a costs recovery in their legal claim shows how unjust their 
case had been. UKI changing its position added further to their distress. 
UKI only agreed to meet the pre claim costs due to previous errors it had madeThey were given the incorrect information after they have achieved a cost recovery 
They arent lawyers, they were in the middle of a hugely stressful situation and 
trusted what they were told by UKI
They want me to confirm I have listened to the call Mrs K had with UKI as this 
confirmed what they were told and the basis on which their understanding was taken. 
They believed what they were told regardless of what is in the terms and conditions. 
To decide UKI simply made a mistake is not treating them fairly and allows UKI to 
get away with it.
It is unfair of me to take into account whether it may have been cost effective for 
them to take out alternative insurance 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to change the provisional decision that I reached. I 
appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs K. 
I have noted what Mr and Mrs K have said in response to my provisional decision and why 
they feel so strongly about what has happened. 
I can confirm that I havent been provided with the call Mrs K had with UKI. But I dont need 
to listen to this to be able make my decision, as it isnt in dispute she was given the incorrect 
information in it. I acknowledged in my provisional decision that Mr and Mrs K were given the 
wrong information by UKI, but my role is to reach what I believe to be a fair and reasonable 
outcome in all circumstances of the complaint.  
And, I dont think, just because UKI made an error it should be bound by that, especially 
when the position Mr and Mrs K would have been in, but for that error, would have been 
substantially different. I think it is entirely appropriate to consider what position that may 
have been and whether any alternate insurance policy could have been taken. Indeed, it was 
Mr and Mrs K that mentioned this was an alternative course of action they could have 
considered. 
I think the way in which Mr and Mrs Ks costs contribution has been worked out by UKI is 
more than fair and reasonable. And I wont be asking it to change this. I dont underestimate 
how stressful Mr and Mrs K found their legal claim; however I must separate this out in my 
consideration of this complaint. 
Ive considered carefully the compensation award and Im satisfied £250 each fairly reflects 
the trouble and upset they have been caused. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint against U K Insurance Limited 
trading as Sainsbury's Home Insurance. I direct it to pay Mr and Mrs K £250 compensation each.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman