DRN-3608009
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as L has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc 
(RSA) unfairly turned down its business interruption insurance claim. 
Mr L, a director of L, has brought the complaint on Ls behalf through a representative. For 
ease of reading, Ill refer to all actions and comments as being those of L. 
What happened
L held business interruption insurance with RSA. L said it decided to close its premises on 
23 March 2020 following the Government guidance on Covid-19. L said it took this decision 
to maintain Mr Ls safety as the only employee, although it continued to provide some home 
delivery during the period of lockdown. 
Mr L said he developed some symptoms of Covid-19 throughout April 2020 but didnt receive 
a diagnosis as a test hed taken was lost and the guidance at the time was not to visit a GP. 
L said it called RSA to ask whether it would be covered for the impact of Covid-19 and was 
told it would be. However, when L claimed on the policy RSA turned down its claim as it 
didnt think it had closed due to Covid-19 manifesting itself at the insured premises.
L asked RSA whether it could claim under the extension for denial of access. However, RSA 
said this extension would require damage to property and Covid-19 hadnt damaged 
property. 
Unhappy with RSAs response, L brought its complaint to our service. It referred to the 
Declarations in the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Business Interruption Insurance test 
case to demonstrate that Covid-19 was within the relevant policy area. It said it was 
reasonable to conclude on the balance of probabilities that Mr L had Covid-19 and that it 
was at the business premises. It also thought the amount of cases in the local area made it 
more likely than not that Covid-19 manifested itself at the premises. L said it would be unfair 
to be denied cover when it had acted responsibly and closed its business premises. L said 
the extension for denial of access was misleading as it indicated there was cover if access to 
the premises was hindered. L thought that in failing to provide cover RSA had breached the 
Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) and the Principles. 
Our investigator looked into Ls complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he didnt 
think the policy provided cover for the circumstances of its claim. 
L asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said RSA had provided misleading information 
about whether the claim would be covered, and L had followed Government advice to close. 
L also said that RSA hadnt provided hard copies of its insurance documents and hed only 
received one letter from RSA about his claim.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
L has made a number of detailed points. While I have considered them all, Im not going to 
address them all in this decision and will instead focus on what I consider to be the central 
issues to this complaint. 
L has complained that it was told by RSA that it would be covered if it was required to close, 
as well as some additional points following our investigators outcome. I havent seen 
anything to indicate that a complaint about these points has been raised with RSA. If L 
remains unhappy about these it will need to raise that complaint with RSA before we can 
consider the points. In this decision, Im going to focus on RSAs decision to decline Ls 
claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Ls business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if RSA have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Ls claim.
Disease
This extension covers loss as a result of:
closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice or with the approval 
of the Medical Officer of Health of the Public Authority as a result of a notifiable 
human disease manifesting itself at the Premises
Covid-19 is a notifiable human disease. So for this extension to provide cover for Ls claim, 
the closure or restrictions placed on the premises would need to be as a result of a case of 
Covid-19 manifesting at the premises. For a case to have manifested I think someone would 
either have needed to have been diagnosed with Covid-19 or to be displaying symptoms 
which on the balance of probabilities were most likely Covid-19. 
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-
19, save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able to produce a 
positive test result from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to demonstrate a 
case on the premises would, in my view, be unfair.
Its therefore necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on the balance of probabilities, that Covid-19 
manifested itself at the insured premises prior to closure. As with any insurance claim, the 
burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder to demonstrate that its suffered a loss its 
policy covers.
Mr L said hed developed symptoms of Covid-19 throughout April 2020. I dont intend to 
make a finding on whether the symptoms were most likely Covid-19 because I havent seen 
anything to indicate that he displayed symptoms at the insured premises prior to its closure. 
L has referred to the Declarations in the test case. However, the clauses considered in the 
test case were different to those within Ls policy and Ls policy requires the notifiable disease to have manifested at the premises rather than in a specified radius. L has also 
referred to the number of cases within the local area, but I have to bear in mind that most 
people at that time didnt have Covid-19, so I dont think the general prevalence of the 
disease is enough to demonstrate that there was most likely a case of it manifesting at Ls 
premises. Therefore, I think RSA have acted fairly and reasonably in finding that this 
doesnt cover Ls claim. 
Denial of access
This extension covers loss as a result of:
Damage to Property in the vicinity of the Premises by any of the insured Events 
which
A) hinders or prevents the use of the Premises or access to them or
B) causes a fall in the number of customers attracted to the vicinity of the 
Premises whether the Property used by the You for the purpose of the Business 
shall be damaged or not.
The policy defines damage as accidental loss, destruction or damage.
For this to provide cover for Ls claim, its loss would need to be as a result of damage to 
property in the vicinity of Ls premises. I havent seen anything to indicate that Ls loss was 
as a result of damage to property and therefore I think RSA have acted fairly and reasonably 
in finding this doesnt cover Ls claim. 
Ive noted Ls point that it thinks RSA have breached ICOBS and the Principles, but I havent 
seen anything to persuade me of that given I think RSA acted fairly and reasonably in 
turning down the claim. 
I recognise this isnt the answer L was hoping for but, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require RSA to pay Ls claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman