DRN-3549171
The complaint
Miss W complains Lloyds Bank plc (Lloyds) unfairly registered a default on her credit file, 
placed her account with debt collection agents, refused a Covid payment holiday and 
ignored various letters she had sent requesting a payment arrangement on her credit card 
account.  
What happened
Miss W says she fell into financial difficulties in September 2019 and requested support from 
Lloyds and at the same time asked it to only correspond to her in writing. Miss W says 
Lloyds agreed to refund some of the interest it had charged to her credit card account, but 
despite numerous letters she sent them over several months, it ignored her request to set up 
a workable payment plan. Miss W says not only did Lloyds fail to provide her with a Covid 
payment holiday, it went on to default her credit card account, register this with credit 
reference agencies and placed her account with a debt collection agency.
Miss W feels she has been treated unfairly by Lloyds here and wants it to remove the default 
from her credit file and pay her compensation for the stress and upset this has caused her. 
Lloyds says it acted fairly when it issued a notice of default to Miss W and subsequently 
registered this with the credit reference agencies. Lloyds says it hadnt received some of the 
letters Miss W refers to, but it had supported her when refunding interest charged to her 
credit card account and froze any interest charged, after it was informed of her financial 
difficulties. Lloyds says a Covid payment holiday wasnt appropriate here and it was in Miss 
Ws interest to place the account with debt collection agents as no further interest would then 
be charged on her credit card account. 
Lloyds says it accepts it hadnt always provided the best service to Miss W and paid her a 
total of £110 and felt this was adequate compensation for that. 
Miss W wasnt happy with Lloyds response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information and partly upheld Miss Ws complaint. 
The investigator felt that Lloyds had correctly issued the default notice when it did and had 
correctly reported this to the relevant reference agencies. The investigator also says Lloyds 
had shown Miss W some financial support when it froze any further interest charges and 
refunded some interest on her credit card account. The investigator didnt agree that Lloyds 
shouldnt have placed Miss Ws credit card account with a debt collection agency and Lloyds 
also acted fairly by not offering Miss W a Covid payment holiday, as she wasnt eligible for 
that. 
The investigator took the view Lloyds hadnt provided the level of service she would expect 
and some of the letters Miss W sent, shouldnt have gone unanswered. The investigator felt 
Lloyds should increase its offer of compensation as a result to a total of £150. 
Neither Miss W nor Lloyds initially agreed with the investigators view but on clarification of 
the amount of redress the investigator was proposing, Lloyds agreed to pay a further sum to 
Miss W of £40. Miss W didnt agree with the investigators outcome or the amount offered 
and asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have also upheld part of Miss Ws complaint and I will explain how I have 
come to my decision. I should say that Miss W complained to this service about the 
confusion created in the investigators view over the amount of compensation Lloyds were to 
pay her. But this has been dealt with separately, so I wont be making any further comment 
on that. 
I understand that Miss W had been experiencing some financial issues since September 
2019 and that along with the problems Covid presented, must have proved difficult for her. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Lloyds acted reasonably, when it defaulted 
Miss Ws credit card account, reported that to the credit reference agencies, didnt consider 
a Covid payment holiday for her and passed her credit card account to debt collection 
agency.   
When coming to a full and impartial decision here, I have to take into account this took place 
during the Covid pandemic which affected both customers and businesses alike. 
I can see from the information provided by Miss W she did send numerous letters to Lloyds 
and while that has proved helpful, I wont be commenting on each one individually, as I dont 
think its necessary to come to a full and impartial decision thats not to say I havent taken 
these into account - I have. 
The first thing to say is I have no reason to doubt Miss W sent Lloyds the letters she refers to 
over many months, but here I need to take into account some of those letters were sent at 
the height of the unprecedented Covid pandemic. Its fair to say that its generally accepted 
the postal service was severely impacted by the pandemic, which may account for why 
Lloyds say some of those letters werent received. 
Its also worth saying that Lloyds did provide some financial support to Miss W from when it 
first learned of her financial difficulties back in September 2019. I can see at that time it 
agreed to refund some interest it charged previously, on Miss Ws credit card account and it 
froze any further interest charges since that time. From the information I have seen, before 
Lloyds issued the default notice in April 2020 and subsequently registered this with the credit 
reference agencies, Miss W had failed to make six of the seven preceding months, minimum 
monthly payments. 
While Miss W says she was trying to agree a payment plan with Lloyds over this time, I cant 
see this was ever agreed with her and part of that seems to be a result of Miss W only 
wanting to correspond in writing with Lloyds, rather than speaking over the telephone as 
Lloyds had asked of her. 
In normal circumstances I would expect lenders to make reasonable adjustments to its 
business model to allow for such communication requests, but these werent normal 
circumstances here. Given the importance of the situation here, I would expect Miss W to 
have at least on one occasion try to telephone Lloyds to understand what arrangements 
needed to be put in place, given what Ive already said about the impact on businesses, 
consumers and the postal service. With that in mind, with Lloyds not having received any response to its request for Miss W to 
contact them, I cant say it acted unreasonably when it defaulted Miss W and then registered 
that default with the appropriate credit reference agencies when it did  especially given the 
amount Miss W paid in to her account in May 2020 wasnt sufficient to clear the outstanding 
arrears. 
Additionally, while Miss W may not agree, Lloyds acted in line with the guidance provided by 
The Financial Conduct Authority in April 2020. It was agreed banks should provide a Covid 
payment holiday initially for three months, but that didnt extend to consumers who had 
already been given earlier financial support  but Miss W had, and previously told Lloyds of 
her financial issues in September 2020. 
In the notice of default Lloyds issued to Miss W in April 2020, it did go on to explain it would 
consider placing the account with debt collection agencies, so its reasonable to say that 
would have been known to her. This course of action is often taken by lenders when 
consumers have no obvious short-term payment plans as an option  which seems to have 
been the situation here, as from the information I have seen, Miss W had a negative income 
to expenditure position. So, any payment plan would have been difficult to have set in place 
for her, even for the short term. 
Its worth saying that by doing so, it has meant while Miss Ws credit card account remains 
with the debt collection agents, no further interest will be charged and an agreement can be 
put in place for a suitable payment plan  something Miss W wanted to have in place. So, I 
am satisfied Miss W hasnt been financially disadvantaged by this. 
So taking this all into account, on balance, I am satisfied that Lloyds have acted reasonably 
and given the backdrop here and the importance of the situation with Miss W having been 
defaulted, I am satisfied she could have done more than simply write to Lloyds, trusting her 
letters had been received by them.
Where I do feel Lloyds could have done better is with its overall communication with Miss W, 
especially more latterly following the default notice having been issued and I can see that to 
some degree it has recognised that. But like the investigator, while its not the role of this 
service to penalise businesses when poor service occurs, its clear that Miss Ws situation 
was made more stressful than perhaps it should.  
With that in mind I also agree a more appropriate level of redress, for the trouble and upset 
caused by the poor service/communication from Lloyds at times, would be £150. 
From what I understand Lloyds initially paid Miss W a total of £110 and following the 
investigators view have paid Miss W a further £40, which she has accepted pending my 
decision.
With that in mind it follows, while Miss W will be disappointed with my decision, although I 
uphold part of her complaint, Lloyds have paid her what I would have asked, so it has no 
need to pay anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct Lloyds Bank plc to pay Miss W, including what it has already paid her, a total of 
£150 for the trouble and upset caused, but here as this has now already been paid no further 
payment is necessary. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman