DRN-3880301
The complaint
Miss G complains about how BUPA Insurance Limited dealt with a claim against her group 
private medical insurance policy.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Miss G is a beneficiary of a group, private medical insurance 
policy. In mid-2021, Miss G contacted BUPA about a claim for surgery, which was part 
cosmetic and part treatment. Miss Gs policy covered part of the claim. On 26 July 2021, 
BUPA said that it would pay consultants fees of up to £548 and anaesthetists fees of up 
to £180 and that Miss G would need to pay anything in excess of those amounts. 
Miss Gs consultant required payment in advance and collected from Miss G the total 
fee, including the anaesthetists fee of £650. On 29 July 2021, Miss G queried what 
BUPA would pay in relation to the anaesthetists fees. On 30 July 2021, BUPA told    
Miss G, in error, that it would cover the anaesthetists fees in full. 
Miss G had the surgery and BUPA paid £180 for the anaesthetists fee. BUPA 
subsequently said that it would honour its incorrect comment about paying the 
anaesthetists fees in full. But BUPA paid the shortfall of £470 to Miss Gs consultant by 
mistake. I understand the consultant passed on the £470 to Miss G.
BUPA says that it chased Miss Gs consultant for return of the anaesthetists fees of 
£650, as he had billed for work carried out by another provider. In February 2022,     
Miss G contacted BUPA as she had become aware, via her consultant, that it was 
chasing him for repayment. She said that this was having an impact on her ongoing 
relationship with her consultant and that she was too embarrassed to attend her follow-
up consultation with him.  
Miss G wants BUPA to cease contact with her consultant and anaesthetist about this 
matter and compensation for her distress and inconvenience.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He said that it was reasonable 
for BUPA to agree to pay the anaesthetists fee in full and that it made an error when it 
paid £470 to Miss Gs consultant, rather than to Miss G. The investigator said that BUPA 
wasnt at fault in contacting Miss Gs consultant, but it could have considered the impact 
on Miss G of doing so and explained the matter to her. He noted that in BUPAs final 
response to Miss G it told her that it had contacted the consultant and would be passing 
the matter on to its investigations team but that didnt give Miss G sufficient information, 
so she wasnt prepared for the consultant involving her in the process or seeking 
reimbursement from her directly. 
The investigator said that BUPA wasnt responsible for the actions of Miss Gs consultant 
and wasnt solely responsible for Miss Gs distress and inconvenience. He said that 
BUPA could have handled the situation better than it did. He recommended that BUPA 
pay Miss G compensation of £200 for her distress and inconvenience arising from its 
actions. 
BUPA accepted the investigators recommendation, but Miss G didnt. She said:
BUPA caused the issue with her consultant by paying the shortfall of £470 to him, 
rather than directly to her. Her consultant considered that was the amount BUPA 
paid to resolve her complaint, so was concerned that he was paying for her 
complaint resolution. 
BUPA assured her that everything was in order, which she passed on to her 
consultant. When BUPA investigated her consultant she felt responsible for that. 
This damaged her relationship with her consultant, caused her much distress and 
caused her to miss her post-operative appointments. BUPA put her in the middle 
of its dispute with her surgeon by paying the £470 to him and then directing him 
to transfer the money to her. BUPA didnt apologise for its mistake in paying her 
consultant money that was due to her.
If BUPA had paid the £470 directly to her, she doubts that she would have been 
involved in administrative and process investigations. 
BUPA handled her queries poorly.
Compensation of £200 isnt sufficient for her distress and inconvenience caused 
by BUPAs errors.
The investigator considered what Miss G said but didnt change his view. Miss G asked 
that an ombudsman consider her complaint, so it was passed to me to decide.
In this decision, Im dealing with the issues raised by Miss G which were addressed in 
BUPAs final response of 2 December 2021. That doesnt include concerns Miss G has 
about her subsequent subject access request to BUPA. I appreciate that Miss G would 
prefer to delay this complaint until shes received some further information, but we cant 
delay matters indefinitely and I think I have sufficient information to come to a fair 
decision in this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear and quite understandable that Miss G has very strong feelings about this matter. 
She has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which I have read and 
considered. Im conscious that Ive condensed what I dont doubt was a worrying time into a 
short narrative. That reflects our service that, wherever possible, aims to be informal. Im 
satisfied that Ive captured the essence of what happened. I trust that Miss G will not take as 
a discourtesy the fact that I focus on what I consider to be the central issue, that is whether 
BUPA handled her claim fairly and reasonably. The relevant rules and industry guidance say that BUPA has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. Im upholding Miss Gs complaint because I dont think that BUPA 
treated her fairly or reasonably. I say that because:   
Miss G is responsible for the costs she incurs in having private treatment. 
However, if her treatment is eligible treatment, BUPA pays the costs that are 
covered under her benefits and in accordance with the terms of cover. Any costs 
not covered under Miss Gs benefits are her responsibility. BUPA told Miss G that 
when it authorised the claim in part. 
BUPA initially agreed to cover consultants fees of up to £548 and anaesthetists 
fees of up to £180. It subsequently made an error in telling Miss G that it would pay 
the anaesthetists fee in full. So, it agreed to pay Miss G that balance of £470. I 
think that was fair and reasonable.  
Its common ground that BUPA made another error when it paid the £470 to     
Miss Gs consultant, rather than to Miss G directly. I understand that Miss Gs 
consultant passed the payment onto Miss G, but he became concerned when 
BUPA asked him about why hed billed for the anaesthetists work. The consultant 
explained that he collected the total amount due from the patient in advance. 
BUPA is, of course, entitled to raise queries with providers and its not fair or 
reasonable for me to direct BUPA not to contact a provider. I can see that the 
consultant was annoyed at BUPAs enquiries. BUPA isnt responsible for the fact 
that Miss Gs consultant brought her into the issue of how hed submitted his bill. 
BUPA didnt intend for Miss G to be involved in its internal review of her 
consultants billing and isnt responsible for the fact that Miss Gs consultant 
included her in e-mail exchanges. 
Whilst BUPA made an error in paying the £470 due to Miss G to her consultant, I  
dont think that it is responsible for everything that followed. BUPA didnt involve 
Miss G directly in its exchanges with her consultant. I can understand that Miss G 
was anxious about seeing her consultant for post-operative care, but I dont think 
that was BUPAs fault.  
Ive thought about this matter carefully. Miss Gs claim against her policy certainly 
got muddled and BUPA made two errors, which are now corrected. In all the 
circumstances, I think that fair compensation for BUPAs part in the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Miss G is £200. In reaching that view, Ive taken into 
account the nature, extent and duration of Miss Gs distress and inconvenience 
which is attributable to BUPAs errors.  
Putting things right
In order to put things right, BUPA should pay Miss G compensation of £200 in relation to her 
distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Gs complaint. I now require BUPA Insurance Limited 
to pay Miss G compensation of £200 in relation to her distress and inconvenience. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman