DRN-2965495
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T have complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited unfairly refused to 
pay a claim on their motor insurance policy and then cancelled it.
Mr T is the principal policyholder and Mrs T is a named driver on it. Mrs T has taken the lead 
in dealing with the claim and complaint. So, where I refer to her comments below, those 
should be read as being on behalf of both herself and Mr T.
Reference to Admiral includes its agents. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ts car was stolen from outside their house late at night. They claimed on their 
policy. The police recovered the car but it had suffered significant damage requiring repair. 
The thieves were later successfully prosecuted.
Mr and Mrs T wanted Admiral to repair their car. Admiral refused. It said Mr T had 
deliberately misrepresented where the spare car key was at the time of the theft in order for 
Admiral to pay the claim. It cancelled Mr Ts motor policy and their linked home insurance 
policy, entered Mr Ts details on a shared fraud prevention database and asked Mr and 
Mrs T to reimburse it for its claim costs.
Mr and Mrs T brought their complaint about that to us. I issued a provisional decision on 
9 July 2021. For ease Ive copied the relevant extract below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In bringing this complaint Mrs T's raised many detailed points. But in this provisional decision 
I don't intend to address each and every issue raised. Instead I will focus on what I see as 
the key outstanding issues at the heart of the complaint.
Was it fair for Admiral to refuse to pay Mr and Mrs Ts claim?
Mr and Mrs Ts policy says that Admiral won't pay a claim for the theft of the car if the keys 
have been left in or on it.
At the time Mr and Mrs T reported the theft they said that while the car had come with two 
keys they could currently only find one of them. Mrs T told Admiral shed had the other key 
on the day of the theft but had misplaced it. She said this most likely happened when they 
visited Mr Ts mums house for a family party and their young niece was playing with the 
contents of her bag. She said Mr T still had his keys which hed used to drive the car home 
before it was stolen from outside their house.
Mrs T explained that the police had woken them in the early hours of the morning to say that 
a neighbour had seen the thieves taking their car. And, as Mr and Mrs T were concerned 
that the thieves might also have their house keys, which were on the same key-ring as their 
spare car key, they arranged for a locksmith to change the locks on their house.
When Admiral received the police report of the theft they noted that the police said Mr T: 
stated that there was a spare key to the car, as well as a set of keys to his house left inside 
the vehicle.
In other words, soon after learning the car was stolen, Mr T told the police that the other car 
key was in the car.
An assessor examined Mr and Mrs Ts car. That assessment said that there was no 
evidence of forced entry to the car and no damage to the steering lock. The cars ECU said 
that only two keys had ever been coded to operate it. Admiral said the car didn't have 
keyless entry so wasn't subject to a relay attack (where an electronic device is used to pick 
up a signal from a key to open and start the car). So it felt the car had been stolen using an 
original key.
Admiral instructed investigators to look into the claim. The investigators took statements 
from both Mr and Mrs T. The investigators also interviewed Mr and Mrs T's neighbour who 
originally reported the theft to the police.
Mrs T repeated that her keys had gone missing the same afternoon of the theft. She again 
said theyd been at her nieces birthday party, where her niece had been playing with her 
bag containing her keys. She provided photos of the children playing with the bag. She said 
she noticed the keys were missing before travelling home and theyd searched high and 
low for them but couldn't find them before they left.
Mr T gave a different account to the investigator. He said they noted the other key was 
missing after the police told him about the theft. He said he had no idea where the other key 
was. He added that the police had told him that the thieves used a screwdriver to steal the 
car.
Mrs T later provided an explanation for Mr T telling police the keys were in the car. She said 
this was because it was the early hours of the morning, Mr T was in shock after learning 
about the theft and he couldn't remember where the keys were; so said the first thing that 
came into his head. That was that they might have been in the car.
Mrs Ts also pointed out that although the car was recovered and the thieves were arrested 
the spare key hasnt ever shown up. The car was recovered with false plates inside it and 
when the police searched the thieves houses they found numerous car keys and stolen 
items but not Mrs Ts car key.
Mrs T doesn't believe that her car was stolen using the missing key. She's said the thieves 
might have used a cloned key to steal it. She noted that the engineer who assessed the car 
after the theft believed it was a targeted theft, as there was a set of false number plates 
within the car (which were for the same make/model of her car). So Mr and Mrs T believe the 
thieves targeted their car and used some form of cloned key or other method not requiring 
the original key in order to steal it.
Admiral said its inspection of the car shows that no forced entry was used to enter it. And the 
steering lock shows no sign of tampering with. That's significant as that could be expected if 
something other than a key was used to enter and start the car. Further the cars ECU 
shows that only two keys have ever been coded to be able to drive it.
Admirals given significant weight to Mr Ts comment to police that the spare car key and 
house keys were in the car. Mrs Ts suggested that because of the lateness of the hour and the shock of the theft, that comment shouldnt be relied upon. But I think it was reasonable 
for Admiral to give weight to it. Thats because its a specific statement about where Mr T 
thought the keys were at the time of the theft.
Mrs Ts explanation is that Mr T said the first thing that came into his head. She said he also 
told police the missing keys could be at his mums house (after the party). But I've noted the 
police didn't report that Mr T said the keys might have been in the car but rather that they 
were in the car. So, unless that was where the keys were usually left or was where Mr T had 
seen them last, Im not sure why that would be the first thing that came into his head. It 
would seem an odd thing to speculate on. Thats especially the case if he or Mrs T had spent 
time searching high and low for them, at his mums house, the previous afternoon.
Further, I understand that the car key was held on the same key ring as Mrs T's house keys. 
And Mr and Mrs T had enough concern that the thieves had access to the house keys  
because they were in the car  to have their locks changed. So it seems more likely than not 
that, at the time when Mr T spoke to the police, he believed a set of keys were in the car. He 
had no reason to change the houses locks if he genuinely believed that the keys were 
somewhere in the vicinity of his mums house.
I'm aware the thieves were known to police and appear to be persistent criminals involved in 
this sort of crime. So I've thought very carefully about the likelihood that they had a method 
of stealing cars, without using an original key, and without forcing entry or damaging the 
steering column. And while this isn't outside the realms of possibility it seems very unlikely. 
Also it would appear remarkably coincidental that the thieves should decide to steal Mr and 
Mrs Ts car, in a manner that had all the hallmarks of a theft with an original key, on the 
same day that one of their car keys happened to go missing.
For completeness Ill add that Mrs T said a video the thieves shot of themselves in the car, 
found on social media, shows the cars radio, ignition and other lights on but that there were 
no keys in the steering column. But, from the version of the video I've seen, its simply not 
possible to tell whether there were keys in it or not. So I don't find it persuasive evidence. 
Having considered all the evidence very carefully, I find, on balance, that its more likely than 
not that the thieves found a key in Mr and Mrs Ts car and used that to steal it. And in those 
circumstances, given that event would be specifically excluded from cover under the terms 
of Mr and Mrs Ts policy, I think it was reasonable for Admiral to decline to settle Mr and 
Mrs Ts claim.
Was it fair for Admiral to say Mr T had acted fraudulently?
Admiral decided that Mr T had deliberately misrepresented the facts in order for it to pay a 
claim, that wouldn't be covered but for that misrepresentation. In other words it accused him 
of fraud. As a result, as well as declining the claim, it cancelled all the policies Mr and Mrs T 
held with it and passed Mr Ts details to a shared fraud prevention database. But I don't think 
those actions were fair.
I need to make clear that it's not my role to determine if someones acted fraudulently, as 
ultimately that's a matter for law enforcement agencies and the courts. But fraud is a serious 
allegation, it goes to someone's integrity, it alleges a criminal act (and might expose them to 
the risk of criminal investigation and prosecution) and it may have serious repercussions for 
an individual's ability to obtain insurance for years to come. So, before deciding a 
policyholder has most likely committed fraud, I think its reasonable that an insurer like 
Admiral must have enough evidence on which to base such an allegation. And I'm not 
convinced that it has.Admiral thinks that Mr T told deliberate lies in order to persuade it to pay his claim. The most 
significant of those was that Mr T initially told police the spare car key was in the car but later 
told its investigator he didn't know where the key was. Admiral clearly believed Mr T only 
changed that account so that the keys in car exclusion wouldn't apply to his claim. But there 
can be other reasons for people to change their version of events that dont involve a 
deliberate lie.
In this case Mrs Ts said that after Mr T had the time to gather his thoughts, and no doubt 
talk to Mrs T, he changed his mind about what had happened to the key and he no longer 
thought it might be in the car. And its certainly possible for people to reflect on things and 
perhaps listen to other accounts to conclude that their original assumptions weren't accurate. 
And when that happens it doesn't automatically mean the individual who's changed their 
account has been deliberately untruthful. And I think that most likely explains what happened 
here. Although Mr T thought that the key might have been in the car initially, after speaking 
with Mrs T he changed his mind. And it appears that Mr Ts change of mind was before 
Admiral had told him that it might decline the claim if the key was in the car. I don't think 
that's evidence of fraud.
Similarly, Mr T said that the police had told him that the thieves had used a screwdriver to 
steal the car. Admiral said there was no evidence to support that. But Admiral wasn't there 
when Mr T talked to the police. The statement Admirals investigator took doesn't explore in 
any detail when the police told Mr T this or in what context it was said. Its entirely possible 
that the police could have said that thieves may steal cars with a screwdriver. And Mr T has 
passed that comment on to the investigator that the police told him it was taken with a 
screwdriver. That wouldn't be a deliberate untruth. Further, at the time Mr T gave his 
statement to the investigator, the car had already been recovered and Mr T would have been 
aware that Admiral could assess it to see if had signs of being taken using a screwdriver. So 
I don't think his comment that the police told him a screwdriver was used in the theft was 
some sort of ill-conceived ruse to convince Admiral to pay his claim. It follows that I don't 
think it was fair for Admiral to interpret Mr Ts actions as fraudulent.
Admiral accused Mr T of fraud and passed his details to a shared fraud prevention database. 
But in order to have done that fairly Mr T would have had to have made a material 
falsehood. That is a deliberate lie in order for Admiral to pay his claim. As I've said above I 
don't think Admirals shown he did that. Further, the evidence of that falsehood must be 
clear, relevant and rigorous enough for Admiral to confidently make a report of fraud to the 
police. In this case for the reasons given above I don't think Admiral's suspicion that Mr T 
told a deliberate lie comes anywhere near that level of rigour. It follows that I don't think it 
was fair for Admiral to accuse Mr T of fraud or to take the actions that came with that. That is 
cancelling Mr and Mrs T's policies, passing Mr Ts details to the shared fraud database and 
asking Mr and Mrs T to repay Admirals claim costs.
I'm aware that, as a result of the cancellation of their policies and the referral to the fraud 
database, Mr and Mrs T have struggled to find affordable replacement policies. Thats 
because the cancellation and fraud marker are factors insurers take into account when 
considering the risk a policyholder presents. And, if Admiral hadn't unfairly cancelled their 
policies then they wouldnt have been in that position, and their policies would have 
continued to the end of their planned duration. So to put things right I think Admiral should 
refund Mr and Mrs T the additional sums theyve paid in insurance premiums since the policy 
cancellation, as set out below.
Further, as the unfair cancellation and fraud referral have clearly been a source of distress 
and inconvenience for Mr and Mrs T, I think Admiral should pay them £500 compensation.Developments 
Mrs T asked if I would instruct Admiral to refund cancellation fees charged by other insurers 
as a result of the fraud marker. Admiral didn't make any further comments.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs T's said that another insurer had cancelled a policy after it learned of the fraud marker 
against Mr T and changed Mr and Mrs T a cancellation fee. While that's clearly unfortunate I 
don't think I can hold Admiral responsible for the actions of other insurers. I don't know 
whether the other insurer concerned asked Mr and Mrs T if they were aware of a referral to 
the fraud database. And I haven't considered whether it was fair for it to cancel the policy. 
But Admiral had told Mr and Mrs T about the referral. It had also told them that some other 
insurers might consider the fraud marker when offering policies. So, as Mr and Mrs T were 
aware of this, I don't think it would be fair to direct Admiral to refund any cancellation fees 
because another insurer chose to cancel Mr and Mrs T's policy.
As neither Mr and Mrs T nor Admiral objected to my provisional decision I see no reason to 
alter it.     
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I partly uphold this complaint. I will require Admiral insurance 
Company limited to:
Remove the fraud marker against Mr T from the shared insurance database.
Record the policy cancellations as if Mr and Mrs T had cancelled those themselves.
Refund any additional sums Mr and Mrs T had paid for their subsequent insurance 
policies. Admiral should calculate this sum based on the amounts Mr and Mrs T 
actually paid for their premiums compared to what Admiral would have charged them 
for its policies.
Repay any sums Mr and Mrs T had paid in regards to claim costs. It should add 
simple interest to that refund at a rate of 8% a year from the date Mr and Mrs T paid 
it to the date Admiral refunds them1.
Pay £500 compensation.
 
1 If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs T how much its taken off. It should also give 
them a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman