DRN-3359510
The complaint
Miss A complains that Revolut Ltd restricted access to her account.
What happened
Miss A had an account with Revolut, which she opened in February 2021.
In April 2021, Revolut asked Miss A for information about the source of her funds. Miss A 
contacted Revolut in May 2021 with a payslip. Revolut asked for a copy of the information in 
PDF format, which Miss A provided a few days later. Revolut also said Miss A had received 
funds from a limited company, and asked for information about that company, which Miss A 
provided. Revolut said that a team needed to review this information.
Miss A then contacted Revolut in early June to find out what was happening. Revolut said 
the review of the account was ongoing. In mid-June, Revolut placed additional restrictions on 
the account. Miss A asked about this and was told that Revolut hoped to complete its review 
of her account within 14 days. Dissatisfied, Miss A made a formal complaint. Then in early 
July 2021 Revolut completed its review and told Miss A that her account would be 
unrestricted.
Revolut looked at this. It says that it offered Miss A a free six month subscription to its 
Metal premium plan, and refunded £77.94 to her. Since then, it has also offered a further 
£20 in full and final settlement of the complaint.
Miss A wants £20,000 in compensation for loss of income and the stress and inconvenience 
she says Revolut caused her.
Our investigator looked at this and didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld  and 
said that what Revolut had offered was fair.
Miss A didnt agree. 
The complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Financial businesses like Revolut are subject to a number of legal and regulatory obligations. 
This means they need to monitor their customers transactions and may need to review an 
account at any time. Where a business needs to review an account, it doesnt need to give 
reasons. And this may also mean the business needs to restrict the account while it looks at 
whats happened.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Revolut was acting in line with its legal and 
regulatory obligations when it reviewed Miss As account. And so Im satisfied it was entitled 
to ask Miss A for details of the source of her funds. 
Miss A is unhappy about the time Revolut took to complete its review. She provided the 
information Revolut has asked for by 25 May 2021, but Revolut didnt complete its review 
until 2 July 2021.
Ive thought about this. I see that for much of the period Miss A was able to continue using 
her account. Revolut says it didnt place full restrictions on her account until 16 June 2021. 
Until that time, Miss A was able to top up the account and exchange funds to cryptocurrency 
and her investment pot. It was then just over two weeks before Revolut completed its review 
on 2 July.
I recognise that Miss A says she lost out because she wasnt able to trade her shares and 
cryptocurrency. But as Ive found that Revolut were entitled to review the account in line with 
its regulatory obligations, I cant fairly say this is something Revolut should compensate her 
for. Moreover, based on what Miss A has said, it appears much of the money in the account 
wasnt hers  she told Revolut she was investing money from a limited company in 
cryptocurrency as it wasnt able to do this through a Revolut business account. I have no 
power to award compensation for losses or inconvenience suffered by third parties, such as 
Miss As limited company.
I appreciate that Miss A would have found it inconvenient to lose access to her account for 
those two weeks - though Im also mindful that Miss A was using this account to invest, so 
the restrictions didnt prevent her from carrying out essential day-to-day transactions. 
Revolut has paid Miss A £77.94, representing the cost of its premium plan, to reflect the 
stress and inconvenience it caused. It has also offered to pay a further £20. In the 
circumstances, I find this is a fair resolution to Miss As complaint. Im not going to tell 
Revolut to pay more
My final decision
For the reasons above, I have decided Revolut Ltd has offered fair compensation for any 
trouble and upset it caused. It should now pay this to Miss A if it hasnt already. I make no 
further award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman