DRN-4203490
The complaint
J, a limited company, complains about delays by State Bank of India (UK) Limited in 
reviewing applications for three buy to let mortgages, which it then declined. J is represented 
by its directors.
J asks that SBI refunds valuation fees and compensates it for the treatment it received, its 
legal fees and higher borrowing costs.
What happened
Js broker submitted three buy to let mortgage applications to SBI on Js behalf in mid-2022. 
SBI says it had a high workload at the time and accepts it took longer than usual to review 
the applications. 
Js director (who Ill refer to as Mr S) says they heard nothing until early October 2022, when 
SBI told the broker the applications were ready to go to valuation and asked for the valuation 
fees to be paid. The valuations were carried out in mid-October 2022. Mr S says they again 
heard nothing from SBI until 22 November 2022 when it said a number of tasks were 
outstanding. Mr S says they provided the information and evidence requested to the broker.
In early December 2022 SBI sent an email saying the product had been withdrawn and the 
applications were declined due to the number of outstanding tasks. Mr S says this left J with 
finance at higher interest rates. 
Our investigator said there were delays with Js applications being reviewed. But the reason 
for them being declined was that Js broker hadnt provided information in time.
J didnt agree. Mr S said, in summary:
of the six months the applications were with SBI, five months were wasted by SBI 
SBI hasnt explained what information was outstanding or provided evidence of this
SBI hasnt provided evidence it gave a deadline to the broker.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres dispute between the parties about what happened. Both parties provided further 
information before my final decision which helped to clarify what happened, particularly in 
the last two weeks before the applications were cancelled. I should explain that where the 
evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
I must also be clear that the complainant here is J. As a limited company, J doesnt 
experience emotions. And I cant usually award compensation for loss, worry or upset 
caused to third parties (such as Js directors). While I could require SBI to pay compensation 
for Js financial loss, Id only consider it fair to do so if the loss resulted from an error made 
by SBI. 
SBI accepts there were delays in reviewing mortgage applications in 2022. It was 
overwhelmed by the numbers of applications. I dont need to set out each event here, but the 
key points in the timeline are:
1 July 2022: decision in principle issued. Mr S says the mortgage applications were 
submitted on this date. SBI says they were submitted in early August 2022
2 to 10 August 2022: SBI allocates a case manager to review the applications
17 August 2022: the broker chases SBI, which says the cases were allocated to a case 
manager on 3 and 4 August 2022 and it had a 20-working days service level agreement. 
It said once checked by the case manager and subject to no further information required 
the case will be sent to underwriters to do the initial underwrite and again if everything is 
good we can instruct the valuation. The broker chased SBI again in September 2022. 
5 October 2022: valuation fees paid. SBI says the broker asked for valuations to be put 
on hold. Mr S says they didnt want to pay for valuations until SBI confirmed everything 
else was in place.  
25 October 2022: valuations completed 
22 November 2022: SBI asked the broker for further information 
5 December 2022: SBI emailed the broker saying the products were withdrawn and the 
cases were declined due to the outstanding tasks. 
Js directors didnt want to pay for valuations until all other matters had been resolved. I dont 
think, in fairness, SBI could guarantee thered be no issues arising after the valuation. I note 
that SBIs email to the broker referred to the initial underwrite happening before the 
valuation. I havent seen anything to suggest that when it asked for the valuation fees SBI 
expected there to be a problem with the applications.
The parties agree that SBI asked for information and documents on 22 November 2022.
Mr S refers to the request as a bombardment. He says SBI asked for items theyd 
previously provided, requested items it hadnt previously asked for and hassled the broker to 
respond. 
SBI says it wanted to explain that the interest rate products wouldnt be available indefinitely 
 something it says the broker ought to have been aware of, given changes in mortgage 
interest rates at that time. SBI says the outstanding tasks could easily have been completed 
by the broker. SBI says if the applications had been completed it would have honoured the 
product rates. 
The parties agree that SBI called the broker several times, including on 30 November 2022 
to chase for outstanding information. The broker says in his written evidence that he told SBI 
it was unreasonable to ask for information to be provided within seven days, and they 
expected a reasonable amount of time to provide the information. He says he was assured 
theyd be given a reasonable time to provide the information.SBI sent a list of tasks to be completed late in the application process. It chased the broker 
to complete the tasks, and I can understand this was frustrating given how long SBI had 
taken to review the application. But, in fairness, I think SBI was doing what it could to get the 
applications completed, before the products were withdrawn.
Theres agreement between the parties that at least one task was outstanding when SBI 
declined the applications. The broker hadnt confirmed to SBI that J would proceed with a 
smaller loan after one of the valuations was lower than expected. SBI says there were more 
tasks outstanding. It says while Js directors might have provided information to the broker 
this wasnt forwarded to SBI. I think, based on the available evidence, its likely that more 
tasks were outstanding. This is because of what the broker says in his emails. For instance, 
on 12 December 2022 he challenged the fairness of SBI cancelling the applications because 
of outstanding information not because the information had been provided but because SBI 
had only requested it on 22 November 2022. 
That leads me to consider whether it was reasonable for SBI to ask for these items in late 
November 2022. 
SBI provided screen shots of the outstanding tasks for the three applications. I dont think 
these requests were unreasonable, or that it would have been impractical for the tasks to be 
completed within a short timeframe. Ill only comment on the items Mr S expressed 
frustration about.  
SBI asked for Js 2022 accounts. Mr S said this was a new request as SBI had accepted the 
2021 accounts when the applications were submitted (the 2022 accounts werent finalised at 
that time). Js 2022 accounts had been filed at Companies House in September 2022. I dont 
think it was unreasonable for SBI to ask for a copy, or that there would be a problem with J 
providing it. 
SBI asked for updated information (for instance of rental income). I appreciate this was 
frustrating given the delays, but I cant see that it would have been difficult to provide. SBI 
also asked for buy to let mortgage statements for each security property. Mr S says this was 
a new request, and not a usual one. However, I cant see that it would have been unduly 
difficult to provide statements within a two-week period.
I dont think it was unreasonable for SBI to ask the broker to respond to a query resulting 
from a credit check. SBI also asked about succession planning as the mortgage term went 
past the usual retirement age for the directors. From what Mr S said, he was able to respond 
to these questions. 
SBI asked for the applications to be signed by the second director. The broker says SBI had 
previously confirmed it received digital signatures. As this wasnt the only task outstanding, I 
dont need to make a finding as to what had happened. Even if asking for the applications to 
be signed was an error by SBI, the outcome wouldnt be different. 
Much of the time taken with this application was due to long review times within SBI. But this 
didnt mean it was unfair or unreasonable for SBI to ask for further or updated information. I 
need to take into account that letting property is a business, and SBI was entitled to expect J 
to respond to requests for information accordingly.
The broker disputes being told by SBI before December 2022 there was a deadline to 
complete the outstanding tasks. But theres no doubt that SBI made it clear there was an 
urgency to completing the tasks. And all parties would reasonably have been aware of the 
wider circumstances at the time, with mortgage lenders raising interest rates and 
withdrawing products. Mortgage lenders are entitled to make a commercial decision about the products they offer, and to withdraw products at any time.
I appreciate that Js director and the broker felt it was a cheek for SBI to ask for tasks to be 
completed within a short timeframe when it had taken so long with the application. But until 
this happened the applications werent complete and the interest rate products werent 
secure. I think, based on the available evidence, the outstanding tasks could reasonably 
have been completed within the available time. Ultimately the reason for the applications 
being cancelled was that there were outstanding tasks on Js applications when SBI 
withdrew its mortgage products. 
I know that Js directors will be disappointed. But I dont think its fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances to require SBI to refund fees or pay compensation to J.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman