DRN-3180504
The complaint
Mr W complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) trading as Privilege unfairly declined his 
legal expenses claim. He doesnt agree that the incident giving rise to his legal claim 
occurred before the policy started. 
What happened
Mr W sought to make a claim under the family legal cover element of his spouses 
legal expenses insurance policy. 
The policy started on 29 September 2020 and is underwritten by UKI.
Mr W wanted to utilise the cover to challenge his former employers decision to make 
him redundant. 
UKI considered Mr Ws claim but said that as he had been made aware of a possible 
redundancy on 7 September 2020, which was before the policy began, he wasnt 
covered. 
UKI explained the policy didnt cover claims arising from or relating to incidents that 
began before cover started. 
Mr W doesnt feel its fair for his claim to be declined on this basis. He says he wasnt 
made redundant until 7 October 2020 which was during the life of the policy. And that 
this is the incident which led to legal action being pursued. He added that he didnt 
make his claim until early 2021. So, the claim should be covered.
Mr W brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered it and said she thought UKI had acted fairly. She said           
Mr W being put on notice in early September 2020 that his job was at risk of 
redundancy counted as an incident which arose at a different time but from the same 
cause  i.e. the redundancy. 
And as that happened before the policy commenced, UKI hadnt acted unfairly in 
declining his claim as the policy made it clear UKI wouldnt cover incidents which 
began before cover started.
Mr W disagreed and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why. The parties agree on 
the facts of this case - Mr W was notified in early September 2020 that his job was at risk of 
redundancy and the policy wasnt taken out until the end of the same month.
Ive looked at the policy document and it says: 
We will provide cover under section 4 Family Legal Protection as long as [] the 
incident happens within the territorial limits and the date of incident is during a period 
cover was in force... 
Under the section what we dont cover, it says: 
We dont cover claims arising from or relating to [] incidents that begin before 
cover started.
So, Im satisfied the policy makes it clear the incident needed to have occurred after the 
policy started.
The issue to be decided in this complaint is when the incident which gives rise to the claim 
occurred. Mr W says it was in October 2020 when he was made redundant, whereas UKI 
say its when he was first notified of the risk of redundancy in early September 2020. 
Ive looked at the policy document which defines the date of incident as:
the date of the incident that leads to a claim. If more than one incident arises at 
different time from the same cause, the date of incident is the date of the first of 
these incidents.
With this in mind, Im persuaded that Mr W being notified that his job was at risk of 
redundancy, should be considered the date of incident upon which the claim should be 
assessed. Ill explain why.
Whilst being made redundant is what caused Mr W to want to pursue a legal claim, he was 
made aware in early September 2020 that there was a risk of redundancy and he was put on 
notice. Im satisfied these two incidents are directly connected as Mr W was ultimately made 
redundant after being notified it was a possibility. As the first of these events  being told 
there was a possibility his job was at risk of redundancy  happened before the policy 
started, Im satisfied UKIs decision to decline Mr Ws claim is fair.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman