DRN-3065505
The complaint
 Mr K complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds (Aviva) poor repairs and customer service, 
following a claim under his home emergency policy. 
 
What happened
Mr Ks toilet was leaking. He contacted Aviva to make a claim. It sent the first engineer who 
changed the flushing mechanism. But upon installation of the new part, the engineer 
struggled to connect the dual flush & left just the full flush working. Mr K contacted Aviva 
again to report this. A few days later, it sent the second engineer.
Mr K is unclear what exactly this engineer did, but he told him that he would need to get 
more parts and left. Following this, Mr K went on holiday and on his return found that there 
was water in the bathroom, that had caused damage. He raised a complaint to Aviva. It 
wasnt until around a week later (following a few failed appointments) that Aviva sent another 
engineer who repaired the faulty toilet. 
Aviva instructed a surveyor to assess the damage. He assessed the total cost of the damage 
as £1257.12. Aviva said the surveyor found that its responsibility was 50% as the surveyor 
had noticed that shower seals and grout had failed, and he couldnt assess how much 
damage had already been present, due to this. Aviva offered to pay half of the costs of the 
damage which amounted to £628.56 as well as £221.44, for the trouble and upset caused 
due to the poor customer service issues. Making a total of £850.
Mr K didnt accept this, as he said the conclusion reached by the surveyor was different to 
the notes that the surveyor had dictated, whilst at the property in front of him. So, he referred 
a complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. He said 
that Aviva hadnt defended the liability, or showed that it was only responsible for half the
costs. He recommended that Aviva complete all the repairs outlined in the scope of works 
provided by the surveyor. And he agreed that £221.44 was reasonable for the poor customer 
service Mr K experienced. 
Mr K accepted the view, Aviva did not. It said that it had demonstrated that it was only 
responsible for 50% of the costs as it relied on the surveyors report. It asked for a decision 
from an ombudsman.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I will be upholding this complaint.  I hope my findings go some way in 
explaining why Ive reached this decision.
Aviva accepted that there were customer service issues and for this it offered compensation 
of £221.44 for the trouble and upset caused. I have considered whether in the circumstances 
this offer was fair and reasonable and I think it is. The first engineer couldnt fix the toilet 
properly, the second appears to have caused more damage and there were at least three 
cancelled appointments, which Mr K had to chase, before the toilet was fixed. 
Im satisfied that this whole experience wouldve caused a level of distress and 
inconvenience and I think the offer of £221.44 is fair. And in line with what I wouldve 
recommended, had Aviva not done so.
Ive next considered whether Aviva has demonstrated that its only responsible for half the 
costs of the damage caused. It based this assessment on the surveyors report. Mr K said 
that the report was inconsistent with the notes that were dictated at the property, during the 
surveyors visit. 
Mr K provided the recordings that the surveyor dictated, which I have listened to. What is of 
note is that at no point did the surveyor indicate that Aviva was only responsible for half of 
the costs of the damage. He did say on more than one occasion, that Aviva was responsible 
for the damage that ensued from the failed repair by the second engineer. 
The surveyor said that there had been some failure of sealant and grout in the shower area. 
But he also said that damp readings taken in that part of the bathroom showed no damp 
being present. Compared to the damp readings taken around the toilet that indicated high 
spikes of moisture being present. He concluded that a strip out of the floor was required with 
drying of the area and Aviva should further investigate its liability. The surveyor didnt 
mention that Aviva is only responsible for half of the cost of the damage. 
Aviva was asked to provide any further evidence it wished me to consider. None was 
provided. 
In addition, Mr K described that the shower hadnt been leaking, hadnt been used for a while 
and the water that had been present was around the toilet. Im persuaded by this as it 
correlates with the surveyors report. Also, had the shower been recently leaking (just as the 
toilet had been) then I think the surveyor would have obtained a moisture reading, which he 
confirmed that no moisture was present in the shower area.  
Consequently, I dont think the dictated notes from the surveyor confirms that Aviva were 
only responsible for half of the cost of the repairs. Nor has Aviva provided any further 
evidence of any investigations it carried out, that could show that it was only liable for half of 
the costs.
 
Putting things right
In the circumstances and to put matters right, Aviva should complete all the repairs as 
outlined in the scope of works, in the surveyors report. If Aviva wishes to offer a cash 
settlement, this ought to be based on quotes that Mr K obtains, that match the items in the 
scope of works. Aviva should also pay Mr K £221.44 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused. 
  
My final decisionFor the reasons given, I uphold this complaint. 
Aviva Insurance Limited should cover the full cost of the damage based on the scope of 
works in the surveyors report or offer Mr K a cash settlement based on quotes he obtains, 
that match the scope of works.  
Aviva Insurance Limited should also pay £221.44 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused. 
Aviva Insurance Limited must pay the above amounts within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell it Mr K accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on 
the above amounts from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman