DRN-4254644
The complaint
V, a limited company, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc didnt respond to its 
letters about the closure of its business.
What happened
V explains that it wrote to NatWest in October 2021 to tell it that it would be closing its 
business and that it wanted to discuss the way forward. V says it didnt get any response, 
but payments were still taken from the current account up to the overdraft limit. V says that 
some contact about those went to an incorrect email address and that letters didnt have a 
phone number to call. It sent further letters in April and May 2022 which were ignored until it 
made a complaint.
NatWest said that it agreed that it had let V down by the delay in response. And that Vs 
accounts were being managed by its Specialised Business Management (SBM) team. It had 
updated the contact details for V.
Our investigator said that V had written to NatWest and not received a reply which was poor 
service. She recommended that NatWest pay V £100 for that. But she said that she didnt 
think that V had done enough to follow this up. It had written to a branch but there were 
details online of the central contact points. And one of the directors had used an online portal 
three times before in 2021 and this could have been used to tell NatWest about the business 
change. NatWest had emailed V but also sent letters about the overdraft and formal demand 
and these did include contact points. It said it had asked V to contact it and had no record of 
any calls before the complaint. The balance on the account had increased due to regular 
payments which hadnt been cancelled and in large part related to a loan. She recognised 
what one of the directors had said about the personal impact on his mental health but stated 
we couldnt address that in a complaint from V, a separate legal entity.
V didnt agree and wanted its complaint to be reviewed. It said that it formally wrote to 
NatWest and its account was blocked. NatWest continued to apply charges without 
reference to V. It said it wrote and phoned again. V had assumed everything was in hand 
and that any delays were due to the impact of COVID. V wanted to know how many times it 
would need to write and send recorded delivery letters. V doesnt accept it acted 
irresponsibly or unreasonably.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate what V says and that it wrote to NatWest on 26 October 2021 to say that it was 
closing its business and would welcome a conversation to discuss the way forward. It didnt 
ask that the contact details for V be formally changed. But it gave an email address and 
mobile number for one of the directors and didnt get any response. I note that in an email to 
this service of 4 January 2023 a director of V stated:
 we have received no letters or written correspondence from Nat West other than monthly 
statement slips for the overdraft until it reached the limit of £8k having been £5k when we 
informed them of the cessation of businessWe did receive automated emails about the 
bounce back loan repayments which they took from the account after access to it had been 
withdrawn.
It does appear that there had been a viable email address for V that NatWest had been 
using in relation to the loan at least. And that V in any event seemed to be aware of the 
payments being made to the loan. It had previously applied for a loan payment holiday using 
an online portal as our investigator referred to. But that hadnt been extended further. I can 
see that significant further payments to the current account related to the loan.
NatWest has shown that it did email a director about the overdraft. But also, that it wrote to 
the address it had on record for V on 26 March 2022 to state that the overdraft limit was due 
to expire. It asked V to call it and gave a number. It also wrote on 9 April 2022 asking V to 
contact it and gave a number to call. That letter came from the SBM team and a 
correspondence address for that team was provided. It further wrote on 5 May 2022 making 
formal demand on the overdraft and again giving a number to call. V was given ten days to 
put forward satisfactory proposals for repayment. NatWest has explained to this service that 
its SBM team doesnt make outbound calls but asks that it is called. It has no records of any 
calls from V at that time.
Given this correspondence Im unclear why V further wrote to NatWest at a branch address - 
for example its letter of 3 May 2022. And why it said in that letter it didnt have a phone 
number for NatWest about the overdraft details it had received.
It complained and NatWest issued a final response dated 11 May 2022. That seemed to tell 
V what it already reasonably knew and that the account was being managed by SBM. Im 
not going to be able to look at what happened after that and the further contact the directors 
have referred to in this complaint. V would be able to raise a new complaint about that if it 
wants to.
I need to reach an assessment on the complaint points here. V had an overdraft and a 
significant loan. It clearly wanted and needed to deal with those when the business ceased 
trading. It did contact NatWest about it and its letter wasnt responded to. Given what V says 
about the importance of this being dealt with and that it seemed to be made aware of 
payments from the current account I think there was an opportunity for it to take further 
action earlier too. And that even having it says not received NatWests emails the position 
regarding the overdraft had been made clear and it had appropriate contact points. I dont 
accept that V saying that NatWest didnt call it was enough: it had the opportunity to be 
proactive and help to reach an agreement on repayment in its own interests.
I agree with our investigator that as V is a company it cant suffer distress. V is the 
complainant here and so Im afraid Im not able to consider the personal position of the 
directors. I also agree that it has been inconvenienced and that the proposed compensation 
for this of £100 is reasonable. I know the directors of V will be disappointed that I wont be 
asking NatWest to do more than pay that in relation to this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part, and I require National Westminster Bank 
Plc to pay V £100.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman