DRN-4197145
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Lloyds Bank PLC trading as Scottish Widows Bank wouldnt 
allow them to port their interest only offset mortgage to a new property. As a result they 
incurred an early repayment charge (ERC).
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out their offset mortgage with Scottish Widows in 2019. They borrowed 
just under £400,000 on interest only terms over nine years. The interest rate was fixed at 
1.99% for the first five years of the term, until May 2024. During that period they would have 
to pay an ERC if the mortgage was repaid  the amount of the ERC reduced year by year. At 
the time of the events of this complaint it was 2.35% of the mortgage balance.
In 2022 Mr and Mrs S decided to move to another property and asked their mortgage 
adviser to arrange to port their mortgage to the new property. By this time they were retired 
but had a comfortable income from pensions and investments. The adviser applied to 
Scottish Widows on their behalf. 
At first Mr and Mrs S applied to extend the term of the mortgage to 16 years  an extension 
of around 10 years. Scottish Widows refused the application. It said that it required a 
minimum income of £100,000 for a new interest only mortgage and Mr and Mrs S didnt 
meet that threshold. It didnt think Mr and Mrs S had an acceptable repayment strategy for 
their interest only mortgage.
Mr and Mrs S then re-applied, this time for the same term as their existing mortgage, but 
Scottish Widows still refused their application. It also said that converting to repayment terms 
(which Mr and Mrs S didnt want to do anyway) wouldnt be affordable.
Because Scottish Widows wouldnt allow Mr and Mrs S to port their mortgage to the new 
property they repaid it, incurring an ERC of around £9,500. They didnt re-mortgage; they 
completed their new purchase as cash buyers. Mr and Mrs S then complained.
Scottish Widows didnt uphold their complaint about the decision to refuse to allow them to 
port, but it offered £50 compensation for delays in updating their broker. Mr and Mrs S didnt 
accept that and brought their complaint to us. Our investigator didnt think Scottish Widows 
had acted fairly and said it should refund the ERC and pay them £150 compensation. 
Scottish Widows didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded Scottish Widows acted fairly in this case. Ill explain why.
Following changes to the rules of mortgage regulation in 2014, lenders are required to carry 
out strict assessments of both affordability and  in the case of interest only lending  of 
repayment strategy.
There are, however, some exceptions to those requirements. The rules of mortgage 
regulation can be found in the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook, in the chapter headed 
MCOB. 
MCOB 11.6.3 says that a firm doesnt need to assess affordability when entering into 
a new mortgage that replaces an old one, or when varying an existing mortgage  
provided that there are no changes being made which are material to affordability.
MCOB 11.7.3 says that a firm doesnt need to assess interest only repayment 
strategy  provided that the original mortgage was taken out before 26 April 2014 
(that is, under the old rules), provided it hasnt increased in balance since then and 
isnt increasing now, and provided the transaction would otherwise be in the 
borrowers best interests.
Mr and Mrs Ss first application was to port their mortgage over to their new property  with 
the same borrowing but an extended term, increasing from six to sixteen years.
At the time of the application Mr and Mrs S were already retired, so extending the term 
means that it would extend further into their retirement than it already did. Ive referred above 
to MCOB 11.6.3, which says that a firm doesnt need to assess affordability when entering 
into a new mortgage that replaces an old one, or when varying an existing mortgage  
provided that there are no changes being made which are material to affordability. Extending 
the term of a mortgage into, or further into, retirement is one of the things the rules say will 
be material to affordability.
What this means is that under the rules Scottish Widows had to assess affordability. Based 
on Mr and Mrs Ss income at the time, I dont think it was unreasonable that Scottish Widows 
refused this application.
Following the refusal, Mr and Mrs Ss broker submitted a second application. This time the 
mortgage term was to remain at six years  so the new mortgage would be exactly the same 
as their current one. As the term would no longer be extended, there was no change 
material to affordability, and so MCOB 11.6.3 applied to this application  with no need for 
Scottish Widows to assess affordability.
However, Scottish Widows did refuse this application as well. It said Mr and Mrs S didnt 
have an acceptable repayment strategy for their interest only mortgage.
Ive said that under the mortgage rules lenders have to assess whether theres a suitable 
repayment strategy. As Mr and Mrs S would be replacing a mortgage taken out in 2019  
after 26 April 2014  MCOB 11.7.3 didnt apply and so Scottish Widows was required to 
carry out an assessment of their strategy.
I dont therefore think it was unfair that Scottish Widows considered this. Under the mortgage 
rules, it had to do so. However, I dont think the decision it reached  having considered their 
repayment strategy  was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage is an offset mortgage. At the time of their application to port, 
virtually the whole balance was offset by savings in the linked account.
However, Mr and Mrs Ss property sale and purchase wasnt simultaneous. They were 
buying their new property, and then would be selling the old one a little while later. In order 
to do this they planned to use the cash savings in their offset account plus the new ported mortgage  this would allow them to pay off the mortgage on their old property and fund the 
purchase of the new one.
At the time of the application, Mr and Mrs S had sufficient in cash and other investments to 
be able to repay their interest only mortgage. At the time of completion they wouldnt have 
the cash, but they would have a second, mortgage-free, property. And shortly after 
completion, having sold that property, they would have the cash in their offset account again.
Scottish Widows wouldnt accept this as a repayment strategy. It said its lending criteria for 
interest only mortgages require a minimum amount of employed or self-employed income 
where customers are relying on cash savings or a second property. As Mr and Mrs S were 
retired, they did not have any income of this type and didnt meet this requirement.
I dont think this was fair. These are the lending criteria Scottish Widows applies to new 
customers. Mr and Mrs S werent new customers. They were existing customers looking to 
replace their existing mortgage with one that was exactly the same, with the same 
repayment strategy and therefore the same level of risk to Scottish Widows.
The rules of mortgage regulation require a lender to assess whether a borrower has a 
credible and clearly understood repayment strategy. They dont require a particular income 
level. While its not unreasonable for Scottish Widows to have a higher threshold than 
required by the rules for new lending, the effect of applying its new customer criteria to 
Mr and Mrs S as existing customers was that they would not be able to port their mortgage 
and would have to pay an ERC. I dont think that was fair.
Mr and Mrs S were existing customers of Scottish Widows. They were looking to replicate 
their existing mortgage, but secured over a new property. Their repayment strategy was 
unchanged, and was credible and clearly understood. I think Scottish Widows ought to have 
thought more broadly about their situation and recognised that they were not making any 
changes to their mortgage, that they did have a way of repaying the capital, and that a strict 
application of its new borrower criteria to Mr and Mrs S (who were not new borrowers) would 
result in Mr and Mrs S having to pay a substantial ERC. 
But allowing them to port would not increase the risk that either Mr and Mrs S or Scottish 
Widows were exposed to, and would essentially just replicate the existing situation but with a 
new property. I dont think refusing their application was fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. I think Scottish Widows ought fairly to have allowed Mr and Mrs S to port 
their existing mortgage on a like for like basis, as their second application proposed.
Putting things right
If Scottish Widows had allowed Mr and Mrs S to port their mortgage, they wouldnt have paid 
the ERC. In the circumstances, I think it would be fair and reasonable for Scottish Widows to 
refund the ERC, adding interest to compensate Mr and Mrs S for being without the funds in 
the meantime. 
I understand Mr and Mrs S ended up buying the new property outright, so theyve not ended 
up with a different mortgage at a better or worse interest rate which needs to be factored into 
the redress. And while Mr and Mrs C will benefit by not having a mortgage in future, theyve 
also now lost access to the money used for the purchase which was previously in the offset 
account. Having that money in the offset account meant they paid very little interest in 
practice. Their priority was to avoid repaying the ERC. Because Scottish Widows didnt 
consider their application fairly they ended up having to pay it. While theyve ended up 
mortgage free as a result, that wasnt how they wanted to manage their finances and I dont 
think its a reason to reduce the ERC refund.Finally, Scottish Widows should also compensate them for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. Our investigator suggested compensation of £150 which Mr and Mrs S accepted. I 
think thats fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Lloyds Bank PLC trading as 
Scottish Widows Bank to:
Refund the early repayment charge Mr and Mrs S paid on redemption of their 
mortgage, adding simple annual interest of 8% running from the date of redemption 
to the date of refund; and
Pay Mr and Mrs S £150 compensation.
Lloyds Bank PLC trading as Scottish Widows Bank may deduct income tax from the 8% 
interest element of my award, as required by HMRC. But it should tell Mr and Mrs S what it 
has deducted so they can reclaim the tax if theyre entitled to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman