DRN-4276985
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain Royal and Sun Alliance Limited (RSA) completed a poor standard of
repair to his garden wall after he made a claim on his home insurance policy. He said it did
not repair it to the same condition it had been prior to the incident.
References to Mr or Mrs G, will include the other.
There are several parties and representatives of RSA involved throughout the complaint but
for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to RSA.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Gs boundary wall was damaged when a third-party vehicle crashed into it. Mr G
made a claim on their home insurance policy.
RSA accepted the claim and on 12 June 2022 work was undertaken by RSAs approved
contractor to make the wall safe from collapse.
In July 2022 building materials were delivered and the same contractor who had made the
wall safe in June 2022 started further work on the wall. Mr G was not happy with the
standard of work being undertaken so he stopped the work and contacted RSA.
RSA said it was confident its contractor, who was an experienced stonemason, would be
able to put the wall back to its pre-loss condition, but Mr G disagreed.
As Mr G was not happy with RSA, he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. They looked into the case and said the repairs
completed were not effective in keeping with the style of the existing wall. They said RSA
should appoint an experienced, qualified stonemason to assess the wall to determine the
level of repair required and provide a quote. He said £200 compensation should be paid to
recognise the stress the standard of work currently carried our caused Mr and Mrs G.
As RSA is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a
final decision to be made.
In my provisional decision I said
In this case I needed to understand if the repairs started on 18 July 2022 were intended as
temporary or permanent repairs. And who completed them.
Mr G said he thought they were permanent repairs, and said they were carried out by the
same contractor who had made the wall safe. Mr G said he stopped the work as he was not
happy how they were doing the repairs as it was not in keeping with the style of the existing
wall.
RSA originally said the work was permanent and it was confident its contractor who was an
experienced stonemason would be able to put the wall back to its pre-loss condition. But
after our investigator issued his view, RSA said it found it had made errors in its
correspondence with Mr G and ourselves and the stonemason had not carried out the
repairs in question.
RSA corrected itself and said the repairs that Mr G stopped in July had in fact been
temporary repairs made by its building contractor and not the experienced stonemason as it
had originally said.
Mr G provided pictures of these repairs and they show the use of a lot of mortar, with brick
and flint. I think they do look fairly permanent, but they are not in keeping with the style of the
rest of the wall. To remove the mortar, brick and flint RSA claim was a temporary repair
would take a fair amount of work before a specialist stonemason could start with a
permanent repair that was in keeping with the rest of the wall.
In this case the fact remains that RSA accepted Mr and Mrs Gs claim regarding the damage
to their boundary wall and they still have not had a repair completed that is satisfactory.
Permanent repairs in keeping with the style of the existing wall still need to be completed by
a specialist stonemason. This is not in dispute by RSA.
RSA said a specialist stonemason has looked at the wall and was awaiting instruction from it
to complete the permanent repairs. Our investigator was not persuaded the appointed
stonemason had the necessary expertise to carry out the repair.
I can understand because of the errors made by RSA how Mr and Mrs G may have lost
confidence with the approved contractors it has appointed to date. Therefore I think the fair
resolution in this case is for Mr G to be given the option to either use the stonemason RSA
said it has appointed or select his own stonemason carry out the repairs. The work that is to
be carried out must include removal of the temporary repair and completion of the work as
detailed in the scope of work document completed by RSAs contractor at the start of this
claim.
Due to the poor standard of work carried out on their wall to date, and additionally because
of the errors RSA have acknowledged it made in relation to the contractors conducting the
repairs, it should also pay Mr and Mrs G a total of £400 compensation to recognise the
delays and stress caused by its errors.
Therefore, I intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint and require RSA to pay for the costs
of a specialist stonemason to complete the repairs to their wall. And to pay £400 to
recognise the delays and distress caused in this case.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr G  responded to say he was happy with the provisional decision. He said the repairs must 
be as the intial scope of works assessment and not as the second assessment as he didnt 
believe this would cover all the damage to the external brick wall.
RSA responded to say it reluctantly accepted the provisional decision 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to Mr Ws commentsIn my provisional decision I said the work that is to be carried out must include removal of 
the temporary repair and completion of the work as detailed in the scope of work report 
completed by RSAs contractor at the start of this claim.
To be clear this is the scope of work report completed on 7 June 2022 by RSAs approved 
supplier and not the scope of works report completed by RSAs building contractor that 
undertook the temporary repairs. 
Based on the evidence Ive reviewed I maintain my provisional decision and I uphold
Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint.
I require Royal and Sun Alliance Limited to pay for the costs of a specialist stonemason of 
Mr and Mrs Gs choice, to complete the repairs to their boundary wall as per the scope of 
works report completed on 7 June 2022. And to pay £400 to recognise the delays and 
distress caused to Mr and Mrs G.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman