DRN-1841328
The complaint
Miss J complains about misleading information and the level of service provided by Aviva UK 
Digital Limited when she changed her car on her motor insurance policy. She wants it to pay 
her increase in premium for the next two years. Miss J is represented in this matter by her 
father. 
What happened
Miss J wanted to change her car on her policy taken through Avivas online service. But 
system maintenance issues meant she had to take out temporary cover. When the system 
was running again, she found that cover wouldnt be provided due to her age. 
Miss J thought the website had shown that cover would be provided and would be cheaper. 
Shes now taken out more expensive insurance elsewhere. Aviva offered Miss J £150 
compensation for her inconvenience because she couldnt make her change of car online 
and it refunded her charge for temporary cover. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Aviva 
had warned consumers that its website would be down for the weekend. She thought Aviva 
had provided generic information about who it would cover, and it was for the underwriter to 
then confirm this. She thought Aviva didnt need to provide permanent cover because it had 
provided a temporary policy. She thought Aviva hadnt acted unfairly and so neednt provide 
further compensation. 
Mr J replied requesting that Aviva should make changes to the information on its website 
about temporary cover and the service available. 
He also raised further concerns about the service received. He asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Miss J would feel frustrated with this experience. She thought she 
could change her car using the online service, rather than cancelling her policy. She bought 
her new car but couldnt then put it on cover immediately as Avivas system was in 
maintenance. So she had to pay for temporary cover. Then she found that the insurer 
wouldnt offer her cover because of her age and the new car. So she had to take out much 
more expensive cover elsewhere.
Mr J thought the policy had been mis-sold because if Miss J had known that the insurer 
wouldnt offer her cover then she wouldnt have bought the car she did. He said theyd 
checked on Avivas website that it would offer cover and it looked as if the car would be less 
expensive to insure.
But, as the investigator has already explained, this information on Avivas website is generic. 
It doesnt provide the underwriters criteria, which are commercially sensitive, and so 
wouldnt be published, and may change depending on its policy. 
Usually, a consumer would obtain a quote specific to their circumstances (e.g. their age and 
proposed car) to confirm that cover would be provided and its cost. 
So, whilst Avivas website provided generic information, I dont think this was mis-leading as 
it didnt guarantee that cover would be provided. I think it would always be dependent on the 
underwriters assessment of risk using its criteria. 
And, unfortunately, the insurer wasnt able to continue to provide cover for Miss J with her 
new car. Ive seen an extract from its underwriting guide that confirms this. 
Mr J thought that as a temporary policy had been provided by Aviva, then the car should 
have been added to the existing policy. But I can see that Aviva has explained that the 
policies have different underwriting criteria because of their different risks. So I cant say this 
is a reason for cover to be provided. I think the website makes it clear that these are two 
different types of policy, so I dont think Aviva has misled Miss J about this. 
Miss J wasnt able to check with Aviva that cover would be provided before she bought her 
car as its online system was down for maintenance and no phone service was provided. 
I think its Avivas commercial decision how it provides its services. I think it makes it clear 
that this brokerage service is online only except for claims. And I think it provided consumers 
with appropriate warning that the online system wouldnt be available for this particular 
weekend. So I dont think Aviva has acted unfairly. 
Aviva offered Miss J £150 compensation for not being able to access its website and it 
refunded her premium for her temporary cover. From what I can see, Miss J declined this 
offer. But I expect Aviva to honour it if she changes her mind. I think thats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. However, I dont think Aviva is responsible for Miss Js 
increased premiums, so I dont require it to compensate her for this. 
Mr J has raised further concerns about other aspects of Avivas service. But, as our 
investigator has already explained, he needs to first raise these with Aviva to give it a 
chance to respond. If Miss J remains unhappy, then she can bring her concerns to our 
service.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman