DRN-2960972
The complaint
Mr O complains about the way Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) dealt with a 
claim against him by a third party.
 
What happened
Mr O says he was driving in traffic when the vehicle in front stopped suddenly and he 
bumped into it. He says there was no damage to either vehicle. However some months later 
Admiral told him that it had settled a claim for several thousand pounds from the third party, 
and that this was recorded as a fault claim against Mr O. The amount of the repairs is 
recorded in the Proof of No Claims Bonus letter Admiral sent Mr O. Mr O was concerned 
about the effect this could have on his insurance premiums in the future and complained to 
Admiral. He was unhappy about the liability decision, and also unhappy that no proper 
investigation had taken place into the third party claim and that Admiral hadnt corresponded 
with him in the way hed asked. 
Admiral upheld these last two parts of Mr Os complaint and said it would pay him £100 for 
his distress and inconvenience. Admiral said it would conduct a further investigation into the 
claim. However Admiral said it had no reason to believe an incorrect liability decision had 
been made, as Mr O accepted hed hit the other vehicle. Admiral said hed failed to keep a 
safe braking distance in accordance with the Highway Code.
Mr O wasnt happy with this response and complained to this service. Our investigator 
agreed with Admirals decision on liability as Mr O shouldnt have been so close to the 
vehicle in front that he couldnt stop safely. However our investigator did agree that Admiral 
made mistakes in its investigation of the claim and also hadnt contacted Mr O by his 
preferred method. So our investigator said Admiral should pay Mr O £50 in addition to the 
£100 it had already agreed to pay him. At this point Admiral hadnt finished its investigation 
into the third party claim.
Admiral then provided photos showing damage to the front of the third party vehicle but 
nothing about any rear damage. So our investigator said Admiral should remove the fault 
claim from Mr Os record, reinstate his no claim bonus and pay him £100 for his trouble and 
upset. However Admiral then provided a copy of an invoice for repairs to the rear of the 
vehicle for the same amount as the claim it told Mr O it had settled. So our investigator said 
Admiral neednt change the way the claim was recorded but should still pay Mr O £100. 
Admiral said it had already paid Mr O £275 and would only agree to a further £50. 
Mr O wasnt happy with this response, so his complaint has been passed to me. Mr O wants 
Admiral to reverse its liability decision, or change the record to show a fault claim for £0.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Os complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
My role is to decide whether Admiral acted fairly and reasonably in dealing with the claim. 
Its not my role to decide whos at fault for an accident.
Mr Os Car Insurance Guide from Admiral says
We are entitled to
conduct the defence or settlement of any claim on your behalf
admit negligence for any accident or claim on your behalf.
Mr O says that at the time of the incident he was in a traffic jam and barely moving. The 
vehicle in front stopped suddenly and there was slight contact which Mr O says was 
unavoidable. Mr O says there was no visible damage. He took a photo of the back of the 
other vehicle and sent it to Admiral.
Mr O says that the third party vehicle must have been involved in another incident which 
caused the damage. He says there cant have been a repair to the vehicle following the 
incident he was involved in as there was no damage to be repaired. 
The photos showing damage to the front of the third party vehicle are dated after the incident 
involving Mr O. So it does appear there may have been another incident. But I cant say that 
there was another incident which caused the damage to the rear of the vehicle. Im not an 
engineer and I cant say whether or not the damage to the rear of the third party vehicle that 
the invoice relates to would have been easily visible. Mr O accepts that he did collide with 
the rear of the third party vehicle. So I think Admiral has acted fairly and reasonably in 
settling the third party claim in accordance with Mr Os insurance policy.
Although I cant say that Admiral should change its decision on liability in this case, I do think 
there were mistakes in the way it dealt with things. Admiral accepts this. The time Mr O has 
spent trying to sort things out has caused him stress and inconvenience.
Mr O says he hasnt received the payment which Admiral says its already made to him in 
relation to his complaint, and Admiral will now also need to pay Mr O compensation in 
accordance with this decision.        
My final decision
I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr O £100 in recognition of the 
inconvenience caused to him in this case. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman