DRN-3603345
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (Shop Direct), irresponsibly 
gave her a catalogue shopping account she couldnt afford.
What happened
Mrs C has complained about unaffordable lending on a catalogue shopping account that 
she took out with Shop Direct in August 2014. 
Mrs C was given an initial credit limit of £1,000. The credit limit was increased from £1,300 
to £5,000  between January 2015 and December 2017. The account went into arrears in 
June 2018 and Mrs C made no further payments after January 2019. The account was 
sold on to a third party in February 2019. 
Mrs C complained to Shop Direct to say that the lending was unaffordable for her. 
Shop Direct partially upheld Mrs Cs complaint, agreeing to refund the fees and interest for 
the period from when her credit limit was increased from 21 November 2015. It said it 
would use this refund  representing buy now pay later interest - to reduce the balance of 
what she already owed to Shop Direct. It also said it would not be seeking to recover any 
further amounts. It also said the remaining balance would be cleared and that any 
negative information would be removed from her credit file. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Cs complaint as she thought Mrs C appeared to have 
been managing her account without getting into difficulty. Also, up to the point from which 
Shop Direct made its offer she hadnt used the account beyond the opening credit limit. 
Mrs C says shes unhappy with the offer and also doesnt think its right that Shop Direct 
should be able to offset the amount of the offer against another debt. The complaint has 
therefore been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shop Direct will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Based on what Ive seen about this complaint, I dont think Shop Directs actions before 
November 2015 have caused Mrs C financial loss. I also dont consider that Shop Direct 
has been unfair in using the refund its offered Mrs C to pay off the debt that remains due 
to it. I also note that it has cleared any balance still due and has arranged for Mrs Cs 
credit file to be amended. I will explain my reasoning in a bit more detail. 
Prior to providing Mrs C with her opening credit C, Shop Direct says it carried out a credit 
check  to determine the amount of credit it was able to offer. Shop Direct also told us it 
assessed Mrs Cs account before giving her each credit limit increase. 
From what Ive seen about Mrs Cs financial circumstances at the time, I dont think it was 
unreasonable or unfair to grant Mrs C an opening credit limit of £1,000. I say this because 
Shop Direct told us there was no recent adverse information on Mrs Cs credit file and has 
provided us with a copy of the data it used. Its certainly possible that Shop Directs 
checks at the time of the account opening werent as thorough or sufficient as they might 
have been. But even so, from what Ive seen, I dont think better enquiries would have 
caused Shop Direct to think the initial credit limit was unaffordable.
Ive seen that up to November 2015 the balance on Mrs Cs account never exceeded 
£600, which was lower than the opening credit limit of £1,000. Mrs C made monthly 
payments that were in the main at the level of or above the minimum requested. Prior to 
November 2015, Mrs C also didnt have any arrears from missed payments and doesnt 
appear to have incurred any late payment fees. 
I think at the time of each increase it would have been sensible for Shop Direct to carry 
out proportionate checks to make sure that Mrs Cs financial situation was such that she 
could afford these increases. However, Ive kept in mind that whether the credit limits prior 
to November 2015 were reasonable or otherwise is something that is less relevant for this 
particular complaint. I say that because financial redress is designed to put someone back 
in the position as if the failing had not happened. In this case, as Ive mentioned above, 
Mrs Cs account balance never went over the initial credit limit of £1,000 before November 
2015  the point from which Shop Direct has offered to refund interest. So even were I to 
think the later credit increases were unreasonable, there would not be any redress to pay. 
This is because, prior to November 2015, Mrs C has suffered no detriment as a result of 
the actions of Shop Direct.   
Finally, Ive thought about whether it was unfair of Shop Direct to use the interest its 
offering to refund to reduce the outstanding balance rather than refund it directly to Mrs C. 
Given that this was an outstanding debt made up of deferred interest  interest that Mrs C 
hadnt paid  it would not leave her out of pocket. So I think it was fair and reasonable for 
Shop Direct to use this to pay back what Mrs C already owed. And Ive kept in mind that 
all remaining sums owed are being written off and that Mrs Cs credit file will be cleared of 
any negative information. 
It follows that I wont be making any award as I dont think Mrs C was caused any loss, 
material distress or inconvenience over and above the offer that Shop Direct has already 
made. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint as I dont consider Shop Direct 
Finance Company needs to do anything more than carry out the terms of the offer it has 
already made, should Mrs C choose to accept it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman