DRN-3129225
The complaint
Miss A and Mr C complain about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds settlement of their 
travel insurance claim and about its service.
What happened
Miss A and Mr C had a platinum annual multi trip travel policy, insured by Admiral. On 
5 March 2020 they took a trip abroad to a long haul destination. They were due to return to 
the UK on 27 March 2020, but on 23 March the airline cancelled their flight because of 
Covid-19. They had to extend the trip as they couldnt get another flight home until 8 April 
2020.
Miss A and Mr C say they contacted Admiral about the situation before the flight was 
cancelled (and before the British Government advised British travellers to return to the UK 
immediately) and Admiral said to continue their trip as planned as the policy may not cover 
an earlier flight. They also say when their flight was cancelled Miss As mother spoke to 
Admiral and was told their expenses would be covered under the catastrophe cover on the 
policy so long as they tried to get home as soon as possible.
Once home Miss A and Mr C submitted their claim for the additional accommodation and 
flight costs of about £4,500 they had to pay due to their extended stay.
Admiral said the claim wasnt covered under the catastrophe policy section because Miss A 
and Mr C hadnt returned earlier than planned, as the policy required. It settled the claim 
under the travel delay policy section and paid the maximum benefit under that section of 
£250 per person.
Miss A and Mr C complained to us. In summary they say Admiral should pay their claim 
under the catastrophe cover in their policy as: 
When they knew their flight was cancelled they tried to get another flight as soon as 
possible but the 8 April flight was the first option.
The catastrophe cover covered a pandemic and a pandemic caused their loss. The 
wording of the catastrophe section in the policy was unclear and should cover them.
Theres no policy exclusion that says catastrophe cover wont apply if an airline 
cancels a flight.
The additional two weeks abroad were extremely stressful and the additional strain of 
being told the claim wasnt fully covered and having to chase Admiral for a response 
was very challenging in their personal circumstances.
Our investigator said Admiral had fairly settled the claim.
Miss A and Mr C disagree and want an ombudsmans decision. They say the catastrophe 
section policy terms are deliberately vague and don't include a number of likely 
circumstances that could reasonably occur in the event of a catastrophe, such as being 
unable to get home.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to decide whether Admiral fairly and reasonably settled Miss A and Mr Cs claim, and 
I think it did. Ill explain why.
The catastrophe section of the policy says:
1. What is covered
We will pay up to the policy limits shown in your policy schedule if during your trip 
your accommodation or the immediate area is adversely affected by a catastrophe, 
which means:
oyou want to continue your trip but incur reasonable costs for additional 
accommodation and travel
oyou need to return home early but incur reasonable costs for additional 
accommodation and travel, provided you are unable to use your return travel 
tickets
oyou have costs you paid or legally must pay if you are unable to use or are 
forced to move from your pre-booked and pre-paid accommodation
oyou have lost money paid for excursions that you are unable to take.
The policy limit under the section is £1,500 per person. The definition of catastrophe 
includes pandemic. On 11 March 2020 the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to 
be a pandemic.
But the policy section only covers the above specified events in that section, up to the policy 
limit. I dont think the policy terms in the catastrophe section policy terms are deliberately 
vague or unclear, as Miss A and Mr C suggest. An insurer can decide what risks it wants to 
cover under a policy. Miss A and Mr C claim is for their additional costs due to having to 
extend their trip due a catastrophe, which isnt an event thats covered by the policy terms.
Ive also considered whether it would be fair and reasonable for Admiral to pay the claim 
under the catastrophe policy section even though theres no policy cover. Miss As provided 
the call recording of her mothers call with Admiral on 23 March 2020 which Ive listened to.  
Admiral told Miss As mother that they needed to return home early to be eligible to claim 
through the catastrophe section of the policy. I dont think Admiral led Miss As mother to 
believe their additional costs would be covered if they had to extend their stay. Even if 
Admiral had wrongly told them they would be covered that wrong advice wouldnt have 
disadvantaged them because they had no choice but to extend their stay and incur the 
additional costs.
Admiral doesnt have a call recording for the earlier call Miss A made to it. But from what she 
says Admiral gave her correct information about cover. At the time of the earlier call the 
British Government hadnt advised British travellers to return to the UK immediately. If they 
had returned before that advice was given they wouldnt have met the policy term 
requirement to need to return home early under the catastrophe cover and there would be 
no cover for any additional costs. Im sorry to disappoint Miss A and Mr C. I have a lot sympathy for the position they found 
themselves in having to extend their stay through no fault of their own. They were in a very 
stressful situation and I accept they returned as early as they could. But Admiral reasonably 
said the claim wasnt covered under the catastrophe policy section and I dont think there are 
any grounds on which I can fairly say it should pay the claim under that policy section.
Admiral did settle the claim under the delayed international departure (outbound or return 
journey) section of the policy which says:
We will pay you up to the policy limits shown in your policy schedule for every 
complete 12 hours that your trip is delayed, provided you have checked in and your 
pre-booked aircraft, ship or train is delayed by more than 12 hours beyond the time 
shown on your travel itinerary, as long as you eventually go on the trip.
As the airline had cancelled the flight Miss A and Mr C understandably didnt check in for the 
flight, so although the claim isnt strictly covered by that section either Admiral acted 
reasonably in settling the claim under that section and paying to the policy limit of £250 per 
person. I cant see any other policy section which would provide cover for the claim. 
For the above reasons I think Admirals settlement of the claim was fair and reasonable.
Miss A and Mr C have also raised that Admirals delay in considering their claim added to 
their stress about the claim settlement. They detailed the dates in the claim process. 
I understand it would have been very frustrating for them to chase the claim form, call 
recordings and its decision particularly in their personal circumstances. But overall I dont 
think Admirals response time was unreasonable. The rules we operate under say a 
business has eight weeks to respond to a consumers complaint. Miss A and Mr C 
complained to Admiral on 12 May 2020. It sent them the call recordings at the end of May. 
Its final response letter to them was 28 May 2020 with a follow up letter on 8 July after 
listening to the 23 March call. So Admiral responded around the eight week timescale which 
was reasonable. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A and Mr C 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman