DRN-3159707
The complaint
Mrs C complains about the suitability of the advice she received from Aviva Life & Pensions 
UK Limited (Aviva) to take out a Free Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) 
plan in 1998. She thinks shes lost out financially as a result and would like to be in the 
position shed now be in had she received suitable advice.
What happened
Mrs C was a teacher who had belonged to the Teachers Pension Scheme since 1974. In 
April 1998 she and her husband met with AXA, now part of Aviva  which is how Ill refer to 
the business throughout the rest of this decision  to discuss their retirement planning. As a 
result of the meeting  which established that Mrs C had a seven year shortfall in her 
pensionable service  she agreed to take out a FSAVC plan for £60 net per month invested 
into the with-profit fund. 
In April 2007, following her retirement, Mrs C used her FSAVC to take her tax free cash and 
use the residual fund of £6,623.41 to purchase a single life level term annuity.
In April 2019, using a representative, Mrs C complained to Aviva about the advice she 
received in 1998. Among a number of other complaint points the representative said that 
Mrs C hadnt been made aware of the in-house scheme alternatives, and no comparison had 
been made about the likely lower charges of those options. It said that if Mrs C had been 
made aware, she would have chosen the most suitable in-house alternative.
Aviva didnt uphold the complaint. It said its adviser had:
Made Mrs C aware of the alternative in-house options.
Noted that the employer didnt offer matching contributions.
Noted that Mrs C had looked into buying added years and decided it was too 
expensive.
Pointed out that the in-house AVC may have lower charges than the FSAVC. 
But Mrs C wasnt happy with that response, so she brought her complaint to us where one of 
our investigators looked into the matter. He said the complaint shouldnt be upheld and 
made the following points in support of his position:
There was evidence to show that added years had been discussed as an alternative 
but discounted as being very expensive.
The available sales paperwork noted that the in-house AVCs had been discussed 
and that Mrs C had been directed to the scheme administrator for further information. 
It had also been explained that in-house AVCs generally offered lower charges than 
FSAVCs.
He accepted that Mrs C had been in her job for some time but didnt regard this as 
persuasive enough evidence to support the claim that she would have chosen added 
years given the option. 
He didnt think Aviva needed to contact Mrs C during the industry wide pension 
review about the sale of the FSAVC because that was only directed at schemes that 
offered in-house AVC schemes with matching contributions.
Hed considered the case on its own individual merits.
Mrs Cs representative didnt agree and made the following points in response:
There was no evidence within the sales file that added years should be discounted 
as an option. Whilst there was no doubt it would have been expensive to have made 
up the shortfall to obtain full service, the cost of making up one year was around 
1.4% of salary which equated to £26 per month. This was around one third of the 
contribution Mrs C made to her FSAVC  so it wasnt the case that added years was 
too expensive.
It didnt believe that the adviser had complied with his duty of care to ensure the 
product he recommended was suitable. 
There was no great detail in the explanation of the difference in charges between the 
schemes. Mrs C may not have understood such a vague statement. The further 
reasons for Avivas recommendation were also quite generic and largely irrelevant to 
Mrs Cs circumstances.
Mrs C had been a teacher for over 20 years and was unlikely to leave the profession 
 so added years would have been a suitable alternative.
It understood the reason for us publishing final decisions was so that each party 
could learn from the event and ensure similar mistakes werent made time and time 
again. It provided an example of another decision which had a different outcome but 
with similar circumstances to ask for more consistency in our approach.
It asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
The investigator provided further reasons for his conclusions. He said that:
The evidence hed seen suggested Mrs C had explored the option of added years 
but it was deemed to be too expensive. As Mrs C had signed the document that 
recorded this information, he was satisfied the matter had been researched. 
He thought the adviser had complied with the necessary requirements when making 
a recommendation.
He reiterated that our approach regarding workplace benefits was that they can be 
rescinded or altered and cant be relied upon from year to year.
Each complaint we receive is considered on its own merits as they will always have 
their own individual circumstances.
He didnt use any previous Financial Ombudsman Service decision as the basis for 
reaching his outcome. But our process allowed for an ombudsman to consider the 
complaint afresh  which might lead to a different conclusion being reached.
  
So as no resolution could be reached the complaint was passed to me to review. 
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said that Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld and that Aviva 
should undertake a redress calculation to put her as close to the position shed now be in, had she gone ahead with the in-house AVC option. I made the following points in support of 
my findings:
In 1996 the regulator issued updated guidance called RU20  which reiterated the 
procedures it expected product providers to follow. So I looked at whether Aviva had 
met the three main requirements of RU20.
I thought that one of Avivas statements within its recommendation report did draw 
Mrs Cs attention to the in-house alternatives and directed her to the employer for 
more information on them.
But I wasnt satisfied that it had met the second requirement because, while it did talk 
about the cost differences between AVCs and FSAVCs, it said that in-house 
schemes may offer lower charges than free standing. I thought Aviva needed to go 
further and point out that the in-house option was likely to be more cost effective and 
not simply that it might be. 
Aviva also noted the various benefits of the FSAVC plan within the same sentence 
that declared AVC costs may be cheaper  which I thought didnt allow Mrs C to take 
in the full effect of them being a likely cheaper alternative. 
I thought Aviva needed to be clearer that the likelihood was that AVCs would be 
cheaper. And I thought if it had then Mrs C would have chosen that option.
I also considered if Mrs C might have chosen the added years alternative if it had 
been brought to her attention. But I thought it was likely that, comparing the returns 
and benefits of FSAVCs and AVCs, the cost of added years might have seemed 
expensive in comparison. 
But even if I was wrong about the costs, Avivas recommendation report said that 
Mrs C had already looked into added years and seemingly discounted it because of 
the costs. Mrs C had signed the report so I would have expected her to have 
questioned the matter if it didnt reflect what had happened.
Responses to my provisional decision 
Mrs Cs representative accepted the provisional decision and said it had nothing further to 
add  but Aviva didnt agree. It said that its recommendation report was a summary of what 
had been discussed and the order the points were set out within the report didnt necessarily 
reflect the order in which they were discussed. It thought the important factor was that Mrs C 
knew she had two in-house alternatives and had been made aware there was a difference in 
costs between AVCs and FSAVCs. 
So, as she had already discounted the use of the added years facility on the grounds of 
costs, it was reasonable to assume that she would have done the same comparison 
between AVC and FSAVC plan costs. Aviva remained of the opinion therefore that its 
adviser had discussed the alternative options in line with the RU20 1996 guidance. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having carefully considered Avivas further submissions, I see no reason to depart from 
my provisional findings. 
As I set out in my provisional decision, by the time Aviva gave its advice to Mrs C in 1998 the 
regulator had issued Regulatory Update 20 (RU20), which gave guidance on the 
procedures which members should adopt in advising clients on the relative merits of free 
standing (FSAVCs) and in-scheme additional voluntary contributions (in-scheme AVCs) related to occupational pension schemes. 
This guidance was split between IFAs and product providers  the second of which was 
Avivas position in respect of Mrs Cs case. It stated that a tied adviser of a product provider 
shouldnt recommend their own FSAVC until they had:
drawn the clients attention to the in-scheme alternative;
discussed the differences between the two routes in generic terms (taking account,
among other things, of the features described in this article);
directed the client to his employer, or to the scheme trustees, for more information on
the in-scheme option.
So I looked at the available documentation from 1998 to show whether Aviva satisfied the 
regulatory requirements. The first statement in the report said that I have made you
aware of the availability of your in-house AVC scheme and that they offer the facility to make
additional provision towards retirement benefits. An alternative that we have discussed was
the Free standing AVC route, and I have suggested that you seek additional information
from your scheme supplier.
So Im satisfied that this met the requirement to draw Mrs Cs attention to the in-scheme 
alternative and directed her to her employer for further information. 
The remaining procedural requirement was to discuss the differences between the in-house 
and FSAVC routes in generic terms. Here the guidance gave a number of examples of how 
this should be met through things like investment choice, retirement ages, taxation of funds 
and portability of the schemes  amongst others. 
The guidance also set out its expectation of such a discussion with respect to charges  
stating that, charges under in-scheme AVCs will usually be lower than those under 
FSAVCs, reflecting economies of scale, rebated commission or a contribution to 
administration expenses by the employer. Of all the differences between the two routes, this 
is likely to exert the greatest impact on which route would offer the greater benefits to the 
client. 
So I think the guidance did two things here. It confirmed that charges applied to AVCs will 
usually be lower and that most consumers would find this pricing to be one of, if not the 
most important factor in choosing the most appropriate scheme for themselves. I would 
therefore have expected Aviva to replay the strength of this explanation  that the AVC 
charges were likely to be more cost effective, in its suitability report. I think it needed to show 
that the effect of the difference between these charges had been discussed to the point 
where it was clear that the in-house scheme was most likely to be cheaper.
But I dont think Aviva did this because its only refence to the comparison of charges said, I 
have also pointed out the difference in charges between the two schemes and generally
the in-house schemes may offer lower charges than free standing. This was then followed 
by a statement that, Under a free standing arrangement you may have a wider choice of 
investment funds, greater privacy and control and flexibility at what age the benefits can be 
taken. It also makes available the option to take the maximum tax free cash at retirement. 
Those advantages of a FSAVC plan werent linked to Mrs Cs own personal situation, so its 
difficult to know to what degree they were important to her. 
But in any case, I think their proximity in the report to the confirmation that AVCs may have 
lower charges, does, to some degree, negate what the regulator described as likely to exert 
the greatest impact on which route would offer the greater benefits to the client.However, even if I am wrong in my view about the effect of these advantages upon the 
benefit of alternative lower cost AVCs, I remain of the opinion that the generic differences 
needed to be explained more clearly in the report and it should have demonstrated that the 
in-house option was likely to be more cost effective  not simply that it might be. I think if it 
had been clearer then Mrs C would have taken the view that it was in her best interests to 
take out in-house AVCs due to the likely lower costs  which I think would have been the 
most important factor for her when deciding how best to make further retirement provision.
I know Aviva says it believes its adviser did discuss the in-house options available to Mrs C, 
and that it covered all the regulatory procedures along the way  even if each point didnt 
follow in sequence within the recommendation report. And Ive accepted that the adviser met 
two of the three procedures and even met the need to discuss most of the generic 
differences between the schemes. But I think the comparative costs of the alternatives was 
the most important factor to discuss, and for an individual such as Mrs C  who had 
remained in the same type of employment for 20 years, benefits such as flexibility and 
portability would have been subjugated by the greater benefit of a lower cost arrangement. 
And I can only assume that Avivas adviser described the costs within the report in the same 
way as he discussed them with Mrs C  which I dont think was sufficient to meet the 
regulatory guidance at the time. So I think the difference between the words use to describe 
the likelihood of the AVC costs being lower would have been enough for Mrs C to reach a 
different conclusion if shed been made aware.
Mrs C said she would have chosen the added years alternative if she had been made 
aware of it at the time. And I considered this possibility carefully based on her 
circumstances. But I think that, with a mid-range projected illustration rate on returns of 9% - 
as laid down by the regulator in 1998, it was likely that Mrs C would have found the returns 
for investment into an AVC looked significantly better than the benefits of added years. 
But in case, Aviva confirmed that Mrs C had already looked into the possibility of purchasing 
added years and that it proved to be very expensive. This would appear to be in line with 
the reasons I gave for Mrs C not purchasing the added years alternative, and as Mrs C 
signed the report, I assume she would have been satisfied with what had been recorded 
within it. So, based on the evidence from the time, I dont think Mrs C would have taken out 
added years as an alternative as it would seem that she investigated and discounted it as 
an alternative vehicle.
Putting things right
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should undertake a redress calculation in accordance with
the regulators FSAVC review guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into
account that data for the CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after
1 January 2005.
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. 
So where the calculation requires ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC 
to be compared after1 January 2005, Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should use the 
CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and the FTSE UK Private Investor 
Growth Total Return Index thereafter.If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid
into Mrs Cs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mrs C as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for
income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax 
free and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax rate in retirement 
presumed to be 20% here.
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Cs complaint against Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman