DRN-1890216
The complaint
Mr G complains that Zurich Insurance PLC unfairly rejected his boat insurance claim. 
References to Zurich include those acting on their behalf in this matter.
What happened
Mr G found his boat to be in poor condition and suspected this had been caused maliciously 
or through vandalism. He reported the matter to the police, believing it to have happened 
between 15 September 2018 and 15 April 2019 while it was stored in a boat yard. Mr G 
made a claim for the damage on his boat insurance policy.
Zurich investigated Mr Gs claim and declined it on the basis that his policy didnt include 
cover for malicious damage or vandalism. They also noted that gradual deterioration or wear 
and tear isnt covered by the policy.
Mr G didnt agree with this, so the matter was looked into by an investigator here. The 
investigator initially found that Mr Gs policy did include cover for malicious damage and 
vandalism, so he asked Zurich to reconsider the claim.
Zurich then returned to say they believe the damage was gradual deterioration, referencing 
something called varnish bloom which can happen over time. The investigator felt this was 
persuasive and revised their view, explaining to Mr G that the claim rejection had been fair.
Mr G didnt agree with this so asked for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not upholding Mr Gs complaint, Ill explain why.
Mr G suspected his boat had been vandalised and so submitted a claim. He showed that his 
boat had previously been in good condition and said he didnt feel it could have degraded in 
the way it had over the months it had been in the boat yard. He also said part of the boat had 
been broken off.
But Mr G also said that the boat yard is surrounded by appropriate fencing as well as a 
locked gate and iron railings. And Ive not seen anything to suggest that these have been 
breached. Theres no independent report from the boat club referring to any break in or any 
incidents of vandalism.
And Mr G has also said that theres potential for the boat cover to have been removed and 
for the boat to have been exposed to the weather over the winter.
In view of this I dont think theres enough evidence for me to concur with Mr G that his boat 
was damaged maliciously or through vandalism. And when Mr G was invited to provide 
independent evidence to support his claim he declined to do so.
Having considered everything very carefully I dont think it was unreasonable for Zurich to 
decline Mr Gs claim. Their conclusion that the damage happened gradually appears to be a 
reasonable one, with the photographs giving the appearance of gradual deterioration. I 
appreciate that Mr G has suggested something corrosive may have been used, and that may 
also give the appearance of gradual deterioration  but I dont think theres enough evidence 
to support this theory.
So, although it appears Zurichs initial reason for declining the claim wasnt correct the 
damage has not been shown to have been caused in the manner suggested by Mr G. And 
he himself has offered an alternative which appears more likely in the absence of anything to 
support his view of vandalsim.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman