DRN-2254283
The complaint
T, a limited company, complains that PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA is delaying payments 
from its customers.
What happened
T says that payments made to it directly using PayPal are routinely delayed and it has 
provided examples of this. But payments using a different payment service or made through 
an online platform are not delayed in this way. No concerns about the payments delayed by 
PayPal have been substantiated and these delays are affecting its business and customers.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that PayPal had 
confirmed that payments were being reviewed for compliance reasons. It had explained that 
it needed to ensure it met all legal and regulatory requirements. This service did not have a 
role in saying what processes PayPal should put in place to do that. And she didnt think that 
it had acted outside its terms and conditions however inconvenient this was for T. She also 
didnt think that it had discriminated against T as this would need to involve a protected 
group or characteristic. So, she didnt consider that PayPal had made a mistake or acted 
unfairly.
T did not agree. The director who represents it said that PayPal had acted in a discriminatory 
way and T expected to be treated fairly. This service should be making sure that PayPal had 
not acted illegally and not be its compliant messenger. If the percentage of payments which 
were being delayed was not evidence of harassment and unfair treatment he asked what 
would be. The payments received by T are of a relatively small size and only one was 
actually stopped due to a problem with the way the customer had sent it. PayPal could 
monitor payments but delaying payments was ineffective. And the director asked what 
reasonable basis PayPal had for acting and why T could not be told about this. PayPal had 
told T it used an algorithm to identify payments for review, but it was responsible for the 
consequences of this. T thought that PayPals actions were to discourage it to stop using its 
service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out above in some detail what the director of T had said on its behalf about PayPals 
actions. And I have seen the clear evidence of the number of payments that T has taken 
which have been delayed for review. I fully understand the frustration of the director and why 
he feels that T is being treated unfairly. So, I know that my assessment of Ts complaint is 
going to be very disappointing and unsatisfactory for him.
I need to be clear on a number of points about what this service can look at in any complaint. 
We do not regulate businesses and so dont have a role in saying what processes should be 
followed. We provide informal dispute resolution and are not a court, but we take account of 
relevant legislation and regulations in deciding what is fair and reasonable.
This complaint is about T, a separate legal entity from the director so I am looking at the 
effect on it. So, it doesnt under legislation have any protected characteristics. That said I 
would still expect PayPals process and policies to be applied to T in the same way as any 
other business. And Im afraid that despite what I agree looks to be a very skewed outcome 
of that for T Im satisfied from the information Ive seen that no error has been made.
I wouldnt expect PayPal to share the commercial details of how it identifies payments for 
review. It said in an email to T on 15 October 2019 that:
Unfortunately it is not possible to provide specific information on the reasons for your 
payments being declined or reversed on your account. Our systems are hardwired to detect 
risks and anomalies relating to activity and transaction on all our accounts. This is in the 
interest of account and system security and integrity.
Our systems must also take into consideration national and international guidelines and 
regulations regarding online payment processing and as such I would not be in a position to 
pinpoint exact information for this issue. Please note that we are not in a position to override 
or by pass these systems.
Thats going to be the extent of what it is going to say and frankly Im afraid sets out what T 
might continue to expect in future. And the terms and conditions of PayPals agreement with 
T allow it to hold payments for review in a number of circumstances.
Ive undertaken an independent review of Ts complaint. And my conclusion is that PayPal 
has not acted unfairly for the reasons Ive explained. I know that this wont be a welcome 
outcome for T and if it does not accept my decision then its free to pursue this matter in 
court subject to any relevant time limits.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman