DRN-2770495
The complaint
Mr K complains about the quality of a car he acquired under a conditional sale agreement 
with Close Brothers Limited t/as Close Brothers Motor Finance.  
What happened
Mr K acquired a used car under a conditional sale agreement with Close Brothers on 
15 July 2020. The car was nine years old, had travelled about 100,000 miles and cost 
£11,495.
 
Shortly after acquiring the car it broke down. Mr K contacted the supplying dealership (the 
dealership) and then later, Close Brothers, about rejecting the car. Meanwhile a fault with 
the gearbox was identified which was repaired at significant cost to Mr K.
On 25 August 2020 Close Brothers issued a final response letter. It declined Mr Ks request 
to reject the car as it was persuaded by comments provided by the dealership the fault with 
the gearbox was caused by a mechanic Mr K had arranged to service the car.
 
Mr K asked our service for an independent review. He said he had only had the car for a 
couple of days before the gearbox went and said he didnt get the car serviced. He said he 
should be reimbursed for the repairs he had paid for and for the cost of a recovery truck. 
The investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He wasnt persuaded Mr K had the 
car serviced, and therefore didnt think he should be held responsible for the fault with the 
gearbox. He recommended Close Brothers reimburse Mr K his costs and pay him £150 
compensation for the inconvenience hed been caused.
 
Mr K accepted the investigators recommendation. Close Brothers didnt. It provided 
comments from the dealership reiterating the fault was caused while the car was in Mr Ks 
possession. As an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
 
The agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement  so we can consider 
a complaint relating to it. Close Brothers is also the supplier of the goods under this type of 
agreement, and responsible for a complaint about their quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a contract to 
supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory. 
To be considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history. 
Close Brothers supplied Mr K with a car that was 9 years old and had travelled about 
100,000 miles. And the price of the car was lower than it would have been if it had been 
supplied new. So I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect that parts of 
the car might have already suffered wear and tear. And theres a greater risk this car might 
need repair and/or maintenance sooner than a car which wasnt as road-worn when it was 
supplied. 
Based on the evidence I have from both parties, it seems likely there was a fault with the car. 
I say this because a garage inspected the car in July 2020 and found the gearbox oil filter 
housing over-tightened and leaking. Ive seen a recovery invoice which likely relates to a 
breakdown. And Ive seen an invoice from August 2020 for a full gearbox recondition, at a 
cost of £2,500. 
Ive already said why I think there was a fault with the car. So Ive gone on to consider 
whether the goods were of satisfactory quality when they were supplied. I dont think a 
reasonable person would expect this car to have a gearbox failure so soon after acquiring it. 
But the crux of this complaint is whether, as Close Brothers argues, the fault was caused by 
a service Mr K arranged while the car was in his possession.
Close Brothers is relying on comments from the dealership. Its version of events is, in 
summary:
- Mr K returned the car to it on a recovery truck on 25 July 2020. 
- It arranged an inspection by a third-party garage which reported on 27 July 2020. 
The dealership says this showed it was evident a recent service had been carried 
out, the drain plug had been over-tightened causing the seal to crack resulting in oil 
draining from the gearbox. It further said the mechanic had said it would have only 
taken about 5 miles of driving to cause permanent damage. 
- Mr K admitted he took the car to another garage and had travelled over 350 miles by 
the point there was a problem. It further said Mr K had taken responsibility for the 
damage he caused, and repairs were carried out - which he paid for.
Mr K, on the other hand, says, in summary:
- The gearbox failed two days after he got the car and he returned it to the dealership 
on 18 July 2020. He says the dealership told him the law said it had a chance to fix 
the car before he could reject it and would fix it by 21 July 2020.
- On 23 July 2020 the dealership said it hadnt had a chance to fix the car, so he asked 
Close Brothers if he could reject it.
- While on holiday Close Brothers called him to say the gearbox was broken because 
hed had it serviced, which he denied, and that the car was fixed and ready to collect.
- When he collected the car on 21 August 2020 it wasnt fixed which led to him 
needing a further recovery and to then pay £2,500 for a repair. When the evidence/comments are incomplete or contradictory, as much of it is here, I must 
decide the complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words what I think is most 
likely to have happened. 
The third-party garage produced an invoice dated 27 July 2020. It says the gearbox oil filter 
housing was over-tightened and leaking.  It goes on to say the housing was replaced and the 
oil topped up  at a cost of £300. The dealership says the mechanic told it the 
over-tightening happened at a recent service and that driving the car for 5-miles would have 
caused permanent damage. I havent seen anything to support that this is what the 
mechanic said, or how he could have known how recently a service had occurred. I also 
note Mr K says he spoke to the mechanic and says he wasnt told the issue was caused by 
him, or when it happened; and he was told the over-tightening could have happened a few 
weeks before the breakdown. 
The dealership says Mr K admitted he had the car serviced, accepted responsibility for the 
damage to the gearbox and paid for the repairs. It has provided no evidence of this  such 
as emails, texts, call recordings or contemporaneous notes. It says he paid for the repairs 
(£300) in cash, which is out of sorts for Mr K as he paid for the August 2020 repair over a 
debit card and a credit card. I also note Mr K has asked for his costs to be reimbursed and 
hasnt mentioned this.
Mr K disputes he had the car serviced or accepted responsibility for the damage. Hes been 
consistent about this throughout the complaint and his actions arent consistent with 
someone accepting responsibility. Overall, Im not persuaded Mr K had the car serviced in 
the short time he had it. Nor am I persuaded he accepted responsibility for the damage.
I accept the third-party garage found the gearbox oil filter housing was over-tightened and 
leaking, and that this led to the need to recondition the gearbox. The dealership has said the 
issue couldnt have been present at the point of supply because of the miles Mr K travelled 
in the car. The finance agreement shows the mileage as 100,320. The August repair invoice 
shows the mileage as 100,660. So it seems Mr K travelled about 340 miles in the car before 
it broke down. Thats not a great deal of miles for a leak to lead to the damage the gearbox 
ultimately suffered. And on the evidence presented to me, Im not persuaded this number of 
miles, over such a short space of time, means the over-tightening must have happened 
while the car was in Mr Ks possession. Its more likely, in my view, the leak was present or 
developing at the time of supply. It follows I dont think the car was of satisfactory quality 
when it was supplied to Mr K.
Ive already explained why I think there was a fault with the car. Ive also explained why I 
think that fault meant the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. I can see 
that a repair has already taken place. Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 Mr K could have 
rejected the car within 30 days of it being supplied to him, if he hadnt elected for a repair. 
Things have moved on now, with Mr K paying for repairs which appear to have resolved the 
issue and Mr K seems happy with the car. So I think a fair remedy here is for Close Brothers 
to reimburse Mr K for his costs, plus annual interest at 8% simple from the date he paid 
them.
The matter has caused Mr K distress and inconvenience. He experienced a breakdown, and 
then had the hassle of calls with the dealership and Close Brothers. He had the frustration of 
having to arrange a repair himself, when he ought not have had to. The investigator 
recommended Close Brothers pay Mr K £150 compensation in recognition of the impact this 
matter has on him. I consider that reasonable. 
  
Putting things rightClose Brothers Limited t/as Close Brothers Motor Finance should pay Mr K:
- £300 for the recovery costs, plus simple interest* at 8% a year from the date he paid 
it (18 July 2020) to the date of settlement;
- £2,500 for the gearbox repair costs, plus simple interest* at 8% a year from the date 
he paid it (28 August 2020) to the date of settlement; and 
- £150 compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience hes been 
caused.
*If Close Brothers Limited t/as Close Brothers Motor Finance considers that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr K how 
much its taken off. It should also give Mr K a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so 
he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Close Brothers Limited t/as Close Brothers Motor 
Finance to put things right as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman