DRN-3879287
The complaint
Mr B complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Virgin) failed to refund
a transaction he didnt recognise and provided poor service.
What happened
Mr B noticed a payment had left his credit card that he didnt recognise and raised it with
Virgin and the merchant who took it. The payment was linked to an insurance business.
The merchant declined to deal with Mr B because they had no record of him, so Mr B was
left to raise it with Virgin, which he did in August 2022. At the time, Mr B also registered a
complaint with Virgin and the Financial Ombudsman Service. The payment was for £33.98
and various letters and calls were exchanged between them over the following months.
At the same time, Mr B had also raised another dispute concerning an unrelated transaction
which Virgin were also dealing with. After about two months, Virgin asked Mr B for evidence
concerning the payment hed disputed and gave him until 11/11/22 to provide any further
information.
Virgin hadnt received any response and wrote to Mr B on 14/11/22, closing the dispute, but
they also told Mr B that he had a further period (until 25/11/22) to provide any evidence to
them.
Mr B wrote to Virgin on 16/11/22 with evidence of a call hed received from the insurance
merchant explaining they didnt have any record of him so couldnt proceed with his enquiry.
Virgin subsequently closed the dispute and declined to refund Mr B. He then applied to the
courts regarding the transaction. Virgin agreed to refund the substantive payment and the
court fees. This was credited to Mr Bs account in December 2022.
Mr B was still unhappy with Virgins handling of his issue and continued to raise it with our
service. The investigator assigned to the complaint had already issued an early view that
concluded that Virgin should refund the disputed transaction, although this was prior to the
court application. Virgin also offered to refund the transaction in February 2023 (after theyd
already paid it from the court application), which they later withdrew.
A new investigator took over and looked into the customer service issues raised by Mr B.
She concluded that Virgin had made some errors when dealing with Mr B but didnt think an
award was appropriate.
Mr B disagreed and argued that Virgin had failed to deal with his situation, explain why
different complaints were raised and prove theyd dated a letter on a certain day in October
2022. He also stated it had taken about nine months to obtain a resolution.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has now been passed to me for a
decision.
I issued my provisional findings on the merits of Mr Bs complaint on 26 April 2023. In my 
provisional findings, I explained why I intended to uphold Mr Bs complaint and offered both 
sides the opportunity to submit further evidence or arguments in response. An extract of that 
decision is set out below and forms part of this final decision:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After Virgin were notified about the court application, they decided to refund the substantive
loss to Mr B and related court costs. Id also note that earlier in the complaint process, theyd
offered to refund the transaction. At that time, Mr B declined it because he wanted his
complaint dealing with.
So, because the disputed transaction has now been refunded to Mr B, I no longer have to
consider it as part of the redress, although I will mention it where its relevant.
It seems to me that Mr Bs main issues stems from Virgins lack of communication with him
during the dispute about the transaction. There is also a comment from Virgin that they sent
Mr B a letter on a specific date but that doesnt appear to be accurate. I dont think the issue
of the date on the letter is relevant to the outcome of the complaint.
What is clear is that Mr B raised a dispute, alongside another dispute for an unrelated
transaction. I think having both of these running together may have caused some confusion,
especially as they had different references. There was also a further complaint reference
which Virgin have confirmed was a duplicate complaint.
The timeline of the relevant letters between the two parties indicates they asked Mr B for
evidence about the transaction from the merchant. The original timescale was missed by Mr
B, but he responded to Virgin within the extension they gave him. In that response, Mr B
provided a transcript and a copy of the call hed had with the insurance merchant.
As can be seen by the transcripts of the contents of the call, the insurance merchant had no
record of Mr B, so wouldnt deal with his request. I think its reasonable to conclude that as
they had no records of Mr B on their system, it would be unusual for them to have a
legitimate reason to take a payment from his credit card. It would also be difficult for Mr B to
provide any further detail to Virgin if he wasnt responsible for the transaction or had any
record with them. It seems that Virgin closed the dispute without further enquiries.
Virgin told our service that there were two transactions for 0.01 pence from the same
merchant taken annually for the previous two years, which is why I think they thought the
disputed transaction was made by Mr B. Whilst it provides some link to the merchant, it
doesnt conclusively prove that Mr B was responsible for the later payment and his evidence
that he didnt have an account with them should also have been relevant to their
considerations.
It's apparent from the communication between Mr B and Virgin that he was left frustrated by
their lack of explanations about what was happening, and I tend to agree that he didnt
receive the service Im sure Virgin would want to provide. It took an application to the court
to finally convince Virgin to refund the payment. They also offered to refund it several
months later, which indicates some confusion within Virgin about what had already
happened as theyd already refunded it. Virgin subsequently revoked the offer based on their
earlier payment.Overall, Mr B provided evidence to Virgin from the merchant which doesnt seem to have
persuaded them to look into the matter further. I think the evidence shed enough doubt on
the transaction that Virgin could have dealt with it sooner and followed it up. The time taken
to deal with the issue seems overly long, including the initial two-month gap before they first
asked Mr B for evidence.
I think Virgin let Mr B down and Im currently minded to award him £100 for the unnecessary
delays caused by Virgin and their handling of the situation which caused Mr B to mount a
separate court action before Virgin offered to refund him.
Virgin and Mr B both accepted my provisional decision. Mr B provided further commentary 
about his complaint which was essentially a repeat of earlier points hed made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as neither party had anything new to add, I see no reason to reach a
different conclusion. So, this final decision confirms the findings set out in my provisional
decision.
Putting things right
Virgin should now pay £100 to Mr B for their handling of the situation.
My final decision
My final decision is that Clydesdale Bank Plc  trading as Virgin Money are instructed to settle 
this complaint as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman