DRN-3479164
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D say Barclays Bank UK PLC bounced a valid cheque. They are seeking 
substantial compensation and a sincere apology. 
What happened
Mrs D signed a cheque for £15,000 from their joint account on 19 July 2021. It was to repay 
money borrowed from Mr Ds mother. Barclays bounced the cheque as the signature did not 
match the one it held for Mrs D. It wrote to Mr and Mrs D on 5 August 2021 explaining it had 
been unable to pay the cheque as it wasnt signed in accordance with their signature 
mandate.
Mr D says this caused them significant stress as the cheque not being honoured could have 
resulted in him being both disinherited and divorced. And the signature matched a cheque 
Mrs D had signed 21 days earlier that was honoured. 
Our investigator said whilst Barclays had made no error in how it handled the cheque the 
service provided was poor. And during our investigation Barclays acknowledged certain 
service failings  incorrect information was given in its final response letter about a similar  
complaint in 2019; it always held a signature for Mrs D but advised to the contrary; and it 
should have advised Mr and Mrs D to update their signature mandate in 2019. To recognise 
this it offered £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. Our 
investigator said this was in line with what he would have instructed.
Mr and Mrs D rejected this offer and asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint 
was passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have found no evidence that Barclays made a mistake when it didnt process the cheque    
Mrs D had signed. The terms and conditions of the account allow the bank not to follow an 
accountholders instructions in certain circumstances - one of these is if its unsure the 
instructions came from the accountholder. In this instance it identified a signature mismatch 
and so contacted Mr and Mrs D to explain this. I find its conclusion that the signature differed 
from the one it held for Mrs D, dated 31 July 2012, to be fair.  
Mr D raised that a cheque with the same signature was paid a short time before. Barclays 
explained that its policy is to sample on a random basis for cheques under a certain value, 
so this cheque most likely wouldnt have been checked. Barclays is entitled to set its own 
risk policies, and that is not something this service has the powers to interfere in, so I wont 
comment further on that. But I find this explanation as to why the earlier cheque was cashed 
to be reasonable.
Turning to the service aspects of this complaint, inaccurate information has been provided 
about the 2019 complaint and about Mrs Ds signature not being on record. Barclays has 
also acknowledged it ought to have proactively advised Mr and Mrs D to update their 
signature mandates in 2019. But I agree with the investigator that the banks offer of £100 is 
reasonable and appropriately recognise the trouble and upset these failings caused.
I know Mr and Mrs D consider a much more substantial payment should be made. Mr D has 
outlined two very significant events that he argues the bounced cheque could have caused. 
But we dont consider what might have happened when we make awards  and more 
crucially I havent found that Barclays made an error when it returned the cheque unpaid. 
It follows Barclays should now make the payment of £100 to Mr and Mrs D, along with an 
apology for the service failings that it has acknowledged during our investigation. I would 
urge Mr and Mrs D to update their signatures as Barclays has advised to avoid any similar 
issues going forward.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC should now make its 
suggested settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman