DRN-3292622
The complaint
Mrs G feels that Tesco Personal Finance PLC has treated her unfairly in relation to the 
purchase of a caravan.
What happened
In 2011 Mrs G used her Tesco credit card in part payment for a caravan she bought from a 
Merchant. In 2013 a crack appeared on the exterior of the caravan near the door. Mrs G 
claimed on her insurance and the crack was repaired.
In 2018 a similar crack appeared in the same vicinity. So Mrs G took the caravan to for 
inspection and a warranty claim was submitted to the manufacturers who declined the claim,
because it felt the damage was as a result of the caravan being driven over rough roads or 
through a pothole. Mrs G then took the issue to her insurance company and this was
subsequently declined as they said the caravan had a manufacturing fault. So Mrs G 
complained to Tesco.
Tesco looked into the matter. It concluded (in the end) that it didnt have a liability here under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 due to Section 5 of the Limitation Act 1980. It 
says that time-bar started from the purchase of the caravan and thus when Mrs G raised the 
issue with Tesco in 2019 she was well outside the six-year time limitation. Mrs G doesnt 
think this is fair. Our Investigator looked into the matter and decided Tesco hadnt treated 
Mrs G unfairly. Mrs G doesnt agree so, this complaint came to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in May 2022 on the matter, explaining that my current thinking 
was that Tesco had acted fairly. To which both Tesco and Mrs G have responded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having considered Mrs Gs comments and the position of Tesco I see no reason to 
materially change my position on whether Tesco has acted fairly. And accordingly and for 
the following reasons Mrs Gs complaint is unsuccessful. I shall deal with Mrs Gs arguments 
in the sequence issues as set out in my provisional decision. And I do note the clarifications 
she has provided, and Ive clarified and/or added as necessary. So I am thankful for her 
comments. But I do not consider any comments shes made persuasive to change my 
stance with regard to my position that Tesco acted fairly. And although Ive considered them 
all, Ive not necessarily addressed them all, as I consider that some of them either do not 
turn a key point, or that they are points which I have addressed already, as set out below.
I should start by covering off certain issues so that the crux of this complaint is clear. There 
is no debate about the actual transaction made originally. Both Tesco and Mrs G agree the 
transaction was made on her credit card for the amount she wanted to pay on it. (She paid 
the balance separately). There are also two main ways credit providers can help with 
disputes between cardholders and Merchants. Chargeback and under S75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act. Chargebacks are done under the card networks and these networks have rules 
and time limits. Im satisfied Mrs Gs transaction on her credit card and when she brought the 
dispute to Tesco are sufficiently far apart to mean that a Chargeback couldnt be successful. 
So I dont think Tesco treated her unfairly by not considering a Chargeback.
Section 75
S75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) says that, in certain circumstances, if Mrs G 
paid for goods or services on her credit card and there was a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the Merchant, Tesco can be held responsible in a like claim. So this 
means that Tesco can be held equally liable to the Merchant and in essence has the same 
liabilities as the Merchant has but also has the same defences that the Merchant does or 
would have had.
Mrs G has told us that the Merchant who originally sold the Caravan to her is a limited 
company which is no longer trading. And I can see from the original sales correspondence 
the details of that limited company and I can see from Companies House that it was 
dissolved in 2018. So clearly Mrs G has no recourse against the Merchant as it no longer 
exists.
She can bring a like claim under S75 of the Act as that provides that where the appropriate 
criteria as set out in the Act are met the Creditor (here Tesco) can be held liable to a like 
claim as the Supplier (the Merchant). Ive considered the financial limits criteria and the type 
of contractual relationship present here (Debtor-Creditor-Supplier) and Im satisfied these 
are met. I note that Mrs G paid this amount, but her husbands name appears on some of 
the paperwork. Im satisfied that Mrs G and husband were acting together in their joint affairs 
to purchase the caravan together.
In this case Tesco has raised what it says is a defence that Mrs G raising this issue outside 
of the time rules set out in the Limitation Act 1980 means it cant be held responsible. S5 of 
that Act says:
An action founded on simple contract shall not be brought after the expiration of six 
years from the date on which the cause of action accrued.
This defence is applicable as it is a defence that would be a defence the Merchant could 
have used had it still been in existence. So as Tesco can be held to a like claim as the 
Merchant, it is entitled to use it. Mrs Gs claim to Tesco is that the Caravan in question has a 
manufacturing defect. Tesco has noted that if this is the case then the cause of action arises 
(and time starts counting) from when Mrs G purchased the caravan in 2011. Tesco says as 
she didnt take her dispute to Tesco until 2019 then she is outside of the six years and thus 
out of time.
Mrs G says didnt know about the defect until much later, so she says time should only start 
when the later crack appeared, and she was aware of it. And thus she believes that the date 
of the cause of action accrued would be much later and shed still be in time under the 
Limitation Act when she went to Tesco in 2019.
Unfortunately for Mrs G the cause of action here is the breach of contract-namely the 
provision of goods which are of unsatisfactory quality-the caravan. Clearly a manufacturing 
defect would be in place from the time of manufacture of the caravan. And the breach of 
contract would have happened when the Merchant sold the caravan to Mrs G which was of 
unsatisfactory quality. And thus the cause of action accrued on the date Mrs G bought the 
caravan which was of unsatisfactory quality. So the time bar would be applicable from six 
years later. Which is a considerable time before Mrs G took her dispute to Tesco. So Im satisfied Tesco has acted fairly in applying this defence to Mrs Gs claim to it.
Mrs G points to not knowing about the manufacturing defect at the time of buying the 
caravan or until much later. Ive no reason to disagree she didnt know. However the 
Limitation Act is clear on this point it is the cause of actions accrual that is key (the breach) 
not the knowledge of it under section 5. So time starts counting from when she bought the 
caravan irrespective of whether she knew about the manufacturing defect or not. So I do not 
agree with Mrs Gs analysis that cause of action necessarily includes having the required 
knowledge to bring the claim in situations such as this. There are situations where 
knowledge is applicable, for example in personal injury cases, but Im satisfied that this case 
doesnt satisfy those criteria for knowledge to extend the time limit in this case.
Section 14 of the Limitation Act provides for more time in some cases, but only when a claim 
is being brought for negligence. For that to happen, the Merchant would have to owe a duty 
of care (in the legal meaning of that phrase) to the consumer. Normally when a consumer is 
buying goods or services from a supplier, there wouldnt be such a duty of care that meant 
they could bring a claim in negligence, so the extra time given in S14 wouldnt apply. Ive 
considered this but considering this simple contract for a caravan Im satisfied more time 
wouldnt be applicable here. Mrs G has since my provisional decision argued this point again 
saying it does apply. But it is clear from the statute that these sections are with regard to 
physical injuries and this section of the Limitation Act is with regard to the section 6(1)(a) of 
the Consumer Protection Act 1987 (death caused by defective product) and 6(1)(a) of the 
Automated and Electric Vehicles Act 2018 (death caused by automated vehicle). So, 
considering these points and the legislation and law more broadly Im satisfied these time 
limit extensions do not apply to Mrs Gs case.
Mrs G has also pointed another case issued by another Ombudsman about different case 
specifics. We decide each case on its own merits so I cant comment on that case. And in 
this case Im satisfied Ive understood and applied cause of action accrued in line with the 
law. She again has argued this since my provisional decision. But I am not bound by other 
decisions on other cases, all cases are treated on their individual merits, and Im satisfied 
Ive applied the correct in my approach here.
Mrs G has referred to a misrepresentation which she says the salesman made to her when 
she was purchasing the caravan. However she does she specify what the exact 
misrepresentation was, nor why it induced her to purchase the caravan that she otherwise 
wouldnt have purchased. But ultimately this is a moot point. I say this because in such a 
misrepresentation situation time would run from the point of loss which in such a situation 
such as this crystalises when someone relying on the misrepresentation enters into a 
contract they otherwise wouldnt have entered. So if Mrs G was told something untrue in this 
sale which induced her into entering into the purchase of the caravan she otherwise wouldnt 
have entered into, time starts running from her loss. Which is when she entered into the 
contract to purchase the caravan. So the six years under such a misrepresentation covers 
the same period as that under breach of contract. And Mrs G is out of time on both. Mrs G 
disagrees with this and I note her comments here. But Im satisfied my application of the 
relevant time limits is correct here and that shes out of time.
So it is my final position that Tesco has not treated Mrs G unfairly by applying S5 of the 
Limitation Act 1980. I say this because Tesco is liable under S75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
as a like claim to that of the Merchant (Supplier). And as such that defence would have been 
available to the Merchant had Mrs G brought her claim to it in 2019 (had it still been in 
existence).
In my provisional decision I made some additional comments about the length of her 
warranty and the warranty in general in an attempt to provide clarity on that. Mrs G doesnt agree with some of what I said. However the warranty, whatever its precise length, has now 
expired. Notwithstanding this it would seem that Mrs G has limited options with regard to her 
caravan and liaison with the manufacturer may provide a solution which is less unpalatable 
to Mrs G than the total loss on the caravan. I have made the observations that I have in 
order to try to be helpful considering the unusual chain of events in relation to this caravan. 
But in the end, unfortunately this complaint about Tesco doesnt succeed.
Summary
Ive considered what Tesco has done here. And its my final decision that it hasnt acted 
unfairly in relation to Mrs Gs s75 claim to it. Ive also considered the customer service it 
provided Mrs G in dealing with her. And I can see it has made awards to her in relation to 
this service provided. Having considered this I think that is a fair amount in relation to what 
happened with regard to the service provided.
Mrs G notes that the amount paid by Tesco are miniscule compared with my financial loss 
and personal stress she has suffered. I dont doubt this. And I must add that this situation is 
complex and the sequence of events that have unfolded have certainly not gone in Mrs Gs 
favour. And Ive been mindful of this throughout and I appreciate this isnt the decision she 
wishes to read.
However Tesco has a like claim against it and it is entitled to apply this legislation in its 
defence in this case. And has fairly compensated her for its customer service failings. And 
accordingly Im satisfied it has treated her fairly.
My final decision
For the above reasons I do not uphold this complaint about Tesco Personal Finance PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman