DRN-4456345
The complaint
Mrs C complains about a cancellation fee Co-op Funeral Plans Limited has charged her. 
She says she cancelled her plan because the full costs werent made clear to her at the time 
of sale. And she says she wouldnt have taken out the plan, had she understood the cost of 
paying by instalments. 
What happened
In brief summary, in 2018, Mrs C took out a Co-op funeral plan costing £3899. She chose to 
pay by instalments. The monthly cost was approximately £29 and Mrs C was due to pay 
over 17 years, meaning shed pay a total of nearly £5928.   
In 2023, Mrs C received a statement from Co-op. This statement caused her to question the 
amount she was paying for her funeral plan  in particular, the additional cost of paying in 
instalments.  
Mrs C told Co-op she wanted to cancel her plan. Co-op explained its standard cancellation 
fee of £250 would be deducted from the refund. Mrs C complained about this, but Co-op 
maintained its stance.
Mrs C remained unhappy, so she asked the Financial Ombudsman Service to look into 
things. Our investigator upheld her complaint. She was satisfied Mrs C wasnt told what the 
instalment costs would be and that Mrs C wouldnt have bought the plan if those costs had 
been made clear. 
Co-op didnt accept our investigators view and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
This plan was sold before Co-op became subject to compulsory regulation by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) in July 2022. The FCA now requires funeral plan providers to send 
statements to their customers every three years. For plans taken out before July 2022, the 
FCA set a deadline of 31 August 2023, by which funeral plan providers must have provided 
the first statement. It was the receipt of this statement that prompted Mrs Cs complaint.
Prior to FCA regulation, Co-op was a member of the predecessor voluntary regulation 
scheme, overseen by the Funeral Planning Authority (FPA). So Ive looked at the FPAs 
2017 Code of Practice, to see how funeral plan providers were expected to operate at the 
time of sale.
Section 2.2 of the code states that plan providers must: 
provide their employees, agents and representatives with training and written guidance 
on sales practices which ensures that potential customers are given sufficient information 
to make informed decisions about buying a funeral plan.
And section 3 says: 
plan providers must provide potential customers with written details of any funeral plan 
being offered, which clearly sets out:
the type and cost of funerals and other services which can be provided under the 
funeral plan
any administration charges which the customer will need to pay.
So overall, Im satisfied the code placed a responsibility on Co-op to provide clear 
information about costs to its customers to enable them to make informed choices. 
Mrs C says the plan was bought online. Shes been clear she wouldnt have purchased if 
shed understood the true cost of her plan. Ive not seen any information from Co-op about 
the sales process, specifically, what Mrs C wouldve seen when she was buying the plan and 
what costs information was available to her before she made her decision. 
Ive looked at Co-op terms and conditions. Under a section called How do I pay for my 
plan?, it says:
You can pay for your plan in one of three ways: 
1. In full 
2. In instalments over 6 or 12 months 
3. In instalments over 2  25 years 
If paying by instalments over 2-25 years, youll pay instalment charges. Youll be told the 
total amount youll pay when you buy the plan.
This information is on page 4 of a 16 page document. On page 5 theres additional 
information about paying by instalments over 2 - 25 years. It says:
Youll pay towards your chosen plan over a period of 2 to 25 years. The costs of your 
plan will be split over the number of years you choose. Youll pay the instalments 
(including instalment charges) monthly by direct debit. Youll find examples of instalments 
(including charges) in the Paying for your funeral plan document. The cost of these will 
depend on your individual circumstances. You can get a personalised quote online, from 
one of our funeral homes or by phone. Your quote will tell you what your instalments will 
be and the total amount payable over the term. You can work out your instalment charges 
by taking the price of the plan from the total amount youll pay. Well confirm the 
instalments in writing when you buy your plan.To provide clear information to enable a customer to make an informed choice, wed usually 
expect important information  such as that relating to charges  to be prominently displayed 
and highlighted to the customer. And we generally wouldnt expect a customer to have to do 
calculations to work out the detail of what they were paying. However, Im mindful the above 
term suggests Mrs C likely received a personalised quotation before she purchased online. 
But it seems Mrs C would, at best, have been told the overall cost of the plan, but not the 
additional cost of paying by instalments. 
Ive also seen a welcome letter from Co-op, sent to Mrs C after shed bought her plan. This 
letter does show the payment term and monthly cost. But again, it doesnt give the overall 
cost to Mrs C or the separate cost of instalment charges. So having looked at all the 
evidence, on balance, I think Co-op didnt do enough to provide Mrs C with clear information 
about all the costs associated with her funeral plan to enable her to make an informed 
choice.
Mrs Cs specific complaint is that she shouldnt be charged a cancellation fee, because shed 
never have bought the plan had she been made aware shed be charged nearly £2029 for 
paying by instalments. I accept this as the only evidence of what Mrs C mightve done with 
clearer information. So Im going to direct Co-op to put Mrs C back in the position she 
wouldve been in, had the sales information been clear on costs. I think this is a fair outcome 
in the circumstances of this specific complaint.
Putting things right
Mrs Cs plan has already been cancelled and a refund made, less the £250 cancellation fee. 
So to put things right, Co-op should:
Refund Mrs C the £250 it has retained as a cancellation fee on her plan. This will 
mean that the total payments made have been refunded to Mrs C.  
In addition, in line with our usual approach, set out on our website, Co-op should 
refund Mrs C 8% per annum simple interest on each payment she made towards her 
plan, from the date each payment was made until the date of settlement.
If Co-op considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mrs C how much its taken off. It should also give her 
a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so that she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint and require Co-op Funeral Plans Limited to 
put things right as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman