DRN-1909354
The complaint
Mr J complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc has not treated him fairly. In particular he says 
it has not taken his mental health into account when pursuing him for a shortfall that arose 
when it sold his property after it was taken into possession.
What happened
Mr J held a mortgage with Bank of Ireland (BOI). Unfortunately, the mortgage fell into 
arrears, a possession order was granted, and the property was taken into possession in 
2015. The property was subsequently sold. Following the sale there was a shortfall of 
£156,000.
BOI has been in contact with Mr J about the shortfall several times since the property was 
sold. Most recently it wrote to Mr J April 2019 and asked for up-to-date information about his 
financial circumstances. In July 2019 it wrote again explaining further legal action might be 
taken as Mr J had not provided all the information it required. Mr J provided BOI with a letter 
from his doctor, the letter said Mr J had been suffering with anxiety and depression.
Mr J then complained to BOI as he felt it had failed to take his mental health into account 
when pursuing him for repayment of the shortfall.
BOI didnt uphold Mr Js complaint. It said it felt the actions it had taken had been consistent 
with its policy and procedures. And it said it felt it had allowed Mr J ample time to consider a 
suitable course of action.
Mr J wasnt satisfied with BOIs response and referred his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator noted all that Mr J had said about how BOIs actions had impacted on his 
mental health. He expressed his sympathy for Mr Js situation, but he said he didnt think 
BOI had done anything wrong by asking for the shortfall amount to be repaid.
He explained that, in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Js mortgage, BOI was entitled 
to seek repayment of the shortfall. He said he felt BOI had allowed enough time for an 
arrangement to be put in place to repay the outstanding debt.
Mr J didnt accept our investigators view. He said he didnt feel our investigator had 
addressed the issue that caused me to raise my complaint at this time. He said he felt the 
view had focussed on historic issues and had not addressed his current situation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sympathetic to Mr Js position. I can see that he has found dealing with BOI stressful 
and upsetting.
But having carefully considered everything Mr J and BOI have said and provided I cant 
reasonably find that BOI has acted incorrectly in this matter or treated Mr J unfairly. Ill 
explain why.
The mortgage terms and conditions Mr J accepted when he took out his mortgage with BOI 
set out that:
If we enforce our rights under the Mortgage but the amount which we receive after selling or 
otherwise dealing with the Property (or after a Receiver has done so) is less than the 
Amounts Payable, you will pay us on demand the shortfall, plus interest at the Interest Rate. 
Interest will be charged both before and after any judgment, until payment. Interest will be 
compounded monthly, as explained in condition 4(6) below. For the avoidance of any doubt, 
this condition 2(3) applies until you have repaid the shortfall and any interest on it, even if we 
have released or discharged our Security on the Property.
As this is the case, I cant reasonably find that BOI is not permitted to contact Mr J about 
repayment of the shortfall.
I can see Mr J feels that BOI hasnt taken his mental health into account when pursuing him 
for the shortfall. In late 2019 he provided BOI with a letter from his doctor about his anxiety 
and depression.
But I must also take into account that BOI has been in contact with Mr J since the property 
was sold for less than the outstanding mortgage balance in 2015. I therefore cant 
reasonably say that it hasnt allowed Mr J enough time to make arrangements to repay the 
shortfall. I appreciate that Mr J finds contact with BOI stressful but I cant reasonably say that 
it is not permitted to contact his about repayment of the shortfall.
I note that Mr J has asked BOI to accept voluntary charges on other properties he owns, on 
condition that no further recovery action is taken. I cannot require BOI to accept this offer as 
this is a commercial decision it is entitled to make.
I would encourage Mr J to remain in contact with BOI to see if a way forward can be found 
that is acceptable to both parties. 
As Mr J is still experiencing financial difficulty he may find it helpful to seek support from an 
organisation that helps with this type of situation such as Step-Change (0330 055 2198).
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman