DRN-1934455
 
The complaint
Mr G says he was mis-sold regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI) by Bank of 
Scotland Plc (BOS).
What happened
Mr G took out a mortgage with BOS in 1988. At the same time he took out a regular 
premium PPI policy to cover his mortgage payments if he was unable to work due to 
accident or sickness or lost his job. The policy wouldve paid out for 12 months per claim.
The mortgage was repaid and a further advance was taken out in 1990. While initially Mr G 
didnt take PPI he completed a application form and took out PPI some years later in 1998. 
The policy wouldve paid £300 towards his mortgage payments on the same basis as 
outlined above.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld because he didnt think there
was enough information to show that the PPI wasnt presented as optional and thought
that the cover provided a suitable benefit to Mr G.  
Mr G disagrees. He says it wasnt made clear the policy was optional and was pushed into to 
taking it.  
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Gs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint.
The initial sale took place over 30 years ago so unsurprisingly there is very little information
available from the time of the sale. So Ive had to proceed on the basis of what information
I have and what I think is most likely to have happened.
BOS needed to make it clear to Mr G that he had a choice in taking the policy. 
Mr G hasnt provided much detail about when he took out his mortgage which is 
understandable considering the amount of time that has passed. And BOS havent given us 
any of the documents from the time of the sale. So I dont know exactly what was discussed 
about PPI or how it was presented.
But from what I know about BOSs sales process at the time, I think its likely that it wouldve
made Mr G aware that PPI was optional and that Mr G had PPI because he chose to take it. 
Ive not seen enough to say that he wasnt given a choice or that he didnt agree to buy it.
And when Mr G took out his second PPI policy in 1998 hed already had his mortgage for a 
number of years without PPI so I think he wouldve understood he didnt have to have PPI to 
get the mortgage as his mortgage was already in place. 
Ive also seen a copy of the PPI application form he completed. I can see written on it are the 
words only want £300.00 cover although Mr Gs mortgage payment was more than this. 
This suggests to me that Mr G understood he could tailor his PPI cover and made an active 
choice to have less cover than what his mortgage payments were. 
BOS is treating the sale as if it advised Mr G to take PPI  this puts him in the best position. 
What this means is that BOS not only had to provide information about PPI in a clear, fair 
and not misleading way so that Mr G could make an informed choice about buying PPI. It 
also had to make sure that if it was to recommend PPI that the policy was suitable for Mr Gs 
needs and circumstances.
I dont know if BOS did take all the steps it shouldve but I think PPI wouldve been a suitable 
recommendation for Mr G for the following reasons:
He was eligible for the policies and it doesnt look like he wouldve been caught by
any of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policies which couldve
made it difficult to make a successful claim.
Mr G says he was entitled to some sick pay and couldve relied on his partners 
income to cover his mortgage payments if he lost his job or was too sick to work. But 
there is no guarantee his partner would be able to help and the policies wouldve paid 
out on top of all this and for potentially longer, covering him for up to 12 months and 
freed up his work benefits to pay for any other regular outgoings. 
So I think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mr G in his circumstances 
especially considering the financial implications if he was unable to meet his 
repayments I think Mr G wouldve been interested in protecting them.
There was nothing to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to Mr G at the time. 
And if he decided he no longer wanted the policies he could cancel them.
I also need to consider whether BOS gave Mr G information in a way which was clear, fair 
and not misleading so that he could make a proper choice about whether or not he wanted 
to take the policy out. 
I dont know if BOS did give all the information as it shouldve. But for the same reasons that 
the PPI was suitable and based on what Mr G has told us about his circumstances at the 
time, I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI if hed been given all the proper information.
This means that BOS hasnt done anything wrong and I wont be upholding Mr Gs 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint against 
Bank of Scotland Plc.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2020.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman