DRN-3362599
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs M complain that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) cancelled their 
boiler insurance without notifying them and refused to deal with a claim.  
What happened
Mr B and Mrs M took out boiler insurance with D&G in September 2020. They say they were 
told their policy would renew automatically each year should they not get in touch to cancel 
it. They then had a fault with their boiler in October and reported this to D&G. Mr B and    
Mrs M say an engineer arrived and fixed the issue by installing a new three-way valve port. 
They say their excess was then taken on 7 October. 
Mr B and Mrs M say they then experienced the same problem a year later and contacted 
D&G. They say they were told they didnt have a policy. Mr B says he was passed between 
a number of agents who each gave him different reasons for why they didnt have a policy. 
Mr B says he then asked if D&G could offer them a policy but waive the 30-day no claim 
period but was told D&G couldnt do this. Mr B and Mrs M say they then had to arrange the 
repairs by instructing their own plumber and engineer who told them the issue was caused 
by a faulty repair carried out by the engineer a year earlier. So, they complained to D&G. 
D&G responded and explained Mr B and Mrs Ms boiler insurance was cancelled in October 
2020 due to a lack of payment.      
Our investigator looked into things for Mr B and Mrs M. She thought the policy cancellation 
wasnt down to any error by D&G. She thought D&G had made an error though in not 
notifying Mr B and Mrs M about the cancellation and recommended they pay £50 
compensation. D&G agreed but Mr B and Mrs M disagreed so the matter has come to me for 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to partly uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation is a fair way to resolve matters. I understand Mr B and Mrs M will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision.
Policy cancellation 
My starting point is Mr B and Mrs Ms boiler insurance policy. This sets out the terms and 
conditions and, under the heading Paying your premium it says, You must pay the 
premiumby Direct Debit in accordance with the Your payment details set out in your 
policy documentation. If we are unable to collect a payment from your bank we may attempt 
to request payment again unless you advise us otherwise. If you do not pay for your policy 
on time, it will be suspended from the due dateIf we do not receive payment from you 
within 2 weeks, we may cancel your policy immediately and we will notify you in writing.
Theres no dispute that Mr B and Mrs M took out a boiler insurance policy in September 
2020. And, given that a 30-day no claim period was in place, the cover started on 2 October. 
Insurance documents provided by D&G show that £3.50 will be taken monthly by Direct 
Debit by the intermediary company who set up the policy  who Ill refer to as company S. 
This shows the first payment will be collected on 2 October and also notes the bank account 
details the Direct Debit will be taken from.  
D&G say Mr B and Mrs M have made no payments towards the premium so they were 
advised by company S to cancel the policy on 7 October. Im persuaded this was the case 
as Mr B has provided a copy of his bank statement, and this appears to be the same 
account noted on the insurance documents when describing which account the Direct Debit 
will be taken from. And, the bank statement doesnt show a payment of £3.50 being made to 
company S on 2 October. So, taking this into account, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
D&G to have cancelled the policy as the terms and conditions allow them to take such steps 
if Mr B and Mrs M dont make payments towards their premium.
I think there is an issue here though as theres no evidence D&G notified Mr B and Mrs M of 
the cancellation. The terms and conditions say D&G will notify them in writing and an internal 
email between D&G says that they cant see any cancellation letter being sent by company 
S. So, I uphold this part of the complaint and I think compensation of £50 for the shock and 
upset caused to Mr B and Mrs M is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I note Mr B says he was passed between a number of agents and he was given different 
reasons for the cancellation. Ive listened to a recording of a call Mr B made to D&G during 
which he explains he has just spoken with company S who suggested he call D&G. Mr B 
explains he has been told that his policy was cancelled and the agent explains their records 
show company S requested they cancel the policy. Mr B explains he has been told by 
company S that the cancellation was down to the bank account details being incorrect. Mr B 
is then transferred to another agent who explains company S informed them to cancel the 
policy. The agent explains company Ss system will show more details around why it was 
cancelled as company S are responsible for collecting payments but the information on 
D&Gs system is limited. The agent explains theyll need to look into this further. D&G then 
write to Mr B confirming the reason for cancellation was down to no payments being 
received. So, while I can understand why Mr B became frustrated at being given different 
reasons by company S, I think D&G did explain to Mr B during this call that they would need 
to investigate further to find out why the policy was cancelled  and this was then confirmed 
to Mr B in writing.  
The second claim
The information Ive seen shows the policy was cancelled in October 2020 and wasnt 
renewed so I dont think it was unreasonable for D&G to decline to deal with the claim Mr B 
made in October 2021. I understand Mr B did ask D&G if hes able to take out a new policy 
without applying the 30-day exclusion period and D&G declined this. 
Given that I cant say D&G were at fault for the policy cancellation, I cant say D&G have 
been unfair in taking this approach. 
I understand Mr B and Mrs M say the problem in 2021 is the same as the one in 2020 and 
that their engineer felt the issue in 2021 had arisen due to the poor quality of work carried 
out by the engineer in 2020. D&G say if Mr B and Mrs M have had the repair carried out 
independently and another diverter valve has been replaced, it could be that there is sludge 
in the system which is causing the valve to stop working properly. They say, in any event, the previous repair has been successful for a period of 12 months and they would consider 
that to be a reasonable amount of time. I acknowledge Mr B and Mrs M say that their 
plumber and engineer told them that the part which was replaced in 2020 shouldnt have 
stopped working a year later. But, Ive seen no evidence which shows the issue in 2021 was 
caused as a direct result of any work carried out by the engineer in 2020. 
In addition to this, I can see from system notes provided by D&G that the issue reported in 
2020 was that Mr B and Mrs Ms property had no hot water unless the heating was on. Then 
in 2021, the issue being reported was that there was hot water but no heating. So, I cant say 
the two issues are exactly the same problem as the heating appeared to be working in 2020 
but not in 2021. So, taking this into account, and the fact that Ive seen no evidence the work 
carried out in 2020 was in some way inadequate or responsible for the problem in 2021, I 
cant fairly ask D&G to reimburse Mr B and Mrs Ms costs for the repairs carried out in 2021.  
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that D&G made an error by not notifying Mr B and Mrs M of their decision 
to cancel the policy. So, they should pay Mr B and Mrs M compensation of £50 for the shock 
and upset caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold the complaint. Domestic & General Insurance Plc 
must pay Mr B and Mrs M compensation of £50.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman