DRN-3844952
The complaint
Miss A complained because HSBC UK Bank plc didnt agree that someone had fraudulently 
opened two accounts in her name. HSBC is holding Miss A liable for the balances on the 
accounts.
What happened
On 3 November 2021, there were applications for a bank account and for a credit card in 
Miss As name. HSBC carried out checks, which included Miss A being asked to go to a 
branch with identification. She took her photographic driving licence to a branch on 15 
November. This also showed the address registered on the accounts. HSBC opened the 
accounts in Miss As name, with an overdraft limit of £1,500 and a credit card limit of £1,000.
HSBC sent a text to Miss As registered phone number, advising that the account had been 
opened. It also sent a welcome letter to her registered postal address, saying it would send 
the debit card and PIN separately within seven days. It also sent an activation code to her 
mobile activating online banking, and an email to say the debit card had been sent.
There were transactions on both accounts, and within a few weeks they had reached the 
limits for the overdraft and credit limit. 
On 17 February 2022, Miss A went to a branch, and said she hadnt opened the bank 
account or credit card, but her details had been used by another person to open the 
accounts. She said the address on the accounts was incorrect, because that was her 
parents address and the previous September shed moved away to college to a different 
address. HSBC investigated. On 25 February 2022, HSBC wrote to Miss A. It said that it had 
reviewed the information which Miss A had provided, together with information on its own 
systems. It had found the applications to be genuine.
Miss A didnt reply until 12 May, when she complained. By this time, HSBC had sent a 
number of letters from its Collections team about payments being overdue on the accounts, 
including a default notice on 9 May. Miss A told HSBC that she had documentary evidence 
showing the person responsible, as hed owned up. Miss A went to a branch, where she 
provided her driving licence for identification. She said she had voice recordings, photos and 
screenshots, but she said the branch wouldnt take them and was unhelpful. 
HSBC issued its final response to Miss As complaint on 1 June. It said that its Fraud 
Operations team had reviewed the information Miss A had provided, and it had concluded 
the applications had been genuine. HSBC recognised that Miss A had said she had 
evidence that someone she knew had committed a case of impersonation, but that would be 
for the police to deal with. HSBC wouldnt change the outcome of its investigation unless the 
police contacted it. HSBC also said that it understood that Miss A felt the branch hadnt been 
helpful, but the branch hadnt been able to provide any information, or take evidence such as 
the documents Miss A had mentioned, because the branch was limited in its ability to feed 
those back.
HSBCs final response concluded that, taking into account system information, Miss As 
comments, and its investigation results, it didnt consider Miss A had been a victim of 
impersonation fraud. So the debit balances owed on the overdraft and credit card would 
stand.
Miss A wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. 
Miss A told our investigator that a man had used her to set up the accounts. She said hed 
taken photos of her passport and home address on her National Insurance record, while 
shed been asleep. She said hed also allowed her to do a facial recognition authorisation 
for what she believed was a cryptocurrency account. Miss A said that hed later admitted 
what hed done, but had said hed given the HSBC card to someone else. Miss A said she 
wanted the debts to be removed and the accounts closed; her credit score returned to what 
it had been before the accounts were opened; and letters to stop arriving at her family home.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss As complaint.  Miss A wasnt satisfied, and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. She sent a long email, saying, in summary, that she and a man 
were in a relationship and shed trusted him. She said she didnt know the accounts were 
being set up in her name. She said she didnt recall getting any text messages, and that the 
man had had very easy access to her phone when he was staying with her. She said hed 
now moved, and the investigators outcome wasnt a fair, right or honest outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss A says she didnt open the accounts, and also that she didnt authorise the payments 
on them. There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations 
for disputed transactions taking place on in 2021 and 2022 are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the 
payments, and the customer is liable if they did authorise them. The regulations also say that 
account holders can still be liable for unauthorised payments under certain circumstances  
for example if theyve failed to keep their details secure to such an extent that it can be 
termed gross negligence.
Ive looked at HSBCs records about the information it has, and also what Miss A has said. 
There are multiple factors which suggest that Miss A did open the accounts herself, or was a 
willing participant in the opening of the accounts in her name. Ive listed some of these 
below.
The address which was registered for the accounts was one which Miss A said was her 
parents address, while she was away at college some distance away. All the cards, security 
details, and information to use the accounts were sent to this address. Similarly, the later 
overdue and default letters were sent to that address. These were all sent over a period of 
time, not all at once. This means its unlikely that every letter went astray in the post. It also 
means that whoever used the accounts would have had to have repeated access to Miss As 
parents address, to be able to obtain the means of using the accounts. Thats most likely to 
have been Miss A.
On 15 November, Miss A attended a branch with her photographic driving licence, when she 
was asked to do so to prove her identity. As well as a photo, the driving licence included the 
registered address. I dont see how any third party fraudster could have fraudulently 
confirmed Miss As identity with this photographic driving licence, especially as the person shes said she believes carried out identity fraud was male, and the photo, which Ive seen, 
shows a female. 
Similarly, texts were sent at various points to Miss As registered mobile number. This 
included when the accounts were opened, with a text sent on 5 November 2021 to confirm 
that, and another text to confirm activation of online banking. But Miss A didnt report any 
identity theft at that point. Miss A hasnt told us that shed lost her phone, and she used it 
later, so I consider its likely that the reason she didnt contact HSBC at that point was 
because she knew about, and consented to, the new accounts.
 
Ive also listened to a call recording, where someone saying they were Miss A phoned 
HSBC. She passed security, correctly answering a number of questions, including 
information on the card which she said she had with her. The HSBC adviser also confirmed 
the phone number on file which Miss A agreed. The caller said the purpose of the call was to 
reply to a message about a payment which had been stopped as suspicious, and to confirm 
the payment was genuine. The voice on this phone call sounds like that of the person who 
spoke to this service about this complaint. So I think this shows that Miss A knew about the 
accounts and was actively involved in consenting to outgoing payments.
I therefore consider that its more likely than not that Miss A opened the accounts herself, 
knew about them from the start, and carried out the disputed transactions. I cant see how a 
fraudster could have done so, for the reasons above. Its possible that Miss A willingly 
opened the accounts and allowed the person with whom she said she was in a relationship, 
to carry out the transactions. But that would count at Miss A authorising the payments, so 
HSBC still wouldnt be required to reimburse her. So I dont require HSBC to refund Miss A, 
or to make changes to the markers it recorded on her credit file in relation to the accounts.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman