DRN-2625112
Complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) incorrectly reversed a 
payment under a direct debit indemnity.
Background
In September 2020, Mr H made a direct debit indemnity claim about a £53 payment taken 
from his account, by his then energy provider, in December 2018. He said that the payment 
taken was for a higher amount than he agreed. Halifax provisionally refunded the payment 
back to Mr pending claiming the amount back from the energy provider. Once the energy 
provider challenged the claim Halifax once again debited the payment from Mr Hs account. 
Mr H was unhappy about this and complained.
One of our casehandlers looked at Mr Hs concerns. He didnt think that Halifax had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr H unfairly. As Mr H remained dissatisfied the case was passed 
to an ombudsman for a formal decision.
Mr H has also said hes unhappy about other matters such as delays and other payments. 
But hes been told what he needs to do if he wishes to take those concerns further. So I want 
to be clear in saying that this decision will only be looking at whether Halifax acted fairly and 
reasonably in relation to the direct debit payment initially made to Mr Hs energy provider in 
December 2018.
My findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I dont think that Halifax did anything wrong or 
treated Mr H unfairly. Ill explain why I think this is the case.
It might help for me to start by explaining that the direct debit guarantee, which Mr H made a 
claim under, allows a customer to reclaim an incorrectly processed direct debit payment. 
This covers circumstances such payments which werent authorised, taken on the wrong 
date, or such as here where a customer disputes the amount. Typically, a bank will offer an 
immediate refund and the amount is then reclaimed from the other party. But the other party 
can challenge the claim and in the event satisfactory evidence is provided to demonstrate a 
processing error didnt take place, the refund may be reversed. This is what happened here. 
To explain, Mr H said the amount taken from his account in December 2018 was more than 
the regular payment he agreed to. But a service provider is entitled to vary the payment 
amount collects as long as it provides the customer with notice. And the energy provider 
supplied Halifax with a copy of a letter, dated 5 December 2018 and which appears to have 
been correctly addressed to Mr Hs current address, which provided Mr H with advance 
notice his monthly payment amount would be changing to £53. So Halifax, in line with the 
above and not unreasonably, accepted the challenge and re-debited the £53 payment from 
Mr Hs account as it deemed the letter to have provided advance notice of the change and 
no processing error took place. 
Furthermore, the supplier also provided evidence to show that the vast majority of the 
payment being reclaimed had, in any event, already gone back to Mr H. Mr H switched from 
the energy provider which took his December 2018 payment, in March 2019 and as his 
account had a credit balance of £50.86 at this stage this amount was refunded. Mr Hs 
account was only in credit by £50.86 much because of the £53 payment he made in 
December 2018.
Bearing all of this mind, Im satisfied that Halifax didnt act unfairly. It immediately refunded 
the disputed payment  as per the terms of the direct debit guarantee  but when the energy 
supplier provided enough to legitimately challenge that a processing error had been made it 
reversed the refund  as it was entitled to. And, in any event, it appeared as though Mr H 
had already been refunded most of the payment in question. So I think that Halifax didnt 
deal with Mr Hs direct debt indemnity claim unfairly and Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman