DRN-3224996
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as L complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont refund the 
funds it lost in a scam. Ms E, who is a director or L, brings the complaint on its behalf. 
What happened
What Ms E, on behalf of L, says
Ms E says that she was looking to buy stock for L to sell and identified a seller. She checked 
the company online and exchanged emails in which she reached an agreement to buy a 
certain quantity of stock. 
Ms E says that on 3 December 2020 she went in to branch to make an international transfer 
of £2,859.18. She recalls being asked the purpose of the payment but nothing more. The 
seller then contacted Ms E and explained her order had been rejected by the factory 
because it didnt meet the sellers minimum order. Ms E was offered the opportunity to 
cancel the order and receive a refund or increase her order to the minimum level. Ms E 
agreed to increase the order and went in to branch to make a further transfer of £2,706.66 
on 8 December 2020. At this stage, she says she was asked why she was paying more to 
the same company and she explained the position with the minimum order.
The seller then asked Ms E to pay 20,000 USD for Covid screening and insurance, which 
she was told would be refunded. At this stage Ms E was concerned she was being scammed 
and notified Santander. Ms E didnt receive any stock from the seller.
Ms E is unhappy that Santander will not refund the amount she transferred to the fraudster. 
She says Santander should have warned her of the possibility that she was falling victim to a 
scam and let her know that it couldnt recover her funds if anything went wrong. Ms E also 
thinks Santander should have checked the payments werent being made to a fraudulent 
company. 
What Santander say
Santander say Ms E willingly made the payments and that it made no errors in processing 
them. It attempted to recover funds on a best endeavours basis but had been unsuccessful.  
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this case didnt recommend that it be upheld. He said the 
payment requests Ms E made werent unusual or suspicious in appearance given Ls 
previous account history and so the questions asked in branch were proportionate and 
sufficient. He noted that L had made numerous payments of significantly greater sums 
including a genuine payment of £9,698 in August 2020.The payment also didnt clear the 
balance in the account. And while setting up new payees and making international payments 
were unusual, the investigator was persuaded Santander had met its obligations. He also felt 
that the scam would not have been uncovered if further questions had been asked as Ms E 
had researched the seller and thought she was dealing with a legitimate company. Finally, 
the investigator said he was satisfied Santander had done what it could to recover Ls funds.
Ms E, on behalf of L, didnt agree with the investigator. In summary, she said: 
- She had only made one transfer for a significant sum from the account (all other 
significant payments were transfers to her personal account). This was the August 
2020 transfer the investigator referred to. At the time she had some trouble making 
the payment and was told by Santander that the safest way was to go in to branch. 
So, this is why she went in to branch to make the two payments to the fraudster in 
this case.  
- There was a five-day interval between the scam payments, so Ms E thinks Santander 
had enough information to advise her not to make the second payment, especially as 
she was served by the same member of staff, who remembered her. If the Santander 
staff member had suggested to her she could potentially be the victim of a scam she 
would have thought twice. Her understanding was that staff were trained to recognise 
suspicious transactions and give warnings.
- When Ms E reported the scam, she asked why she hadnt been asked to check it 
wasnt a scam and was told Santander staff dont do that anymore. 
The case has been passed to me to reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And I have
taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Santander should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
In this case, I need to decide whether Santander acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Ms E when she made the payments on behalf of L, or whether it should have done more than it did. I have considered the position carefully and taken in to account that it 
wasnt Santanders responsibility to check the seller was legitimate.
Did Santander act fairly and reasonably when it made the payments?
As Ive explained above, I consider that as a matter of good practice Santander should have 
been on the lookout for unusual or uncharacteristic transactions. So Ive first considered 
whether the payment requests Ms E made on behalf of L were unusual or uncharacteristic. 
Having considered Ls account activity in the months before the scam I agree with the 
investigator the scam payments werent unusual or uncharacteristic. Whilst I agree with Ms 
E that she made regular transfers to another account in her name, I cant overlook the fact 
she made a legitimate transfer of £9,698 just months before the scam transactions, in 
August 2020. This payment was for significantly more than the two individual scam 
payments, and also greatly exceeds the total payments to the scammer. In the 
circumstances, Im satisfied the scam payments werent sufficiently unusual that Santander 
should have been concerned about them.
When she made the first payment request Ms E set up a new payee, but this is very normal 
for a business account. And I cant say that an international payment from a business 
account is in itself enough for Santander to have real concerns about the payment requests 
Ms E made. A balance needs to be struck here between preventing fraud and allowing 
customers to use their accounts without every payment being stopped - which would be 
unmanageable and unreasonable.
Ms E made the transfers in branch, so Santander staff had the opportunity to ask her 
proportionate questions. Santander say that staff have conversations with customers making 
payments to find out the purpose of the payment and to establish if they might be the victim 
of a scam. Staff also highlight methods used by fraudsters to scam people and provide 
appropriate warnings. 
As the conversation with Ms E was in branch, I dont have a full record of it, but I have 
considered Santanders internal records. These show that on both occasions Ms E was 
asked why she was sending funds (buying stock). The records also have a tick in the box 
next to Scam Warning. So, I consider Ms E was asked some questions about the 
transactions and provided with some form of scam warning in respect of each payment. 
Given my finding that the payment requests werent unusual or uncharacteristic, Im satisfied 
that Santander did enough. 
I also believe that even if Santander had asked Ms E more detailed questions about the 
stock she was buying, shed have been able to give answers that sounded reasonable, given 
the level of research she says she completed before making the payments. So Im not 
persuaded the scam would have been uncovered and the payments prevented had more 
detailed questions been asked.  
Ms E has said that Santander staff told her they no longer ask questions to check a 
customer isnt being scammed. I think there may be a misunderstanding here, as Santander 
continues to take steps to protect its customers from fraud. 
In this case the funds were transferred to an international bank account. International banks 
arent bound by the same rules and regulations as banks within the UK. From what Ive seen 
Im satisfied that Santander did what it could to recover Ls funds once Ms E notified it of the 
scam, but it was told that no funds remained. 
Overall
Im sorry Ms E has had to contact us in these circumstances. I accept shes been the victim 
of a cruel scam, but I cant reasonably hold Santander responsible for Ls loss. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman