DRN-3770540
The complaint
Mr S has complained that when he accesses his accounts online, Bank of Scotland Plcs 
(Halifax) banking system requires him to select a paperless statement option. Mr S says 
that if he doesnt select a paperless option, he is unable to access his account.
Mr S says he wants to continue receiving paper statements, without this affecting his ability 
to access his account online.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and in summary, he explained that our 
service is unable to instruct Halifax to change the way in which it operates its systems.
Unhappy with this, Mr S asked for the matter to be considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And having done that, Im unable to 
uphold Mr Ss complaint.
As explained by the adjudicator, our service is unable to say that Halifax should change its 
systems or the way it operates. Therefore, whilst I understand why Mr S is frustrated with the 
paperless prompts he is presented with when accessing his account via online banking, Im 
unable to say that Halifax should not do this.
Having looked at the screen prints that Mr S has provided, I can see why he may have 
initially thought he was unable to access his account, as there doesnt appear to be an 
option to proceed with paper statements selected as the preference. Halifax has said it will 
provide the feedback to its IT department regarding this. But in its response to the complaint, 
I can see that Halifax did explain how Mr S could bypass having to select paperless 
statements and proceed to his accounts by clicking on the link saying My Accounts (which I 
can see is present in the third screen print that Mr S sent us). 
As such, whilst I understand Mr Ss frustration, ultimately, I think that Halifax put matters 
right by explaining how he could circumvent the paperless statement prompts so he could 
access his account online. And in the circumstances, I think this is reasonable. So I dont 
think Halifax needs to do anything further in relation to this matter.
Finally, I can see that Mr S has also questioned a letter he received from Halifax, that said 
Halifax had updated the current account agreement so Halifax will have the option to provide 
the account holder statements and correspondence via online banking, instead of by paper. 
Halifax said that if it does this, itll write to Mr S two months before it comes into effect and 
will give Mr S the options that are available to him. 
Although Mr S is unhappy with this, this is something that may or may not happen at some 
point in the future. But either way, I can see that Halifax said Mr S will be given two months 
notice before such a change comes into effect. Therefore, if Halifax choses to do this with Mr 
Ss account in the future and Mr S is unhappy with this change, Mr S will be given a 
reasonable amount of time in which to consider his options and take any necessary action 
e.g. change bank. So again, Im unable to say that Halifax acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
this matter when it informed Mr S about a change to the account terms and conditions.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman