DRN-3749709
The complaint
Mr L complains about the suitability of the advice provided by Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd (IFM) in November 2017 to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits 
in the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension plan (PPP).
Mr L is represented in this complaint by a claims management company (CMC).
What happened
Mr L had built up safeguarded benefits in the BSPS while employed by Tata Steel UK Ltd 
(Tata Steel). The BSPS was a defined benefits (DB) pension scheme that provided a 
guaranteed lifetime income to members.
In March 2016, Tata Steel announced that it would be examining options to restructure its 
business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with members 
referred to possible outcomes regarding their safeguarded benefits, one of which was a 
transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to 
provide compensation to members of DB pension schemes when their employer becomes 
insolvent. Tata Steel closed the BSPS to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017. By that 
point, Mr L had built up 21 years and 5 months pensionable service in the BSPS during two 
separate periods of service between October 1995 and March 2017. His aggregated annual 
scheme pension (for both periods of pensionable service) as at the date of leaving the 
scheme in March 2017 was £13,395.92. This would be revalued over the term to retirement 
by a prescribed amount.
In May 2017, the PPF announced that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement 
had been agreed. This was approved by The Pensions Regulator in August 2017  under 
the announced plans, Tata Steel agreed to set up and sponsor a new DB pension scheme, 
the BSPS2, subject to certain conditions relating to funding and size being satisfied. 
Members were told that if the re-structure was approved, they would have three options 
regarding their safeguarded benefits:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a PPP
In September 2017, terms of the re-structure were confirmed enabling trustees to start to talk 
to members in detail. This led to the Time to Choose communication pack being issued to 
members, including Mr L, in October 2017. The pack provided more detail about the three 
options available and was intended to help members choose an option.
Mr L was concerned about what the announced changes meant for the security of his 
safeguarded benefits and wanted advice on his options. He contacted IFM for advice. It 
recorded the following information about Mr L in October 2017 in a fact find document:
He was aged 41, married and in good health. His wife was aged 34 and also in good 
health. They had two financially dependent children aged 10 and 13;
He was employed full-time by Tata Steel and paid gross annual income of about 
£45,000. He didnt expect his employment status to change in the foreseeable future. 
His wife was employed as a medical secretary and paid a gross annual income of 
about £15,000;
Their assets comprised the marital home (the value wasnt recorded). They didnt 
have any other savings or investments; 
Their liabilities comprised a mortgage on the marital home of about £100,000. They 
didnt have any other debts or liabilities;
After paying for bills and essentials, they had surplus disposable income of about 
£650 available every month;
In addition to the value of his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS, he had been a 
member of Tata Steels defined contribution (DC) pension scheme since April 2017. 
The total annual contribution paid into his DC plan was 16% of his gross annual 
salary. The value of his DC plan wasnt recorded. He was also on course to receive 
the full state pension at age 67;
His wife didnt have any private pension arrangements;
Through his employment he had a lump sum death in service benefit of six times his 
salary;
He was an inexperienced investor with very little knowledge and experience of 
investments. On a scale of 1 to 6 where 1 (Risk Averse) was lowest risk and 6 
(Aggressive) was highest risk, his risk profile was determined to be 3 or 
Conservative risk; and
His primary objective regarding his safeguarded benefits was to retire earlier than the 
BSPS normal retirement age of 65. He wanted to retire somewhere around age 60 if 
his financial situation allowed it. There was also reference to Mr L preferring to draw 
flexible benefits, obtain control over the value of his benefits and to maximise the 
death benefits available to his family.
Following completion of the fact find document, IFMs adviser issued his suitability report in 
November 2017. This explained to Mr L that he had three options regarding his safeguarded 
benefits, as previously communicated by the BSPS. The BSPS offered Mr L two transfer 
values, as follows:
£91,452.37 for the first period of pensionable service; and
£207,141.69 for the second period of service
IFMs adviser recommended that Mr L accept the aggregated transfer values of £298,594.06 
and transfer to a PPP provided by Prudential in favour of the PPF and BSPS2 options for the 
following reasons:
You imagine you will require flexibility to control and tailor the frequency and amount 
of income you receive from your pension fund in retirement to suit your 
circumstances, needs and tax position, as opposed to the pre-set (albeit guaranteed) 
income that your existing defined benefits pension would provide.You want to ensure you can retire when you want and do not want to take the risk of 
having restrictions in place when the scheme enters the PPF or it becomes the new 
British Steel Pension Scheme.
You are prepared to accept more risk in return for greater flexibility over when and 
how benefits are withdrawn from your pension fund
The costs associated with the recommendation were as follows:
Initial advice charge 
1.50% (or £4,500)  initial adviser charge for recommendation and implementation
Ongoing annual charges
0.65% investment annual management charge deducted from the PPP fund value
0.30% product fee deducted from the PPP fund value
0.40% ongoing annual advice charge payable to IFM, deducted from the PPP fund 
value
IFM arranged for two transfer value analysis (TVAS) calculations to be carried out in 
respect of the two periods of pensionable service on the basis Mr L took a full scheme 
pension only at age 65. This showed the critical yield as follows:
7.0% for the first period of service based on a transfer value of £91,452.37; and
6.6% for the second period of service based on a transfer value of £207,141.69
The TVAS calculations showed that Mr Ls estimated aggregated revalued annual scheme 
pension at age 65 (for both periods of pensionable service) was £24,307.66. The 
calculations assumed 0% for the ongoing advice charge rather than 0.40%. The critical yield 
figures at age 60  to align with the age at which Mr L wanted to retire  werent calculated.
Mr L accepted the recommendation, following which the transfer to the PPP was completed. 
IFM recommended that the PPP fund value be invested in the following funds to align with            
Mr Ls Conservative risk profile:
Fund Allocation Estimated annual growth 
rate before charges
Prufund Cautious 30% 5.50%
Prufund Growth 70% 6.20%
Weighted estimated annual growth rate before charges was 5.99%
This complaint
During 2022, the CMC, on behalf of Mr L, complained to IFM about the suitability of the 
pension transfer advice it had given him in 2017. In its view, the pension transfer advice was 
unsuitable and had caused Mr L to suffer a financial loss.
IFM didnt uphold this complaint. In summary, it stated that Mr L was concerned about the 
issues surrounding Tata Steel and the security of his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS. It 
considered that the continuing uncertainty at the time was sufficient reason for Mr L to transfer away so that he could obtain control of his safeguarded benefits and benefit from 
the flexibility to withdraw variable amounts of money from age 60 onwards and leave a lump 
sum to his beneficiaries on death. It was satisfied that it had adhered to and considered 
relevant FCA rules and guidance including providing Mr L with all the necessary information 
and risk warnings in good time to be able to make an informed decision. It didnt believe the 
alternative options of the PPF or BSPS2 couldve met Mr Ls early retirement objective. In its 
view, the pension transfer to the PPP was in his best interests and so was therefore suitable. 
In September 2022, one of our investigators considered this complaint and recommended 
that it be upheld because, in his view, IFM failed to demonstrate at the time that transferring 
to the PPP was clearly in Mr Ls best interests compared to the alternative options. He 
thought suitable advice wouldve been to transfer to the BSPS2. To put things right, our 
investigator recommended that IFM carry out a redress calculation in line with the FCAs 
guidelines on the basis that Mr L transferred to the BSPS2, retired at age 65 and would be a 
20% income taxpayer in retirement. In addition, he recommended that IFM pay Mr L £250 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its unsuitable recommendation.
The CMC, on behalf of Mr L, accepted our investigators assessment. IFM didnt provide a 
response to our investigator. Since agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint has been 
referred to me to review and decide. This is the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The FCAs applicable rules and guidance
The below isnt a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time
of the advice but provides useful context for my assessment of IFMs actions here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading
PRIN 9: A firm must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and 
discretionary decisions for any customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule)
COBS 4.2.1R: A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion is 
fair, clear and not misleading
 
The suitability rules and guidance that applied when IFM advised Mr L were set out in COBS 
9.2. The relevant rules were COBS 9.2.1R and 9.2.2R.The provision in COBS 19 which specifically relate to a DB pension transfer were as follows:
COBS 19.1.2R required the following:
A firm must: 
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a 
defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits 
with the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension 
scheme or other  pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail 
client to transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme 
with safeguarded benefits;
(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able 
to make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the 
factors that do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any case no 
later than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison 
and its advice.
And COBS 19.1.3 G stated:
In particular, the comparison should:
(1) take into account all of the retail client's relevant circumstances;
(2) have regard to the benefits and options available under the ceding scheme and 
the effect of replacing them with the benefits and options under the proposed 
scheme;
(3) explain the assumptions on which it is based and the rates of return that would 
have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up;
(4) be illustrated on rates of return which take into account the likely expected returns 
of the assets in which the retail client's funds will be invested; and
(5) where an immediate crystallisation of benefits is sought by the retail client prior to 
the ceding schemes normal retirement age, compare the benefits available from 
crystallisation at normal retirement age under that scheme.
Under the heading Suitability, the following was set out:
COBS 19.1.6G: 
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits 
whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a 
transfer, conversion or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a 
transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on 
contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the client's best 
interestsCOBS 19.1.7G:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or 
pension opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where 
relevant, in relation to the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved 
to replicate the benefits being given up.
COBS 19.1.7B:
In considering whether to make a personal recommendation, a firm should not 
regard a rate of return which may replicate the benefits being given up from the 
defined benefits pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits as 
sufficient in itself.
COBS 19.1.8G:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal 
recommendation;
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Businesses are required to follow these rules and consider the guidance because the FCA 
considers safeguarded benefits to be valuable. Based on the above regulatory rules and 
guidance, businesses advising on pension transfers should start by assuming that the 
existing DB pension scheme is suitable and to only recommend a transfer, which converts 
safeguarded benefits into flexible benefits, if it can clearly demonstrate its in their clients 
best interests.
In assessing the suitability of IFMs advice to Mr L, its necessary for me to have due regard 
to the FCAs rules and guidance stated above.
Mr Ls situation when IFM advised him
The situation for Mr L wasnt normal because the existing DB pension scheme, the BSPS, 
was closing. So he was essentially forced to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits to 
a new scheme. Three options were available, as set out in the suitability report:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a PPP (the aggregated transfer value 
available was £298,594.06)
The BSPS was one of the largest DB pension schemes in the UK with approximately 
125,000 members. Its undeniable that it was a period of great uncertainty for BSPS 
members, many of whom had been largely passive pension savers and found themselves 
having to make major and irreversible choices about their financial futures. I think its fair to 
say that many members were in a vulnerable position due to the uncertainty surrounding the 
future of the BSPS. As a result, I think it was essential for any regulated adviser making a 
recommendation to a BSPS member to have a detailed understanding of each of the options 
available and of their customers personal circumstances.Options 1 and 2 provided guaranteed lifetime income but there were differences between 
them for deferred members like Mr L. The PPF was designed to provide members with at 
least 90% of their starting pension value but the BSPS2 was designed to provide members 
with 100%. The PPF was likely the better option for unmarried members who expected to 
retire early or take the maximum tax-free cash available even allowing for the 10% reduction 
in the starting entitlement. But the BSPS2 was likely the better option for married members 
who expected to draw benefits at or close to the scheme normal retirement age of 65. The 
BSPS2 provided the potential for discretionary increases to the scheme pension, a higher 
level of spouses pension and the option to transfer to a PPP at a later date, if then deemed 
suitable. The benefits available under option 3 would be dependent on the performance of 
underlying investments and annuity rates available at retirement  in other words, there were 
no guarantees regarding the level of benefits paid.
I dont believe that the circumstances surrounding the BSPS altered the FCAs position or its 
expectations of firms. Given the FCAs view on safeguarded benefits and what was known at 
that time, its my fair and reasonable opinion that IFM shouldve considered that the BSPS2 
was likely to be the better option for Mr L based on his personal circumstances and the 
uncertainty about when he would be able to retire. And so its my view that IFM shouldve 
only recommended a transfer to the PPP in favour of the BSPS2 if it could clearly 
demonstrate why it was in Mr Ls best interests, as referenced in COBS 19.1.6G.
My assessment
IFM issued its final response letter setting out its reasons for rejecting this complaint but 
didnt respond to our investigators assessment. Ive decided that IFM has had sufficient time 
to respond to our investigator. And so I see no reason why I shouldnt proceed to issue my 
final decision on this complaint. Having considered the evidence, I agree with the 
investigators view that IFMs pension transfer advice to Mr L was unsuitable for largely the 
same reasons. My view can be summarised as follows:
The primary purpose of a pension is to meet the income needs of an individual during 
retirement. Mr Ls safeguarded benefits, accounting for 21 years and 5 months 
pensionable service, represented his most valuable asset. He had limited other 
assets that could be used to support his retirement income needs. Given the lack of 
other assets, IFM ought to have recognised that Mr L was likely to be heavily reliant 
on the value of his safeguarded benefits to generate a minimum level of core income 
to support his standard of living in retirement until state pension age. Given Mr Ls 
limited capacity for loss, I think it was important not to expose the value of his 
safeguarded benefits to unnecessary risk by treating flexibility, control and 
maximisation of death benefits as a high priority at the expense of the primary 
income purpose  unless there was a clearly suitable reason to do so;
The primary aim of the pension transfer was so that Mr L could retire early, from 
around age 60 if his financial situation allowed it. But he was then aged 41 (at the 
time of the advice) and so couldnt access any benefits until age 55 at the earliest 
under the PPP. In my view, with such a time frame until pension benefits could be 
accessed, it made the case for a pension transfer at that time  for the sake of 
achieving possible early retirement  more difficult to justify. And it seems IFM 
agreed because in its suitability report it stated, Given your age and that retirement 
is likely to be around 20 years away, its impossible to know at this stage what type of 
retirement income will be the most appropriate choice for you in the future. In other 
words, its far too early to know whether the income flexibility offered by a Personal 
Pension for example or the availability of more tax-free cash will satisfy your needs 
better than the British Steel scheme. Any assessment now therefore is largely based 
on future investment performance of a personal pension and rather than the features of each solution and what suits your needs the best.;
The basis of the advice wasnt to enable Mr L to retire immediately but instead at 
some indeterminate point in the future. IFM failed to obtain the necessary information 
relating to Mr Ls financial situation including his anticipated income and expenditure 
during retirement when assessing whether it was suitable for him to transfer out of 
the BSPS to achieve his early retirement objective. It may well have been the case 
that Mr Ls retirement income need couldve been met by the BSPS2 but IFM failed 
to establish this. Ultimately, however, theres insufficient evidence to demonstrate 
why it was in Mr Ls best interests to transfer at that time to achieve his early 
retirement objective or whether he could in fact retire earlier than age 65; 
IFM portrayed the PPP option as allowing for early retirement earlier than age 65 
without penalty. I think this was misleading. The reality was of course that the PPP 
wouldve had less time to grow if accessed earlier than age 65 and any resulting 
income would need to last longer. I cannot see that this was adequately explained to 
Mr L so that he could understand accessing any of the available options early would 
likely lead to reduced retirement income during his lifetime compared to taking 
benefits at age 65. So I think he made the decision to transfer from an uninformed 
position in this regard;
In the fact find document it was noted that Mr L had very little understanding and 
knowledge of investments and financial decisions. He was recorded as having a 
Conservative risk profile. Transferring to the PPP led to the investment, inflation and 
longevity risks associated with his safeguarded benefits being transferred from the 
scheme to Mr L. Those risks wouldve been retained by the BSPS2 had he 
transferred to that scheme  I cant see that there was any compelling reason for         
Mr L to take on those risks;
Had IFM advised Mr L to transfer to the BSPS2 he wouldve maintained safeguarded 
benefits and retained the option to transfer to a PPP at a later date, if then deemed 
suitable, when he could immediately access benefits and, crucially, determine his 
retirement income and lump sum needs with far greater accuracy than at age 41;
IFM recorded that Mr L was prepared to accept more risk in return for greater 
flexibility over when and how benefits are withdrawn from your pension fund rather 
than have guaranteed lifetime income. Flexibility and control might sound attractive, 
but I cant see that he had any concrete need for it. Im not persuaded that it was 
appropriate for an inexperienced investor to relinquish the guarantees attached to his 
main retirement provision in exchange for more risk so that he could access flexible 
benefits many years in the future. Theres no real evidence that Mr L required the 
flexibility of irregular lump sums or variable income during retirement. But if he did 
require it, then any flexible needs couldve been met by his DC workplace pension. 
He joined that scheme in April 2017 and the total annual contribution was 16% of his 
gross annual salary. Given his age and the time frame involved, I think its likely hed 
have access to a significant DC fund to meet any flexible retirement needs by the 
time he retired. And hed also have access to tax-free cash under the BSPS2. But 
this doesnt seem to have been adequately considered by IFM;
Mr L also had surplus disposable income of about £650 available every month. 
Theres inadequate evidence that IFM considered saving some of these additional 
monies in either a pension, investment or savings account to provide flexible income 
or lump sums rather than transferring and losing benefit guarantees;
Mr L had received guaranteed income all his working life. So I think a guaranteed retirement income from another source such as the BSPS2 before state pension age 
wouldve been valuable for an individual in his circumstances;
IFM recorded that Mr L was concerned about the security of his safeguarded benefits 
and didnt want the scheme or PPF to have control over his pension. But he 
appears to have been a largely passive pension saver up until that point. Theres no 
evidence he had experience of controlling, managing or investing large sums of 
money. In my view, Mr L didnt have the knowledge and experience to enable him to 
understand the risks involved in transferring his safeguarded benefits; 
It was noted that Mr L was concerned about a transfer to the PPF at a later date. As 
an inexperienced investor who had enjoyed guaranteed employed income during his 
career, its unclear to me on what basis an individual in Mr Ls circumstances would 
decide that he didnt value the guarantee provided by the PPF, as was recorded in 
the fact find document. While I understand that he may have been concerned about 
the security of his safeguarded benefits, I dont consider a transfer to the PPF was an 
outcome to avoid. Under the PPF, Mr L wouldve received a minimum of 90% of his 
scheme pension. This contrasted with the recommended PPP where theres no 
promise of a minimum level of benefits payable. If Mr L was concerned about his 
safeguarded benefits being transferred to the PPF which would result in him losing 
10% of his scheme pension, then I question why, as an inexperienced and 
Conservative risk investor, he would accept the risk of transferring to a PPP which 
exposed his benefits to unlimited downside risks where the loss could be significantly 
greater than 10%. This doesnt make sense to me; 
It was recorded that it was important to Mr L that the residual value of his pension 
funds is passed on in full to his beneficiaries on his death as the scheme rules didnt 
allow this. The existing death benefits with the BSPS were not to be underestimated. 
Mr Ls wife wouldve received a guaranteed spouses pension which escalated each 
year for life which wouldve been valuable if Mr L predeceased her. While I 
understand that death benefits are important to consumers, the priority here, in my 
opinion, was to advise Mr L about what was best for his own retirement provision. He 
was recorded as being in good health. Withdrawing money from the PPP to meet 
income and lump sum needs would likely mean that the size of the fund remaining in 
later years  when death is more likely  could be much smaller than expected. I 
cant see that this was explained to Mr L. Through his employment he had a 
generous lump sum death in service benefit. In addition, the value of his DC pension 
plan would be payable as a tax-free lump sum. So its clear his wife would receive a 
large (relative to their wider financial situation) lump sum death benefit from other 
sources in the event of his death. And if this was deemed insufficient, the surplus 
disposable income he had available couldve been used to obtain life cover to 
provide a lump sum on death;
I think the suitability report misled Mr L about the ability to take early retirement 
benefits under the PPF and BSPS2 options. It stated that retiring at age 60 under the 
BSPS would lead to a 18% reduction in benefits and that, Early retirement will not be 
an option under the PPF whilst we understand the British Steel 2 Pension Scheme 
will allow it using similar early retirement factors. The reference to the PPF is 
incorrect since members are entitled to take benefits early from age 55 onwards 
subject to a reduction. The same was also true for the BSPS2. IFM portrayed the 
reduction as a penalty. But it wasnt a penalty. Rather, the reduction was applied to 
reflect the fact that the scheme would have to support the income for longer than 
anticipated, and to protect the interests of scheme members generally. And so, 
based on what IFM said, its likely Mr L incorrectly believed he would be treated unfairly if he took benefits early under the BSPS2;
IFM stated in the suitability report that at age 65 the BSPS would pay Mr L an annual 
pension of £13,395. But the TVAS showed the estimated revalued annual pension at 
age 65 was £24,307.66. So the reference to £13,395 (which was the pension at date 
of leaving and not at age 65) was misleading. IFM attempted to show in the suitability 
report the early retirement pension payable under the BSPS at age 60. It stated, For 
illustrative purposes only, if you were 60 now and retiring under the current British 
Steel scheme, the annual pension would be c£11,000 per year or c£7,500 with a tax-
free lump sum of c£50,000. But that illustration was potentially misleading for an 
inexperienced investor like Mr L. This is because that figure of £13,395 would need 
to be revalued to age 60 before the 18% reduction was applied  but IFM applied it to 
the pension at the date of leaving. I think the way the information was presented may 
have misled Mr L to believe that the benefits payable by the BSPS (and therefore the 
BSPS2) at age 60 were lower than was actually the case;
The TVAS calculations produced by Prudential showed that the critical yield figures 
to match the benefits under the BSPS at age 65 ranged between 6.6% and 7.0% for 
both periods of pensionable service. This compared with a discount rate of 4.6% at 
age 65, as explained by our investigator in his assessment. For further comparison, 
the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 
5%, and the lower projection rate 2% per year. Its my view that a required 
investment growth rate ranging between 6.6% and 7.0% was incompatible with          
Mr Ls Conservative risk profile, discount rate and the estimated annual growth rate 
of 5.99% (before charges) of the recommended investment strategy. I think these 
factors showed that it was likely Mr L would be financially worse off as a result of the 
pension transfer;
Notwithstanding the above, I think the critical yield figures of 6.6% and 7.0% were 
incorrect. This is because the basis of the advice was that IFM would provide 
ongoing advice to Mr L at a cost of 0.4% of his PPP fund value each year  but that 
cost wasnt taken into account when calculating the critical yield. Rather, it was 
assumed the ongoing adviser charge was 0.0%. Including that ongoing advice cost 
wouldve led to the critical yield being greater than stated, which further increased the 
risk that Mr L would be worse off by transferring. In addition, the basis of the 
recommendation was that Mr L was seeking to take benefits at age 60. If that was 
the case then I wouldve expected IFM to also calculate the critical yield figures at 
age 60 to enable Mr L to make an informed decision. But it didnt. I think this was a 
material oversight because the critical yield figures at age 60 wouldve been greater 
than stated due to the shorter investment timeframe and impact of the initial advice 
charge on the required growth rate. This meant that Mr L wasnt provided accurate 
information about the level of investment growth required in the PPP to match the 
scheme pension if he took benefits early at age 60; and
In my view, the suitability report failed to meet the fair, clear and not misleading 
requirements of COBS 4.2.1R. It was generic with templated wording to describe               
Mr Ls objectives with the result that the recommendation wasnt sufficiently tailored 
to his individual circumstances. I think it lacked sufficient colour and detail. As noted 
above, it included misleading information regarding the ability to take benefits early 
under the PPF, understated critical yield figures and benefits payable by the scheme 
at age 60. And it failed to provide sufficient information on alternative options to 
achieve Mr Ls stated objectives. I think these inadequacies in the suitability report 
led to him making an uninformed decision to proceed with a pension transfer when 
this was not in his best interests.Conclusion
The transfer out of the BSPS was recommended on the grounds that it would meet Mr Ls 
objectives of achieving early retirement, income flexibility, flexible death benefits and control 
over investment choice. It appears to me that IFM placed greater emphasis on Mr Ls 
objectives, failing to assess whether the pension transfer was in his best interests and 
whether the objectives could in fact be achieved by transferring to the BSPS2. 
Overall, I dont think the contemporaneous evidence supports the position as to why Mr Ls 
generic objectives wouldve been sufficiently compelling reasons for him to relinquish 
valuable benefit guarantees by transferring to a PPP at that time, especially in view of his 
good state of health and level of reliance on these monies to provide retirement income. 
Based on what Ive seen, I think IFM failed to give adequate consideration to the risk that              
Mr L couldnt financially bear the risks involved in the pension transfer. 
I havent seen any evidence that persuades me the pension transfer was clearly in Mr Ls 
best interests compared to the alternative option of transferring to the BSPS2. IFM admitted 
as much in its suitability report when it stated it was far too early to determine whether the 
PPP would satisfy Mr Ls needs better than the DB pension scheme. As a result, I think its 
fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for IFM to put Mr L, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice he was given. 
Properly advised, I think Mr L wouldve transferred to the BSPS2 and his benefits would now 
be preserved in that scheme. I acknowledge that Mr L had an aspiration to retire from age 
60. However, he was about 19 years away from that age when IFM advised him. I think its 
fair to say that plans about retirement can change over such a long period of time. Im not 
persuaded that theres sufficient contemporaneous evidence that supports the position Mr L 
wouldve started taking his safeguarded benefits which involved taking a regular income 
from age 60. And Im not convinced it could be reasonably determined at the time that the 
PPF was the likely better option for Mr L. And so I think, given his age and the lack of clarity 
surrounding when he would retire, the BSPS2 was likely the better option for him based on 
what was known at the time and that at age 65 the BSPS2 would provide a higher level of 
benefits than the PPF. As such, the calculation on the basis of entering the BSPS2 should 
be carried out. For clarity, compensation should be based on the BSPS2s normal retirement 
age of 65 for the reasons explained.
IFM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
IFM should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to the CMC, on behalf of Mr L, and our service 
upon completion of the calculation.
The calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line with 
DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or 
submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ls 
acceptance of this final decision.If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, IFM should:
calculate and offer Mr L redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr L before starting the redress calculation that:
- its redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his PPP
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr L receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum;
if Mr L accepts IFMs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be augmented, 
request the necessary information and not charge him for the calculation, even if he 
ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented; and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ls end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr L as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, IFM may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss couldve been taken as tax-free cash and 75% wouldve been 
taxed according to Mr Ls likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So 
making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
In addition, IFM should pay Mr L £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its 
unsuitable recommendation, as recommended by our investigator.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd to pay Mr L the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that
Inspirational Financial Management Ltd pays Mr L the balance. 
If Mr L accepts this final decision, the money award becomes binding on Inspirational 
Financial Management Ltd. My recommendation wouldnt be binding. Further, its unlikely 
that Mr L can accept this final decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr L may want 
to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this final 
decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2023. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman