DRN-3027833
The complaint
Mr S complains that One Sure Insurance Limited incorrectly recorded his claims history and 
no claims discount which resulted in two insurers cancelling his policies. 
What happened
Mr S had a policy through another trading name of One Sure. During that policy year he had 
a claim. When his policy renewed through One Sure the claim wasnt recorded and it also 
incorrectly noted him down as having one years no claims discount (NCD). 
When the insurer became aware of these issues it asked Mr S to pay an additional premium, 
which he agreed to do. There was then a shortfall in what was owed, which Mr S wasnt told 
about, and because this wasnt paid his policy was cancelled. Mr S found out about this after 
the cancellation and while he was at work. He therefore had to stop working and return 
home to sort out the error. 
One Sure set up another policy for Mr S but made the same mistake about his claim and 
NCD again. The new insurer found out Mr S didnt have one years NCB and his policy was 
cancelled. Mr S therefore had to take out another policy. Mr S wasnt happy about this and 
complained to One Sure. 
One Sure reviewed the complaint and said it had arranged to refund the credit from his 
cancelled policy to him. Its also said it hasnt charged him any fees or charges and so hes 
only paid for his time on risk with the insurer. Mr S didnt think this was good enough and 
brought his complaint here, he said hes paid a lot for insurance and blames this on One 
Sures errors. 
Our Investigator reviewed the complaint and recommended it be upheld. He found that One 
Sure had made error which had meant Mr S had to set up multiple policies and have several 
calls with One Sure to try and sort it out. He therefore recommended One Sure pays Mr S 
£450 compensation for the distress and inconvenience and write him a letter to say the two 
cancellations were One Sures fault. 
One Sure agreed with our investigators findings and said that it would provide Mr S with a 
letter to say the cancellations were its fault. However, it had checked, and the policies hadnt 
been recorded as cancelled by the insurer and therefore he hadnt paid a higher premium 
because of them. Mr S didnt agree, he said he had been told hed paid higher because of 
the cancellations. He also said because of One Sures errors it meant he wouldnt build up 
his NCD as quickly, so he thought One Sure should do more to compensate him for this. 
As Mr S didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that One Sure made errors with Mr Ss policies, which resulted in two 
having to be cancelled and him have to keep setting up new polices. As One Sure accepted 
the errors Im not going to comment on them further here. However, I have considered the 
impact of One Sures errors to see if its done enough to put things right. 
I can understand the frustration Mr S must have had at the same error being made more 
than once. And also, the impact this had when he found out his insurance had cancelled 
after the cancellation date. Because of this Mr S said he had to stop working part way 
through the day and return home to correct his insurance. 
Mr S has also explained that hes paid a lot for insurance and that hes paid too much 
because of One Sures errors. One Sure has agree to not charge any fees, provide Mr S 
with a letter to say the two cancellations were the fault of One Sure and also agreed to pay 
£450 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. 
I say this because while Mr S has paid more than he thinks he should have, the amount hes 
paid is whats charged by the insurer. One Sure has agreed to provide a letter showing the 
errors are its fault, its also not charged any fees for those policies. Therefore, if Mr S feels 
hes paid too much for his premium, hes able to provide the letter to the insurer and ask it to 
ensure his policy has been rated correctly. So, Im not going to tell One Sure to do anything 
else in relation to the premiums hes paid for the policies. 
Ive also considered the additional unnecessary distress and inconvenience One Sure has 
caused Mr S. Im satisfied £450 is a fair and reasonable amount to compensate for this. I say 
that because hes had to set up three additional policies he shouldnt have, and hes also 
had to return from work one day to sort out a cancellation. And when taking into account this 
distress and inconvenience, Im satisfied £450 is a fair and reasonable amount. 
Mr S has also raised about not being able to build up his NCD as quickly as he could have. 
Ive considered Mr Ss point about this but Im not going to tell it to do anything else. This is 
because when deciding on the amount of compensation Ive taken into account that One 
Sure will be providing a letter to show the cancellations were their fault. Mr S could therefore 
provide this to a future insurer to see if theyd take it into account when considering a NCD. 
So Im not going to tell One Sure to pay more than the £450 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
One Sure Insurance Limited to provide Mr S with a letter explaining the two cancellations 
were due to its error and pay him £450 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman