DRN-3204092
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mr and Mrs C says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold Mr C PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr and Mrs 
Cs circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs Cs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Cs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr and 
Mrs Cs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think Nationwide made it clear that Mr and Mrs C didnt have to take out the PPI and Mr 
C chose to take it out. I say this because Nationwide has sent us a copy of the 
paperwork Mr C completed when he took out the policy. Mr C completed an application 
form for the PPI some-time after applying for his mortgage so he would have known he 
didnt have to take the policy.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr C - so it didnt have to check that the PPI 
was right or suitable for him. But it did have to give Mr C enough clear and timely 
information so he could decide for himself if it was right for him.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr C. Although Mr C says he 
had medical conditions when the PPI was taken out I dont think better information about 
the existing medical condition exclusion wouldve caused him to change his mind about 
taking out the policy. I say this because I havent seen enough to show Mr Cs conditions 
werent controlled, or that he would have felt he would need to claim for either condition 
when he took out the policy. There were also no additional restrictions on cover for 
mental health or back problems. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it 
would have been useful for Mr and Mrs C if something went wrong. Because of this I 
dont think Mr C would have declined the cover had Nationwide done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr C would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely he thought he was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Cs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Nationwide should have disclosed the poor 
value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had 
on the chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Cs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Cs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Cs particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
This means Nationwide doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman