DRN-3162309
The complaint
Mr Ps complained that TSB Bank plc (TSB) blocked access to his account  which led to 
difficulties while he had no access to his funds and stopped him making an investment.
What happened
In early 2021, TSB identified a transaction on Mr Ps account they were concerned about.  
So they blocked his access while they verified it.  They contacted Mr P to tell him this and 
ask for evidence about the funds they were investigating.
Mr P contacted TSB but had difficulty getting through to the right department  including one 
occasion he was kept on hold for about 50 minutes, only for the call to be dropped.  Mr P 
complained about this, and that hed had to go through the verification process.  
TSB replied, acknowledging that security checks arent always convenient  but that they 
have a responsibility to make sure customers accounts arent compromised by fraud.  TSB 
accepted Mr P had been inconvenienced by the amount of time hed spent trying to call 
them.  They paid him £25 compensation for this and £12 for the cost of his calls.
Following this, Mr P provided TSB with the information theyd asked for and, once TSB had 
this, they texted him to tell him the block had been lifted.  But Mr P had to make a further call 
to have his online banking access restored.  He raised a second complaint, in response to 
which TSB sent him a further £50 compensation. 
Mr P wasnt satisfied with TSBs resolution of his complaint and brought it to us.  Our 
investigator considered it and concluded TSB didnt need to do anything more to resolve it.  
He said the payments TSB had made to Mr P were enough to compensate him for the long 
wait times hed experienced when he called and for overlooking unblocking his online 
banking service.
Mr P didnt accept the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint.  Ill explain why.
I understand Mr Ps frustration that his account was blocked.  But I can only ask TSB to 
compensate him if I think theyve done something wrong.  And I have to bear in mind that 
minor inconveniences are a part of everyday life  not necessarily something a business 
should be held to account for.
Ive no doubt Mr P was inconvenienced by his account being blocked.  But  as TSB 
explained when they wrote to him  their regulator imposes obligations on them to make 
sure their customers accounts arent used fraudulently.  So, when theres unusual activity on 
an account, they have to investigate.  And theyll block access to the account while they do.
Thats what happened here.  And Im satisfied that the terms and conditions of Mr Ps 
account make it clear that this can happen in certain circumstances  including if TSB think 
the account is being used for fraud.  The terms say:
If we stop you using your card or security details, well try to contact you beforehand to let 
you know were going to do this and the reasons why. Well usually contact you by calling or 
sending you a text message, or telling you at the time you try to make a payment.
If we cant tell you in advance, well tell you immediately after. But, we might not be able to 
tell you if that means we might compromise our security measures. We also might not be 
able to tell you if there are legal reasons that we cant do so.

Well remove the stop on your card or security details as soon as we can after the reasons 
for us doing it are resolved.
I can see that, once Mr P provided the information TSB wanted, they told him it might take a 
few days to check it.  But, once it was checked, the account was unblocked on the same 
day.  So I cant say that TSB did anything wrong here.  Or that they should have done more 
than they have to resolve this part of Mr Ps complaint.
Nor can I say they should have done more to resolve Mr Ps concern that his online banking 
wasnt reactivated before TSB texted him.  Its unfortunate that wasnt done.  And I accept it 
was inconvenient.  But it took only a telephone call to correct the situation.  Im satisfied that 
the £50 TSB paid Mr P is sufficient compensation for that mistake.
Mr P told our investigator that, because his account was blocked, he couldnt pay bills or 
make the investments hed planned.  I accept that was irritating.  But Ive not seen any 
evidence which shows any greater impact on Mr P  for example, incurring late payment 
charges on bills.  In the absence of such evidence, Im satisfied Mr P was only slightly 
inconvenienced by his account being blocked.  And I think a total of £75, plus call costs of 
£12 is enough to compensate him for that.  So Im not asking TSB to do anything more to 
resolve his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint about TSB Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 January 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman