DRN-3792029
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited (LV) provided him with 
incorrect information and cancelled his life insurance policy and combined critical illness and 
life policy (the policies). 
What happened
Mr K applied for the policies in or around April 2021 through a broker. When doing so, he 
was asked a number of questions  including about his health and medical history. 
After obtaining a report from Mr Ks GP about stomach surgery hed had many years before, 
LV offered the policies to Mr K. The life insurance policy started in September 2021, and the 
other policy started a month later. 
In August 2022, Mr K contacted LV as hed been told by a third party that because he had 
COPD and was a smoker, it was surprising that hed been able to secure cover for life and 
critical illness (the first call). He asked LV whether it had been made aware of his COPD 
and other medication hed been taking. He was assured that he did have cover and it had 
been made aware of his COPD.
Mr K contacted LV again to request the recording of that call. It was at this stage, that a 
different representative noted that hed declared pneumonia and not COPD when applying 
for the policy. LV referred the issue to its underwriters. And it concluded that the combined 
life and critical illness insurance policy wouldnt have been offered to Mr K if hed disclosed 
COPD when answering questions about his medical history. It said the life insurance policy 
could remain in place until it received a medical report about his COPD. But, even if it was 
able to continue offering life cover to him, it would be more expensive. Mr K asked for that 
policy to be cancelled too. 
So, LV cancelled the policies and refunded the premiums paid from the start dates. It also 
offered Mr K £200 compensation to recognise that hed initially been told that it had been 
made aware of his COPD and cover was in place in the first call.
Unhappy, Mr K complained to our service. Our investigator looked into what happened and 
didnt uphold his complaint.  
Mr K disagreed so his complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Cancelling the policies
When considering this issue, Ive taken into account The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure 
and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) as I think its relevant here. CIDRA requires 
consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a 
consumer insurance contract. The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer (in this case LV) has to show it would have offered 
the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
LV has concluded that a careless disclosure had been made when taking out the policy as 
based on the questions asked, Mr Ks COPD shouldve been disclosed. 
For the reasons set our below, I think LV has acted fairly and reasonably by cancelling the 
policies and refunding Mr K his premiums.
When first applying for the policies, Mr K was asked a number of questions about his 
medical history including: 
in the last 5 years, regardless of whether youve seen a doctor, requested treatment 
or had time off work, have you had: asthma, bronchitis, sleep apnoea or anything 
affecting your lungs or breathing? 
Including: 
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) 
Emphysema
Im satisfied that this is a clear question and Ill refer to it as the medical question. 
Mr K answered yes and declared pneumonia. 
But many months after the policies had started, Mr K notified LV that he also had COPD. He 
said hed declared this to the broker when taking out the policy so, COPD shouldve also 
been included as a declared condition in answer to the medical question.  
I can see that a form was sent to Mr K undercover of LVs letter dated April 2021 (reflecting 
the questions asked and answers given during the application). This reflects that COPD 
wasnt declared when answering the medical question. Mr K was asked to consider the form 
and to let LV know immediately if anything wasnt right. Im satisfied that he didnt contact LV 
at that the time to declare COPD.
Given what Mr K told LV in August 2022, Im satisfied that LV has fairly and reasonably 
concluded that he answered the medical question incorrectly. And COPD shouldve also 
been declared. 
Im satisfied LV has fairly concluded that this amounts to a qualifying misrepresentation 
under CIDRA. And, based on what Mr K told LV in August 2022, I think LV has reasonably 
concluded that the medical question was answered carelessly when applying for the policy. I 
also think by asking the medical question, Mr K ought to have realised that the answer would 
be relevant to LV when considering whether to offer him the policies. LV has provided underwriting guidance showing that if Mr K had declared COPD, it wouldve 
declined cover for the policies because hed also declared he was a smoker. So, I think the 
answer to the medical question mattered to LV and was directly relevant to its decision to 
offer Mr K the policies. 
Ive looked at the actions LV can take in line with CIDRA. Under the legislation its entitled to 
act as it wouldve done had the medical question not been answered carelessly. 
As Im satisfied that the combined life and critical illness policy wouldnt have been offered, I 
think its fair and reasonable for LV to have cancelled that policy. 
Based on the underwriting guidance, Im also satisfied that LV couldve cancelled the life 
cover. So, I think it acted fairly by offering Mr K the option of retaining life cover until it had 
obtained and considered a medical report about his COPD and telling him that even if the 
policy remained in place thereafter, it was likely the premium would increase. From the notes 
provided by LV, Im satisfied Mr K wanted to cancel the life insurance policy in light of this.
LV refunded the premiums paid for both policies, which is in line with what I would 
reasonably expect it to do in these circumstances. 
Being provided incorrect information in August 2022
LV has an obligation to treat customers fairly. 
It accepts that when Mr K called LV in August 2022 to query whether the policies covered 
him despite having COPD, he was told that he was covered; only to be subsequently told 
that it hadnt been made aware of his COPD at the time of application and if it had been, the 
policies wouldnt have been offered to him. I can understand why this wouldve been very 
upsetting for Mr K. 
However, Im satisfied that if the first call had gone the way it shouldve  and Mr K was told 
at the outset that LV hadnt been told about his COPD and the impact on the policies  it 
wouldnt have done anything wrong. I accept that Mr K then discovering hed received 
incorrect information during the first call wouldve been frustrating and distressing for him  
particularly as hed mentioned his COPD and had been reassured that he was still covered 
under the policies. 
But what he was subsequently told was right and for the reasons set out above, Im satisfied 
LV acted fairly and reasonably when cancelling the policies in the circumstances of this 
case.
I think compensation in the sum of £200  as offered by LV  fairly reflects the distress and 
inconvenience Mr K experienced as a result of the incorrect information and reassurances 
he was initially given during the first call. I dont think LV needs to do anything more here. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman