DRN-2747082
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Quickly Finance Limited, trading as Fast Track Reclaim (FTR) 
charged her a success fee for a payment protection insurance (PPI) complaint. She says 
she complained directly to the lender because FTR didnt send her anything to let her know it 
was looking into her complaint.
What happened
In mid-2020 Mrs S received compensation from a lender for mis-sold PPI. Shortly afterwards 
she received an invoice from FTR for a success fee of £285.69.
Mrs S didnt feel she owed FTR the money. She said she didnt receive any updates from 
FTR after filling out a form online in June 2019. So, she forgot shed made the enquiry and 
submitted her own claim to the lender in August 2019. She didnt think it was fair for FTR to 
charge her a fee.
FTR said it received two online enquiries from Mrs S  one in June 2019 and one in August 
2019. Mrs S had agreed to FTRs terms and conditions. Around June 2019 some lenders 
started to auto-convert complaints relating to the mis-selling of PPI to ensure consumers 
didnt miss the PPI deadline of 29 August 2019. This was explained in the terms and 
conditions Mrs S had agreed to. FTR said it hadnt received a request to cancel from Mrs S 
within the 14 day cooling-off period meaning she was liable to pay the fee. 
FTR acknowledged that it hadnt kept her up to date on the progress of her claim. It offered 
to reduce Mrs Ss fee to £235.70 to reflect the inconvenience caused.
Mrs S remained unhappy, so she asked our service to look into her concerns. Our 
investigator didnt think Mrs Ss complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied Mrs S had 
authorised FTR to act on her behalf and she hadnt cancelled the agreement within the 
cooling-off period.
Mrs S disagreed with our investigators view. So, her complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
FTR has provided information to show that Mrs S completed online enquiries for mis-sold 
PPI for several lenders (including the one she received the settlement from) on 25 June 
2019 and 4 August 2019. The details in her application match the information shes given 
our service. And the email address on the August application is the same one shes provided 
us with on her complaint form. 
From what we know, FTRs web journey in August 2019 is likely to have included the 
following wording:
Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and we will continue to work on 
preparing, submitting and negotiating your Claim(s). Our Fee of 24%, inclusive of VAT, will 
be payable on all successful Claim(s), as per the Terms of Engagement.
So, I think FTR is likely to have made it clear to Mrs S that a fee would become payable for 
services provided once PPI was confirmed. 
Mrs S appears to have digitally signed a letter of authority agreeing to FTRs terms and 
conditions which say:
Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and You authorise FTR to continue 
to provide You with the Claims Services.
Claims Services is defined as:
i) conducting a PPI Check to ascertain if You have/had PPI with each Company You tell 
us You have dealt with; and/or
ii) Preparing and Submitting Your Claim(s) to/with the Company, in the event that FTR 
locate PPI.
So, Im satisfied Mrs S gave FTR authority to progress her PPI claim against the lender. And 
she also agreed to pay its fee. 
The terms and conditions go on to say:
You may cancel Your Claim(s) at any time within 14 days from the date you sign the Letter 
of Authority (Cooling-off Period) at no cost to you, unless you or FTR have received a 
reasonable offer of Compensation within the Cooling-off Period.
I havent seen anything to suggest Mrs S attempted to cancel her agreement with FTR. And I 
can also see that the lender sent copies of the correspondence regarding Mrs Ss claim to 
FTR. So, it appears to have recognised FTR as Mrs Ss representative. 
Mrs S says that because FTR didnt update her on her claim, she forgot about her enquiry 
and made a claim directly to the lender. The deadline for claims for mis-sold PPI was 29 
August 2019. This was only a few weeks after Mrs S gave FTR authority to represent her in 
her claim. There was a substantial increase in PPI complaints at the time which resulted in 
lengthy delays in lenders acknowledging these. So, I dont think it would be fair to say that 
FTR should have updated Mrs S within this timeframe.
FTR has acknowledged that its communication could have been better. But I think its offer 
to reduce Mrs Ss fee by almost £50 was reasonable. 
Having considered everything, Im satisfied that FTR is entitled to the fee it has invoiced   
Mrs S for. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman