DRN-3835158
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Starling Bank Limited didnt honour a regular payment set up on 
their account. 
 
What happened
Mr and Mrs R had a regular monthly payment set up on their joint account to pay their 
council tax. A payment of £113 was due on 18 October 2021. But Starling didnt honour the 
payment. It said there was insufficient funds in the joint account when the payment was 
processed.
Mr and Mrs R say they didnt realise the payment hadnt been made until they received a 
letter from the local council chasing the missed payment. Mr R complained to Starling 
pointing out that he had a regular monthly transfer set up on his personal account (also with 
Starling) to the joint account. And that transfer was received into the joint account on           
18 October 2021 to cover the payments being debited that day. 
 
Starling responded to Mr Rs complaint. It said that Mr and Mrs R needed to ensure they had 
sufficient funds in the joint account the day before any payments are due to be paid  and on 
this occasion there wasnt enough money in the account to cover the council tax payment. It 
added that it had sent Mr R two messages. The first  sent on 17 October 2021, reminded 
Mr R that he needed sufficient funds in his account by Midnight to cover the council tax 
payment due the next day. The second - sent on 18 October 2021, notified Mr R that the 
payment had failed. So, it didnt uphold the complaint.
Unhappy with the response, Mr and Mrs R referred the complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into it. Ultimately, he upheld the complaint. He said the way in which 
Starling processed payments was out of Mr and Mrs Rs control. And he thought it was harsh 
that Starling hadnt paid the council tax payment when a credit payment was processed 
minutes later. He recommended that Starling pay Mr and Mrs R £100 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused.
Mr and Mrs R didnt accept this recommendation. Mr R said £200 was a fairer amount. 
Starling agreed to pay Mr and Mrs R £100. But it didnt agree that a higher compensation 
payment was due. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me to reach a final decision.  
   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall outcome as the investigator. I appreciate     
Mr and Mrs R will be disappointed as I can see how strongly they feel that Starlings system 
is at fault, so Ill explain why.  
Its not in dispute that Mr and Mrs R didnt have sufficient funds in their account on               
17 October 2021  the day before the council tax payment was due. And Ive seen that 
Starling sent a message to Mr R on 17 October 2021 which said your payment to RVBC for 
£113 is due. Add money before midnight to make payment.
Mr R hasnt disputed receiving the message. Rather, he says he didnt think he needed to do 
anything as he had a payment set up on his personal account to transfer funds to the joint 
account on the 18 October 2021. And I can appreciate why Mr R thought hed done enough 
to ensure there were sufficient funds in the joint account.
Unfortunately, the way Starlings system worked at the time meant payments due out of an 
account are processed before any payments due in  hence, the message sent on                       
17 October 2021 asking for a payment to be made by midnight. 
Generally speaking, this service cant comment on a banks processes  we arent the 
regulator. But Im satisfied Starlings process is an automated one with no human 
intervention. And at the point the council tax payment was processed there wasnt sufficient 
funds in Mr and Mrs R account. So, I cant say Starling did anything wrong here. 
Mr R says he wasnt aware the payment hadnt been made until he received an arrears letter 
from the council. But Ive seen that Starling sent Mr R a second message on                              
18 October 2021 which said Your payment to RVBC for £113 failed because you have 
insufficient funds. And Mr and Mrs R subsequent account statement didnt show the 
payment as having been made. 
So, while Mr and Mrs R had been expecting a credit payment to be credited to the joint 
account, Im satisfied that Starling did enough to put them on notice that the council tax 
payment had failed. And Im persuaded this should have prompted them to contact the local 
council to make the payment that was due by other means. 
But, like the investigator, I do have some empathy with Mr and Mrs R in this situation  
particularly, as the credit to the joint account Mr R had arranged was processed within 
minutes of the payments out. And both the credit into the account and the payment out were 
regular monthly payments and this problem hadnt occurred before. Starling has now also 
recognised this by accepting the investigators recommendation to pay compensation of 
£100.  
Overall, I think this amount fairly recognises the impact this incident had on                              
Mr and Mrs R. Starling did enough to make them reasonably aware the payment hadnt been 
made and they have since made the payment that was always due to the council and no 
further action was taken. So, I wont be asking Starling to increase the compensation 
payment it has agreed to make.    
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr and Mrs R complaint. Starling Bank Limited should 
now pay them £100 compensation if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman