DRN-3656771
The complaint
Mr T says Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited didnt offer him enough for his written-off car 
after he made a claim on his motor insurance policy - and that it didnt collect the salvage. 
What happened
Mr Ts car was damaged in an accident in August 2021. It was taken to his fathers house, 
which was nearby. Mr T said it couldnt be collected until the claim was settled. Admiral 
decided the car was a category B write-off, which meant it couldnt be returned to the road. 
It consulted one of the national trade guides - which valued the car at £10,030. At the time 
the car was showing as having been a repairable total loss previously, so Admiral deducted 
20% of the valuation for that, plus £988 for the salvage and £350 for the policy excess.
Mr T was able to show that the car didnt have a total loss marker when he bought it. And it 
emerged that the previous insurer had made a mistake in adding the marker. Admiral then 
offered Mr T a settlement sum without the 20% deduction  and it also included the valuation 
from a second trade guide. That meant the new offer was £10,265 (less a salvage charge 
and the policy excess). Admiral issued a second cheque to Mr T for an extra £2,322.50. But 
he returned Admirals cheques. He said he had a valuation from the second trade guide of 
£11,650 - and he said two auction houses had confirmed that sum was correct. He also had 
a valuation of £12,195 (around the sum hed paid for the car in 2020).
 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ts complaint. He thought Admiral had acted fairly in 
relying on the trade guide figures it had found. The investigator checked the two guides 
valuations, plus the one in a third guide. The average of all three was £10,325. He said that 
was close to the £10,265 Admiral had offered, so he thought the offer was reasonable. The 
investigator noted that Mr T had objected to Admiral issuing cheques to him. He said the 
sums offered could have been accepted whilst Mr T continued to dispute the valuation. And 
he pointed out that Admiral had offered to collect the car and pay him for the salvage, but Mr 
T said he wanted to retain it until the claim was finalised. 
 
Mr T said it was reasonable for him to ask for £11,500 for the car given the valuations hed 
got. He said the investigator must have looked at the wrong guides  and he sent in a copy 
of the valuation from the second guide. He insisted that hed made it clear he didnt want the 
car, but Admiral had refused to collect it.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy allows Admiral to decide whether or not to repair a vehicle. If it decides its a total 
loss, its required to pay the vehicles market value just before the accident. We think the 
best way to establish a likely market value is to consult the national trade guides. Admiral 
checked two of them before making its final offer to Mr T, so I think it acted reasonably. And 
the investigators checks show that Admirals offer was in line with the average valuation 
shown in three trade guides. It isnt clear why the valuation Mr T got was so different from 
the ones weve seen in the guides, but it doesnt mean Admiral acted unreasonably. 
It seems auction houses and others have said Admirals valuation is too low, so I understand 
why Mr T thinks it hasnt offered him a fair sum for the car. But in my opinion, Admiral acted 
fairly in arriving at a reasonable settlement sum by using the guides. Mr T could have 
accepted its offer whilst continuing to dispute the valuation. I think that would have assisted 
him in arranging alternative transport until the claim was settled.  
I think theres been some confusion about the salvage. Mr T didnt want to keep the car once 
he knew it couldnt be repaired, and he made that clear. But he also made it clear that he 
wouldnt release it until he was happy with the proposed settlement sum. As the investigator 
said on several occasions, the best way forward was always for Mr T to liaise with Admiral 
about it collecting the car once he was happy to release it. My understanding is that Admiral 
has now done so and has disposed of it safely. 
  
Mr T thinks Admiral tried to bully him into accepting the sum it offered and that its staff were 
rude. Admiral says it issued standard letters - but that the process was hard, as it usually is 
when theres an entrenched valuation dispute. Ive seen all the correspondence and the 
notes of calls with Mr T. In my opinion, theres no evidence of rudeness or of Admiral trying 
to force Mr T to accept its offers. And I dont think it was wrong for it to issue cheques to him. 
The industry regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority - FCA) says insurers should do that, 
so consumers arent left out of pocket for longer than necessary. I can see why Mr T may 
have interpreted it as undue pressure, but in my opinion Admiral was acting in line with FCA 
guidance and in his best interests. 
As I dont think Admiral has acted unreasonably, Im not able to uphold Mr Ts complaint.  I 
know hell be disappointed with that, and hed already asked the investigator what else he 
could do to pursue his complaint if I didnt uphold it. Our process is at an end, but if Mr T  still 
believes that AXA hasnt paid him enough, its open to him to take the claim to court.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the Financial Ombudsman 
Services rules, I must ask Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 5 December 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman