DRN-3997846
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr D arranged the mortgage in June 1990. But the PPI didnt start until February 1991.
I wrote a provisional decision last month in which I explained why I wasnt thinking of 
upholding the complaint and inviting both Mr D and Lloyds to provide any further comments 
they might wish to make. Neither party made any further submissions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Due to how long ago it was, Lloyds no longer has any paperwork from the sale of the PPI, 
which is not surprising. However, it does make the case more difficult to decide. Where the 
evidence is incomplete (as it is here), inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on 
the balance of probabilities  that is, what is considered most likely to have happened given 
the evidence that is available to me, and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr D says he wasnt told that PPI had been added to the mortgage account, meaning it was 
added without his knowledge or consent. However, the available evidence suggests that Mr 
D wasnt sold PPI at the time that he took out the mortgage. It was some eight months later 
that the PPI policy became active. As the mortgage was already running at the time that the 
policy started, I think its more likely than not that some other sales process must have 
happened in which Mr D decided to buy PPI. As the mortgage was already running, Mr D 
cannot have thought that the PPI was a condition of the lending. 
The sale was a long time ago and so its not surprising that Mr D says he has no recollection 
of the sale. From what we know of Lloyds sales process at the time, the PPI was normally 
presented as optional and I havent seen anything that would lead me to conclude that 
something different happened in this case. Overall, I consider that Mr D probably decided to 
buy the PPI, knowing that he didnt have to, even if he no longer remembers doing so.
Lloyds advised Mr D to buy the policy and therefore it needed to ensure that the PPI met his 
needs. From what I know of Mr Ds circumstances, the policy was suitable for him. He didnt 
have access to any sick pay and had no savings to fall back on, so the policy could have 
proved useful at what would have been a difficult time.
Mr D was self-employed at the time. Due to the passage of time, Lloyds doesnt have a copy 
of the policy document. However, it has supplied a copy of the nearest available policy  
which I accept on a balance of probabilities  applied to policies like Mr Ds. The policy terms 
make it no more difficult for a self-employed person to make a claim for unemployment than 
an employed person. So Mr Ds employment status did not make the PPI unsuitable for him.
Lloyds also needed to provide Mr D with enough information for him to be able to make an 
informed choice about whether or not the policy was right for him.
I think that Mr D would have known something about the policy  that it would cover his 
mortgage repayments if he was unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment  
because I dont think hed have decided to take it out without knowing anything about it. And 
I think its unlikely that Mr D would have thought that the policy was free. Based on his 
circumstances at the time, I think that if Mr D had known that the policy cost £26.21 per 
month and would have covered his mortgage repayments for up to 12 months per claim, he 
would still have taken out the PPI as the policy was sufficiently close to what he thought he 
was getting, at a price that he could afford.
Its possible that Lloyds didnt provide as much information as it should have, particularly 
about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr D wasnt affected by any of those things. For 
example, he didnt have a pre-existing medical condition that might have been excluded 
under the policy. As I consider that Mr D had an interest in the PPI and decided to buy it, I 
dont think that more information would have caused him to change his mind. So he is no 
worse off as a result of anything Lloyds may have done wrong, so theres nothing that Lloyds 
needs to do to put things right. 
As neither Mr D nor Lloyds provided any further evidence or comments, I see no reason to 
depart from the outcome I reached in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman