DRN-3440128
The complaint
Mrs K and Mrs M have complained that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) unfairly turned 
down their business interruption insurance claim. 
What happened
Mrs K and Mrs M held a business protection insurance policy with Ageas. They claimed on 
their policy after their business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response 
to the pandemic. 
Ageas turned down their claim. It said while the policy covered business interruption or 
interference due to a notifiable disease occurring at the premises, it thought Mrs K and     
Mrs Ms business had closed as a result of the Government Regulations. 
Unhappy with Ageass response, Mrs K and Mrs M brought their complaint to our service. 
They said Mr K, Mrs Ks husband, had been at their business premises and experienced 
symptoms of Covid-19. To support this Mrs K and Mrs M provided evidence which included:
A timeline which logged that Mr K was at the business premises every day between 
13  20 March (except 15 March) to carry out routine maintenance. It recorded that 
Mr K attended the premises for an appointment on 21 March and then attended the 
premises again on 24 and 25 March. The timeline also logged that Mr K experienced 
symptoms on 28 March and showed details of Mr Ks colleagues who also 
experienced symptoms of Covid-19 at around the same time. 
Hand-written diary entry for the 21 March showing Mr Ks appointment at the 
premises.
A statement from a tradesperson who attended the premises with Mr K on 25 March.
Text messages, starting on 29 March, describing Mr Ks symptoms.
Medical notes showing a call to 111 on 3 April for suspected Covid-19.
An article from the World Health Organisation (WHO) setting out that the incubation 
period for Covid-19 is usually 5-6 days but can be up to 14 days. 
Extract from a medical journal which said people usually show symptoms within 4-5 
days of infection although it can depend on the case. It also says people can be 
contagious for around 20 days.
Mrs K and Mrs M also said another client had returned from a trip abroad with no sense of 
taste or smell but had continued with their appointment as, at that time, those werent known 
symptoms of Covid-19.
 
Our investigator looked into Mrs K and Mrs Ms complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld 
as he didnt think there was enough evidence to conclude that there had most likely been a 
case of Covid-19 at their premises before they were required to close. 
Mrs K and Mrs M disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. They said the reports 
theyd provided showed that people with Covid-19 could be infectious for some time 
meaning Mr K would have had Covid-19 when at their premises. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Mrs K and Mrs Ms business. However, I wont be upholding their complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if Ageas has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Mrs K and Mrs Ms claim.
The relevant part of the term in Mrs K and Mrs Ms policy covers loss resulting from business 
interruption or interference as a result of:
any occurrence of a Notifiable Disease (as defined below) at the Premises or 
attributable to food or drink supplied from the Premises
Covid-19 is a notifiable disease as defined by the policy. So, for this extension to provide 
cover for Mrs K and Mrs Ms claim, the interruption to their business would need to be as a 
result of a case of Covid-19 occurring at their premises. 
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-
19, save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able to produce a 
positive test result from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to demonstrate a 
case on the premises would, in my view, be unfair.
Its therefore necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on the balance of probabilities, that Covid-19 
occurred at the insured premises prior to closure. As with any insurance claim, the burden 
of proof initially rests with the policyholder to demonstrate that its suffered a loss its policy 
covers.
On 23 March the Government announced that businesses such as Mrs K and Mrs Ms 
should close. Ive therefore considered whether Mrs K and Mrs M have shown its most likely 
there was a case at their premises before this date. I dont think its relevant whether Mr K 
was at the premises after this date because any occurrence of Covid-19 at the premises 
after 23 March wouldnt have been one of the cases that led to the Governments decision 
to impose restrictions. 
I have Mrs Ks testimony and a hand-written diary entry to show Mr K was at the premises 
between 13 and 21 March. However, I dont believe I need to reach a finding on whether  
Mr K was or wasnt at the business premises at this time because, even if he was, on the 
basis of the evidence provided about Mr Ks illness I dont believe Ive seen enough to be 
persuaded on the balance of probabilities that he had Covid-19 at that time. I understand that Mr Ks symptoms started on 28 March, which is 7 days after he was at the 
premises. Mrs K and Mrs M have provided information which says that, in general, people 
display symptoms within either 4-5 days or 5-6 days after infection, although the incubation 
period can be longer than this.
I have to bear in mind that the Supreme Court in the Financial Conduct Authority Business 
Interruption Insurance test case said that an occurrence of Covid-19 happens when an 
individual becomes diagnosable with the disease. The guidance from, amongst others, the 
WHO suggests that some people can become diagnosable 1-3 days before experiencing 
symptoms. Ive considered the information Mrs K and Mrs M have provided which says that 
some people can be contagious for longer periods of time, but I dont think this means they 
would be diagnosable any sooner. While it might be possible that Mr K was diagnosable 7 
days before his symptoms began, I have to reach a decision based on what I think is most 
likely. And I think its more likely than not that, on the basis of when his symptoms started, 
Mr K wasnt diagnosable on 21 March. 
Mrs K and Mrs M also referred to another client who had returned from holiday with no 
sense of taste or smell. However, I only have their testimony to support this and that isnt 
enough for me to find that there was most likely a case of Covid-19 at their premises prior to 
their closure. 
Therefore, I dont think Mrs K and Mrs M have shown there was most likely a case of Covid-
19 at their premises before they were required to close and so I cant fairly conclude that 
there is cover under this extension. 
I recognise this isnt the outcome Mrs K and Mrs M were hoping for but, having considered 
the matter very carefully, I cant fairly require Ageas to pay their claim
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mrs M 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman