DRN-4414901
The complaint
Mr B has complained about Pension Works Limiteds advice to not transfer his defined 
benefit occupational pension to a personal pension.
What happened
Mr B was a member of his employers defined benefit pension scheme. It had a cash 
equivalent transfer value (CETV) of approximately £240,000 and he wanted to transfer it to 
a personal pension. Pension Works provided Mr B with various information and asked him to 
complete attitude to risk and defined benefit transfer questionnaires. It later spoke to Mr B 
and on 14 September 2021 it sent him its abridged advice report. Amongst other things this 
recorded that Mr Bs priorities were:
maximising his income potential
flexibility in taking retirement benefits
death benefits.
Pension Works advice/recommendation was to not transfer the pension ie that Mr B should 
remain in the defined benefit pension. It felt a transfer was unsuitable because Mr B will be 
partially reliant in retirement on the benefits provided by the defined benefit scheme to his 
meet needs, and it couldn't justify the transfer of a defined benefit pension based on a 
consumers objective of achieving capital growth over the long term.
In 2023 Mr B complained to Pension Works about the advice. He said the CETV in 2021 was 
about 50 to 60 times his pensionable income and it had dropped by 45%. He also said he 
made it clear that he wanted to transfer the pension and that he accepted the risk in doing 
so. In response to the complaint Pension Works said it was satisfied that transferring wasnt 
unsuitable or in Mr Bs best interests.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld as she felt Pension Works 
recommendation was suitable. Mr B disagreed. He said the CETV outweighed any long-term 
annuity ie £240,000 was equivalent to 40 to 50 years income provided by the defined benefit 
pension. He also felt the transfer would have been in his best interests given the later drop in 
the CETV. And he repeated that he made it clear he wanted to transfer and that he 
understood and accepted the financial risks of doing so. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to note here that Pension Works only gave Mr B abridged advice  thats 
essentially short form advice at a much lower cost (in this case free) compared to full advice. 
Abridged advice can only result in two outcomes  a recommendation to not transfer the 
pension; or telling the consumer its unclear whether or not they would benefit from a transfer 
based on the information collected during the abridged advice process. So Mr B couldnt 
have received a recommendation to transfer the pension via the abridged advice process.
Irrespective of whether Pension Works gave Mr B abridged advice or full advice it had to 
adhere to various regulatory requirements. These included the Principles for Businesses 
(PRIN) and the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS). Below isnt a comprehensive 
list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time of the advice, but it provides useful 
context for my assessment of Pension Works' actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, states in COBS 19.1.6G that when advising a 
consumer whether they should transfer a defined benefit pension a business should start by 
assuming it will not be suitable, and only then consider it to be suitable if it can clearly 
demonstrate that its in the consumer's best interests.
Accordingly, the starting point for Pension Works advice was that transferring wouldnt be in 
Mr Bs best interests. And unless it could clearly show that transferring was in Mr Bs best 
interests it couldnt advise him to transfer. And although Mr B wanted to transfer and 
accepted the risks of transferring, thats not enough on its own for Pension Works to clearly 
show that transferring was in his best interests and/or that a recommendation to transfer was 
suitable. 
The retirement benefits provided by a defined benefit pension are valuable as theyre 
guaranteed for life  as opposed to a personal pension which isnt guaranteed (because 
investments go up and down) nor for life (because a consumer might spend it all before they 
die). This is why the regulator requires businesses to start from the position that transferring 
is unsuitable. Of course, there might be occasions where a business can show that 
transferring is in a consumers best interest  eg because the defined benefit pension 
represents a very small portion of a consumers overall retirement provisions, or because a 
consumer absolutely needs (rather than wants) immediate cash that can only be obtained by 
transferring  but this is very much the exception to the rule and the bar the advisor has to 
overcome is very high.
In this case Im not persuaded that the reasons for transferring were compelling enough to 
make it clearly in Mr Bs best interests. For example, Mr B wanted flexibility in how he could 
take his pension benefits. But he already had some flexibility in that respect from an existing 
personal pension. And he was five years away from retirement so it wasnt known what his 
income needs would be at that point. Mr B also wanted death benefits from the pension to 
be paid to his wife. But the defined benefit pension paid death benefits to his wife via a 
spouses pension and he already had some death benefit provision for his wife via the 
personal pension.
Another reason Mr B gave for wanting to transfer was to maximise his income potential. No 
analysis was done in respect of the financial viability of transferring, ie:
a comparison of the retirement benefits provided by the defined benefit pension and the 
benefits that might be provided by a personal pension, and/or
an analysis of how much a personal pension would need to grow by in order to match 
the benefits being given up.
Thats not a criticism of Pension Works because that sort of analysis wouldnt ordinarily be 
done as part of an abridged advice process  its normally part of the full advice process. But even if a transfer is financially viable its not always the case that transferring is in the 
consumers best interests.
With the above in mind, I conclude that Pension Works treated Mr B fairly when it advised 
him to not transfer the pension. In summary, in my view there werent any compelling 
reasons why Pension Works should have departed from the default position that transferring 
wasnt in Mr Bs best interests.
In closing, Mr B has commented on the drop in CETV but this doesnt mean the advice he 
received was unsuitable. This is because Pension Works was only required to give advice 
based on Mr Bs circumstances at the time  not based on what might happen at some 
unknown point in the future. I accept the CETV has dropped, but Pension Works couldnt 
predict what would happen to CETVs in the future. The CETV dropped because of prevailing 
market conditions  not because Pension Works advice was unsuitable. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman