DRN-3520269
The complaint
Mr K complains about the service that hes received from Ascent Performance Group 
Limited, trading as Ascent Legal, in connection with his financial difficulties and medical 
issues.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in May 2022 in which I described what had 
happened as follows:
A mortgage provider instructed Ascent Legal in July 2020 to recover an outstanding 
balance of £70,454.53 from Mr K which had arisen due to a shortfall after the sale of 
a property. Mr K made it aware of his health issues during a phone call in August 
2020 and an income and expenditure form was completed which showed that he had 
no disposable income to repay the debt.
Ascent Legal agreed to put the collection on hold and wrote to Mr K again in 
February 2021. He then phoned it and provided more information about his medical 
issues and another income and expenditure form was completed which showed that 
there had been no significant changes to his financial position. Ascent Legal then 
contacted the mortgage provider and it asked it to obtain more information from Mr K 
about his financial difficulties and Ascent Legal sent an e-mail to Mr K in March 2021. 
Mr K said that hed already provided medical evidence to the mortgage provider so 
didnt send any medical evidence to Ascent Legal and he complained to Ascent 
Legal about the email.
It didnt uphold his complaint and it contacted the mortgage provider. It said that it 
didnt hold medical evidence about Mr Ks health issues and asked Ascent Legal to 
obtain it from him. Ascent Legal wrote to Mr K in April 2021 and said that the 
mortgage provider required medical evidence of Mr Ks condition so that it could 
review the matter and Ascent Legal asked him to provide the information within 14 
days.
Mr K again complained to Ascent Legal and it said that it had been instructed to 
continue to manage the file on behalf of the mortgage provider until it was in receipt 
of medical evidence for it to consider the matter further. Mr K wasnt satisfied with its 
response so complained to this service. He says that hes repeatedly told it about his 
health concerns and hes submitted an income and expenditure form online many 
times and told it of his personal and money situation but it has ignored his concerns 
and keeps writing to him.
Our investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld in part. He didnt 
think that Ascent Legal had taken sufficient care when dealing with Mr K on behalf of 
the mortgage provider. He didnt think that it was fair for it to have provided a 14 day 
deadline for Mr K to have provided the medical evidence as it was aware that he was 
vulnerable so it should have been dealt with him more sympathetically. He also 
thought that Ascent Legal ought to have been aware that it was unlikely that Mr Ks 
financial circumstances would change so shouldnt have asked him to complete 
further income and expenditure forms. He recommended that it should pay Mr K 
£200 to compensate him for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience that it had 
caused him.
Ascent Legal has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It 
says, in summary, that:
Mr K hasnt provided medical evidence to it, and the mortgage provider hasnt 
received it either;
it doesnt agree that placing a 14 day timescale on a request for information 
was unnecessarily short and Mr K didnt raise that with it as an issue;
theres not enough evidence upon which it can base a decision on how best 
to handle Mr Ks case;
its only possible to take Mr Ks circumstances and vulnerability into 
consideration with evidence of those circumstances and the steps that its 
taken were not unreasonable for it to consider his situation; and
it doesnt consider an award of £200 compensation to be appropriate.
I made the following provisional findings in that provisional decision:
Its clear that Mr K is suffering from significant health issues which have caused him 
financial difficulties. I sympathise with him for that and the position in which he now 
finds himself.
Ascent Legal was instructed by the mortgage provider to recover an outstanding 
balance from Mr K and he made it aware of his health issues during a phone call in 
August 2020. He also completed an income and expenditure form at that time which 
showed that he had no disposable income to repay the debt. It agreed to put the 
collection on hold which I consider was fair and reasonable at that time.
It wrote to Mr K again in February 2021 and he phoned it and provided more 
information about his medical issues. Another income and expenditure form was 
completed which showed that there had been no significant changes to his financial 
position. Ascent Legal then contacted the mortgage provider and it asked it to obtain 
more information from Mr K about his medical issues. Ascent Legal sent an e-mail to 
Mr K in March 2021 to say that the mortgage provider had asked that he forward the 
medical evidence that hed discussed during the February call. Im not persuaded 
that it was unreasonable for it to send that e-mail to Mr K or that it acted incorrectly in 
doing so.
Mr K said that hed already provided medical evidence to the mortgage provider so 
didnt send any medical evidence to Ascent Legal and complained to Ascent Legal. 
Ascent Legal contacted the mortgage provider and it said that it didnt hold medical 
evidence about Mr Ks health issues and asked Ascent Legal to obtain it from him. 
Ascent Legal wrote to Mr K in April 2021 and said:
Our client has responded to confirm that they hold no record of any medical 
evidence on your file as you had previously explained. In order for our client 
to review this matter fully please can you provide us with medical evidence of 
your health condition within 14 days of this letter. If you have any queries then 
please do not hesitate to contact our office.Mr K didnt provide any medical evidence to Ascent Legal and complained to it and 
then to this service. Its clear that he has described some of his medical issues to 
Ascent Legal (and I consider it to be likely that hes also discussed them with the 
mortgage provider). But the mortgage provider says that it hasnt received medical 
evidence from Mr K and Ive seen no evidence to show that Mr K has provided the 
medical evidence required to the mortgage provider or to Ascent Legal. I consider 
that its fair and reasonable for Ascent Legal to ask Mr K to provide that evidence so 
that his case can be properly reviewed.
Ive seen no evidence to show that Mr K has complained about the time limit that he 
was given for a response and I dont consider that it was unfair or unreasonable for 
Ascent Legal to ask him to provide that evidence within 14 days  and it had said that 
he should contact its office if he had any queries so he could have contacted it if he 
was concerned about the time limit.
Mr K owes a substantial amount to the mortgage provider so I consider that its fair 
and reasonable for Ascent Legal to require evidence of his financial and medical 
situation so that the mortgage provider can decide on an appropriate response to Mr 
Ks situation. I understand that the requests for that information may be upsetting and 
frustrating for Mr K, but Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that 
Ascent Legal has acted unfairly or unreasonably in these circumstances.
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require Ascent Legal to pay any 
compensation to Mr K or to take any other action in response to his complaint. I 
suggest that Mr K, if he hasnt already done so, should provide medical evidence 
about his condition to Ascent Legal so that it can consider an appropriate response to 
his medical issues and financial difficulties. Its required to respond to any financial 
difficulties that hes experiencing positively and sympathetically. 
Subject to any further representations by Mr K or Ascent Legal, my provisional decision was 
that I didnt intend to uphold this complaint.
Ascent Legal says that it agrees with my provisional findings and Mr K says that hes 
disappointed with them but he hasnt provided and further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I understand Mr Ks disappointment and sympathise with him for his difficulties and 
the position in which he now finds himself, Im not persuaded that I should change my 
provisional decision. 
As I said in my provisional decision, I suggest that Mr K, if he hasnt already done so, should 
provide medical evidence about his condition to Ascent Legal so that it can consider an 
appropriate response to his medical issues and financial difficulties. Its required to respond 
to any financial difficulties that hes experiencing positively and sympathetically
My final decision
For the reasons explained in my provisional decision, which are set out above, my decision 
is that I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman