DRN-3090165
The complaint
 Mr E complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua (Aqua) lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
 Mr E applied online for a credit card from Aqua. This was agreed in April 2019 with a limit of 
£900.  Aqua then increased the limit to £2,150 in July 2019:
Date Limit
April 2019 £900
July 2019 £2,150
Mr E complained. He said he shouldnt have been given the card in the first place, or the 
increased limit. He was in financial difficulty at the time, and Aqua shouldve done more 
checks. He was now struggling and was in arrears on the card.
Aqua said that Mr E had passed their checks. When he applied for the card, Mr E said he 
earnt £27,000 a year, and had unsecured debts of £2,500. Hed had two defaults  for 
£1,000 - but the last one was 39 months before. There were no payday loans, or accounts in 
arrears. There were some searches on his credit file. The card was therefore issued. When 
they offered the increase to £2,150 in July 2019, Aqua said theyd checked how his account 
had been conducted, and all was satisfactory. Mr E couldve opted out of the offered 
increase but didnt. After that, Mr E asked for several increases in his limit, but theyd 
declined. The debt had been passed to a debt collection agency.
Mr E brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said the first issue of the card was OK. 
But the decision to increase Mr Es limit to £2,150 in July 2019 wasnt. This took place only 
three months after the card was issued  so Aqua couldnt have seen enough account 
history to form a view on Mr Es credit standing. In the short time hed had the card, hed 
used it for cash advances, and he had been over the previous limit of £900. So  to increase 
the limit by more than 100% after such a short time wasnt responsible. She said that Aqua 
should refund interest and fees on balances over £900 from the time of the increase to 
£2,150. And  if a credit balance results, then pay interest of 8% simple per annum on the 
credit balance from July 2019 to date of settlement.
Aqua disagreed. They said that a limit of £2,150 compared to Mr Es salary of £27,000 per 
annum was still low. While there had been some cash advances, there wasnt enough 
evidence to say this was a sign of financial difficulty. Hed withdrawn £500 in the three-month 
period, but hed also made retail purchases of £670. In June 2019, he paid more than the 
monthly minimum amount needed. On that basis, they were correct in increasing Mr Es 
limit. They asked for an ombudsman to look at Mr Es complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 All lenders have an obligation to lend money responsibly. We must check whether Aqua 
acted in line within the Financial Conducts (FCA) rules on creditworthiness assessment as 
set out in its handbook, (CONC) section 5.2. These say that a firm must undertake a 
reasonable assessment of creditworthiness, considering both the risk to it of the customer 
not making the repayments, as well as the risk to the customer of not being able to make 
repayments. We look at:
Whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the borrower would be able to repay any credit in a sustainable way?
If reasonable and proportionate checks were completed, did the lender make a fair 
lending decision made bearing in mind the information gathered and what the lender 
knew about the borrowers circumstances?
And a reasonable and proportionate check would usually need to be more thorough:
othe lower a customers income, and the higher amount to be repaid. 
othe greater the number of loans and frequency of loans.
othe longer the term of the loans
Its important to note that the checks must be proportionate to the amount being lent  so the 
higher the amount, the greater the checks must be, and the lower the amount, then fewer 
checks can be made.
In this context, the initial limit of £900 was a modest one  and so Aqua could carry out less 
checks. But for the increase to £2,150  especially after a short period of time (three months) 
 I think Aqua needed to carry out more substantive checks.
On the first issue of the card, I can see that Mr E declared he had annual income of £27,000 
and was single. He had a mortgage of £139,000, and other debts of £2,500. There were two 
defaults for £1,000  but I agree, they were 39 months before. So, on that basis, I cant 
disagree that Aqua were right to give Mr E a card with the limit of £900.
But looking at the increase to £2,150  just three months later. By then, Aqua had only a 
very limited amount of time to see how Mr E ran his account. And there were some warning 
signs. Hed gone over his limit once. And he withdrew cash of £500  this is traditionally a 
sign of difficulties. Equally, there werent any significant debts showing outside of Aqua  
other than Mr Es mortgage. And  I can see that Mr E had to opt in to the offered increase. 
But  for a fairly large increase in limit  I just dont think Aqua couldve been able to see 
enough of how Mr E used his account  and therefore how he was able to deal with the debt 
 in such a short period of time. And as it turned out, Mr E ran into more difficulty after that 
time  with more cash withdrawals, and over limit fees. He stopped making payments in 
January 2020, and the debt was passed to a debt collection agency.
 So  I dont think Aqua couldve been in a position to lend to Mr E responsibly. But equally, 
Mr E must bear some of the responsibility for the debt and so  he must repay it. And  if 
there have been entries on his credit file (as I suspect there are)  then these should remain. 
But I agree that Aqua should refund the interest and fees paid by Mr E on borrowing over 
£900 since July 2019 (the date of the last increase). This should be credited to his debt, and 
if a credit balance does result, then he should also receive interest on it at 8% per annum 
simple from the date of the limit increase to the date of settlement. My final decision
 I uphold this complaint. And NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua must:
Refund interest and fees to Mr Es Aqua account  on borrowing over £900 with 
effect from July 2019.
If a credit balance results the pay credit interest of 8% per annum simple on the 
credit balance from July 2019. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman