DRN-1901765
The complaint
Mrs D complains about the charges applied by Clydesdale Financial Services trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance on the return of her car at the end of a hire agreement.
What happened
Mrs D acquired a car in May 2015 with the benefit of a conditional sale agreement 
with Barclays Partner Finance.The agreement was for 48 months and if Mrs D 
wished to own it outright at the end of the term, shed need to make a final balloon 
payment of £4149.
Mrs D returned her car in June 2019. However at the time of the return Barclays had 
already called for the balloon payment and it then continued to contact Mrs D about 
its non-payment. When Mrs D complained, Barclays apologised and agreed to waive 
the completion fee of £299 as well as removing any adverse information from her 
credit file.  Mrs D says that Barclays assured her at this time that she didnt owe any 
more money.
In October 2019, Barclays contacted Mrs D to say she owed £2,486.76 for the 
excess mileage above the limit allowed in the agreement. It said when the car went 
for auction it had done 63,282 miles which was 18,482 above the permitted amount. 
Under the terms of the agreement, Mrs D was required to pay for this.
Mrs D said she was shocked when Barclays asked her for this payment as it had told 
her in July that she didnt owe anything more and shed relied on this when deciding 
to purchase a new car.   She felt the mileage charge hadnt been properly explained 
to her when she acquired the car in 2015 and shed been told the excess mileage 
wouldnt be very much.
Mrs D feels the amount of the charge is excessive and unfair in view of what shed 
been told in July. Shes also unhappy that Barclays hasnt given her a clear 
breakdown of the costs, which she says, keeps changing.  Shed like the charge 
removed.
Our investigator felt Barclays had acted fairly so didnt agree it needed to do 
anything more to resolve the complaint. Shed seen the agreement allowed Mrs D to 
drive 8,000 miles a year. It also set out the cost per mile of going above this. As the 
agreement had covered this in several places, she felt Mrs D would have been 
aware not only that there was an excess mileage charge, but the amount.
In this case, Mrs D had had the car 4 years and it had done 12,800 miles at the point 
of sale. On the basis of 8,000 miles a year the mileage should have been no more 
than 44,800 when it was returned but it had in fact done 63,282. She didnt feel 
Barclays was being unreasonable to ask for the excess mileage charge as it had 
been part of the agreement when Mrs D signed in 2015.
While shed taken into account that Mrs D said Barclays had told her shed nothing 
further to pay, this had happened before the car had been assessed on its return. 
Barclays had agreed to waive the charge for damage but she didnt feel it now 
needed to waive the mileage charge as well.
Mrs D disagreed and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, contradictory or unclear, as it is here on 
some points, Ive made my decision on the balance of probabilities or in other words, 
whats more likely than not to have happened.
I appreciate the distress this situation has caused Mrs D especially as the
amount she owes Barclays is not insignificant but I cant agree that Barclays is 
unreasonable in charging Mrs D for excess mileage as Ill now explain.
When Mrs D signed the agreement in May 2015, it was on the basis of an annual 
mileage of 8,000 with anything above that incurring an extra charge. Ive seen this 
was explained in several places in the agreement including the precise charges that 
would apply to each extra mile. In this case I can see the charges were clearly set 
out in the agreement so I think its fair to believe Mrs D would have known about 
them when she signed up in 2015. Id also add that the mileage on a car has an 
impact on its overall value and thats part of the calculations when the agreement is 
set up. In this case the mileage was significantly higher than the amount agreed and 
for that reason I dont think its unreasonable for Barclays to now ask for payment for 
the extra miles.
The charges were as follows:
£0.08 pence (+ VAT) per mile for the first 10,000 miles and
£0.15 (+vat) per miles for anything above that.
At the time Mrs D returned the car it had done 63,282 miles, thats 18,482 miles 
more than the limit. Using the figures in the agreement, that comes to £960 
(including vat) for the first 10,000 miles and £1,526.76 (vat inclusive) for the 
remaining 8,482. Thats in line with the figures in the agreement, so Im satisfied 
Barclays has calculated the charges correctly.
Ive seen Mrs D says Barclays assured her in July 2019 that there was nothing more 
to pay. Unfortunately theres no note of this call and although Ive made further 
enquiries, I havent been able to find any additional information to clarify what was 
said. For that reason Ive looked at whats more likely than not to have happened.
In July 2019 Barclays and Mrs D were discussing the problem about the balloon 
payment and I think any conversations at this time would have been focussed on that. Bearing in mind the amount of the excess mileage in this case  and the 
inevitable impact on the cars resale value  I think it improbable that Barclays would 
have simply written this off without a more detailed discussion and I havent seen 
anything to show that this was raised in any of the correspondence at this time. 
Further although the car had been returned in June 2019 its not clear Barclays had 
had the opportunity to assess it at this point. In the circumstances, I consider it more 
likely Barclays was referring to the balloon payment and not any other charges.
I realise this isnt the decision Mrs D was hoping for but, for the reasons given, I dont 
agree that Barclays has acted unfairly. I wont therefore be asking it to do anything 
more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2020.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman