DRN-3558477
The complaint
Mr T complains that Crowdcube Capital Limited failed to carry out enough due diligence to 
ensure a company he invested in through the platform was creditworthy. He understands 
that his investment involved some risk and so he feels it fair for Crowdcube to reimburse him 
for half of his losses.
What happened
Crowdcube is an investment-based crowdfunding platform that promotes investment
opportunities by way of pitches. Prospective investors can view information about an
investee business and the details of the investment in these pitches on the platform before
deciding whether to invest. In return for their investment they receive shares in the investee
business.
In August 2018, Mr T invested around £100 in a company I shall refer to as Company A, 
through Crowdcubes platform. In return, he received shares in Company A. 
Mr T raised a complaint with Crowdcube in September 2021 as he was unhappy that 
Company A filed for insolvency very shortly after the fundraising round ended with 
Crowdcube. He said this was suspicious and that Crowdcube ought to have been aware of 
Company As financial issues through its due diligence. 
Crowdcube considered Mr Ts complaint but explained that it didnt think it had acted 
unfairly. In summary, it said:
It conducted an appropriate level of due diligence on Company A and when verifying 
the pitch.
It expressed concerns regarding the failure of Company A and the circumstances 
that led to its liquidation.
Crowducbe attended the meeting of shareholders on 23 December 2020 to ensure 
its position was made clear and that the interests of all shareholders were taken into 
account.
Crowdcube also wrote to the liquidator for Company A regarding these concerns, so
that the directors behaviour was given due consideration in any insolvency 
proceedings.
Mr T remained unhappy and so he referred his complaint to this service for an independent 
review.
An investigator at this service looked into Mr Ts concerns but didnt think Crowdcube had 
acted unfairly. In summary, they said:
They were satisfied Crowdcube had conducted sufficient due diligence to check the 
accuracy of the statements made in the pitch.
The pitch explained that Company A was preparing to launch its product into the US 
market and that the raised funds would be used to support this. 
The pitch explained that Company A had filed an application for approval by the US 
Food and Druga Administration (FDA) and it was waiting for the outcome of this. 
They had seen a copy of the acknowledgement letter from the FDA to support this.
They appreciate FDA approval subsequently wasnt granted but she was satisfied the 
pitch didnt say approval was guaranteed and so Crowdcube didnt mislead Mr T.
They understood Mr Ts concerns regarding Company A entering into liquidation so 
quickly after the fundraise, but explained this wad directly linked to the denial of the 
FDA approval. 
Crowdcube had explained that the money raised was bridge-funding with the goal of 
tiding Company A over until it received FDA approval in the US and that the money 
had been used for operational expenses in this time  for example payroll.
Crowdcube said Company As plan was to recoup this money through sales  which 
was contingent on it receiving FDA approval. So, when this didnt happen, it directly 
led to the failure of its business.
They felt the risk factors which contributed to the failure and the general risks of 
investing in crowdfunding were highlighted throughout the promotion. 
Mr T didnt accept the investigators findings. In summary, he said:
The denial from the FDA didnt come out of the blue and Crowdcube should have 
asked Company A more about the how the application process was progressing.
The pitch didnt explain that the whole project would be doomed if the FDA would not 
approve the product. Company A specifically said in a discussion forum on 
Crowdcubes website that that it wasnt dependent on the FDA approval and would 
continue to work within the EU market.
The investigator responded to Mr Ts further comments. In summary, they said:
The pitch didnt give information about what Company A specifically intended to use 
the money for i.e. what aspects of its rollout into the US this would support. So they 
didnt think it was something Crowdcube could have fact-checked or verified.
They wouldnt have expected Crowdcube to monitor the FDA approval process as its 
role was to fact-check the claims being made that Company A was seeking FDA 
approval. The pitch didnt disclose any further information regarding the progress of 
the FDA licence application. 
Company A was expected to provide a warranty to investors and Crowdcube that all 
material issues relating to the company have been disclosed and so it would have 
been Company As responsibility to inform Crowdcube if there were issues with the 
application or factors that were set to have a materially adverse effect on the  
companys performance.
It wasnt Crowdcubes responsibility to assess the viability of the project. The pitch 
didnt explain what would happen if the FDA didnt give approval. So it was up to 
investors to decide if they were still happy to invest without knowing what might 
happen if FDA approval wasnt obtained, or to ask questions of the company if this 
information was important to them. 
Crowdcubes due diligence charter made it clear that it wouldnt review forum 
discussions, so Crowdcube wouldnt be responsible for any misleading information 
given there.  
Furthermore. nowhere in the pitch did it state that in the event of FDA denial, 
Company A would look to pivot into the EU. So they felt this wasnt something 
Crowdcube ought to have or could have factchecked as part of checking the pitch.
As Mr T remained unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be clear I can only consider the obligations Crowdcube had towards Mr T as an investor
when arranging the investment. I cant consider any actions of Company A. With this in 
mind, Ive considered Crowdcubes obligations.
At the time of promoting the investment opportunity, Crowdcube was authorised and
regulated by the FCA. The relevant rules and regulations FCA regulated firms are required
to follow are set out in the FCAs Handbook of rules and guidance. The FCA Principles for
Business (PRIN) set out the overarching requirements which all authorised firms are
required to comply with. PRIN 1.1.1G, says The Principles apply in whole or in part to every
firm. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. The most relevant principles
here are:
PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly.
PRIN 2.1.1R (7) A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients,  
and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not  
misleading.
Crowdcube was also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the Conduct of
Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligations here are:
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client.
COBS 4.2.1R (1) A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion 
is fair, clear and not misleading.
So before approving Company As pitch, Crowdcube needed to satisfy itself that the 
information contained within it was fair, clear and not misleading. And it also needed to be 
satisfied that by approving the promotion and allowing its clients to invest in Company A, it 
would continue to be acting in its clients best interests.
In order to satisfy itself of the fair, clear and not misleading nature of the claims or assertions 
made in the pitch, Crowdcube would need to carry out reasonable checks. What these 
reasonable checks involve, or indeed what they might be in any given case, is something 
which is very much left to each platform to determine and would vary according to the 
particular circumstances. Its clear that it wasnt the regulators intention to provide a set of 
tick boxes which needed to be completed for a promotion to be approved. 
Ive also borne in mind that the FCA said the following in its July 2018 consultation paper on 
loan-based (peer-to-peer) and investment-based crowdfunding platforms: 
It is our view that it will be unlikely that a platform could argue that it has met its 
obligations under Principle 2, Principle 6 (PRIN 2.1.1R) and the clients best interests 
rule (COBS 2.1.1R), if it has not undertaken enough due diligence to satisfy itself on 
the essential information on which any communication or promotion is based. 
Ive also considered the FCAs guidance on approving financial promotions from November 
2019 which explained that firms should: analyse, and carry out due diligence regarding, the substance of a promotion 
before approving its content for communication by an unauthorised person. The 
extent and substance of the analysis and diligence needed to be able confirm that a 
promotion is fair, clear and not misleading will vary from case-to-case and will 
depend on the form and content of the promotion. When assessing whether a 
promotion is fair, clear and not misleading, a firm may need to consider (among other 
things): 
 The authenticity of the proposition described in the relevant promotion. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr T had invested prior to the publication of the guidance, I still feel its 
relevant as it provides clarity as to the interpretation and application of the existing rules and 
guidance which were applicable to Crowdcube at the time. 
The FCAs website provides consumers with useful information on crowdfunding. This 
includes a section on how consumers should protect themselves before investing and says 
they should first understand what due diligence a platform preforms on investee companies. 
Looking at Crowdcubes website, it makes it clear what due diligence it performs in its due 
diligence charter. It explains: 
The following due diligence is carried on each company before the pitch is open to 
investment: [] to fact check all statements and claims made in the pitch text to 
ensure it is fair, clear and not misleading by obtaining, where possible, independent 
evidence. 
Taking into account the above, its clear that Crowdcubes due diligence needed to be 
sufficient to satisfy itself on the essential information on which the promotion of Company A 
was based. Crowdcube also needed to make Mr T aware of the extent of which it performed 
due diligence on Company A, let him know the outcome of this and for it to be sufficiently 
detailed to allow him to weigh up the risks and benefits of investing in Company A.
The crux of Mr Ts complaint is that Company A didnt get FDA approval for its product 
launch in the US and this led to its insolvency. He says Crowdcube didnt make him aware 
that Company A was reliant on this to survive and that it ought to have conducted due 
diligence on the FDA application process. 
Having looked carefully at the pitch, its clear that there were no guarantees given that FDA 
approval would be granted. Rather, the pitch made it clear that Company A was awaiting 
regulatory approval. Crowdcube has provided a copy of the FDA acknowledgment Company 
A received and I think this was sufficient to check the statement made in the pitch that an 
application had been made. So I dont think Crowdcube mislead Mr T regarding this. I 
appreciate Mr T feels that Crowdcube ought to have enquired further into progress of the 
application process but I dont agree. The pitch gave no details regarding the stage of the 
application nor did it give any assurances to the success of that application. So I dont think 
Crowdcube was required under its obligations the FCA rules and guidance or by way of its 
own due diligence charter to make any further enquiries around this. As the investigator 
explained in their assessment, Company A was expected to provide a warranty to investors 
and Crowdcube that all material issues relating to the company had been disclosed under 
the following company term:
7.2.3. in advance of a Pitch going live on the Website and throughout the duration of 
the Pitch and until monies are drawn down from the Investors to Company, the 
Company has disclosed to Crowdcube all debt, fully diluted equity issued and options 
granted or contemplated, any civil or criminal litigation and threats of litigation and all 
other material issues impacting upon Company (and Companys directors, employees and contractors) which could reasonably be considered to be a factor in 
an investment decision by a retail, sophisticated or institutional investor.
So, I agree with the investigator that it would have been Company As responsibility to inform 
Crowdcube if there were issues with the FDA application. 
Ive also considered Mr Ts concern that Crowdcube didnt make him aware that the success 
of his investment was solely reliant on Company A obtaining FDA approval for its product. 
However, I dont think it was Crowdcubes responsibility to assess the viability of Mr Ts 
investment. Rather, it was responsible for fact checking the statements contained within the 
pitch to enable Mr T to weigh up whether he wanted to invest or not. The investor terms also 
explained this responsibility lay with Mr T:
The Investor must make their own assessment of the viability, accuracy and 
prospects of the Companies, their Pitches, and any relevant investment propositions 
and should consult their professional advisers should they require any assistance in 
making such an assessment or should the Investor require any services whatsoever 
in connection with Crowdcube.
The pitch didnt explain what would happen if the FDA didnt give Company A the approval 
and so it was Mr Ts responsibility to make enquires into this event if he had any concerns or 
if it was a key consideration in deciding to invest. Ultimately, Mr T decided to invest in 
Company A in the absence of knowing what might happen if FDA approval wasnt obtained. 
I think its also prudent to point out that no information was provided in the pitch regarding 
Company As financial standing. The pitch did mention other funding Company A had 
received but it didnt give any details regarding its income and liabilities. If it had, then I 
would have expected Crowdcube to fact check these which may have uncovered Company 
As reliance on income generated following the FDA approval of its product. However, this is 
not the case here and if Mr T had any concerns about Company As financials then he ought 
to have made enquiries regarding this before investing. 
Ive also considered Mr Ts points regarding information contained within Crowdcubes 
investor forum. However, as the investigator explained, Crowdcubes due diligence charter 
was clear on the scope of the checks it would undertake which didnt include the forum:
we do not  review any of the restricted documents, pitch videos, pitch updates, 
forum discussions or the content of investor events that arent organised by 
Crowdcube. 
So taking into account all of the above, Im satisfied that Crowdcube providing fair, clear and 
not misleading information to Mr T regarding his investment in Company A. Im also 
persuaded that, despite it being unfortunate that Company A didnt obtain FDA approval and 
subsequently went into liquidation, in approving the promotion and allowing its clients to 
invest in Company A, Crowdcube was acting in Mr Ts best interests.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Ben WaitesOmbudsman