DRN-2582516
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as W, complains about how HSBC UK Bank Plc handled its 
application for a Bounce Back Loan. 
Ws director, Mr A, brings the complaint on its behalf.
What happened
Mr A, on behalf of W, applied to HSBC for a Bounce Back Loan on 6 June 2020. 
Mr A received notification from HSBC that Ws application had been successful and, on 
24 June, he was asked to sign and return the appropriate documents, which he did. But 
Mr A didnt hear anything more, or receive the funds he was expecting for W, so he 
complained.
 
HSBC sent its final response on 21 July. The bank explained that W wasnt eligible for the 
loan because, under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme rules, it needed to be engaged in 
trading or commercial activity before 1 March 2020  but W had only been incorporated on 
22 April. HSBC concluded that the correct process had now been followed, and the decision 
to decline Ws application was in line with its policy.
 
Mr A referred Ws complaint to our service. In summary, he said HSBC had known of Ws 
incorporation date from the outset. Further, he said hed made business decisions and 
purchase orders based on assurances from HSBC that W would receive the 
Bounce Back Loan. An investigator considered what had happened. He said, while it was 
unclear why the application had been progressed to the stage it had, W wasnt eligible for a 
Bounce Back Loan because it wasnt trading on 1 March 2020. And he thought the 
declaration Mr A signed on Ws behalf set this out. So, Mr A really ought to have been aware 
of Ws ineligibility from the outset.
 
Further, the investigator didnt think HSBC was liable for any losses that W may have 
incurred. He said, while W was sent an offer letter, no funds had been deposited. So, W 
shouldnt have entered into any business arrangements before it had access to the funds. 
The investigator did agree that W had been caused some inconvenience  so he thought 
HSBC should pay it £200 compensation.
 
Mr A accepted what the investigator said about the inconvenience his business had suffered. 
But he felt strongly that HSBC had provided misleading information, and he said he wouldnt 
have entered W into contracts and agreements  or incurred other expenses  if HSBC 
hadnt issued an offer letter or provided reassurance that the Bounce Back Loan application 
had been successful. So, he asked for an ombudsmans decision and the case was passed 
to me to decide.
 
I issued a provisional decision saying I intended to uphold the complaint. I said:
Turning first to Ws eligibility for a Bounce Back Loan, the Scheme rules set out  
among other things  that applicants had to declare they were engaged in trading or 
commercial activity and carrying on business as of 1 March 2020. W wasnt, it was 
incorporated after that date. So it follows that it wasnt eligible for a 
Bounce Back Loan and, from what Ive seen, Mr A accepts this.
  
Ive checked to see if that requirement was highlighted to Mr A when he completed 
Ws application. HSBC has provided a copy of Ws application and it contains a 
declaration, of which the first point sets out:
1. I/We confirm that my/our business was carrying on its business on 1 March 2020, 
that I was/we were engaged in trading or commercial activity in the United 
Kingdom
 
Mr A agreed to the declaration by signing and submitting the application on 3 June. 
And the declaration is clear that, if the application is submitted, Mr A was confirming 
that W met the criteria. But W didnt meet the criteria because it wasnt trading on 
1 March. So, I think Mr A ought to have realised that W wasnt eligible under the 
Scheme rules when he was completing the application. But by agreeing to the 
declaration, Mr A provided some inaccurate information about his business.
 
So, given W wasnt eligible for a Bounce Back Loan, HSBC retracted its offer. As the 
loan offer had already been issued and accepted by Mr A, this meant that the bank 
had to cancel the agreement. The terms and conditions of the agreement allowed for 
this, in certain circumstances. The application form also explained that by providing 
information that was inaccurate or incomplete in any material detail, W would be 
subject to the forfeiture of the loan funds. I think it was entitled to take these steps in 
light of Ws ineligibility for the loan.
Ive considered what Mr A has said about the business arrangements he made for W, 
and the expenses it incurred, after receiving reassurance that Ws Bounce Back Loan 
would be paid. I dont have a recording of the calls Mr As referred to, but I do know 
that he received an offer letter. And I can understand it would be frustrating to be told 
the application had been successful  only for the funds not to be forthcoming. 
Nonetheless, I dont think HSBC should be liable for any costs that W has incurred. 
Thats because Mr A made commitments for his business despite it not being eligible 
for a Bounce Back Loan. Under the Scheme rules Mr A was required to self-certify 
that his business met the relevant criteria, and HSBC was entitled to accept and rely 
upon the information it was given in good faith. So, given that Mr A had 
misrepresented his business, however inadvertently, when he applied, I cant fairly 
conclude that HSBC should cover any costs it incurred as a result of the 
Bounce Back Loan being withdrawn.
 
The investigator thought HSBC should pay W £200 compensation for the 
inconvenience it experienced throughout its application. Ive seen Ws application 
was subject to some delay, and Ive also noted there were some administration 
issues. HSBC didnt communicate its decision until after Mr A had signed and 
returned the offer documents. And Mr A had to complain about the delays before 
HSBC realised that W wasnt eligible for a Bounce Back Loan. So, with that in mind, I 
agree W was inconvenienced. And I think £200 is a fair and reasonable amount of 
compensation in the circumstances.  
HSBC said it accepted my findings, but W disagreed. Mr A responded on its behalf and  in 
summary  he said W was given repeated assurances in phone calls with HSBC that the 
Bounce Back Loan would be forthcoming. Mr A doesnt understand why these calls arent crucial to Ws complaint. He would like to know if this service has recordings of the calls, if 
Ive listened to them and what investigative steps have been taken regarding them. 
Mr A has reiterated that W only entered into business agreements after receiving these 
assurances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBCs contact notes dont seem to show the significant level of phone contact Mr A says 
took place. Nonetheless, I understand why Mr A places such importance on what he says he 
was told over the phone. But in my view, the significant aspect here is Mr As 
misrepresentation of W when he submitted its Bounce Back Loan application, on which the 
bank was entitled to rely. So even if I accept what hes told us about the phone calls and 
assurances he received from HSBC, these comments dont lead me to a different 
conclusion.
However inadvertently, Mr A said W was trading on 1 March 2020 when it wasnt. And in 
those circumstances, HSBC was entitled to withdraw its offer of a Bounce Back Loan in line 
with the terms and conditions of the agreement. Ultimately, the fact is that W didnt meet the 
criteria and it wasnt eligible for a Bounce Back Loan. So, regardless of what was Mr A says 
was discussed during earlier calls with HSBC, I cant fairly conclude that the bank did 
anything wrong by eventually taking the steps it did.
 
I appreciate thats frustrating for Mr A and his business, and nor was it ideal that HSBC didnt 
communicate its decision earlier. But, as I said in my provisional decision, I think £200 is a 
fair and reasonable amount of compensation to reflect the inconvenience HSBC caused W 
through delays and administration issues. So thats what I require the bank to pay W to 
resolve this complaint.
My final decision
 
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay W 
£200 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman