DRN-3552142
The complaint
Miss G complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly declined to refund money shed 
accidentally deposited in her mortgage current account.
What happened
Miss G has a mortgage with Barclays that is linked to a current account. She says she 
accidentally paid £100 into the current account in October 2021. Then in December 2021 
she accidentally gave the details of that account for a loan of £400 to be deposited to. She 
says Barclays initially agreed to refund the money but failed to do so, causing her financial 
difficulty, in that she couldnt pay her mortgage. And the £400 was a loan which she was 
paying interest on. So, she complained to Barclays.
In its final response letter dated 29 January 2022, Barclays said it couldnt refund the £400 
because the overdraft limit on Miss Gs account was £101 and the account was overdrawn 
by £553.56. But as a goodwill gesture it had already offered her £161.10 to cover one 
months mortgage payment. Barclays acknowledged that Miss G was being charged interest 
on her loans but said the mortgage was of paramount importance and it could not knowingly 
increase that outstanding debt.
Dissatisfied with Barclays response, Miss G asked us to look into her complaint. Our 
investigator said she didnt think Barclays had acted unreasonably or unfairly as Miss Gs 
balance on the account had exceeded the overdraft limit. Our investigator also 
acknowledged that Barclays may have given Miss G the impression it would make the 
refund she wanted. But our investigator thought, by offering to pay Miss G the equivalent of 
one months mortgage payment Barclays had done enough.
Miss G didnt agree and asked for her complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. She said the reserve account doesnt have to be repaid until the end of the 
mortgage term. She also said she wasnt aware the limit was £100 and Barclays has allowed 
her to go over that in the first place.
As Miss G didnt agree with our investigator, her complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To decide Miss Gs complaint, Ive thought about whether it was reasonable for Barclays to 
decline Miss Gs request to refund the money she mistakenly deposited into her mortgage 
current account. And Ive thought about whether Barclays has compensated her fairly for 
giving her the impression it would refund that money and then not doing so.
Barclays has provided monthly mortgage current account statements dating back to  
January 2020 which it sent to Miss G. From those I can see that Miss G had a debit balance 
of approximately £1,200 from December 2019, reducing to approximately £1,090 in 
September 2021. I can see that the £150 she paid in October reduced the debit balance to 
approximately £940 and the £400 she paid in December reduced her debit balance to 
approximately £550. But the statements also show  clearly in my opinion  that Miss Gs 
arranged overdraft limit was £100 and had been since at least January 2020.
Miss G says Barclays initially told her it would be able to make a refund. Barclays hasnt said 
that it didnt do that, and its contact notes indicate that it did escalate Miss Gs request but 
that was declined. Barclays contact notes also show that Miss G was in difficulty with her 
mortgage payments and Barclays had started litigation action. I can appreciate that it would 
have been frustrating for Miss G and made it more difficult for her to manage her finances in 
the short term if Barclays did lead her to believe it would refund her money.
Miss G also says that she wasnt aware that the arranged overdraft limit was £100 and the 
current account reserve didnt need to be repaid until the end of the mortgage. As Ive said 
above, I think the current account statements clearly show that the arranged overdraft limit 
was £100, so I think Barclays have adequately informed Miss G of that. And Ive considered 
the terms and conditions of the mortgage current account with regard to when the reserve 
needs to be repaid. 
For clarity, I should explain that the reserve on a mortgage current account works in a 
similar way to an overdraft on an ordinary current account. But the reserve facility as an 
amount agreed at the time of the mortgage application/offer which can be borrowed 
throughout the mortgage term.
Barclays mortgage current account terms and conditions say:
18.6 We may vary or withdraw the amount of the Mortgage Current Account 
Reserve Limit and the period for which it is available.
The document then goes on to list instances when it will vary or withdraw the amount of the 
mortgage current account reserve limit. The first instance listed is:
(a) you are in arrears in relation to any part of the Loan;
The Loan refers to any money owing under the mortgage   money borrowed under 
your Offer plus any miscellaneous debts, interest, costs, early repayment charges and other 
charges which become payable under the terms of the Offer or the Mortgage but excluding 
any amount borrowed under the Mortgage Current Account Reserve. 
From that I understand that Miss Gs conduct of the mortgage current account reserve 
shouldnt have triggered Barclays to reduce its limit. But its clear from Barclays contact 
notes that it was taking litigation action in respect of the mortgage, so the mortgage was in 
arrears. And, under the terms and conditions of the mortgage current account, that is 
sufficient reason for it to reduce the facility. So, I think it reduced her reserve facility in line 
with its terms and conditions.
Having reduced Miss Gs arranged reserve/overdraft facility to £100, I think it was 
reasonable for Barclays to expect Miss G to reduce the actual debit balance so that it didnt 
exceed the arranged limit. So, I think its reasonable that, when that debit balance was 
reduced, Barclays didnt allow it to go back up by making the refunds Miss G wanted. Having 
paid it into the account  money it owed Barclays  it was no longer her money to draw 
upon. And I dont think Barclays acted unreasonably by declining her request.As Ive said above, I think that Barclays may have caused Miss G some short-term difficulty 
if it led her to believe it would make the refunds she wanted. But Barclays offered to make a 
payment to her equal to one months mortgage payment. Miss G has said the issue made it 
difficult for her to make her mortgage payment, so I think Barclays offer is appropriate. And I 
think its fair in all the circumstances. So, while Barclays should make that payment to her if 
it hasnt done so already, I wont direct it to do any more in respect of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Miss Gs complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman