DRN-4432014
The complaint
Miss P complains that the amount Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) offered to 
settle her motor insurance claim is too low.
What happened
Miss Ps fully comprehensive motor insurance policy with Admiral was renewed on                
8 March 2022.
On 18 February 2023, Miss Ps car was damaged by a third-party and Admiral deemed the 
car to be a total loss. Admiral said Miss Ps car was worth £11,851 and her policy had an 
excess of £225. So, it offered to pay £11,626 to Miss P to settle her insurance claim. Miss P 
complained to Admiral because she thought this amount was too low.
In response to the complaint, Admiral said that when it was deciding the value of Miss Ps 
car, it took account of two valuation guides and an independent assessors report. Admiral 
said it accepted the independent assessors valuation of £11,851 because that was higher 
than the average from the two valuation guides.
Miss P was not happy with Admirals response and so she complained to this service. She 
said her car had an in-built dashcam and she could not find this feature on any other car 
costing less than £20,000. She also thought Admirals customer service had been poor.
Our investigator considered the complaint and thought Admiral should do more to put things 
right for Miss P. He said a fair valuation of Miss Ps car would be the average figure from 
four valuation guides - which would have been more than the independent assessors 
valuation.
Admiral did not accept our investigators view. It said that its valuation of £11,851 was within 
the range of all the valuation guides and so was fair. As Admiral did not accept what our 
investigator said, the matter was passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision because I thought the complaint should be upheld. I said: 
I intend to uphold the complaint. I plan to come to a slightly different outcome to 
what our investigator suggested because I think the valuation of Miss Ps car should 
be increased. Ill explain why.
The terms and conditions that apply to Miss Ps insurance policy say that where 
Admiral has offered a cash sum to replace a vehicle, it will pay the market value of 
the car. The policy goes on to say that Admiral will determine the market value of 
the car based on research from industry recognised valuation guides.
In this case, Admiral said that it relied on its independent assessors report to 
determine the value of the vehicle. In considering that report, I can see the 
independent assessor considered some valuation guides. However, the valuation 
guides relied upon were not included in the report and no further information or 
evidence was supplied by Admiral when our investigator requested this.
Our investigator obtained his own valuations from four valuation guides, which were 
£11,360, £11,738, £12,338 and £12,350 respectively. I am satisfied that these 
valuations were based on the correct specifications for Miss Ps car and the correct 
month of the loss.
He thought the average of these figures - £11,946.50  was a fair valuation of      
Miss Ps vehicle.
However, Miss P also supplied to us a number of adverts showing cars for sale of a 
similar make, model and mileage to the vehicle that was damaged. It looks as though 
Miss P gathered those adverts together not too long after her car was damaged. Of 
the three cars with similar mileage to Miss Ps, the lowest advertised asking price 
was £12,495 and the highest was £13,950.
I accept that an advertised price is not necessarily the same as the selling price. But 
putting all the evidence together, it seems to me the adverts suggest the two higher 
valuations (which are pretty consistent) are more likely to represent a fair market 
value of Miss Ps car.
Miss P told our investigator that her car had an in-built dashcam. I know she said that 
there were no other vehicles available with that feature for less than £20,000. 
However, the evidence before me doesnt suggest that the in-built dashcam added 
any particular value to the car. As things stand, it is difficult for me to say the 
additional feature added any value here.
So, to arrive at a fair valuation of Miss Ps car, I think it would be fair to take an 
average of the two higher valuation guides that were obtained by our investigator. 
That means I intend to tell Admiral to settle Miss Ps claim on the basis that her 
vehicle was worth £12,344 on the day it was damaged. I also plan to tell it to pay 8% 
simple interest on the difference between this amount and the initial settlement.
Miss P told us that shed found the experience of dealing with Admiral very stressful 
and was upset that she felt she was losing out financially. She also felt that Admirals 
customer service had been poor. I think Admirals undervaluation of Miss Ps car has 
caused her some distress and inconvenience and it would be fair for it to pay her a 
further £100 compensation because of that.
I asked the parties to provide me with any further information or evidence they wanted me to 
consider by 25 October 2023. Both parties said they agreed with my provisional decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties agree with my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from it. So, for 
the reasons set out above, I have upheld this complaint and require Admiral to put things 
right for Miss P as I have set out below. 
Putting things right
Admiral must take action to put things right for Miss P. It must:
Settle Miss Ps claim on the basis that her vehicle was worth £12,344 on the date it 
was damaged. 
Pay simple interest on the shortfall from the date of the initial payment until the date 
of final settlement. The rate of interest is 8% a year.
Pay £100 to compensate Miss P for the distress and inconvenience I have identified 
above.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to put things right 
as I have set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman