DRN-3455163
The complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about a mortgage he had with Santander UK Plc. While numerous 
issues have been raised about the mortgage since 2016, the issues Mr M is currently 
complaining about relate to the repossession of his property and what subsequently 
happened. 
Mr M believes he has lost around £350,000 due to the repossession of his property, taking 
into account the value of the contents, the value of vehicles stored at the property and the 
property being sold for less than it should have been. He would also like the c£20,000 equity 
that was left after the mortgage and costs were repaid, to be paid to him as he considers it 
was incorrectly paid by Santander to the local borough council.
I am aware that the complainant does not refer to himself as Mr M, but as this decision will 
be published (as we are required by law to do), I am using this description to prevent him 
from being identified, and for this purpose only. It has no bearing on the form of address he 
prefers to use, and I hope he will not take offence that I have anonymised his identity in this 
way.
What happened
On 19 April 2022 I issued a decision setting out our jurisdiction in relation to this complaint. 
That decision concluded that we were only able to consider the complaint points relating to 
what happened following the repossession of Mr Ms property. As such, I have included little 
detail of what happened prior to the repossession, as I wont be considering those events. I 
would, however, confirm that I am aware of all of the events that took place and I have read 
all of Mr Ms submissions and considered all of the documentary evidence in this case.
In 2010 Mr M was recommended a mortgage with Santander by a firm of mortgage brokers. 
The mortgage was on an interest-only basis over a term of 15 years. Shortly thereafter, Mr M 
informed Santander about a change of address  he had moved into another property he 
owned and ran as a hotel.
In 2016 Mr M stopped making payments to the mortgage and it fell into arrears. This was 
because Mr M was unable to work due to his health. However, he also, at that time, 
questioned Santander about the validity of the mortgage. It responded to his concerns in its 
final response letters of 14 September and 16 October 2016. In each letter Santander told 
him that if he wasnt satisfied with its response, he could refer the complaint to this service 
within six months of its letter. Mr M has raised the same issue at various points since, but 
Santander has not changed its response. It was not included as an issue in the complaint 
made to this service in October 2020.
Arrears on the mortgage continued to grow until the end of 2018. Santander decided to 
repossess the property because of the arrears and by the autumn of 2018 the courts had 
granted it a possession order. In addition, a charging order was made in October 2018 on 
Mr Ms property to the benefit of the local borough council. 
Santander decided to enforce the possession order and an eviction date was set for 
13 December 2019. However, Mr M asked the courts to set aside the possession order. The 
application was dismissed, and Mr M was told what he needed to do to avoid the property 
being repossessed. When nothing happened, Santander again applied to the court for a 
warrant of eviction. It was granted and the eviction was set for 21 January 2019.
As Mr M by this time had been detained in prison, a relative of Mr M contacted Santander to 
assist with the situation and payments were made, which almost cleared the arrears. 
Santander decided to cancel the eviction. However, no arrangements were made to clear 
the remaining arrears or for the contractual payments to be made going forward. This meant 
that the arrears immediately started to build again. Santander decided to move forward on 
the eviction again and applied to the courts again. A warrant was issued with an eviction 
date of 18 March 2019. By this time Mr M had provided a letter of authority allowing his 
relative to represent him and deal with Santander on his behalf.
The property was repossessed on the morning of 18 March 2019. Later that day Santander 
was told by Mr Ms representative that he wanted to pay the arrears and set up a direct debit 
to make the monthly payments. Santander said that, as the property had already been 
repossessed, clearing the arrears and making monthly payments was no longer an option. 
The only way for Mr M to get the property back was if he repaid the entire mortgage debt. 
Santander said that it would let Mr Ms representative know when it had appointed 
contractors to clear the property, to ensure that she knew when the property had to be 
cleared by.
Santander provided the clearance contractor with contact details of Mr Ms representative. A 
message was left for her the day after the repossession providing her with contact details. 
The following day the required documentation and notices were issued, although the letter to 
Mr M was returned. However, there was ongoing contact with Mr Ms representative, in 
which she confirmed Mr M was aware of the repossession and that he didnt want anything 
removed from it. 
Santander arranged for the property to be valued by a surveyor and two estate agents. The 
surveyor completed a valuation on 28 March 2019 and decided the property was worth 
£250,000. The estate agents predicted that the property would sell for £230,000 and 
£250,000 respectively. They recommended marketing it at £250,000 and £275,000 
respectively. 
By the beginning of May 2019 Mr Ms representative, having been given time to clear the 
property, told Santander that she didnt have the authority to remove Mr Ms belongings and 
she also wasnt in a position to do so. She also said that Mr M would be making direct 
contact with Santander after 19 June 2019.  Santander decided to delay the clearance of the 
property until Mr M was able to speak to it. 
It was confirmed on 20 June 2019 that Mr M wasnt going to be able to clear the property of 
his possessions. On 26 June 2019 Mr Ms representative contacted the clearance contractor 
and informed it that Mr M wanted the property back. She was told that the clearance had 
been started and so some items might have already been disposed of. However, the 
clearance was put on hold and Mr Ms representative given another 14 days to arrange for 
Mr Ms possessions to be collected. She was told that if the property wasnt cleared within 
that timescale the items would be disposed of. 
Mr M called the clearance contractors on 1 July 2020. The clearance contractors informed 
Santander that Mr M had asked for more time to clear the property and hed threatened to go 
to the press. Mr M was told that, due to the nature of his enquiry, he would need to speak to 
Santander. It was noted that Mr M had been unhappy about this.Mr M complained about the possession of his property  the decisions that had been made 
and the process that had been gone through. Two final response letters were issued in 
response to this complaint  dated 4 July and 20 August 2019 respectively. In the July 2019 
letter Mr M was told that most of his items were in storage, with few still in the property. He 
was given an additional 21 days to make arrangements to remove the items. 
Neither Santander, its solicitors or the clearance contractors were contacted about Mr Ms 
contents or the vehicles stored at the property during this window of time. Indeed, it doesnt 
appear any further contact was made about this issue until May 2020, although Mr M did 
contact Santander in November 2019 to raise a subject access request. The property 
clearance recommenced after the 21 days had passed. The final stage of the clearance  
the removal of the numerous vehicles from the grounds of the property  was completed on 
11 December 2019. 
The property was marketed, and the sale completed on 20 March 2020 for £245,000. From 
the sale proceeds, Santander cleared the mortgage debt and paid the costs associated with 
the repossession, property clearance and sale. This left a surplus sum of just under £20,000, 
which was sent to the local borough council on 9 April 2020 in line with the charging order 
put on the property in October 2018.  Mr M was sent a statement of account following the 
sale of the property detailing the amounts that had been deducted from the sale proceeds. 
Mr M questioned one of these costs, repairs of £5,300.40, as Santander had confirmed that 
the property didnt need any significant repairs. 
Mr M complained to Santander about the repossession again. He also raised concerns 
about what had happened after that. Santander summarised what had happened from the 
start of the repossession process. In relation to the new issues about what had happened 
since the repossession, it explained the principles behind its decisions when selling the 
property. This being that it was under an obligation to get the best price for the property at 
the earliest opportunity. Due to Mr Ms circumstances, Santander had allowed more time 
(until 25 July 2020) for him to arrange to remove his possessions before it disposed of them. 
Subsequently, Mr M questioned what had happened to the surplus left after the sale. 
Santanders solicitors explained to him that the 2018 charging order had to be satisfied 
before any funds could be released to him. As such, the surplus has been sent to the local 
borough council in line with the charging order and if there were any funds remaining after 
the debt to it had been paid off, the council would give him that sum. Santander suggested 
that Mr M might want to contact the council. It was made clear that Santander wouldnt be 
reconsidering any of its previous decisions on previously raised complaint points. 
Mr M referred his complaint to this service on 22 October 2020. Mr M told us that he had 
tried to contact the third party to be able to retrieve the few things that were left in the 
property, but the clearance contractor wouldnt deal with him. He also questioned the £5,300 
detailed in the settlement account for repairs, when Santander had confirmed that no repairs 
had been needed at the property.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He concluded that the only parts of 
Mr Ms complaint we could consider were those to do with the clearance and sale of the 
property and what had happened to the net proceeds after that process. The investigator 
then went on to assess the merits of the parts of the complaint that fell within our jurisdiction 
 the process used to sell the property and what it was sold for, the clearance of the property 
and the surplus proceeds from the sale being passed to the local borough council. He didnt 
think Santander had done anything wrong and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.Mr M didnt accept the investigators conclusions about either our jurisdiction or the merits of 
the parts we could consider. In light of that, I looked into our jurisdiction to consider the 
various aspects of the complaint. I issued a decision on 19 April 2022 setting out my 
findings, which were that we were only able to look into the complaint points about what had 
happened in relation to the clearance of the property, its sale and the sale proceeds. 
I wont detail the jurisdiction points Mr M made in response to the investigators views here, 
as I have already considered them when issuing my decision on our jurisdiction. In relation 
to the merits of the complaint, Mr M accused the investigator of ignoring evidence and failing 
to accurately communicate the truth of the evidence available about what happened and 
said the investigators conclusions were nonsensical. Specifically, in relation to the matters 
pertaining to the events following the repossession, Mr M highlighted that hed provided 
information about the value of the property in 2015 and 2016, but he thought that the 
investigator had ignored this evidence. He went on to say that he believed there should have 
been three valuations done, but that only one was completed. Mr M put forward that as he 
had put forward two valuations, compared to Santanders one, his valuations should be 
accepted. This, in Mr Ms opinion, should have made our investigator conclude Santander 
had acted fraudulently.
Mr M went on to say that Santander had been fully aware that he was unable to 
communicate at the time. He also highlighted that no inventory was made of his possessions 
and we hadnt highlighted this failure. He suggested that the value of his possessions and 
chattels should have been used to pay any arrears, given Santander wouldnt allow him to 
make that payment after the repossession had happened. Mr M also said that when 
Santander informed him in July 2019 that the majority of his possessions were in storage, it 
was lying as that there had already been skips at the property, which had been filled with his 
possessions. Mr M said that hed never been given information about what had happened to 
the sale proceeds. 
Our investigator considered Mr Ms comments, but they didnt change his conclusions. As 
agreement couldnt be reached, it was decided that the complaint should be referred to an 
ombudsman for consideration.
Following review of the complaint file, I requested some clarification from Santander about 
the statement of account produced following the sale. Mr M had asked what the repair costs 
were, given that Santander had told him that the property hadnt needed any significant 
repairs. This was a valid question and one that hadnt been answered. Santander confirmed 
that the descriptor used on the statement wasnt correct. The costs incurred were for the 
clearance contractor and it provided details of those costs from the contractors invoice. Our 
investigator forwarded that information to Mr M for his consideration. Mr M that he believed 
the invoice had been doctored to justify the deduction made from the sale proceeds. He 
didnt provide any evidence of this. He asked for detailed evidence to support each entry on 
the invoice.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would again confirm that while I know that Mr M doesnt agree with my conclusion that his 
concerns about what happened up to and including the repossession of his property, I wont 
be commenting on those matters in this decision. I have considered everything he said in 
response to my decision setting out our jurisdiction, but nothing new has been added and so my conclusions remain the same. That said, I would apologise for the typographical error in 
that decision where the wrong initial was used when referring to Mr M. I will solely be looking 
at what happened in relation to the clearance of the property, its sale and Mr Ms 
unhappiness that the surplus funds were paid to the party to which a charging order had 
been granted in 2018.
Mr M has said that he was unable to communicate with Santander, its solicitors or contactors 
until 1 May 2020, despite being released on the same day as the repossession happened. 
While that may be the case, Mr M had appointed a representative for Santander to 
communicate with about the matters relating to the property. I would clarify that when I refer 
to the individual being Mr Ms representative, I am not suggesting that she held a power of 
attorney as he has suggested I am. Rather the individual was Mr Ms representative because 
he signed a letter authorising her to represent him. 
The representative was aware that the property had been repossessed, what would be 
required for the property to be handed back at that stage and, if that didnt happen, the 
property needed to be cleared of Mr Ms possessions. I also note that in the notes of the 
conversations held with Mr Ms representative, she confirmed that she was speaking to Mr M 
about the property. As such, I am satisfied that Mr Ms representative was fully aware of 
what was happening during the period he has said he was unable to be directly involved and 
that his representative was indicating that he was also kept aware.
That said, Santander did provide Mr M and his representative with ample opportunity to clear 
his possessions, including the numerous vehicles, from the property before they were 
removed. While it didnt have to do so, Santander put the clearance activities on hold more 
than once to give further time and opportunity for arrangements to be put in place, but they 
never were. This was an acknowledgement of the difficult situation Mr M and was in is more 
than Santander needed to do. 
Mr M has said that he doesnt believe that at the point Santander gave its final extension of 
time for him to remove his remaining possessions, they still existed. This was because he 
had photographs of a partially filled skip at the property before that date. As Mr Ms 
representative was told before a previous extension of time was given, some of the contents 
of the house had already been disposed of. I dont consider the existence of the photographs 
evidence that Santander lied to Mr M. In addition, even if his possessions had already been 
disposed of at that point, I wouldnt have been able to find Santander did something wrong, 
as hed had months to remove his possessions at that point. That is far longer than a lender 
would usually give for such activities.
Mr M has said that Santander failed in its responsibility to provide a detailed inventory of 
each item that was disposed of. While Mr M believes thats what Santander should have 
done; that isnt the case. It did provide a basic inventory, detailing the larger items within the 
property and its grounds and confirming the type of smaller items contained. However, 
detailing each and every item would have added significantly to the costs of clearing the 
property and wouldnt have benefitted Mr M in any meaningful way.
Once the property was repossessed Santanders duty was to sell the property for the best 
price achievable within a reasonable period of time. It may be a rather subjective test but the 
approach we take, in essence, is that a lender shouldnt sell for too low a price to achieve a 
quick sale nor unduly delay a sale (thus potentially adding further to the borrowers interest 
costs) to achieve an unrealistically high price. 
Its about finding a balance between the two, and to ensure that happens, lenders are 
required to obtain two independent valuations, and then to market the property with a view to 
achieving a selling price at, or close to, the valuations. In the case of Mr Ms property, Santander obtained three valuations. So I am satisfied Santander did what it needed to do in 
this respect.
The valuations concluded the property was worth between £230,000 and £250,000. It sold 
for £245,000, which is clearly within the range expected from the valuations. I have noted 
Mr Ms comments about the information he provided regarding the propertys value. 
However, as that information was from several years before the repossession and sale, I 
dont consider it would be reasonable for me to rely on it rather than the contemporaneous 
valuations from the time of the repossession. 
I would also explain that selling a property after it is repossessed isnt a process that 
involves the borrower; its something for a lender to conduct in its own right, generally by 
engaging third parties (solicitors, estate agents, and property managers for example) to act 
as its agents. All I would expect a lender to do is to would be to notify the borrower once a 
sale has completed, and account for the transaction. I am satisfied that Santander did that, 
which is evidenced by Mr Ms questions about the costs detailed on the statement of 
account. 
As for that question about the cost detailed as repair on the statement of account, its been 
confirmed that this was a mistake in the descriptor used and thats been backed up by 
documentary evidence. This should alleviate any concerns Mr M has about being charged 
for repairs that didnt happen. I note Mr Ms request for detailed evidence to support each 
charge that was detailed on the invoice. Mr M can make that request from Santander, but I 
dont consider it is necessary for my consideration of the complaint. All of the items on the 
invoice are things I would expect to see given the contents of the property and its gardens, 
and the costs are in line with my experience of this type of situation.
I am satisfied that Santander acted reasonably in relation to the valuation and acceptance of 
an offer for the property. I cant find that it did anything wrong in relation to the clearance or 
sale of the property. I fully appreciate that losing the property that had once been his home 
was a distressing experience for Mr M, and I understand his strength of feeling about what 
happened. However, in all the circumstances, I am not persuaded Santander treated him 
unfairly or unreasonably. 
I am aware that Mr M disputes the validity of the charging order that was placed on the 
property in 2018. That isnt something I can comment on as it was a court order and not 
something that falls within our remit. Nor would it be for Santander to question the order or 
the obligations it placed on Santander if the property were sold in possession. What the 
order meant was that any equity from the sale of the property had to first be used to 
discharge the debt secured by the charging order. That is what Santander did in forwarding 
the almost £20,000 to the local borough council. If there was any money left after the debt 
the order covered was paid, it would have been for the local borough council to pass that on 
to Mr M. It appears that in this respect Santander simply fulfilled the obligations the charging 
order placed on it, so I cant find that it did anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 
27 May 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman