DRN-3409900
The complaint
Mr K has complained that Clydesdale Bank Plc (also known as Virgin Money) registered a 
marker against him at CIFAS, the national fraud database.
What happened
In early 2020, Mr K applied for a credit card with Clydesdale. He says there was a technical 
error when he tried to submit the application, so he may have submitted it twice.
Clydesdale received three applications. They said there were inconsistencies across the 
applications and some of Mr Ks information flagged up as having been previously used for 
fraud. They registered an impersonation marker at CIFAS, but told Mr K theyd remove it if 
he came into branch with ID to prove who he was.
Mr K explained he was unable to go into branch and would only send his ID by email, which 
Clydesdale wouldnt accept. Mr K came to our service. He reiterated he didnt want to go into 
branch, saying it was inconvenient.
Initially, Clydesdale didnt provide much evidence to back up their marker, and Mr K provided 
us with his photo ID to show he was who he said he was. So our investigator upheld the 
complaint, telling Clydesdale to remove the marker and pay Mr K £200 compensation.
Clydesdale didnt agree, and the complaint was passed to me to decide. I gathered further 
information from Clydesdale to see why theyd added the marker, and arranged for Mr K to 
complete an online verification process so that he didnt have to go into branch.
I sent Mr K and Clydesdale a provisional decision on 2 March 2022, to explain why 
I thought the complaint should be upheld in part. In that decision, I said:
I need to consider whether this report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Clydesdale 
needed to have more than just a suspicion or concern, but they were not required to prove 
beyond all reasonable doubt that Mr K had done something wrong. They need to be able to 
show they had reasonable grounds to believe that fraud or a financial crime had been 
committed or attempted, with appropriate supporting evidence.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I think Clydesdale initially had good reason to believe that 
these applications were fraudulent. And so I dont think they acted unreasonably by adding 
the CIFAS marker. But I am now satisfied that Mr K is indeed who he says he is  he was 
not impersonating anyone. So I think the marker should now be removed. Ill explain.
From Clydesdales perspective, they received three applications in quite close succession. 
The second may have been Mr K submitting twice by accident, but the third was over 16 
hours later and looked very much deliberate. And there were concerning inconsistencies 
across those applications. For example, on each application Mr K gave different time periods 
for which hed been with his current bank. Some of the details he provided appeared to be 
invalid, such as a home phone number that was actually a dead line. And some of the 
information flagged up as having previously been used for fraud. Putting all of that together, 
I think Clydesdale had reasonable grounds to believe that fraud or a financial crime was 
being attempted.
Following that, Mr K refused to follow Clydesdales verification process by presenting his ID 
in branch. I do understand that it was not convenient for him, but again it meant Clydesdale 
had good reason to maintain the marker.
Mr K has since said that he did actually visit the branch, and they must have lost the copy of 
his ID. But his previous testimony was repeatedly clear that he was unable or unwilling to go 
to branch, and theres no record of this branch visit on Clydesdales end. So the evidence 
doesnt support this.
I dont think Clydesdale did anything substantially wrong in registering this marker, given the 
information they had at the time.
However, Mr K has since shown that he is the real Mr K and was not impersonating anyone. 
He provided our service with his ID and has also now gone through an alternative verification 
process with Clydesdale. So the impersonation marker should be removed.
Clydesdale have pointed out that Mr K has an unrelated previous conviction, and other 
CIFAS markers in his name. While I understand their thinking, thats not actually very 
relevant in this case. Theres no category of CIFAS marker for having a previous conviction, 
nor for having other CIFAS markers. In order to keep this impersonation marker, Clydesdale 
need to be able to show that Mr K was committing an impersonation. But he wasnt, so they 
cant, and so the marker should now be removed. 
Lastly, Ive considered whether Clydesdale should pay compensation to Mr K for what 
happened. But as I explained above, I dont think Clydesdale did something wrong or acted 
unreasonably in initially adding the marker  given the evidence they had at the time, Mr Ks 
applications really did appear to be fraudulent. So I dont plan to make any further award 
other than removing the CIFAS marker.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
30 March 2022.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to the provisional decision, Mr K let us know he accepted it.Clydesdale raised further concerns about Mr Ks previous sentence. However, that remains 
irrelevant to this marker. As I said before, there is no CIFAS marker for having a previous 
conviction. And the only way this CIFAS marker would be correct would be if Mr K was 
committing some kind of impersonation here. But he was not impersonating himself. So it 
remains the case that Clydesdales marker was wrong, and that they need to remove it now. 
Though as I said before, I dont award any compensation as I dont think Clydesdale acted 
unreasonably in initially adding the marker.
Aside from that, neither side added any new evidence or arguments regarding the merits of 
the case. So having reconsidered things, Ive come to the same conclusions as before, for 
the reasons set out here and in my provisional decision above.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ks complaint in part, and direct Clydesdale Bank Plc to remove the CIFAS 
marker in dispute.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman