DRN-2396844
The complaint
Mr K complains that Santander UK Plc is unable to explain what happened to funds in an 
account he had held with Bradford and Bingley.  
What happened
In 2008 Bradford and Bingley was taken over by Santander. In 2016 Mr K found a bank 
statement relating to an account hed held with Bradford and Bingley which he had forgotten 
about. The statement was for a savings account and was dated 1 January 1990. The 
balance on this date was £3,003.01. 
Mr K didnt recall ever closing the account, so he wrote to Santander asking it to look into the 
matter as he was worried he may have lost the money. 
Santander says that when it took over Bradford and Bingley in 2008, only open accounts 
were transferred to it. It said it has searched it records for an account in Mr Ks name and for 
the account number on statement provided. But it couldnt trace any record of the account. It 
concluded that it was most likely that Mr K had closed his account sometime before 2008. 
Unhappy with Santanders response, Mr K referred his complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into it but didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. In 
summary, she was persuaded that Santander didnt hold an account in Mr Ks name. And 
she concluded that  given the amount of time that had elapsed, and on the limited evidence 
available as a result, it was most likely that Mr Ks account had been closed prior to                    
Bradford and Bingleys take over. 
Mr K disagreed. He said hed kept immaculate records of his bank statements since the late 
1980s and yet he had nothing to make him think the Bradford and Bingley account had been 
closed. He also referred to an on-line newspaper article about money from dormant bank 
accounts that go missing. 
So, this complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K says he has no record of his account being closed. And I understand he would like 
certainty around what happened to it. But banks arent required to keep records indefinitely 
and usually only do so for six years. So, if Mr Ks account was closed more than six years 
ago, there wouldnt necessarily be any record remaining now. And, more importantly here, if 
the account was closed before Bradford and Bingley was taken over by Santander, I 
wouldnt expect Santander to have held any record of it. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as it is here), I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. Here what I 
need to decide is whether, in the absence of any definitive record of closure, its more likely 
the account remained open or was closed some time ago.
I appreciate that Mr K still holds a statement from 1990, but that doesnt prove that the 
account is still open or was open when Santander took over Bradford and Bingley. So, Ive 
thought carefully about what Santander has told us about how it handled the                               
Bradford and Bingley accounts transferred to it in 2008. 
Santander has explained any open accounts were migrated to its branches and its computer 
system. And that account holders were notified accordingly. So, Im persuaded that, if the 
account had been active after the takeover of Bradley and Bingley, Santander would have 
some record of the account  even if the account had later become dormant while with it. But 
having searched its records, Santander has been unable to find any information about an 
account in Mr Ks name. 
I do not doubt Mr Ks credibility in that he doesnt recall closing the account, withdrawing the 
funds or transferring the funds elsewhere. But, in light of Santander not being able to find 
any record of Mr Ks account, I think its most likely that it was closed prior to                                          
Bradford and Bingley being taken over by Santander - with the funds having been spent, 
withdrawn or transferred elsewhere, and the information has since been deleted. 
And so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr K, I dont think Santander has made any errors here, 
so I dont think it needs to take any further action.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman