DRN-3519921
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) irresponsibly
lent to him.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 18 May 2022 where I set out the background to this 
complaint. That decision forms part of this final decision. In my provisional decision I 
explained that I didnt think 118 118 Money had lent to Mr R when it shouldnt have. Details 
of my provisional decision are below.
What happened
118 118 Money lent two loans to Mr R in 2016. The first loan was for £1,000 with 24 monthly
instalments of £78.94 and the second loan was for £2,876.46 with 24 monthly instalments of
£229.45.
One of our adjudicators looked at what both parties said and thought Mr Rs complaint
should be upheld. He said that Mr R was due to spend a large portion of his monthly income
on unsecured lending and so there was significant risk he will struggle to repay the loans
over their terms.
118 118 Money didnt agree, it said although Mr R would spend a large portion of his
monthly income in repaying unsecured credit, hed be left with disposable income that
showed hed be able to repay the loans over their terms.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I am not minded to uphold Mr Rs
complaint and Ive explained why below.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about high cost lending - including all of
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 118 118 Money
needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr R could repay
the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the
consumers income and expenditure.
In the earlier stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks may be proportionate.
When looking at the checks 118 118 Money carried out for loan 1, Im mindful that this was
Mr Rs first loan with it and the repayment amount also represented a small portion of Mr Rs
declared income of £1,500. Mr R was single, living with his parents and employed.
Looking at Mr Rs declared income and expenses and his credit commitments at the time of
the first loan, I think 118 118 Moneys checks went far enough. The checks showed that
Mr R would be repaying around £463 of his income towards credit, Im also mindful that Mr R
would have been left with over £300 in disposable income. I think given Mr Rs overall
circumstances; 118 118 Money could reasonably conclude that Mr R could repay the loan
over the term without suffering adversely. There was nothing within the checks that
suggested Mr R was reliant on credit or struggling financially. Mr R had historic defaulted
accounts, one of which had no outstanding balance and another with a balance of £163 and
even if Mr R chose to repay this outstanding balance at once, hed still have disposable
income that would have made the lending sustainable.
In relation to loan 2, this was Mr Rs second loan within eight months, and he was borrowing
more than double his previous loan. Mr R hadnt fully repaid the first loan and was
refinancing with this second loan. The repayment amount for this loan was significantly
larger than the previous loan and given that the results of the credit search shows Mr Rs
borrowing had increased between both loans, it would have been reasonable for 118 118
Money to have taken its checks further before lending this loan. So, I dont think 118 118
Money did enough before agreeing to lend loan 2.
Weve asked Mr R to provide details of his circumstances at the time of the loan specifically
his bank statements but he hasnt responded to our requests so I cant be sure what further
checks would have shown.
Based on the available information, Mr R declared his income as £1,650 and his living costs
were around £630. The purpose of the loan is stated as being for debt consolidation but its
unclear which debts Mr R was looking to consolidate. But even without the debt
consolidation, Mr R would have been left with around £385 in disposable income after
repaying the loan. Given the disposable income he was left with and his overall
circumstances at the time of this loan, I dont think it was unfair for 118 118 Money to have
lent him this loan.
Ive also thought about whether 118 118 Money acted unfairly in some other way, but I
havent seen any evidence to show that it did. It follows that I dont think 118 118 Money has
done anything wrong.
I gave both parties the opportunity to provide further evidence and comments. The deadline 
for response has now passed. 118 118 Money responded to say it had no further comments 
to add. Mr Rs representatives acknowledged receipt of the provisional decision but didnt 
provide any further evidence or comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered all the information on this case, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings.
It follows that I dont think 118 118 Money unfairly lent to Mr R and so I wont be asking it to 
do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman