DRN-2384227
The complaint
Mr D complained that he was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) when he bought 
a car. I see Mr D says he was mis-sold two such policies, one in 1999 and one in 2001.
However, Ive seen no supporting evidence he was sold such a policy in 1999, so this 
decision is solely about the 2001 sale.
Although he was sold the PPI cover at a car showroom, London General Insurance 
Company, trading as Assurant, is responsible for answering Mr Ds complaint. Ill therefore 
mainly refer to LGI during this final decision.
What happened
When Mr D bought a car at a car showroom, he was sold a single premium PPI policy with 
the finance he took out to help him buy the vehicle. 
This type of PPI policy was charged for up front in one single payment. And typically, the 
cost of the PPI policy was added onto the loan used to help buy the car. Both amounts  the 
loan and the PPI part of the loan - then attracted interest and had to be paid back each 
month. Mr Ds PPI cost £776.16 in one such premium. 
Mr D was sold PPI containing elements of life cover (which would have paid off the balance 
of the loan in the event of his death) and GAP insurance (guaranteed asset protection - the 
difference between the outstanding balance owing on the loan and the insurers payment if 
the car was written off).
Our adjudicator in this case said the complaint should be upheld but LGI disagreed with this 
and the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided to uphold Mr 
Ds complaint.
LGI makes the point that very little documentation survives from the sale and we cant 
therefore establish that the PPI was mis-sold. It also says that Mr D has probably been paid 
back some money when the policy was cancelled.
Ive considered LGIs arguments with care. I also think we can make some reasonable 
assumptions about things we know are far more likely than not to have happened in this 
case. To help me do this Ive looked in detail at what the parties have told us and also at 
some computer records that still exist. Ive also used my considerable experience of PPI 
policies  and these types of policies in particular  to help come to a decision.
There is solid evidence, for example, that Mr D was sold a single premium PPI policy in July 
2001. The policy had a considerable element of life insurance with it and was probably 
recommended to Mr D as part of an advised sale. There would have probably been some 
rationale written down somewhere as to why the sales-person thought this particular PPI 
policy was a good fit for Mr Ds circumstances, but we no longer have access to this.
However, we know that Mr D was a young single man at the time of the sale with no 
dependants. And he says the PPI wasnt explained to him. On this basis, I dont think he 
would have wanted this type of policy because it quite obviously, in my view, didnt fit his 
situation. In short, it was an unsuitable policy for him which he simply didnt need.
As Ive said, LGI makes a further point about Mr D supposedly receiving a policy refund, 
back in 2004. However, the evidence supporting this is very weak. It looks like this 
assumption is based solely on the closure of the loan and / or the PPI in October 2004, 
some 40 months after the sale. Theres no evidence of a refund.
Its obviously possible that the policy was indeed closed or otherwise cancelled early, but 
there could be a number of reasons for this. Whatever the reason though, I doubt whether 
Mr D would have received anything back. We know these policies were generally very poor 
value for money when closed early  in most cases consumers received a much poorer 
proportion back in relation to how long the loan had been outstanding. Quite often, 
consumers received nothing back at all when closing early. So even if the PPI was cancelled 
in October 2004, its safe for me to conclude that Mr D received nothing back in respect of 
the PPI  it had been operating for around 40 months and had virtually run its intended 
course of around 4 years.
So, Im upholding this complaint. 
Mr D was sold an expensive single premium PPI policy covering life (protection) and GAP 
which he had to pay for at the beginning of his car loan. The policy he was sold was 
unsuitable for him and had it all been properly explained, he would have considered it very 
poor value. I dont think he would have gone on to buy the policy.
  
Putting things right
Mr D borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it should have been. He 
paid more than he should have each month as a result and it cost him more to repay the 
loan than it would have. So, Mr D needs to get back the extra hes paid. LGI should 
therefore:
Work out and pay Mr D the difference between what he paid each month on the loan 
and what he wouldve paid without PPI.  
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr D paid from when he paid it until he gets it 
back. The rate of interest is 8% a year  . 
If Mr D made a successful claim under the PPI policy, LGI can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires LGI to take off tax from this interest. LGI must give Mr D a certificate showing 
how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
I direct London General Insurance Company, trading as Assurant, to fully compensate him 
as described above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman