DRN-3065351
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the way American International Group UK Limited (AIG) handled a 
claim on his personal accident insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S had a personal accident insurance policy through his employer. In August 2014 he had 
an accident at home when he had a fall while carrying timber. 
He injured his neck and shoulder and had pain in his hand, so he attended physiotherapy 
sessions. As his symptoms didnt improve, he had an MRI to investigate and this showed a 
disc prolapse in his neck. He also underwent hydrocortisone injections which werent 
beneficial.
Mr S started developing low back pain.  In October 2015 he was diagnosed with spinal 
stenosis in the lumbar (lower back region) as well as having a disc prolapse in the cervical 
spine (neck region). He went on to have surgery for the spinal stenosis. 
 
Following advice from his employer, in October 2018 Mr S submitted a claim on his personal 
accident policy. AIG instructed several independent medical examiners (IME) to help them 
asses the claim. 
They asked an independent orthopaedic and spinal consultant surgeon to review the 
medical evidence. He couldnt find any orthopaedic deficit relating to Mr S fall. He concluded 
any ongoing spinal symptoms are more likely to have a psychological and/or chronic pain 
basis than an orthopaedic one. 
So AIG instructed an independent consultant in pain management to asses Mr S and review 
the medical evidence. He concluded Mr Ss current condition was because of the 
development of a widespread body pain syndrome associated with early degenerative 
changes - not the accident and neck injury sustained 2014. 
Based on the IME reports, AIG declined the claim. But they acknowledged that there were 
delays in the first half of 2019 so £300 compensation was paid to Mr S to reflect this. 
Mr S referred the matter to this service. Our investigator looked in to what had happened. 
She didnt think AIG had unreasonably rejected the claim as theyd relied on expert evidence 
to decide whether Mr S met the terms of insurance. She also though £300 was fair 
compensation for the initial delays to the claim, and she was satisfied there werent any 
unavoidable delays following this. 
Mr S didnt agree. In summary he said:
AIG have continued to stress upon the lumbar area of his spine and have sided upon 
that aspect solely. So the initial point of impact where the stack of timber fell on the 
rear of his neck during the accident, has been overlooked. He believes the injury to 
his neck is an identifiable physical injury to his body which was caused directly and 
solely by the accident.
His physiotherapy sessions from shortly after the accident havent been referenced. 
So he has now sent us a copy of the notes from these sessions. 
The consultant told him not do anything physical at all for a long period of time due to 
the position of his cervical spine following the accident. And this is what has brought 
on the problems with his lumbar area. 
So now I need to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This policy offers cover; 
If an insured person suffers bodily injury after the effective date and before the cover end 
date which, within two years solely and independently of any other cause, results in 
permanent disability, death, a fracture or hospitalisation, we will pay the amount shown in 
the table of benefits up to the total sum insured to the insured person ...
Bodily injury
Identifiable physical injury to an insured persons body which is caused directly and solely by 
an accident, is not intentionally self-inflicted and does not result from sickness or disease.
Accident
A sudden, unexpected and specific event, external to the body, which occurs at an 
identifiable time and place.
This means for a successful claim, it must be shown any permanent disability arises solely 
and independently due to an accident. Its for Mr S to demonstrate that he meets that 
definition. 
The relevant rules and industry guidance say AIG have a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im satisfied that AIG 
have handled the claim fairly and that its not unreasonable for them to reject the claim. I say 
that because:
I appreciate Mr S feels as though the initial point of impact where the stack of timber 
fell on his neck during the accident, has been overlooked. And he says AIG have 
focused on his lower back pain. He argues the injury to his neck is an identifiable 
physical injury to his body which was caused directly and solely by the accident so 
he believes it should be covered. However, having reviewed all the medical 
evidence, I dont think it was unreasonable for AIG to conclude that the neck injury 
wasnt the sole cause of the permanent disability 
In 2015 Mr Ss medical notes have recorded he was diagnosed with spinal stenosis 
in the lumbar (lower back region) in addition to a disc prolapse in the cervical spine 
(neck region). So Ive considered if the medical evidence shows these two problems 
were linked;
The consultant orthopaedic and spinal surgeons opinion was that Mr S spinal 
symptoms were due to a congenital narrowing of the spinal canal allied to 
degenerative changes. He concluded the symptoms are therefore likely to have 
occurred in any event and are not related to Mr S accident in 2014. The consultant in pain management concluded Mr Ss current condition wasnt a 
consequence of his accident, but because of the development of a widespread body 
pain syndrome associated perhaps with some early degenerative changes of a 
constitutional nature in his lumbar spine and again in his cervical spine. So, based 
on the opinions of the independent medical experts in this field, I think AIG were fair 
to conclude, on balance, Mr S neck injury is separate to his lumbar pain. And 
therefore, not the cause of his potential disability. 
Ive reviewed the physiotherapy session notes Mr S has provided, but these dont 
change my opinion. I can see that Mr S reports that the accident carrying timber 
caused his injury, and he is suffering from neck and shoulder pain and reduced 
movement, alongside pins and needles in his hands. Mr S has pointed out no lower 
back pain is referenced during these sessions and I agree with him. But the 
consultant orthopaedic and spinal surgeon said symptoms associated to Mr S fall 
should have occurred within a matter of days or weeks of the accident. So, I think its 
reasonable for AIG to conclude that if the lower back symptoms were related to the 
accident then they wouldve occurred sooner than they did. 
Mr S feels strongly that the problems with his lumbar area arose because the 
consultant told him not do anything physical at all for a long period, due to the 
position of his cervical spine following the accident.  And this sudden restriction in 
movement caused his lumbar to seize up. But the medical experts concluded that the 
most likely cause of Mr S current discomfort is due to degenerative changes to the 
spine rather than the neck injury sustained during the 2014 accident. And I think it 
was fair for AIG to rely on those similar expert opinions when declining the claim. 
Thats because in order for a successful claim to be made Mr S needed to 
demonstrate that the accident was the sole cause of his permanent disability. And, as 
the experts concluded that the ongoing issues were linked to degenerative 
conditions, it isnt unreasonable for AIG to decline the claim on the basis that the 
problems werent caused by the accident.  
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman