DRN-3887639
The complaint
Mr T complains about how West Bay Insurance Plc handled a claim made on his motor 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr T was involved in an accident and West Bay deemed his car to be a total loss. Mr T told 
West Bay that he wanted to retain his cars salvage. And it asked him to provide an 
independent engineers report and an MOT certificate to show that the car had been safely 
repaired. The report cost Mr T £200. West Bay then sent Mr T its settlement for his claim. 
But Mr T was unhappy with this amount. He thought it should offer him £1,600 less the 
salvage value and policy excess. He thought the independent engineers report was 
unnecessary and West Bay should refund this cost. He thought hed been charged too much 
for his excess. And he thought his premium had increased unfairly as he had protected No 
Claims Discount (NCD) and so West Bay should refund this. West Bay said its claims team 
had sent Mr T incorrect information on two occasions. It paid him £100 compensation for 
this. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought the car 
was beyond economic repair and the repairs werent just cosmetic. She thought West Bay 
wasnt responsible for the cost of the independent engineers report. She thought West Bay 
had assessed the cars market value in keeping with our approach. And so she thought its 
valuation of £1,577 (after deductions for pre-accident damage) was fair and reasonable. 
She thought its deduction for the salvage value was fair as this was the amount it would 
have received for it. She thought the policy excess was £250, but West Bay could have 
made this clearer. And she thought West Bay wasnt responsible for the premium increase 
as Mr T had a new insurer. 
Mr T replied that hed been told that the MOT was sufficient to show that the car was 
repaired and so the independent engineers report was unnecessary. He thought West Bays 
valuation hadnt taken into account the cars mileage, its condition and its specification. Mr T 
asked for an Ombudsmans review, so his complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T has raised concerns about the practices of the car insurance industry and about West 
Bay. But it isnt my role to consider general concerns here. My role is to consider how West 
Bay handled his claim and responded to his complaint. And whether it treated him fairly and 
reasonably and in keeping with his policys terms and conditions.
Mr T was unhappy with the pre-accident valuation that West Bay placed on his car. He said 
his engineer had said it was worth £2,000. I can see that Mr Ts policy provided for the cars 
market value in the case of its total loss. West Bay said the cars market value was £1,577 
after it had deducted £200 for pre-existing damage to the cars bumper and wing. 
The Investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
I can see that West Bay looked in the car valuation guides we use for cars of the same 
make, model, age, mileage, condition and specification as Mr Ts car. It then offered him the 
highest valuation provided by the guides, less the deduction for pre-existing damage. I think 
this deduction was fair as it was less than half the repair costs for this damage. 
Mr Ts engineer found a similar car advertised for a higher price. But we dont find 
advertisements particularly persuasive as these are essentially asking prices and arent 
selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as they provide evidence of 
likely retail selling prices. 
Mr T thought the cars additional features should increase its value. But this isnt always the 
case. And I can see that the extras didnt increase its value in the trade guides we use. 
So Im satisfied that West Bays valuation was made correctly according to our approach. 
And so I think its settlement offer was fair and reasonable and I dont require West Bay to 
increase it. 
West Bay said the policy excess was £250. And Im satisfied that this is correct. This is 
because this is clearly set out on the Schedule of Motor Insurance. The compulsory excess 
for the policy is £100 and then there is an additional excess of £150 for each of the drivers. 
In addition to those policy excesses above which apply to all drivers, the following excesses 
are applicable to individual drivers as specified.
Mr T wanted to retain the cars salvage. West Bay said it deducted a percentage of the value 
for this. Mr Ts engineer said the salvage value was £300. But West Bay said the salvage 
value was £457.33. I can understand that Mr Ts engineer estimated the salvage value 
based on his experience. But I think West Bay is entitled to deduct from the settlement the 
contractual sum that it would receive for the salvage from its agent. So I cant say this was 
unfair or unreasonable.
Mr T questioned why West Bay wanted him to provide an engineers report and an MOT 
after his car was repaired. I can see that Mr Ts engineer questioned why this was needed. 
But West Bay explained that it continued to insure the car after it was deemed to be a total 
loss and it wanted reassurance that the car was in a satisfactory condition and roadworthy, 
as required by the policy. An MOT wouldnt necessarily show that the car had been repaired 
fully. So I cant say it was unfair or unreasonable for West Bay to request this report or that it 
needs to refund Mr T for this cost. 
Mr T said his premium increased even though he had NCD protection. But this protects the 
NCD, and the discount received, as set out in the policy booklet. It doesnt protect the 
premium from increasing. In any case, this wasnt West Bays responsibility as Mr T insured 
his car with a different insurer. So Im satisfied that West Bay handled Mr Ts claim fairly and reasonably, and in keeping 
with his policys terms and conditions. And Im satisfied that it responded fairly to his 
complaint and acknowledged the error it had made in sending him incorrect valuation figures 
twice. I think its payment of £100 compensation for this error was fair and reasonable. This is 
because its in keeping with our published guidance for this sort of error. I dont require West 
Bay to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman