DRN-3333930
The complaint
Mr L complains about the support he has received from Oodle Financial Services Limited 
(Oodle) in relation to a hire purchase agreement he has with it.
What happened
In February 2020 Mr L entered into a hire purchase agreement with Oodle for a used car. As 
a result of the Covid-19 pandemic Mr L began to experience financial difficulties and was 
struggling to make his repayments to Oodle. Therefore, he contacted it in March 2020 to 
request help. Thereafter, Mr L requested help on several other occasions due to being 
unable to work because of the lockdown restrictions brought in to deal with the pandemic 
and then due to losing his job and having to rely on support from his partner, benefits and 
government assistance specifically put in place to help people in his situation.  Although 
despite all these circumstances he was able to resume his repayments at various points 
during the relevant period.
Further, Mr L indicates that he was deliberately given inaccurate information by Oodle on 
many occasions and was also treated unfairly and unprofessionally. He has told us on 
occasion it made me feel like I was nothing. Moreover, Oodle asked the credit reference 
agencies to register inaccurate information on his credit file and took too long to remove it. 
According to Mr L this had a knock-on effect on the credit that was available to him. Further, 
sadly, Mr L lost his mother during this time and Mr L describes how he was unable to pay for 
his mothers funeral due to a lack of credit and therefore had to borrow money from friends 
and family.  Mr L holds Oodle responsible for this. Mr L considers that Oodle have caused 
him to experience considerable financial and emotional loss on that basis he is asking for 
compensation from Oodle of £10,000 minimum. 
Mr L also complains that he was, in his opinion, automatically entitled to six months of 
payment deferrals and he only initially received five months of such help. He was dissatisfied 
that Oodle asked him to provide new information when he asked for a payment deferral in 
January 2021. Mr L considers that Oodle did not need to ask him for that information and 
could have relied on the information it used to agree to the earlier repayment deferrals he 
had. On this basis Mr L declined to provide the further information Oodle asked for in 
January 2021. Mr L complained to Oodle.
Oodle responded to say that it applied a payment deferral to Mr Ls account in relation to his 
contractual repayments for April, May, June, July, and August 2020. Oodle accepts it did ask 
the credit reference agencies to register arrears information for April 2020 and January 
2021. It had agreed to ask the credit reference agencies to remove this information. And by 
the time the complaint came to us it appears that Oodle had asked for this negative 
information to be removed from Mr Ls credit file. It also indicates that Mr L did not always 
get the level of customer service that he ought to have done and it offered him £200 for this.
Dissatisfied, Mr L came to our service.
One of our investigators considered Mr Ls complaint. She did not recommend upholding it. 
Oodle accepted this recommendation, Mr L did not. In summary, he repeated his previous 
stance. 
Mr L asked that his complaint be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking this approach. Instead, 
Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
At some points in time, as I have already mentioned, Mr L experienced temporary financial 
difficulties as a result of the pandemic. As a consequence of this he was unable, on 
occasion, to make his contractual repayments to his finance agreement when they became 
due. The Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA) which regulates financial firms such as 
Oodle introduced guidance, which is relevant here, in fact the FCA issued several sets of 
guidance. But I will give the several sets of guidance the collective name of the guidance. 
The guidance sets out what firms such as Oodle had to do in these circumstances.
When looking at what is fair and reasonable, I think it is appropriate to bear this guidance in 
mind as well as the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, and standards and codes 
of practice and (where appropriate)  what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time.
The guidance specified that as a starting point, where for the first time, a customer is already 
experiencing or reasonably expects to experience temporary payment difficulties as a result 
of circumstances relating to coronavirus, and wishes to receive a payment deferral, a firm 
should grant the customer a payment deferral for three months unless the firm determines 
(acting reasonably) that it is obviously not in the customers interests to do so. The guidance 
also provided for further payment deferrals if after the initial three months the customer was 
unable to resume contractual repayments.
At times, Mr L has suggested that he had an absolute right in law to have payment deferrals, 
but I have to tell him this is not the case. Rather he had an option to ask for payment 
deferrals and Oodle had to agree to this unless it was not in his best interests to do so. 
Therefore, Mr L did not have the absolute right that he thinks he did. I mention this because 
Mr L appears to have strong feelings about his complaint, and this might stem in part, from 
thinking that Oodle did not give him his rights as he appears to have seen them. I think it is 
therefore important to set out exactly what he was and was not entitled to.
First, Im going to look at what happened in 2020. And then at what happened in 2021.
The issues in 2020
The parties appear to agree that Oodle did agree to payment deferrals for April, May, June, 
July, and August 2020. And it also appears they both agree it was in his best interests that 
Mr L was granted the payment deferrals. 
The difficulty arose because of the information that was registered on Mr Ls credit file about 
the payment in April 2020. The guidance was clear, that when a customer was given a 
payment deferral they should not have been considered to have been in arrears. Yet Mr L has sent us information showing that Oodle asked the credit reference agencies to register 
information about a missed payment on his credit file for April 2020. Moreover, Oodle 
accepts it did this. 
Further it appears that this information about the payment in April 2020 may still have been 
in place in February 2021. This point is unclear as Mr L sent us information from a credit 
reference agency about his credit score in February 2021. The credit reference agency says 
you've had further late payments recorded on your credit account(s). This means your 
Credit Score has gone down. However, I cant tell from this if it means that the April 2020 
marker was still on Mr Ls credit file, or not. Moreover, Oodle has not told us when it asked 
the credit reference agencies to remove the April 2020 late payment marker. In any event I 
think it is clear that Oodle asked the credit reference agencies to register information when it 
should not have done.
That said, I believe Oodle has now asked the credit reference agencies to remove this 
information and they have done so. Therefore, no further action is required to correct Mr Ls 
credit file in relation to this information.
However, I am satisfied that because Oodle made this mistake Mr L experienced distress 
and inconvenience, for which he ought to be compensated. However, I think the £200 that 
Oodle has already offered goes far enough to make up for this. I recognise the £200 is not 
just meant to cover this error alone but nonetheless I still find this amount sufficient.
Moreover, Mr L tells us that because of Oodles actions his credit limit with a third party I will 
call B was drastically reduced in June 2020. It appears that Mr L had intended to use this 
credit to pay for his mothers funeral. But because the amount of credit that was available to 
him had been reduced so much, it seems instead, Mr L had to borrow money from friends 
and family. 
Mr L raised a complaint with us about B. Mr L asked that I take a look at what B had said in 
that complaint about why it decreased his credit limit. He suggests B only acted due to 
Oodles mistake. But nothing I have seen demonstrates that B reduced Mr Ls credit limit due 
to the information Oodle asked to be registered on Mr Ls credit file about his April 2020 
payment.
That said, I think it is easy to imagine how very distressing it must have been in June 2020, 
for Mr L to find out overnight that he had lost access to the credit with B that he was relying 
on being able to use to bury his mother. I think the impact may have been all the greater 
because he was also dealing with bereavement.  Therefore, I dont underestimate his 
strength of feeling.
In addition Mr L has sent us information from a credit reference agency but that information 
refers to Mr Ls changes to Mr Ls credit rating in 2021 so I dont see that this throws any 
light on what happened with Mr Ls account with B in 2020 and the role he says Oodles 
mistake played in this.
For the reasons I have set out above I am not persuaded it was due to Oodles mistake that 
Mr Ls credit limit was decreased by B.
Further, even if I was satisfied that Oodles mistake led to the reduction in Mr Ls credit limit 
with B, which Im not, I still could not award Mr L the amount he asks for. Mr L talks about his 
financial loss running into thousands of pounds. I dont see it the same way. I say this 
because what Mr L lost when B reduced his credit limit was not his own cash. Rather he lost 
access to credit. Therefore, it would not be fair and reasonable to say that because Mr Ls 
credit was reduced by thousands of pounds, he should be awarded that same amount in 
cash now.
The issues in 2021As far as I can see it was not until January 2021 that Mr L asked about a payment deferral 
for January 2021. Mr L indicates that he had been discussing this with Oodle in December 
2020, but this is not shown in Oodles internal notes which I have no reason to doubt are 
accurate in this regard. 
In any event, it appears that Mr L contacted Oodle in January 2021 asking for one further 
month of payment deferral. 
The guidance did not give Mr L an absolute right to a payment deferral, as I have already 
said. Mr L also appears to think that he had an absolute right to six months of payment 
deferrals. But the guidance did not say that. Rather, Oodle had to consider, each time Mr L 
asked for a payment deferral whether a payment deferral was in Mr Ls best interests.
Moreover, at first it appears Mr L and Oodle were talking at cross purposes he thought it was 
processing his request for a payment deferral. Whereas it was looking at whether it could 
help Mr L with financial difficulties which it thought were not covered by the guidance.
Then, regrettably, in the midst of this, Oodle took the direct debit for the January payment, 
this resulted in Mr L not having enough money to live on. Then this money was refunded to 
him, but only because Mr L contacted Oodle. This was then noted by Oodle as a missed 
payment. Afterwards Oodle began communicating frequently with Mr L asking him to sort out 
the arrears. Mr L indicates he found this distressing.
This confusion was regrettable, but I think it flowed, in part, from the, at times, strained 
communications between the parties which I talk about below. Nonetheless I think Oodle 
should have recognised that Mr l was asking for a payment deferral due to payment 
difficulties caused by Covid-19. And it should have been clearer with him about the basis on 
which it was assessing his account.
In any event Oodle has asked the credit reference agencies to remove the information about 
the missed payment for January 2021.
I cant see what financial loss might have flowed from this confusion. Mr L has only told us 
about what he sees as his loss flowing from what happened with B in June 2020.
For all these reasons, I think the compensation Oodle has already offered goes far enough.
Communications between the parties
It is clear from the information I have available to me that the communications between the 
parties, especially by phone, did not always go smoothly. It is powerful to hear from Mr L that 
he felt dismissed sometimes by the communications from Oodle. That said, communication 
is a two-way street. On occasion I think if Mr L had used more moderate language the 
communications might have been more effective. In one call for example, Mr L and Oodles 
employee both state and restate their respective opinions, then Mr L asks the employee if he 
is slow then Mr L shouts and then the employee says, bye-bye and ends the call. Mr L is 
entitled to be treated with respect and courtesy in communications and the employees of 
Oodle are entitled to the same.
Im satisfied sometimes the parties were talking at cross purposes. But I have seen nothing 
that suggests that Oodle gave Mr L inaccurate information on purpose.
I regret to hear that Mr L was upset by some of the conversations he had, and I appreciate, 
he has strong feelings about this matter. However, in the circumstances, I dont agree I have 
any proper grounds for asking Oodle to make any further payment to him for this part of his 
complaint.
If Mr L now wants to accept the £200 that Oodle offered him, and if this had not already been 
paid to him, then he needs to contact Oodle directly about this.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman