DRN-3545614
The complaint
Mr H is complaining that BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited (BMWFS) has charged an 
additional payment after he had a six-month payment deferral on his hire purchase 
agreement.
What happened
In December 2018 Mr H entered into a hire purchase agreement through BMWFS to acquire 
a car. Mr H was required to make 47 monthly payments of £482.40 and a final payment of 
£11,276.73 if he wished to keep the car.
Unfortunately in March 2020 Mr H temporarily lost his income due to the impact caused by 
Covid-19. So in May 2020, in line with regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  
guidance, BMWFS granted him a three-month payment deferral. In August 2020 Mr H was 
granted a further three-month payment deferral.
As a result of these deferrals, the hire purchase agreement was extended by six months. 
BMWFS didnt charge anything extra as a result of the first three-month extension, but it told 
Mr H after he asked for the second deferral that it would charge an additional £45.71 per 
month over the remaining term of the agreement to reflect the fact the car will be six months 
older at the end of the finance agreement. In turn, BMWFS reduced the final monthly 
payment to £9,859.68.
Mr H didnt think BMWFS could charge this payment as he thinks it was out of line with FCA 
guidance. He accepted he had to pay the monthly payments that were deferred but he didnt  
think it could charge anything further. In particularly he referred to the following statement in 
the FCA guidance which said:
When granting a payment deferral or other option for assisting customers under PCP or 
PCH agreements affected by coronavirus, firms should not by any means seek to modify, or 
seek to unilaterally alter, any aspect of the original agreement in a way that takes advantage 
of the customers necessity, lack of experience or weaker bargaining position or otherwise 
leads to unfair outcomes.
I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint and I said the following:
The FCA issued detailed guidance about how it how it expected firms to support customers 
facing temporary payment difficulties because of the impact caused by Covid-19.
In March 2020, Mr H approached BMWFS to explain his employer had asked all its 
employees to take a period of unpaid leave. And he asked if BMWFS could do anything to 
support him  ideally a payment holiday. In April 2020, the FCA issued guidance setting out 
that it expected firms to offer customers payment deferrals of up to three months unless it 
thought to do so was obviously not in a customers interests. Following this, BMWFS granted 
Mr H a three-month payment deferral, which I think was fair.
In July 2020 the FCA updated its guidance to say it would expect businesses to grant a 
further three-month deferral if customers were still struggling. In August 2020, Mr H 
explained he was under furlough and suffering a significant reduction in income. So BMWFS 
granted a further three-month payment deferral, which I think was in line with the FCAs 
guidance.
However, I acknowledge Mr H doesnt think the guidance allowed BMWFS to charge an 
extra payment for depreciation. But I dont agree. I note hes referred to the guidance which 
says firms should not by any means seek to modify, or seek to unilaterally alter, any aspect 
of the original agreement in a way that takes advantage of the customers necessity, lack of 
experience or weaker bargaining position or otherwise leads to unfair outcomes.
I havent seen anything to show that the FCA said BMWFS couldnt modify the agreement to 
take the cars depreciation into account. Ultimately, the agreement was extended by six 
months so it was modified accordingly, which includes the respective payments. But I think 
the crux of this matter is whether BMWFSs actions have led to an unfair outcome.
If the agreement is extended by a further six months Mr H will have been able to use the car 
for an additional six months as a result of the contract being extended by six months 
(although I accept he will have had reduced usage of it during periods of government-
imposed lockdown). But, as a result of this, the cars value will have depreciated by the time 
the agreement ends. I think BMWFS was entitled to take this into account, so long as it 
doesnt result in an unfair outcome.
Ultimately, Mr H will have to pay around an extra £1,417 per month over the remaining 
monthly payments (excluding the final payment), which is the equivalent of three monthly 
payments. However, Im also conscious that BMWFS reduced the final payment due by the 
same amount. So the total amount payable under the terms of the finance hasnt changed. 
Further to this, Ive also looked at the likely impact on the cars market value for the car 
being six months older at the end of the finance term and I think this is in line with what 
BMWFS has charged. So I think BMWFS has acted fairly in the way it has modified the 
agreement.
Mr H has said BMWFS hasnt taken into account that hes done less mileage in the car than 
he contractually agreed. But it has only charged the equivalent of three extra monthly 
payments, but hes been able to retain the car for six months.
Finally, Ive taken Mr Hs comment that the account statement refers to the additional 
payment as Deferral interest Payment, but the agreement is interest free. I agree that the 
statement shouldnt say this, but BMWFS additional correspondence has clearly explained 
what this charge is for. So I dont think this is a reason that the increased monthly payments 
shouldnt apply.
Given this, Im not persuaded that, if Mr H chose to have a six month extension to the 
agreement, BMWFSs actions have resulted in an unfair outcome and I think it was fair for 
BMWFS to charge the additional £45.71 per month it did.
However, while I dont think was necessarily unfair to charge what it has done, I also dont 
think its actions are in line with how other businesses have operated. In general, where a 
payment deferral is granted, the deferred payments were usually either payable at the end of 
the finance term, or the remaining monthly instalments are increased to ensure the deferred 
payments are paid by the end of the finance term. I cant see that BMWFS gave Mr H this as 
an option when he asked for a further deferment and I think it should have done so.
Ive discussed this with Mr H and hes told us that he would prefer to have the terms of the original agreement reinstated  i.e. the agreement ends after 48 months  and repay the 
deferred payments at the end of the finance term. I think this would be a fair way to resolve  
this matter as BMWFS still receives the payments due on time and the car doesn't suffer the 
anticipated depreciation.
So I think BMWFS should give Mr H the choice to either:
1. continue to make the payments hes been making since the end of the deferment period 
(with the increase of £45.71) until the end of the finance term and the remaining shortfall 
is paid at the end of the term; or
2. the remaining payments are increased to ensure the deferred payments are paid off at 
the end of the finance.
Mr H maintained that he didnt think it was fair he was being charged an extra £45.71 per 
month given hed driven significantly less miles due to the national lockdown. So he doesnt 
believe the car will have depreciated as much in value as it otherwise would have done. 
BMWFS didnt accept my provisional decision. It said Mr H agreed to the terms and 
conditions of taking a payment deferral when applying online, and it said the only way to stop 
the depreciation charge is to repay the deferred months which would then reduce the 
extended term and stop charging for the depreciation charge. It said the agreement 
automatically charges depreciation each month dependant on how many months Mr H had 
taken as a deferral. And it said that this wasnt something it could change on the system 
unless the months are repaid.
BMWFS also highlighted that it wrote to Mr H after the deferral was put in place and 
explained the costs of the deferral.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken everything into consideration but Ive come to the same conclusion as I did in my 
provisional decision.
I note Mr H still doesnt think its fair for BMWFS to charge for the extra three months he was 
keeping the car. But Im satisfied my provisional decision sets out why I think its fair. I 
recognise Mr H wouldnt have used the car as much because of the lockdown. But BMWFS 
also didnt charge extra for the additional three months he first received from deferring the 
payment.
Ive also considered and understand BMWFSs submission that the cost of the deferral was 
set out to Mr H, but this was after the deferral was agreed. And I havent seen anything to 
show that BMWFS gave Mr H the option to spread the cost of the deferred payments over 
the remaining term of the finance, which I think it should have done. And Im satisfied this 
would have been Mr Hs preferred option had BMWFS given him this option.
Ultimately I think Mr H has lost out as a result of whats happened here and I remain of the 
opinion what I said in my provisional decision is a fair way to put things right.So I still think BMWFS should give Mr H the choice to either:
1. continue to make the payments hes been making since the end of the deferment period 
(with the increase of £45.71) until the end of the finance term and the remaining shortfall 
is paid at the end of the term; or
2. the remaining payments are increased to ensure the deferred payments are paid off at 
the end of the finance.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and 
require BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited to settle the complaint in line with what Ive 
said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman