DRN-3112755
The complaint
Miss M complains that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans continued to 
apply interest to her loan and issued a default, despite her requests for support when she 
was ill.
What happened
Miss M applied for a loan with Everyday in December 2018. The loan agreed was for £1,000 
and required repayments of £112.78 each month over 18 months.
Various changes in circumstances impacted on Ms Ms ability to meet her loan repayments 
during the second half of 2019. The last full payment she was able to make was in 
November 2019. She made further payments of £50 in January 2020 and £40 in February 
2020.
Miss M continued to ask Everyday to support and help her by agreeing a variation in her 
payments. To assist them, Everyday asked Miss M to give full details of her income and 
expenditure and provide copies of documents to support this. Due to Miss M being ill, she 
wasnt able to immediately complete the income and expenditure information provided. So, 
Everyday tried to contact Miss M to ask for the information again. Miss M wasnt happy that 
Everyday continued to chase her while was ill and needed to self-isolate.
In April 2020, Mr M returned the income and expenditure details but didnt include the 
supporting documents Everyday had requested. Later in April 2020, Miss M told Everyday 
she didnt want to send the information theyd asked for. She said she was going to speak to 
a third party about her situation and asked Everyday not to contact her. Miss M didnt make 
any further loan repayments, so Everyday sent arrears letters to her. 
Miss M emailed Everyday in August 2020 to tell them shed spoken to the Citizens Advice 
Bureau and was arranging an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA). She said Everyday 
shouldve stopped interest during the National Lockdown and also offered breathing space. 
She also said they shouldnt have recorded missed payments on her credit file. Everyday 
treated Miss Ms comments and concerns as a complaint. 
Everyday responded to Miss Ms complaint at the beginning of September 2020 in a letter. 
They didnt agree theyd done anything wrong. They said theyd tried to help Miss M, but she 
wasnt willing to provide the information they needed. Everyday said Miss M hadnt 
specifically told them shed been affected by the global pandemic. They also werent willing 
to amend Miss Ms credit file as they thought the information reported was fair and accurate.
Miss M wasnt happy with Everydays response to her complaint. So, she contacted this 
service for help. One of our adjudicators investigated the circumstances of Miss Ms 
complaint. But our adjudicator didnt agree that Everyday had done anything wrong and 
thought theyd dealt with her complaint fairly.
As Miss M didnt agree with our adjudicators findings, her case has been passed to me to 
reach a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to acknowledge that Miss M has clearly experienced a number of challenges that 
have ultimately affected her financial circumstances. I realise that this must be very stressful 
and worrying for her.
Everydays file notes show that Miss M had been experiencing some difficulties with her loan 
repayments since 2019. Ive seen there were various exchanges resulting from changes in 
Miss Ms circumstances during that time. The last contractual repayment Miss M made to 
her loan was in November 2019. Since then, Miss M has made payments of £50 and £40. 
So, it seems Miss M has been struggling financially for some time.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance to lenders on 2 April 2020 which 
explained what it expected from businesses during the exceptional circumstances arising out 
of the global pandemic. It provided guidance asking businesses to consider payment 
deferrals of up to three months under regulated credit agreements. 
The FCA said their guidance applied where consumers were already experiencing or 
reasonably expect to experience temporary payment difficulties as a result of the pandemic. 
They said that firms should ensure that there is no negative impact on the consumers credit 
file because of the payment deferral.  
The FCA also said their guidance applies in the exceptional circumstances arising out of 
coronavirus and its impact on the financial situation of personal loan customers. This 
guidance is not intended to have any relevance in circumstances other than those related to 
coronavirus. They said that where a customer was in pre-existing financial difficulty, our 
existing forbearance rules and guidancewould continue to apply. 
I think its clear that Miss M was already experiencing financial difficulties before the effects 
of the Global Pandemic. So, Im not persuaded that the FCAs guidelines apply here. But I 
would expect Everyday to offer support to Miss M where they could, and in line with the 
FCAs guidance detailed in their Credit Sourcebook (CONC). 
Having considered Everydays file notes, it appears theyd attempted, on many occasions, to 
consult with Miss M in an attempt to better understand her financial circumstances and 
provide any necessary support. This included asking Miss M to provide details of her income 
and expenditure together with supporting evidence. 
Unfortunately, Miss M delayed providing this information and wasnt willing to provide the 
supporting evidence. Instead, she asked Everyday to stop contacting her while she sought 
advice from a third party. It appears Everyday did that, although they did send arrears 
letters. They were obliged to send these so I cant fairly say theyd done anything wrong 
here.
Ultimately, I dont think Everyday could reasonably have done anything more to help Miss M. 
Theyd tried to engage with her, without success. And Miss M didnt meet her contractual 
repayments when they were due. So, I dont think Everyday had any option but to issue a 
default on her loan with them. This, and the missed payments were recorded on Miss Ms 
credit file. Everyday were obliged to do that under the rules and guidance issued by the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO). So, again, I cant reasonably conclude that 
Everyday did anything wrong here either.
While I sympathise with Miss Ms situation, any support from a lender requires the co-
operation of both parties involved. Unfortunately, it appears Miss M wasnt willing to engage 
with Everyday sufficiently for this to happen. So, I cant fairly say that Everyday were at fault 
here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman