DRN-1637785
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Gladstone Brookes (GB) didnt submit their claim for mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI) in time.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B instructed GB to represent them making a claim for mis-sold PPI against their 
lender. Mr B had instructed GB to make claims against a number of his lenders already.
In July 2019, GB sent the form of authority to Mr and Mrs B. As they needed to be signed by 
both parties, and Mr and Mrs B dont live together, it took some time to get the forms signed 
and returned. Mr B says that the forms were sent back to GB on 20 August 2019  nine days 
before the deadline that the Financial Conduct Authority set for making PPI claims.
Some time after the deadline, Mr B contacted GB and was told that the form wasnt received 
in time. It told Mr B that the form was scanned on its systems on 17 September 2019, so it 
wasnt able to make the claim to the lender. GB hadnt told Mr B this previously so it 
apologised for this and gave Mr and Mrs B £75 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused.
Mr and Mrs B complained as they feel it was GBs fault the claim wasnt made in time. They 
say the form was sent to GB on 20 August 2019 and so the claim shouldve been made in 
time. Our investigator didnt feel the complaint should be upheld. She explained that there 
wasnt any evidence to show GB had done anything wrong. It has shown us that the form 
was received on 16 September and scanned in on 17 September  this was after the 
deadline. Our investigator was also persuaded that if the forms had arrived before the 
deadline, GB wouldve submitted the claims in time.
Our investigator felt the £75 compensation was fair as GB hadnt told Mr and Mrs B when it 
received the form that it was out of time. So she didnt ask GB to do anything further.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to make a decision. Mr B said he 
wanted a full audit history from GB to show that the form hadnt been received earlier. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand it must be frustrating for Mr and Mrs B to have found out they have missed the 
deadline to claim for mis-sold PPI against this particular lender. My role here is to see 
whether that was caused by something GB has done. But I dont think that it was.
I can see that the forms were signed on 19 August 2019. So I can see why Mr B says they 
were then posted on 20 August  because it was clear there was an intention to send the 
form to GB as soon as it was signed by both Mr and Mrs B. However, my role here is to see 
whether GB has does something wrong.Ive looked at the notes it has in relation to this particular claim. I can see when it sent out 
the forms, and then when it received them back. GB has explained to us the measures it had 
in place during the last few weeks before the PPI deadline and I think its likely that if Mr and 
Mrs Bs form had arrived prior to the deadline, then it wouldve been sent to the lender. But 
the records show the form was received on 16 September, and was scanned in on 17 
September. Both these dates were after the deadline. I understand Mr B would like to see all 
the data held up to this point, and hes suggested it couldve been mixed up with his other 
claims. But from what Ive seen, I dont think it was likely this was the case.
Mr and Mrs B havent provided us with any proof of postage, and theres nothing to suggest 
GB received the forms on time. Whilst its unclear what did happen to those forms, I havent 
seen enough to suggest GB was at fault here, or that it received forms and didnt action 
them. So I wont be upholding this complaint.
I do note that GB has offered Mr and Mrs B £75 compensation. This is because it didnt 
notify them that the form was received too late. And it wasnt until Mr B called for an update 
that he found this out. I think this wouldve been better for GB to notify Mr and Mrs B when it 
received the form in September. But I think the £75 compensation is fair and reasonable for 
this, as the error doesnt make the situation any different. The forms were received too late 
for GB to submit them to the lender before the PPI deadline.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 April 2020.
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman