DRN-1883437
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G have complained that Nationwide Building Society ("Nationwide") will not 
refund any of the commission it received from their payment protection insurance ("PPI") 
premiums for the policy that they took out in 2006 to cover their mortgage. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs G took out a mortgage in 2006. At the same time they were sold a PPI policy. 
The policy was cancelled in 2011. 
In 2013 Mr and Mrs G complained that the PPI was mis-sold. Our service looked at the sale 
of the PPI and a final decision was issued at that time saying the PPI wasn't mis-sold.
In 2019, Mr and Mrs G complained to Nationwide that they should receive back some of the 
commission they paid towards the PPI.
Nationwide investigated Mr and Mrs G's complaint and said their PPI policy was outside the 
scope of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) rules and guidance for non-disclosure 
of PPI commission, so no compensation was due.
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs G referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicator's looked into the complaint and agreed that Nationwide didn't have to 
refund any commission to Mr and Mrs G.
As Mr and Mrs G disagreed, and as the matter hasn't been resolved, it's been passed to me 
for a final deicsion.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be clear, my decision only deals with Mr and Mrs Gs complaint about commission. Thats 
because the sale of the PPI has already been looked into by this service in 2013 - with a 
final decision issued on the matter. 
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the FCA, issued some rules about how 
businesses should deal with complaints about PPI.
Broadly summarised the FCA said that if a lender got a high level of commission and profit 
share from the PPI policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the 
consumer, then that could create an unfair relationship between the parties. So to put that 
right, the FCA said that businesses should pay back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
But these rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship provisions 
within section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. And there are certain types of credit agreements that the rules and section 140A dont apply to, which means not all consumers 
will get some of the commission and profit share they paid back. Ill explain what this means 
in Mr and Mrs Gs case.
Section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act states that certain credit agreements are exempt 
and a court cant make an order in relation to unfair relationships. The FCAs rules mirror 
this. A regulated mortgage contract is one such agreement that isnt covered by the unfair 
relationship provisions in the Consumer Credit Act. This is because on 31st October 2004 
the regulation of mortgages by the FCA began  and mortgages were no longer covered by 
the Consumer Credit Act.
Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage was taken out in 2006 and it was a regulated mortgage. So the 
unfair relationship provisions of the Consumer Credit Act and the FCAs rules and guidance 
on failure to disclose commission dont apply.
It follows that Nationwide doesnt need to refund any of the commission or profit share 
Mr and Mrs G paid for the PPI they had with their mortgage.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 June 2020.
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman