DRN-1770522
The complaint
Miss T complains about UK Insurance Limiteds (UKI) handling of a claim she made for 
subsidence on a home insurance policy.
What happened
Miss T has a home insurance policy with UKI. Her property was damaged and she made a 
claim on the policy. UKI investigated the cause of the damage and identified that it was 
being caused by subsidence. It accepted the claim and work was carried out to stabilise the 
property.
Once the property was stable in September 2018, UKI moved on to looking to carry out 
repairs to Miss Ts property. But by July 2019, when she made a complaint, a schedule of 
works for the repairs hadnt been agreed by Miss T and UKI. 
After she raised her initial complaint, but before UKI responded to it, Miss T raised issues 
with the condition of her property, particularly referring to doors and windows which did not 
open and close properly. She also raised concerns about being asked to pay the deposit for 
alternative accommodation UKI had agreed to cover while the repairs to the property were 
being carried out.
UKI accepted it could have done better in dealing with her claim, and paid £500 
compensation to Miss T to recognise this. Miss T was dissatisfied with this outcome and 
brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator thought that the compensation paid was insufficient in the circumstances. 
He noted that for a period of over 11 months, Miss T had been living at the property with 
damp in rooms, doors and windows which didnt close properly and a kitchen which flooded 
when it rained. He thought it was unreasonable for UKI to initially ask Miss T to pay the 
deposit for her alternative rental accommodation. He said UKI should increase the amount of 
compensation paid to Miss T by £500, making a total of £1000. He also said that it should 
pay the costs of repairing a door which Miss T had paid while waiting for the repairs to be 
carried out.
Miss T accepted this, but UKI didnt. It said it didnt think there was sufficient evidence to 
show that damp, leaks or flooding had occurred as a result of damage caused by the 
subsidence. It said it believed the condition of the doors and windows was due to wear and 
tear and that difficulties opening them could be attributed to weather conditions. It also said it 
was common practice for the person renting a property to pay the deposit. It thought the 
compensation paid already was sufficient in the circumstances. Its asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurers have a duty to handle claims promptly and fairly, but just because a claim lasts a 
long period, it doesnt follow that an insurer could have done better. Its generally accepted 
that claims involving subsidence will often be complex and take a long time to fully resolve. 
But its already been acknowledged by UKI that this claim could have been handled better.
Its apparent that from when Miss Ts property was considered stable, a period of 11 months 
elapsed before a schedule of works for the repairs was agreed. And there doesnt seem to 
be a good reason for this.
Having looked at the notes provided by UKI, it seems that the contractors appointed to carry 
out the repairs and prepare the schedule of works took an unnecessarily long time to 
prepare schedules after visits to Miss Ts property. After the first visit, Miss T had made UKI 
aware that she was dissatisfied with the proposed extent of the works and it was agreed that 
the schedule would be reviewed when it was received. But it wasnt sent to UKI until nearly 
three months after the visit, and UKI werent regularly chasing this up except when contacted 
by Miss T to ask what was happening. 
After the schedule was received by UKI, a further six weeks elapsed before Miss T was told 
that the repairs would be proceeding. At that point, Miss T raised objections to what was 
being planned. Its apparent that UKI knew Miss T was likely to raise this objection, so Im 
not sure why there was such a delay in telling her what was being planned after it received 
the original schedule. It also isnt clear why it said that the works would proceed before shed 
reviewed the schedule, when shed previously said she was likely to disagree with what was 
proposed.
A second visit to the property was then carried out two months later, but despite the delays 
which had already occurred, a revised schedule wasnt sent to UKI for a further three 
months. In that time Miss T was in regular contact with UKI.
UKI is liable for the actions of its contractors, and I cant see that there is a reasonable 
explanation for why it took three months, on two separate occasions, to prepare schedules 
of works following visits. And its also apparent that UKI wasnt robust enough in chasing the 
contractors to provide updates and the schedules. 
The delays which occurred meant that a period of 11 months in total elapsed between UKI 
being informed that the property was stable and repairs could be planned, and a schedule of 
works being agreed. And during that time, Miss T was living in the damaged property and 
says that the damage caused issues which made it difficult to live in. 
Miss T has provided a video of the kitchen at the property which shows water leaking into it 
from the ceiling. She says that this occurred whenever there was rain and believed the 
cause to be water entering cracks in the exterior of the property. UKI disputes that theres 
evidence that flooding of this nature occurred every time it rained.
I understand UKIs point here, but think its unreasonable to expect Miss T to provide 
evidence of a flood in the kitchen on every occasion it rained in the 11 month period. Whats 
relevant is that Im satisfied that water was able to enter the kitchen during the period in 
question, and it seems reasonable to conclude this was caused by the subsidence damage. 
This adds to the inconvenience suffered by Miss T because of the unreasonable delays to 
progressing the claim, which UKI has already acknowledged it is liable for.
UKI also disputes that damp has occurred as a result of the subsidence, pointing to apparent 
discrepancies in the location of the damp. I can see that the latest correspondence between 
Miss T and UKI mentions that damp remains after repairs have been carried out, and that 
enquiries were going to be carried out into the cause of the damp. So it seems that its accepted there was damp in the property. And while the cause was disputed, Id argue that 
the cause could have been identified sooner. I accept that Miss T lived in the property with 
damp issues for longer than she would have if the unnecessary delays had been avoided.
With regards the alternative accommodation, UKI accept that it was made aware of Miss Ts 
request for this at an early stage of the discussions about repairs. It considered that this 
wasnt needed given the extent of the works which were required, but would look at it again if 
medical evidence could be provided. But this information wasnt passed on to Miss T for 
some time. Fortunately this didnt delay her finding and moving into accommodation after 
she got the necessary evidence for UKI, but this would in the main seem to be because of 
the unjustified delays caused by UKI and its contractors. 
Once the alternative accommodation was agreed, Miss T said to UKI she wasnt financially 
in a position to pay the necessary rental deposit. UKI observes that its common practice for 
the person renting the property to fund the deposit, because this is often linked to checks 
being carried out by the landlord. Our investigator thought it was unreasonable for UKI not to 
pay the deposit for Miss T in the first instance because the policy limit for alternative 
accommodation was far in excess of the amount the accommodation was estimated to cost. 
I cant see in the policy terms and conditions that the rental deposit will be covered by UKI. 
The relevant condition is that UKI will pay the cost of providing comparable alternative 
accommodationwhile your home is being repaired. As a deposit would generally be 
refunded by the landlord at the end of the rental period, this doesnt seem to me to be a cost 
which is paid. I think UKIs approach is reasonable, as it says it will pay the deposit if 
necessary and then deduct the amount from a subsequent claim payment, in the expectation 
that the deposit will be refunded to the policyholder at the end of their rental period.
Miss T also told UKI about issues with the doors and windows at the property before it 
responded to her complaint. I cant see that these were addressed in its response to her 
about the complaint but Im satisfied that she had included this in her correspondence about 
the complaint, so we can consider this aspect of her complaint. Our investigator thought 
similarly and UKI have responded to these points in its responses to our service.
In essence, Miss T was unhappy that, given how long it was taking to arrange repairs, the 
doors and windows were not fitting properly in their frames due to the damage to the 
property. UKI argues that the condition of the doors and windows was more likely to be a 
result of the age, and wear and tear. It says that the reason the windows and doors could 
have been sticking was that the frames change shape in different weather conditions.
Miss Ts sent an invoice showing she paid to remove and align a door, and for the frame to 
be removed and adjusted. UKIs also indicated that it authorised a local contractor to attend 
and adjust the door, and those costs would be reimbursed to Miss T. It said Miss T declined 
the offer. But it seems that these costs were for the same service that UKI was willing to 
cover in the circumstances. It seems therefore sensible that UKI should cover the costs 
incurred by Miss T to adjust the door, which shes provided evidence of.
Miss T has said that the condition of the property, and the poor fitting of the doors and 
windows, meant that heat retention was poor and that her heating costs were significantly 
increased. However, the evidence weve been provided with to date hasnt been enough to 
show this was the case. UKIs said that if Miss T can provide evidence of the increased costs 
shes incurred, for example by way of energy bulls, then it would consider these. I think this 
is fair.Putting things right
UKIs already paid £500 compensation for the delays, and remains satisfied that this 
sufficiently reflects the impact of these delays on Miss T. Our investigator thought that 
compensation totalling £1000 should be paid.
As Ive outlined, I accept that the agreement of a schedule of work would take some time, 
especially as there was initially disagreement between UKI and Miss T about what was 
necessary. But I dont think it was acceptable that it took 11 months for the schedule to be 
agreed, and a large amount of the delays do lie with UKI and its contractors. 
In that period, Miss T was living with her teenage son in a damaged house which, the 
evidence suggests, had issues with leaks and flooding in periods of bad weather and an 
unidentified damp issue. There was a lack of communication from UKI about when the 
property might be repaired and what it intended to do in terms of alternative accommodation 
for Miss and her son. I think this would have had a significant impact on Miss T over an 
unnecessarily long period of time. And so I do agree that the compensation UKI should pay 
should total £1000. UKI must pay Miss T a further £500 compensation to Miss T.
Miss Ts also provided evidence of the costs she paid to UKI to adjust a door. This is a cost 
UKIs previously indicated that it would cover. Miss T should submit the costs shes paid for 
these items to UKI for reimbursement.
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint. To put things right, UK Insurance Limited 
must:
Pay Miss T a further £500 compensation, making a total of £1000.
Reimburse the costs paid by Miss T to adjust the door.
UKI must pay the compensation within 28 days from when we tell it Miss T accepts my final 
decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest at 8% simple a year on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman