DRN-3926034
The complaint
Miss W is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society have restricted her account.
What happened
Since 2018, Nationwide have placed restrictions on Miss Ws account such that she could 
only access money in her account by going into branch. Miss W wasnt happy about this, 
especially as her local Nationwide branch was due to close, so she raised a complaint.
Nationwide looked at Miss Ws complaint. They explained theyd restricted Miss Ws account 
because of concerns they had that Miss W might be susceptible to fraud or scams, and they 
confirmed that because they still held those concerns, the account would remined restricted. 
However, Nationwide did explain that theyd remove the account restrictions for a short time 
to allow Miss W to set up some new direct debits shed said she wanted to put in place. Miss 
W wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They liaised with Nationwide, who agreed 
to provide Miss W with an ATM card so that she could withdraw money via an ATM because 
her local Nationwide branch was being closed. Given that Nationwide had agreed to issue 
this ATM card to Miss W, our investigator didnt feel that Nationwide had acted unfairly in 
how theyd managed the situation, and so didnt uphold the complaint. Miss W remained 
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service isnt a regulatory body or a Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This 
means it isnt within my remit here to declare that Nationwide have acted in a non-regulatory 
or unlawful way  such declarations would be for a regulatory body or a Court of Law to 
potentially make. Instead, this service is an informal dispute resolution service with a remit 
focussed on the fairness of the outcome, as considered from an impartial perspective. 
In this instance, Nationwide placed restrictions on Miss Ws account because of concerns 
they hold that Miss W might be susceptible to fraud or scams, and because they have a duty 
of care to take action to protect their members where they hold such concerns. Nationwides 
position here seems reasonable to me. And while I appreciate that Miss W might not agree 
that she is susceptible to fraud or scams, I feel that Miss W would need to convince 
Nationwide of this point herself. 
This is because, ultimately, Nationwide are entitled to hold the perception of potential risk 
regarding Miss W that they do. And given that Im satisfied that Nationwide themselves are 
best placed to assess Miss Ws historical and ongoing account activity and to arrive at an 
assessment or potential risk, I dont feel that it is reasonably within my remit here to instruct 
Nationwide to remove the restrictions on Miss Ws account as she would like.
However, I do feel Nationwide should fairly ensure that Miss W can access the money held 
in her restricted account with as little inconvenience as possible. To that effect, I note that 
Nationwide have agreed to provide Miss W with an ATM card, which I feel will allow Miss W 
to more easily access her account following the closure of her local Nationwide branch.
I realise that Miss W may be disappointed by my decision here. But Nationwide arent 
obliged to provide a customer with unrestricted access to their account when they hold 
concerns such as those that Nationwide hold here. Indeed, as Nationwide have explained to 
Miss W, Nationwide have a duty of a care to restrict an account if they feel its necessary to 
do so in order to protect a customers money in circumstances such as this. 
As such, while I appreciate Miss Ws frustration, I can only reiterate that if Miss W does feel 
that he concerns held by Nationwide are unfounded, she would need to be demonstrate this 
point herself to Nationwides satisfaction. This is because Im satisfied that Nationwide are 
fairly entitled to restrict Miss Ws account in light of the concerns that they continue to hold.  
Finally, I note that Miss W was also unhappy with the amount of time she had to spend while 
in her local Nationwide branch before it closed. In their response to Miss Ws complaint, 
Nationwide acknowledged that on the instance about which Miss W complained, the length 
of time she did have to spend in branch had been unreasonable. And Nationwide apologised 
to Miss W for this and made a payment of £50 to her as compensation for any trouble and 
upset she may have incurred. 
This £50 compensation amount seems reasonable to me. And while Miss W has stated that 
this amount was solely for one aspect of what happened that day, I feel that Nationwides 
complaint response confirms otherwise, and that the £50 amount is a fair amount regarding 
the totality of Miss Ws experience on that day. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Miss was wanting, but it follows from what Ive said here 
that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Nationwide to take any further action. I 
hope that Miss W will understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final 
decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 March 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman