DRN-2963411
The complaint
Mr W complains about problems he had with an order he made when setting up a credit 
account with Studio Retail Limited (Studio).  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Studio, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Studio say that the item was purchased using a cash account and not a credit account. Mr W 
has explained that he was trying to set up a credit account with Studio and as thats a 
regulated product and the service is in relation to the management of that regulated product I 
think this service does have jurisdiction to consider it.
Its not disputed that Studio paid Mr W £50 in compensation for the delays in December 
2020 when Mr W says he made his application, and when I can see he ordered the product. 
But I dont think Studio have properly considered the additional distress and inconvenience 
he experienced. There was a delay getting the cheque to Mr W; the cheque was cancelled 
without his knowledge and Ive not seen sufficient evidence to suggest that was Mr Ws fault; 
Ive noted that Mr W didnt receive call backs when he was expecting them, and Mr W 
seems not to have been told when his item was cancelled. 
Im not persuaded that Studio have compensated Mr W for those inconveniences and I think 
they should have done.
Putting things right
I think Studio should pay Mr W a further £50 compensation.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Studio Retail Limited to pay 
Mr W a further £50 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes experienced.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman