DRN-4247323
The complaint
Mr B complains that Scottish Widows Limited (SWL) is only able to purchase an annuity with 
his full pension fund rather than just part of his monies.
What happened
In 2017, after taking the tax-free cash from his pension plan, Mr B switched the balance of 
his pot into a Retirement Account with SWL. 
In November 2022, Mr B contacted SWL to ask them to use £100,000 of his £133,000 
pension pot to purchase an annuity for him. SWL explained to Mr B that this wasnt an option 
theyd be able to provide as hed need to use all the funds within his plan to purchase an 
annuity with themselves.
Unhappy with what SWL had told him, Mr B decided to formally complain to SWL. In 
summary, he said that having spoken to Pension Wise, he believed that he should be able to 
use only a portion of his pension fund to buy an annuity and leave the rest invested. He 
wanted SWL to look into this further for him.
After reviewing Mr Bs complaint, SWL concluded that they were satisfied theyd done 
nothing wrong and had provided the correct information to him. They repeated what Mr B 
had already been told by their representative in November 2022 - that in summary, they 
could only facilitate the purchase of an annuity using the full value of his pension pot. In 
addition, SWL have since pointed out that should Mr B wish to use only some of his pension 
to buy an annuity, he could do so using the open market option on his plan. That option 
allows consumers the option of shopping around to get the best annuity deal on the market.
Mr B was unhappy with SWLs response so he referred his complaint to this service. In 
summary, he said that he didnt believe there was anything in the terms and conditions that 
prevented SWL from only using a partial amount of his monies to purchase an annuity. Mr B 
also explained that he was concerned that if he were to take an annuity with another 
provider, hed incur a tax liability.
The complaint was then considered by one of our Investigators. She concluded that SWL 
had treated Mr B fairly. She went on to say that having looked at the paperwork Mr B had 
been provided with, it appeared clear to her from what shed seen that Mr B must use the full 
fund, rather than part of it, should he wish to use his monies to take out an annuity.
Mr B was unhappy with our Investigators findings and asked her to look again at her 
decision. Our Investigator was not persuaded to change her view as she didnt believe Mr B 
had presented any new arguments shed not already considered or responded to. So, Mr B 
then asked the Investigator to pass the case to an Ombudsman to review that outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr B is frustrated that SWL wouldnt arrange an annuity with a portion of his 
pension pot. However, for me to be able to uphold Mr Bs complaint, I have to be satisfied 
that the business, in this case SWL, have done something wrong. And from what Ive seen, I 
dont think they have. So, whilst I appreciate thisll likely come as a disappointment to Mr B, 
Im not upholding his complaint and its for broadly the same reasons as our Investigator set 
out. Ill explain why.
Before I do, I should point out that in his complaint to SWL, Mr B also explained that he was 
unhappy about the performance of the investments within his pension. Just as our 
Investigator explained, I too wont be looking into those concerns either because Mr B didnt 
raise investment performance as being an issue in his original complaint referral to us.
Mr B had already taken the tax-free cash from his pension fund and so the remaining monies 
were classed as being crystalised funds. In their submissions to this service, SWL have 
explained that they dont offer consumers the opportunity to only use a portion of their 
crystalised funds to purchase an annuity. SWL stated that in those instances, the consumer 
would need to use the open market option and engage an IFA.
So, just because SWL wasnt able to offer Mr B the option of using only a portion of his funds 
for annuity purchase, that doesnt prevent him from getting what he wants elsewhere by 
buying an annuity from another provider. The open market option on his pension gives him 
the opportunity to effectively shop around annuity providers and select the business thats 
able to provide the best income for his given pot of pension. Mr B would need to speak to a 
financial adviser who deals in this area of the market, but its important to understand that 
just because SWL cant offer that option to Mr B, it doesnt mean hes been disadvantaged  
thats because he can get what he wants elsewhere.
Mr B has pointed to wording in SWLs documentation that he believes confirms hes able to 
use just some of his monies to purchase an annuity. The wording he shared stated: You 
can use some or all of your account to provide a regular, guaranteed taxable income for the 
rest of your life by buying an annuity from us or another provider. However, within the 
Retirement Account brochure - which is the document Mr B was provided with at the time he 
took out the SWL pension, theres a further explanation provided in addition to that sentence. 
The same text above is used but then it also goes on to say: if you do this, you can normally 
take up to 25% of the amount you use as a tax-free cash sum. The rest is used to buy the 
annuity. 
SWL has highlighted this requirement to Mr B previously. When he extracted the tax-free 
cash from his pension in 2017, SWL sent Mr B a letter. In that correspondence, they 
explained that after taking the tax-free cash, the balance of his funds would need to be used 
to purchase an annuity. It states: normally, up to 25% of your pension savings can be taken 
as a tax-free cash lump sum. The remainder is then used to provide an income for life (your 
annuity), which will be taxed.
So, it seems clear to me from the documentation that SWL have provided to Mr B, that 
should he opt to take a guaranteed income for life through an annuity with them, he must 
use all of his funds within his pension pot to do so. The Retirement Account brochure also 
highlights that should Mr B wish, he could take his annuity with a different provider than 
themselves.But, Im satisfied that Mr B already knows he can take his annuity with another provider 
because he explained that hes concerned that if he were to take one with a third party rather 
than SWL, hed suffer a tax penalty. However, thats not the case. Regardless of whether Mr 
B took an income through flexible access drawdown or via an annuity with either SWL or any 
other business, hed still have to pay income tax but only at his highest marginal rate. There 
wouldnt be a tax penalty for switching from one provider to another.
Im satisfied that SWLs documentation is clear on this particular issue and as such, I wont 
be upholding Mr Bs complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and do not require Scottish Widows Limited to take any further 
action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman