DRN-3747296
The complaint
Miss W complains that Aviva Insurance Limited took too long to fix her boiler when she 
made a claim on her home emergency insurance.
What happened
Miss W had an Aviva home emergency insurance policy. In October 2020, she noticed a 
problem with her boiler  low boiler pressure and no heating or hot water. She called Aviva 
to ask for help under her policy.
An engineer first visited Miss W on 27 October 2020. Over the next seven months she had 
nine or ten more visits from engineers without the problem being fully repaired. Generally, 
any repair fixed the problem temporarily before the boiler failed again. 
Miss W is unhappy it took so long to identify and fix the problem. She says an engineer told 
her the problem might be a crack in the heat exchanger during one of the first visits, but this 
wasnt replaced for several months. Shes also unhappy she had to take days off work for 
the engineer appointments, including one time when the engineer didnt turn up.
Aviva accepted that its engineers should have replaced the heat exchanger sooner. It 
offered Miss W £150 to apologise for this failure and the inconvenience this caused her. 
Miss W didnt accept this and brought her complaint to this service. She doesnt think Aviva 
has acknowledged the inconvenience she suffered or the potential danger she was in with a 
faulty boiler. She told us she didnt want anyone else to go through the same experience she 
did. She also told us her daughter suffers from respiratory problems and the problem with 
the heating over the winter undoubtedly made her condition worse. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that Miss Ws complaint should be upheld. He noted that 
there was still a problem with the boiler even after the heat exchanger was replaced. He 
accepted Avivas argument that this was a complex issue and replacing the heat exchanger 
earlier wouldnt have affected the length of time it took to fully fix the problem. He thought 
Avivas £150 offer was fair.
Miss W disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final 
decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 22 September 2022. I said:
Miss Ws policy covers her for any problems with the boiler and central heating system. The 
key issue here is the length of time it took Avivas engineers to identify the problem and fix 
Miss Ws boiler. 
Avivas internal notes support Miss Ws statement that an engineer suggested the problem 
was a crack in the heat exchanger in November 2021. However, this wasnt replaced until 
April 2021. Aviva accepts that this should have been replaced sooner. 
However, it told us: 
Miss W reported the problem via an online form. She selected water leak in boiler 
but it says her additional notes (My boiler is losing pressure and I have noticed a 
leak on my radiator) meant a leak from the actual boiler was never reported, it was 
a pressure issue and a leak from the radiator.
The problem was complex and despite its engineers efforts the problem persisted. It 
says that even if the heat exchanger had been replaced on the first visit this would 
not have resolved the fault and the claim journey would have been the same.
Its engineers were able to fix the problem for up to eight weeks at a time, Therefore, 
[Miss W] has not been left without heating and hot water for several months and 
there has been long gaps in between where the boiler has worked.
I disagree with these arguments. 
First, Miss W clearly told Aviva about a potential boiler leak. Shes not an expert and I think 
she provided enough basic information for Aviva to investigate this.
Second, Aviva appointed an expert to investigate the problem in May 2021. That report, 
dated 21 May 2021, concluded: we suspect the weep reported in the downstairs w/c may 
well be contributing to some, if not all of the pressure loss. We also suggest the PRV 
[pressure relief valve] is checked or replaced as a likely common fault. The problem was 
resolved just over a month after the heat exchanger was replaced and almost immediately 
after its experts report. It could be argued that had either been done in November 2020 the 
problem would have been fully resolved several months earlier. Given its engineers inability 
to fix the problem, I dont understand why it didnt commission an expert report earlier.
Third, just because Miss W had a working boiler for some periods doesnt change the fact 
that its engineers should have identified and fixed the problem sooner. 
I think Aviva should have been able to identify and repair the fault much sooner than it did. 
Its engineers repeated errors caused significant inconvenience for Miss W. She went 
through an entire winter without a properly working boiler which meant she was without 
heating for long periods. This would have caused her a lot of worry and day-to-day 
disruption. I also think that engineers visiting her home so many times would have been 
extremely inconvenient.
Im sure Avivas failure to fix the problem would have been incredibly frustrating and 
inconvenient for Miss W, particularly with a young child. I understand why shes unhappy 
and why she thinks Avivas offer doesnt reflect the inconvenience she suffered. 
In my opinion, Aviva should increase its compensation offer. Given the circumstances  and 
after considering what this service has awarded in similar cases  I think it should increase 
this to £750.
Responses to my provisional decision.
Both parties told us they had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Given neither party had any new evidence, I see no reason to change my provisional 
decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay 
Miss W £750.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman