DRN-2918429
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that Nationwide Building Society failed to make an international 
payment, and they have lost out as a result. They also complain about Nationwides handling 
of their complaint.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F have a joint account with Nationwide. On 16 April 2020, Mr F instructed 
Nationwide to make an international payment of £135,000. The money was for a property 
purchase. 
Nationwide rejected the request. On 17 April, it sent Mr F a secure message saying it had 
been unable to make the payment because the bank identifier code (BIC) or SWIFT code 
was invalid. It asked Mr F to resubmit the request once he had the correct details.
On 19 April, Mr F replied. He acknowledged that one letter in the code was wrong, but said 
he had copied the code from e-mails he had received from Nationwide the previous year 
confirming successful payments to the same account. He asked Nationwide to resubmit his 
request with the right code.
On 21 April, Nationwide replied. It said it couldnt accept amendments through its messaging 
service and asked Mr F to resubmit his payment request. 
On 8 May, Mr F submitted a fresh request, this time to transfer £100,000. That payment was 
subsequently made.  
Mr F complained. He said the deadline for a property purchase had been missed because 
Nationwide wouldnt make the payment, and he had also received a worse exchange rate on 
his May payment than he would have received had the April payment been made. 
Nationwide wrote to Mr F about the May payment, saying it hadnt done anything wrong. Mr 
F complained again, saying, in summary, that Nationwides response was about the wrong 
payment  it hadnt understood what the complaint was actually about or given him the 
opportunity it had promised him to set out his concerns. 
Nationwide sent a second final response letter. This time, it set out its position on the 16 
April payment instruction which Mr F had complained about. It said it wasnt responsible for 
the exchange rate loss Mr F was claiming, because it had told him to resubmit his payment 
request but he hadnt done so until more than two weeks later  by which time rates had 
moved against him. 
Nationwide also said it had been able to amend SWIFT codes itself in 2019, when Mr F had 
made previous payments to the same account, but that was no longer the case. It accepted 
its initial response had been poor, and offered Mr F £100 by way of compensation.
Mr and Mrs F didnt accept that and got in touch with us. Our investigator didnt think 
Nationwide had done anything wrong in terms of its handling of Mr Fs payment request. 
While he acknowledged the failings in Nationwides response to the complaint, he thought 
the £100 it had offered was fair in light of the inconvenience and stress it had caused.
Mr F asked for an ombudsman to look at the matter. He was still unhappy with the way 
Nationwide had dealt with the complaint, and he still thought it was partly responsible for his 
having used the wrong SWIFT code.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that the SWIFT code on Mr Fs initial transfer request was wrong. Mr Fs 
point is that he had used the same code before and Nationwide had accepted it. So, as far 
as he was aware, it had been used successfully to make payments to the same account. 
I do understand Mr Fs point, and that he had no reason to suspect using the code he did 
would cause a problem. Nationwide has since said that it couldnt amend the details itself as 
it had in the past. Mr F, of course, wouldnt have known that when he submitted his request. 
Importantly, though, Nationwide sent a message to Mr F the day after he instructed the 
payment, telling him there was a problem with the details he had used and that hed need to 
put the instruction through again with the right details. Mr F then identified the problem with 
the code himself and asked Nationwide to resubmit his request. What he doesnt appear to 
have done is tell Nationwide that the payment needed to be made urgently, as I might have 
expected if the purchase of a property were dependent on a quick transfer.
In addition, Nationwide told Mr F again on 21 April that it required him to resubmit his 
request; it couldnt do this for him. And, as the investigator pointed out, Nationwide was 
entitled  under the account terms and conditions  to refuse to complete a payment where 
the details for the payment were wrong. 
While I can see that Mr F wouldnt have anticipated a problem, Im satisfied that Nationwide 
made clear to him reasonably promptly that there was a problem with the payment and what 
steps he would need to take in order for the payment to be made. In these circumstances, I 
find no basis on which I might fairly require Nationwide to pay any compensation for the 
payment not having been made. 
Turning now to Nationwides responses to the complaint, I can certainly see why Mr and Mrs 
F would have been annoyed and frustrated with the initial response they received, as well as 
that this added to the stress they already felt. It referred to the wrong payment, and they also 
werent expecting it, having not had the chance which Nationwide had said they would get to 
explain their concerns. 
However, my role isnt to determine whether Nationwide has been accurate or competent  
as Mr F has requested (although I note that Nationwide has itself told Mr F it accepts its 
initial response was poor and inaccurate). I must decide a fair and reasonable outcome to 
this complaint in all the circumstances, and thats quite different. In doing so, I must keep in 
mind the purpose of awards I make: they arent intended to be reflective of failings 
themselves; rather, theyre to recognise the impact of those failings on the complainant. 
Nationwide has offered £100 and, bearing in mind the approach this service takes as Ive set 
out above, and in all the circumstances of this complaint, I think thats a fair award to put 
things right. So, which I realise this isnt the decision Mr and Mrs F were hoping for, I make 
no further order or award.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint  in the sense that I find Nationwide 
Building Society has made a fair offer.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman