DRN-2644231
The complaint
Mr B complains about DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limiteds handling of his 
claim for legal expenses insurance (LEI).
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some of the key events here. Mr B has the benefit of insurance for certain 
legal expenses which is provided by DAS. In August 2019 Mr B was concerned about 
developments at his work. 
Hed been to Citizens Advice and had spoken to a solicitor that theyd provided. In summary 
he was concerned his employer might be in the process of trying to unfairly dismiss him and 
that this might be as a result of discrimination due to his disability. The solicitor hed spoken 
to had advised him to raise a grievance with his employer. 
In August 2019 Mr B contacted DAS. He wanted to arrange representation in relation to his 
dispute with his employer. Ultimately, DAS said that they couldnt assist in providing legal 
representation for the grievance procedure. They highlighted that Mr B could seek further 
guidance from their legal helpline but declined to take any further action at that point. 
Mr B returned to DAS in early 2020. He said hed been advised to contact ACAS and wanted 
to arrange legal representation. Ultimately a panel firm of solicitors were appointed and a 
barristers opinion was sought on the prospects of Mr Bs claim succeeding (which was a 
requirement for cover under the policy). The barrister didnt think Mr Bs claim had the 
required prospects of success and so any further cover was withdrawn by DAS. 
Mr B complained. He pointed out that the main reason the barrister didnt think the claim 
would succeed was due to the dates involved. He said he had opinions from two different 
solicitors to support that his claim had good prospects of success. He believes the relevant 
deadlines were only missed because DAS had failed to properly consider his claim when 
hed initially brought it in 2019. 
DAS maintained their position although they did concede that at one point theyd not 
responded to Mr B as soon as they ought to have done and offered £100 compensation for 
the impact of this. The complaint was referred to our service and one of our investigators 
didnt recommend that it was upheld. Mr B still disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman 
to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and for very similar 
reasons. I understand this will be disappointing for Mr B, so Ill explain why. 
The crux of Mr Bs argument seems to be that he believes DAS caused him to miss the 
deadline to make his claim (which formed the basis of the lack of prospects of success in the 
barristers opinion). In their response to Mr Bs complaint DAS said: I do accept that our 
email could have made it clearer to you that you could revert at any stage, if you needed to 
pursue a legal claim.
Ive reviewed that email and have listened to the relevant calls between Mr B and DAS and I 
agree DAS could have made things clearer than they did. But it would only be fair for me to 
ask DAS to do more if I think that lack of clarity was the reason for Mr B not progressing his 
claim at that point. Mr Bs own evidence supports that he was in contact with a solicitor 
through Citizens Advice. And DAS agent made very clear that Mr B could seek legal advice 
at anytime through the helpline provided as a benefit of his policy. 
During one of the calls, it is apparent that Mr B himself already had some knowledge of the 
deadlines involved as he said: If anything has to go to ACAS its got to be lodged within 
three months of the incident So taking all of this together, I dont think the slight lack of 
clarity from DAS can fairly be said to be the dominant cause of Mr B not progressing his 
claim in time. And as I dont think DAS are responsible for any deadlines that might have 
been missed, I dont think they need to do more in this regard. I also agree with DAS that 
there isnt cover to assist Mr B with an internal grievance procedure. So, I likewise dont think 
DAS were wrong to say that at that time. 
Mr Bs policy says: We will pay an appointed representative, on your behalf, costs and 
expenses for the insured incidents in this section as long asreasonable prospects exist for 
the duration of the claim. The term reasonable prospects is given a specific definition of: 
For civil cases, the prospects that you will recover losses or damages (or obtain any other 
legal remedy that we have agreed to) must be at least 51%.
DAS arent legal experts and so I think it is fair for them to rely on legal advice when making 
decisions about a claim. Unless that advice is so obviously wrong that a layperson could be 
expected to notice. 
When DAS arranged for a barrister to give an opinion on the prospects of his intended legal 
action succeeding the barrister concluded there were insufficient prospects of success. I 
appreciate that Mr B says he has two solicitors opinions supporting that his claim does have 
the required prospects. We tend to put more weight on a barristers opinion over that of a 
solicitor, as we consider them to be more specialist in their area of law. I think it is fair for 
DAS to rely on the barristers opinion over the conflicting solicitors opinions. 
A further part of the policy says: We may require you to get, at your own expense, an 
opinion from an expert we consider appropriate, on the merits of the claim or proceedings 
The expert must be approved in advance by us and the cost agreed in writing between you 
and us. Subject to this, we will pay the cost of getting the opinion if the experts opinion 
indicates that it is more likely than not that you will recover damages DAS say that if Mr B 
would like to progress his claim further, hell need to comply with this term and fund an 
opinion from a more highly qualified barrister than the one they used. I think a barrister can 
fairly be considered an expert where law is concerned, and I think DAS position here is fair. 
And whilst I appreciate this isnt a core part of Mr Bs complaint, for completeness, I consider 
the £100 compensation DAS offered with regard to a delay in addressing his claim (when he 
made it) is fair. This is a relatively minor admin issue and I think that amount fairly reflects 
the impact it would have had on Mr B.My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman