DRN-2585911
The complaint
Mr E complains that Santander UK Plc hasnt repaid him the balance on a recently found 
passbook.
What happened
Mr E says he found a passbook for an account which showed a balance of over £2,216 in 
1989. He says he asked Santander for the balance, but it sent him about £820 from a 
different account opened in 1990. Mr E would like the full balance repaid to him and 
questions why an account would be opened in 1990 when there was an account open. He 
says there ought to be a record of what took place and evidence of the transactions.
Santander says both accounts were opened by a business it took over in 2011. It says it 
searched for the passbook account but has no record of it and says it likely it was closed 
before it took over the other business.
Mr E brought his complaint to us, but our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought a newly discovered passbook didnt mean the money was still in the 
account and could have been withdrawn without the passbook being updated. The 
investigator thought it likely the account had been closed and didnt think it reasonable to 
expect Santander to have a record of events 20 years ago.
Mr E doesnt accept that view and maintains Santander should have records and should 
provide evidence of the account closing.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr E will be disappointed by my decision.
A newly discovered passbook doesnt automatically mean that any balance shown on that 
passbook is still in the account or that the account is still open. Im satisfied that banks and 
building societies will allow transactions to take place without a passbook being presented or 
updated. I can see that Mr Es passbook was last updated in 1989 which is over 30 years 
ago. And I dont think it reasonable to expect any bank or building society to have a record of 
transactions going back that far. I also think Mr E was told that records are expected to be 
kept for 6 years.
Im satisfied having looked at Santanders records that it has searched for the account and 
doesnt have any information about it. I think it likely, on balance, that the passbook account 
was closed at some point before Santander took over the building society that the account 
was with in 2011. I think it likely that is what took place as Santander doesnt have any 
record of the account being transferred to it but does in respect of a different account.
I appreciate Mr E would like evidence about any transactions on the account, but I cant 
order Santander to produce any such information when it doesnt have it. And I have made 
clear that any business isnt required to keep records going back to events potentially 30 
years ago. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Santander has tried to help Mr E find out what happened to this 
account, but I dont think it can do any more to assist him or that it likely the account is still 
open. For that reason, I cant fairly order Santander to refund the balance in the passbook.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman