DRN-3971033
The complaint
C a company, complains that Santander UK Plc debited its account of £8,000 and returned 
the payment to source. C would like the money returned.
C is represented by its director, Mr A 
What happened
C had an account with Santander. 
On 22 February 2022 C received £8,000 into its account. On 23 February 2022 Santander 
wrote to C informing it that a third-party bank had told Santander the payment into Cs 
account was a mistake. They wanted Mr A to contact them to discuss the payment within 15 
days or they would return the payment to source. In the meantime, they would block the 
account. 
Mr A says he contacted Santander and confirmed the payment was correct. He provided 
information regarding the payment, but he said he wasnt able to view the information on the 
account as the account was blocked.
Santander said the payment would only be released after investigation. 
Santander said they didnt hear from C. Santander returned the £8,000 to source on 
16 March 2022 and blocked Cs account. Santander says it only heard from C after the funds 
were returned to source. Santander confirmed that the account was unblocked between 
24 February 2022 and 24 March 2022 so C could have viewed the information on the 
account.
C complained to Santander. As it was unhappy with Santanders response it complained to 
our service.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He thought Santander hadnt done 
anything wrong. The terms allowed Santander to return funds back to source and C hadnt 
provided Santander with information to substantiate it was entitled to the payment.
Mr A was unhappy with the view. 
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UK legislation places extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial 
institutions must establish the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the 
origin of funds, and there may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and 
existing relationships. These obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied 
Santander were complying with these obligations when they reviewed Cs account. 
I have seen evidence Santander received information that the payment made into Cs 
account was an error. I would therefore expect Santander to contact C and ask for proof of 
entitlement to the funds, and I can see from the information provided that they did so. I can 
see that the bank blocked the account for a couple of days whilst it reviewed the payment.
Mr A has said that he provided Santander with information they requested so he cant 
understand why the payment was returned to source.  Santander have said they didnt hear 
from Mr A until after the funds had been returned.
Mr A has said that Santander shouldnt have returned the funds to source, and he didnt give 
permission for this to happen. Santander terms and conditions allow it to return funds to 
source without requesting consent from the customer. This is what Santander did on this 
occasion. Im satisfied they acted fairly in this case, and I wont be asking them to return the 
funds to C.
Because Santander and C have different views about what happened here, Ive looked at 
the information provided to me and listened to the calls. Having done so I cant see that 
Santander received information regarding the proof of entitlement to funds in the time frame 
they requested.  However even if Mr A did send Santander the information they requested 
within the timeframe, Santander were still entitled to return the funds to source as Santander 
had been notified the funds had been paid in error. It follows I am satisfied they were entitled 
to send the funds back to source.
I appreciate Mr A is saying that C are entitled to the funds because they have provided 
goods to the customer, and I suggest C should contact their customer and pursue their 
customer through other avenues if necessary. 
C has said it couldnt access information online because its account was blocked. However, 
Ive seen evidence of a letter dated 24 February 2022 sent to C letting them know the 
temporary block had been removed from the account. From the evidence the account was 
unblocked between 24 February 2022 and 24 March 2022 so I cant see why Mr A couldnt 
access the information online.
In summary I have looked at the evidence provided by both parties including the calls and 
Ive considered what Mr A has said and what Santander have said. Having looked at 
everything Im satisfied Santander didnt act unfairly when they blocked and requested 
information regarding the proof of funds or when they returned the funds to source. 
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman