DRN-2994611
The complaint
Mrs P says that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) has lent to 
her irresponsibly. She would like appropriate compensation and an apology for the distress 
caused.
 
What happened
Mrs P says her credit report score has always been low and that Barclaycard shouldnt have 
lent to her without doing an affordability check to ensure she could repay. Mrs Ps credit limit 
was also increased even though she had recently taken out a large loan. She says that if her 
credit report had been checked it would have shown that she was taking out numerous 
payday loans on a regular basis between July 2014 and August 2019 where she was taking 
one to pay another. 
Mrs P applied for a credit card in February 2016 and this was given with a £3,000 limit. The 
credit limit was increased to £4,500 in December 2017. Barclaycard says that the 
appropriate checks were completed before Mrs Ps account was opened and the credit limit 
increased. It deemed the increase to be affordable and says Mrs P met its lending criteria. It 
says that as part of its checks it would have referred to information shared by Credit 
Reference Agencies (CRAs) and the information provided on the application and that any 
payday or long-term loans on her credit file would have been factored into its decision.
Barclaycard says that Mrs P kept her account in order overall from when the account was 
opened until the increase in her credit limit. It says that she sent regular monthly payments 
which were often a lot more than the minimum required. She also used the card for a 
number of balance transfers during this period, so this gave her the opportunity to reduce the 
debt she had with other card providers, as opposed to putting her in a worse financial 
situation as she took advantage of 0% interest balance transfer offers.
Mrs P contacted Barclaycard in January 2020 as she was in financial difficulty due to her 
husband losing his job and being unemployed since March 2019. This meant she was 
finding it increasingly difficult to make the repayments. The notes show that she provided 
details of her income and expenditure for other creditors but wanted no further action to be 
taken in relation to her Barclaycard account and to deal with her other creditors directly. She 
was advised regarding contacting a debt advice charity. Mrs P also asked whether her 
interest rate could be reduced but was advised that this was not possible.
Our investigator looked into the case and was satisfied that Barclaycard had carried out 
relevant checks before approving Mrs Ps credit card. The checks it had done at this time 
showed that Mrs P had sufficient disposable income for the credit card with the £3,000 limit 
to be offered in February 2016. However, our investigator felt that Barclaycard hadnt carried 
out proportionate checks at the time of the credit increase to £4,500 in December 2017. Had 
it carried out these checks it would have seen that Mrs P was always close to or over her 
credit limit, had incurred a number of over limit charges and had taken out various payday 
loans in the months prior to the increase. The investigator therefore concluded that she 
shouldnt have been offered the credit increase and recommended that Barclaycard should 
remove all the interest, charges and negative information on Mrs Ps credit file relating to the 
account after this point.
Barclaycard disagrees with this and so the case has come to me to make a decision. It has 
said in response to the investigators view that Mrs Ps debts were very low in the months 
leading up to the increase and that she had no balance at all on her credit cards, was only 
slightly in her overdraft and was paying off her loan every month. It says that the CRA could 
see income and outgoings in Mrs Ps current account and factored this in to whether the limit 
was affordable. Barclaycard also says that, whilst it does take customers being over their 
limit into account, this isnt the only thing it factors in, and there was nothing else in Mrs Ps 
account behaviour or credit file to alert it to carry out additional checks. It says that after the 
increase, Mrs Ps behaviour on the account and on the credit file remained good and that her 
external credit card debt only increased significantly one and a half years later with her only 
going into financial difficulties after the lending decision was made.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account the relevant regulations and industry good practice in place at the 
time Mrs Ps credit card was provided and her credit limit was increased. 
Having looked at the evidence I share the investigators view for broadly the same reasons.
Credit card application in February 2016 
Before agreeing to an application for credit, businesses need to make sure they lend in a 
responsible manner. To do this they are required to carry out appropriate checks. There isnt 
a set requirement of what a business must do in every instance. But the checks need to be 
borrower-focused and proportionate to the application being made. These checks usually 
include an assessment of whether the person requesting credit can afford to make and 
sustain the repayments, taking account of their financial situation and other outgoings.
On Mrs Ps application form she said that her monthly income was £1,503.93. Her living 
expenses were modelled by Barclaycard based on her postcode and income and amounted 
to £1,180.43 (factoring in her loan repayments of £180) and also payments towards her 
credit cards of 3% of the balance. This left her with a disposable income of £291.15 a month 
on Barclaycards calculations.
Ive also looked at the results of the credit check Barclaycard carried out when Mrs Ps 
account was opened. This showed that she had a loan with a balance of £150, two credit 
cards with a total balance of £133 and a bank account with a zero balance. There didnt 
appear to be any active payday loans, no overdrafts and there was not a large amount of 
outstanding debt.
Therefore, having looked at the evidence, I agree with the investigator that the checks 
carried out when Mrs Ps credit card was taken out were reasonable and proportionate and 
indicated that the lending was affordable for her at that stage.
Credit limit increase in December 2017
When Barclaycard told Mrs P that it was increasing her credit limit, I would expect it to have 
given her sufficient notice of the increase along with the option not to have the increase, in 
line with the regulations. Ive looked at the letter Barclaycard would have sent to Mrs P and 
Im satisfied that it gave her the option to keep the current limit if she didnt want it to be increased. Theres nothing to indicate that Mrs P wanted to opt out of the increase.
However, Ive also thought about the checks Barclaycard should have done when offering to 
raise the credit limit. The regulations required Barclaycard to carry out an assessment of Mrs 
Ps creditworthiness when setting a credit limit, establishing her ability to afford and sustain 
repayments without experiencing significant adverse consequences. The assessment 
needed to be proportionate to factors which could include the amount of the credit, Mrs Ps 
financial position, her credit history and her existing financial commitments. It should have 
been based on sufficient information obtained from Mrs P, where appropriate, and a credit 
reference agency, where necessary.
Barclaycard says that it reviewed Mrs Ps account in October 2017 which met its lending 
criteria for an increase so she was notified of this by letter. As Mrs P did not decline the 
increase, the credit limit was increased in December 2017. It says it checked data from 
CRAs for any negative data in the last six months. The CRA data along with account 
management data fed into a score giving the probability of default. Mrs Ps score was 123 
out of 9999, which meant her account had a 1.23% of chance of defaulting against its 
lending threshold of 6%. Barclaycard says that data from a CRA showed that an increase of 
up to £15,000 was affordable for Mrs P. It says her statements demonstrated that she was 
able to manage the new credit limit without issue, she paid on time and occasionally made 
additional payments per month. 
Barclaycard says it usually does a final check before processing the increase in case 
anything had changed since the account was selected. It says this is what happened when 
Mrs Ps account met its lending criteria in December 2016 but then her direct debit payment 
was returned in February 2017. Although she corrected this by sending payment the 
following week, her account no longer met its lending criteria. As Mrs P continued to pay her 
account on time, often sending more than the required amount, it was reviewed again eight 
months later.
Ive looked at the information Barclaycard had available to it when it offered to increase Mrs 
Ps credit limit. The data it has provided relating to its lending checks shows that Mrs Ps 
probability of default score had increased from 96 in December 2016 to 123 in October 2017 
and her outgoings had also increased from £1,259 to £1,431 on this data. This would have 
left her with around £70 disposable income every month, assuming her income stayed the 
same as she declared on her application. 
Barclaycard has also provided the data it received from the CRA which shows that Mrs Ps 
total outgoings based on her credit limit before the increase were significantly higher than 
when shed taken out the credit card, going from under £100 to over £1,300 in the months 
before the increase. She had a total balance on unsecured loans of over £5,000 compared 
to zero at the time the card was taken out and the CRA data showed that her total cost of 
living and rental figure had increased to over £1,700 based on Barclaycards calculations. 
So although Barclaycard says that the CRA checks deemed the increase to be affordable, 
based on the evidence I have seen I dont think this was the case. There was nothing to 
suggest Mrs Ps income had increased during this period. So the fact that the figure for Mrs 
Ps cost of living and rental provided by the CRA exceeded her income should have 
prompted Barclaycard to carry out further checks as on the face of it she would have had no 
disposable income to cover the minimum repayments even at the existing limit prior to the 
credit increase. 
Barclaycard would also have been aware of the activity on Mrs Ps account. There had also 
been a number of gambling transactions in the three months before the credit increase. The 
statements also show that, whenever Mrs P cleared any of her balance, she followed this by spending up to the limit again mainly on gambling cash transactions. Barclaycard says that it 
was not made aware of any gambling issues by Mrs P and that it is not possible to review all 
transactions made on all accounts to determine whether the card is being used for gambling. 
Mrs P had been close to her credit limit from September 2016 onwards and, in the six 
months prior to her credit limit being increased, Mrs P was charged for being over her 
original credit limit four times. Barclaycard says that a customer can still be over their limit 
but have their credit limit increased based on its affordability checks. I accept that this may 
be true in some cases. However, in this case the information relating to the way Mrs P was 
managing her credit card account was in conjunction with the information referred to above 
indicating that her income had stayed the same, her debts and outgoings had increased and 
her disposable income had reduced.
It is my view that this information should have prompted Barclaycard to carry out further 
checks before offering a credit increase. The information which was available should have 
alerted it to the fact that the borrowing may not have been affordable for Mrs P and that she 
was not making repayments sustainably.
Mrs P has provided statements from her current account with another bank for the three 
months before her credit increase was given. She says that she had loans and credit cards 
and had taken payday loans each month. She had also been gambling due to financial 
pressures and had returned direct debits. Mrs P says that she should therefore not have 
been given the credit increase as she was already struggling and in a debt cycle robbing 
Peter to pay Paul using payday loans. I have looked at these statements which show that 
Mrs P was overdrawn for the majority of the time, that she had taken payday loans, and that 
she had a number of returned direct debits over this period, so I think these support what 
she has said.
In conclusion, despite the information it had about Mrs Ps financial situation from the CFA 
and her account management, Barclaycard didnt carry out any further checks to determine 
whether a credit increase was affordable for her. I think if it had have done, this would have 
shown that this increase was not affordable and that Mrs P would not be able to repay 
sustainably as her financial situation appeared to have deteriorated since the credit card was 
issued. So I dont think Barclaycard acted fairly and Im satisfied that Barclaycard acted 
irresponsibly in increasing Mrs Ps credit limit in December 2017.  
Putting things right
I have considered what would be a fair way to address these errors. Although Mrs P should 
not have been given the higher limit, she has had the use of the funds spent on the credit 
card transactions. So I dont think it would be fair to ask Barclaycard to write any outstanding 
balance off (if one remains). However, I dont think Mrs P should be held responsible for the 
costs associated with the increased limit on the credit card once this was increased above 
£3,000  the interest, and any charges, applied to them. Had the credit increase not been 
granted, as I think should have happened, Mrs P wouldnt have had to pay these amounts, 
so I dont think it is fair that she should pay them now. I also dont think any negative 
information should be recorded on Mrs Ps credit file in respect of the credit card from 
December 2017. Without the errors by Barclaycard, the higher limit wouldnt have existed 
and I dont think its fair on Mrs P to show a poor payment history given that this was an 
inevitable consequence of the lending decisions.
So for the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Barclaycard to:
Remove any interest and charges from 12 December 2017 onwards associated with 
the credit limit increase. This means it can only add interest accrued on the balance 
up to £3,000 (the credit limit prior to the December 2017 increase).Calculate how much Mrs P would have owed after the above adjustment. Any 
repayments Mrs P has made since 12 December 2017 should be used to reduce the 
adjusted balance.
If this clears the adjusted balance any funds remaining should be refunded to Mrs P 
along with 8% simple interest* - calculated from the date of overpayment to the date 
of settlement. Or, if an outstanding balance remains Barclaycard should look to set 
up a suitable payment plan with Mrs P for the outstanding amount.
Remove any adverse information in relation to the credit card from Mrs Ps credit file 
from 12 December 2017 onwards once the amount owed has been settled.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclaycard to take off tax from this interest. It must 
give Mrs P a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Barclays Bank UK PLC 
trading as Barclaycard to put things right as set out above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Rachel Ellis
Ombudsman