DRN-4430904
The complaint
Mr H complains about Advantage Insurance Company Limited (AIC) and the valuation they 
placed on his car after it was deemed a total loss. Mr H also complains about the service 
AIC provided during the claim process, and the cancellation of his insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H held a motor insurance policy, underwritten by AIC. Unfortunately, in early 2023, Mr Hs 
car was damaged and so, he contacted AIC to make a claim. AIC accepted the claim and 
arranged for Mr Hs car to be inspected by an independent engineer, who Ill refer to as E. 
E compiled a report deeming the car a total loss, initially valuing Mr Hs car at £10,200. But 
Mr H disputed this valuation and E revised their valuation, increasing it to £10,600. So, this is 
the payment AIC offered Mr H, less his applicable excess. Mr H didnt think this offer was fair 
and so, he raised a complaint.
Mr H didnt think the valuation payment allowed him to purchase a like for like replacement, 
which he felt his policy was intended to provide. So, he wanted AIC to increase the valuation 
to around £13,000. Mr H was also unhappy with AICs refusal to provide him with 
advertisements of cars that had led to their original valuation, the communication provided 
around the payment which he felt was forceful and misleading and AICs decision to cancel 
the policy when he hadnt added a replacement car onto it within the time period they set. 
So, he wanted to be compensated for the above.
AIC responded to Mr Hs complaint and upheld it in part. They accepted Mr H was passed 
between people when he shouldnt have been and paid £50 to recognise this. I note this 
complaint point, and its resolution, isnt in dispute. But AIC thought the valuation they 
provided was a fair one, and they didnt think they were obliged to provide Mr H with 
advertisements as hed requested. They also didnt think theyd mis-led Mr H regarding his 
payment and whether he should accept it. Nor did they think they had cancelled Mr Hs 
policy unfairly, or outside of the terms of the policy he originally held. So, they didnt think 
they needed to do anything more. Mr H remained unhappy with this response, so he referred 
his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought AICs final 
valuation of £10,600 was a fair one, as it fell within the ranges of the valuations calculated by 
the motor trade guides used as per standard industry approach. And they didnt think AIC 
had mis-led Mr H or cancelled his policy unfairly when a replacement car wasnt added to 
the policy by the deadline AIC set. So, they didnt think AIC needed to do anything more.
Mr H didnt agree, and he provided several reasons explaining why. These included, and are 
not limited to, his continued belief that the payment offered by AIC didnt allow him to 
purchase a like for like replacement. And so, he thought it was reasonable to expect AIC to 
prove that it was possible. He also maintained his belief that AIC had stated the payment 
offered was final and so, he wouldnt be able to challenge it should he accept it, which is why 
he returned the cheque. And because of his inability to replace his car, he thought it was 
unfair for AIC to then rely on this to cancel his policy. 
Our investigator considered Mr Hs comments, but their view remained unchanged. And they 
explained it wasnt our services role to comment on, or provide to Mr H, the algorithms used 
by the trade guides when they calculate a cars valuation. Mr H continued to disagree and so, 
his complaint has been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr H. I appreciate Mr H feels 
strongly about the valuation of his car, which hes made clear in his representations to both 
AIC, and our service. As Mr H doesnt think the payment offered by AIC allows him to 
purchase what he feels is a like for like replacement, I can understand why he feels unfairly 
treated. And because of this, I do recognise why Mr H believes AIC should increase the 
valuation payment and compensate him for the length of time hes been without a car.
But for me to say AIC should do something more, such as increase the payment for Mr Hs 
car or pay additional compensation, I first need to be satisfied AIC have done something 
wrong. So, Id need to be satisfied that AIC failed to act in line with the policy terms, and 
standard industry approach, when valuing Mr Hs car. Or, if I think they did so, Id need to be 
satisfied they acted unfairly in some other way. And in this situation, I dont think thats the 
case.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain the 
remit of my role, and what Ive been able to comment on. I note Mr H has expressed his 
concerns about the way the motor trade guides arrive at valuations. And hes asked to see 
the algorithms and advertisements they use. But this isnt something Im able to comment 
on, or direct. This is because the algorithms the trade guides use are commercially sensitive. 
And any issue with the trade guides themselves, or the fact it is standard industry approach 
to use these guides, would fall under the remit of the industry regulator rather than our 
service to consider. So, I wont be commenting on this any further.
Instead, it is my role to consider the actions AIC have taken directly. And I would expect 
them to have valued Mr Hs car in line with the terms of the policy he held, and in line with 
standard industry approach. And this approach is to use the motor trade guides and the 
information they supply. This is to ensure there is a standardised approach across all 
insurers on how motor valuations are calculated, in an attempt to ensure all customers are 
treated as fairly as possible.
Ive seen the terms of Mr Hs policy. And they define Market Value as The cost of 
replacing your car in the United Kingdom at the time of the loss or damage occurred with 
one of the same make, model, age and condition. So, as Mr H doesnt think the payment of 
£10,600, less the applicable excess, allows him to do this, I can understand why he doesnt 
think AIC have acted in line with the policy.
But the definition also goes onto explain that Your insurer may use publications such as 
Glasss Guide to assess the Market Value. And this is what wed expect them to do, as it 
falls in line with the approach and guidelines set by the industry regulator.Ive seen AIC reviewed two motor trade guides and arrived at a final valuation of £10,600. 
But we would usually expect four trade guides to be used. So, I can see our investigator 
obtained four valuations from four separate trade guides. And these provided four 
valuations, ranging between £9,950 to £10,976. 
Crucially, two of the four guides provided a valuation below £10,600. And two provided 
valuations over the amount AIC offered to pay. So, Im satisfied on this basis that the 
valuation reached, and payment offered, by AIC was a fair one, as it falls directly in line with 
the trade guide valuations obtained. So, I dont think I can say it should be increased on this 
occasion.
I understand why Mr H wont agree with this. And I have taken on board his comments about 
not being able to find a replacement car that falls in line with these valuations. But, while we 
can take into consideration advertisements for cars, our service usually places more weight 
on the valuations calculated by the trade guides, as advertisements will usually contain an 
inflated price to allow room for negotiation. So, based on the evidence available to me, I 
dont think Ive seen anything that satisfies me the valuation AIC reached was calculated 
unfairly, or that it failed to fall in line with the terms Mr H held.
Ive then turned to the other complaint issues Mr H raised. I note Mr H was unhappy with 
AICs failure to provide advertisements of cars he could purchase using the valuation they 
offered. But this isnt something Id expect AIC to do. What I can see is they set out clearly 
the valuations they obtained from the trade guides, and how they considered these to reach 
the valuation they did. So, I think AIC acted fairly here, and provided Mr H with the level of 
information Id expect. 
And within this communication, I havent seen any evidence to show they purposefully 
misled Mr H into accepting the final offer they put forward. Or that by cashing the cheque 
they sent would impact his ability to continue with his complaint. In fact, in the claim notes 
Ive seen, I think AIC made it reasonably clear to Mr H that a complaint had been raised but 
may take some weeks to be responded to. And from this, I think it was reasonable to 
ascertain that any payment for the claim itself would be separate to this. While the payment 
offered was a final payment, Ive seen nothing that evidences AIC stating Mr H couldnt 
challenge this payment. And as it was a final payment, I wouldnt expect AIC to title it as 
interim. Nor would I expect them to offer an interim payment of a lesser value, as Id expect 
them to ensure Mr H has all the funds available to him to purchase a replacement. So, I cant 
agree AIC acted unfairly here.
Finally, Ive then turned to the cancellation of Mr Hs policy. I can see that when they raised 
payment for the £10,600 on 21 April 2023, they explained in an email to Mr H that he would 
need to add another car to the policy by 21 May, or it would be cancelled without charge. 
And this falls in line with Mr Hs policy terms, which explain that If your claim is settled on a 
Total Loss basis and you dont replace your car within 30 days of being issued the 
settlement payment, well cancel your policy.
It's not in dispute that Mr H didnt purchase a replacement car. While I acknowledge Mr Hs 
reasoning behind this, as Ive already explained above, I think the payment raised by AIC 
was a fair one. So, I think it was Mr Hs own decision to return this payment, rather than use 
it to purchase another car. And, as Mr H didnt purchase another car, it follows that he then 
didnt own another car to add onto his policy within the time frame AIC allowed. Because of 
this and the above, I think AIC acted fairly, and in line with the policy terms, when cancelling 
it as they did. So, I cant say they should do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr H was hoping for. And I appreciate Mr H has been 
without access to a replacement car for an extended period of time, while hes challenged the valuation and pursued his complaint. But for me to say AIC were responsible for this 
delay, and the subsequent impact, Id need to be satisfied this time without a car was as a 
result of something AIC did wrong. And I dont think it was.
It is now down to Mr H to decide whether he wishes to accept AICs valuation and the 
associated payment. Should he wish to do so, he should contact AIC directly to confirm.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman