DRN-3073732
The complaint
Mrs I complains that Domestic & General Insurance Plc ( D&G) provided a faulty TV 
in settlement of her insurance claim. All references to D&G include their agents.
Mrs I is represented by her husband Mr I.
What happened
On 23 October 2020, Mrs I received a replacement TV in settlement of an insurance 
claim she made under her equipment protection policy.
On 5 November 2020, Mr I raised a complaint on her behalf, as he found out the TV 
didnt come with a five year warranty. He said D&G should remove the TV and provide 
an alternative which he suggested and now preferred.
In March 2021, our investigator concluded D&G had provided a reasonable replacement 
TV to settle Mrs Is claim, despite it not having a five year warranty. So, he didnt uphold 
the complaint. Mr I then asked for a final decision, as he strongly disagreed with the 
investigators opinion and said his family should be entitled to exchange the TV.
Before Mr I received the final decision - which wasnt upheld - he contacted our 
investigator to say hed just opened the box and the TV was faulty. He said the TV was 
damaged and scratched in a few different places, and some key parts were missing from 
the box including the power cable. So, the TV should be returned and replaced, 
regardless of the initial complaint.
To investigate the new concern, D&G arranged for an engineer to inspect the TV and 
they also contacted the retailer for their comments. Following this investigation, they 
said they wouldnt provide a further replacement TV, as they didnt think the evidence 
suggested the damage was present at the point of supply, which was many months 
before the new complaint was raised.
Mr I then declined to accept the return of the TV on his wifes behalf, so the company 
who inspected the TV are currently storing it on a temporary basis.
An investigator at our service then considered the complaint. He thought the matter 
was finely balanced, but ultimately concluded the complaint should be upheld and a 
replacement TV provided.
Mr I accepted the investigators opinion, but D&G disagreed and provided a number of 
reasons for requesting a final decision. They highlighted the time line of events, and the 
comments they received from the engineer and the retailer, about the probable cause of 
the damage.
As our investigators opinion remained the same  I considered the complaint afresh and 
issued a provisional decision. I said: 
D&G and Mr I have raised several points in response to our investigators opinion and 
the reported damage. I have carefully reviewed each of these, but I wont address all of 
them in my decision. Ill focus on the points I think are central to the outcome of the 
complaint. The fact Ive concentrated on the crux of the issue in my decision isnt meant 
as a discourtesy but a reflection of the informal service we provide.
Im not an engineer, nor do I have expert technical knowledge about TVs. So, when 
considering complaints such as this one, I take into account the opinion of the experts. I 
also reach my decision on a balance of probabilities  that is to say, what I consider is 
more likely to have happened based on the evidence that is available and the wider 
surrounding circumstances. This is especially relevant when the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive, or contradictory, as some of it is here.
There is no way for me to establish for certain what happened to Mrs Is TV. Thats 
not the test Im required to apply, and I accept there are many ways the damage 
could have occurred. What I do need to consider is how likely it is the damage was 
present at the time of delivery and if D&G have done anything wrong. So, Ive thought 
this through chronologically.
Ive firstly considered how likely it is the TV was damaged at the point of manufacture. 
As is widely known, TVs and electrical items are subjected to many stringent quality 
checks, before they leave a manufacturers warehouse to make sure they are of a 
suitable quality and are safe. That doesnt mean its impossible for some damage to 
take place, or items to go missing. But given the amount of damage and issues with Mrs 
Is TV, I dont think its likely the manufacturer would have dispatched the TV in its 
current poor condition. This is supported by the fact the damage complained about here 
is considerable, and appears to be accidental in nature, rather than damage which 
relates to the way the TV was constructed.
Ive then considered how likely it is the TV was damaged as part of the delivery process. 
The engineer who inspected the TV, didnt think any transport damage was present, and 
having reviewed the photographs, I think this conclusion is reasonable based on the 
good condition of the box and the location of the damage. For example, I note the TV 
has a large spiral scratch on the back, and its unclear how this could have happened, 
without the TV being removed from the packaging or the box being damaged. In any 
event, even if I were to conclude the damage happened as part of the delivery process, 
this wouldnt explain why some items were missing from the box as Mr I has claimed.
Finally, Ive considered how likely it is D&G supplied a faulty returned TV, that was 
previously sent to a different customer, rather than a new one. To decide this point, Ive 
considered evidence from the retailer who supplied the TV. Theyve traced the history 
of the TV from the date it was manufactured using the ID number and their system 
notes. Having reviewed this evidence, Im satisfied it suggests the TV was sent to the 
retailer by the manufacturer, and then dispatched directly to Mrs I. So, this reasonably 
rules out the possibility of a faulty returned TV being sent to Mrs I in error. This 
conclusion is also supported by the retailers comment that all returned TVs are 
processed in a different warehouse to new TVs, and they dont do any repairs 
internally.
As I dont think its likely the TV was damaged at the time of manufacture, provided in 
error, or subject to transit damage  this means I currently dont think D&G acted 
unfairly or did anything wrong by declining to exchange the TV, or concluding the 
damage was unlikely to have been present at the time of delivery.
I appreciate this decision will come as a large disappointment to Mrs I and her family. I know they feel very strongly about this matter and they want the TV replaced. I would 
like to stress, as I mentioned at the start, that there is no way I can know for certain how 
the damage took place. But, for the reasons Ive explained - I dont currently think its 
likely the TV was faulty at the time of delivery. So, I dont intend on directing D&G to 
repair or replace it.
Response to my provisional decision 
D&G replied to my provisional decision and said they didnt wish to add any further 
comments. 
Mr I also replied and said he didnt accept my findings. In summary, he said hes convinced 
the retailer damaged the TV, so D&G should accept responsibility for what happened. He 
also said more evidence should be provided to show the manufacturer completed the 
required quality checks. In any event, hes certain the TV was damaged before his wife 
received it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered Mr Is additional comments. Im sorry to disappoint him and Mrs I, 
but Im not satisfied they change my decision. I dont think its necessary to request any 
additional information, and Im satisfied I can fairly conclude this matter now, based on all 
the evidence that has already been provided.
I accept its possible the retailer could have caused the damage. However, as their role was 
simply to send the TV to Mrs I - I dont think its likely they would have opened the box or 
interfered with the TV, as Mr I has suggested. They werent responsible for carrying out any 
quality checks, so they would have no reason to open the box. As Ive mentioned above, I 
also think its unlikely the TV was damaged as part of the delivery process, or when it was 
manufactured. 
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied its unlikely Mrs Is TV was damaged before she 
received it. So, D&G dont need to repair or replace it. Arrangements should therefore now 
be made for the TV to be returned to Mrs I.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman