DRN-4495043
The complaint
Mrs D is unhappy with the outcome of a claim she made to Marks & Spencer Financial 
Services Plc (M&S) under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
In June 2022, Mrs D and her husband booked a cruise package with a company Ill call S. 
The cost of the package was £7,600 and Mrs D paid S £1,600 on her M&S credit card to 
secure the booking.
Unfortunately, while Mrs D and her husband were on the cruise ship, Mrs Ds husband 
banged his head on a glass door and sustained a cut and bleeding to his nose and 
experienced shock and dizziness. Mrs D says he was attended to by medical staff who didnt 
have the appropriate equipment to treat him.
When Mrs D returned from the cruise, she contacted S about what had happened to her 
husband. She also mentioned to them that the agreed transfers from airport to hotel, and to 
and from piers, were delayed and the final transfer from the airport to their home didnt take 
place.
Mrs D and her husband were offered a credit of £1,000 towards another cruise which she 
rejected. The parent company of S then offered Mrs Ds husband £1,100 for what had 
happened to him on the cruise, and they subsequently offered Mrs D this amount and a 
further £75 for what they called issues surrounding the transfer.
Mrs D made a claim to M&S under section 75. They rejected the claim and then sent her a 
final response letter as she remained unhappy. M&S said what happened to her husband 
was a health and safety matter rather than a breach of contract or misrepresentation. And 
they said Mrs Ds husband couldnt bring a claim against them because he wasnt the 
account holder (or additional card holder) for the credit card.
M&S said they asked Mrs D for details of the travel arrangements that she said hadnt been 
provided but these hadnt been sent. This included what Mrs D had said to S about agreed 
transfers but also her contention that she and her husband didnt travel in business class on 
the flights as agreed.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. He said M&S had acted 
fairly in asking Mrs D to provide further information and they were still willing to investigate if 
she sent this to them.
Mrs D didnt agree with our investigator and so the complaint was passed to me for a 
decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 23 November 2023, in which I said the following and 
which forms part of my final decision:
In deciding what I think is fair and reasonable I need to have regard to, amongst other 
things, any relevant law. In this case, the relevant law is section 75 which says that, in 
certain circumstances, if Mrs D paid for goods and services, in part or whole, on her M&S 
credit card, and there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier, M&S 
can be held responsible.
For a valid claim under section 75 there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier relationship in 
place. This normally means the person who owns the credit card account needs to have a 
claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against a company they have paid using 
their credit card. Im satisfied that this, and other necessary criteria, were in place for Mrs D 
to be able to make a valid claim.
Mrs Ds claim to M&S covered several things that happened on the cruise, the first of which 
was the injury suffered by her husband. Im sorry to hear that he was injured, and I hope he 
has recovered from this.
I dont though currently think that M&S need to do anything in respect of this. As Ive set out 
above, Mrs D needs to have a claim for breach of contract against S for her to have a valid 
claim against M&S. Any claim for injury or compensation that flows from the treatment of that 
injury and/or from the impact of that injury to the affected person would be made by the 
claimant to whom the injury occurred, which was Mrs Ds husband. As he doesnt though 
have a contractual relationship with M&S (because Mrs D is the card and account holder), 
this means M&S cant be held liable for those aspects.
That doesnt mean Mrs D doesnt have a potentially valid claim at all here. I say this bearing 
in mind the requirements of the Consumer Rights Act (CRA) which sets out that services 
need to be supplied with reasonable care and skill. So, if S didnt provide the service, in 
other words the cruise, with reasonable care and skill, then this could be a breach of contract 
for which M&S is equally liable.
Ive looked at Mrs Ds description of what happened. She says other people on the cruise 
had already walked into the glass door before her husband did and there was no sign on or 
near the door. The difficulty with this part of Mrs Ds claim though is that I dont have any 
independent evidence that this happened to other people or that concerns had been raised 
to S before Mrs Ds husband had the accident, which S failed to act on.
Its also unclear to me whether the door was unmarked for a reason or that it was clearly not 
visible, and I would need to see reasonable evidence of that. For example, the door may 
have had a handle that was visible. Im not suggesting that it did have this. But there are 
many variables here to consider and for me to say that S failed to act with reasonable care 
and skill, I would need to see further evidence other than Mrs Ds testimony.
The other parts of Mrs Ds claim relate to agreed services not being provided. Shes said the 
agreed transfers from airport to hotel, and to and from piers, were delayed and that the final 
transfer from the airport to their home didnt arrive. Mrs D also says she and her husband 
didnt fly business class as promised.
I dont though have much detail on the delays including for how long each transfer was 
delayed or why this happened. Nor have I much detail on how the delayed transfers 
impacted Mrs D. For example, did that mean Mrs D missed excursions or other elements of 
her holiday? I accept that delays would be inconvenient and frustrating. But, without more 
detail about this and how this impacted Mrs Ds overall experience, Im not currently inclined 
to say M&S should make an award in respect of this.
Ive noted that S agreed to pay Mrs D £75 in respect of issues surrounding the transfer. I 
dont know exactly what this referred to, but I suspect this was because the final transfer 
from the airport to Mrs Ds home didnt happen as she has said. I say this because S referred to transfer in the singular rather than the plural so its unlikely this covered the 
delayed transfers Mrs D has referred to.
Ive looked at the booking confirmation that was sent by S to Mrs D and it sets out that 
private executive transfer was included. The section in the booking confirmation titled 
private executive transfer states that S offers chauffeured transportation from guests home 
to their departure airport and return service home at the end of their vacation.
S offered Mrs D £75 for what happened, so it seems they accept the final transfer didnt 
happen as agreed. As such, that would be a breach of contract and I think it reasonable 
therefore for M&S to pay Mrs D the amount S offered, if S hasnt already paid this to her. I 
say this noting that I havent seen any evidence that Mrs D incurred costs above this amount 
by having to arrange the transfer herself.
The final part of Mrs Ds claim is that S failed to arrange business class air travel as agreed. 
Ive looked at the section titled air arrangements in the booking confirmation form which 
shows that Mrs D and her husband would be flying business class across four flights in total. 
It isnt clear to me though whether Mrs D didnt fly business class at all or whether only some 
of the four flights were business class. Its also not clear to me whether Mrs D paid a specific 
price for business class compared to the price for economy class and what the difference in 
price was. I say this because Ss terms and conditions, a copy of which Mrs D sent to M&S 
as part of her claim, sets out that the business class flights were specially priced. I dont 
know the details of how and why these were specially priced; it could be for example they 
were specially priced to the equivalent of the cost of economy class flights.
As such, its very difficult for me to be able to direct M&S to make an award when I dont 
know enough of the detail behind what happened, and the costs associated with this.
I also note that Ss terms and conditions sets out under the section included air programme 
that economy class will be substituted when necessary. So, it doesnt appear that S 
guaranteed business class flights or that a mistake was made in not providing them.
While I appreciate that my provisional decision will come as a disappointment to Mrs D, I 
only currently intend to ask M&S to pay her the £75 that S offered in respect of issues with 
the transfer. I realise that S offered Mrs D more than this, but that was also in respect of the 
injury suffered by her husband. As I havent currently found that M&S needs to do anything 
in respect of that part of the claim, I wont be asking them to pay the full amount that S 
offered. If Mrs D wishes to accept Ss offer in its entirety, assuming it is still open to accept, 
then she should contact S about this.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I intend to instruct Marks and 
Spencer Financial Services Plc to pay Mrs D £75.
I invited Mrs D and M&S to send me any further comments and evidence to consider.
M&S said they accepted my provisional decision. 
Mrs D replied saying:
they reported the incident with the door to cruise management and were assured by 
their suite butler that statements had been taken from staff witnesses and others. when they arrived at Istanbul, there was no one to meet them in a crowded airport 
and no English language signs. The pick-up didnt arrive for over an hour and then 
they waited for another passenger who didnt arrive. They arrived late for their meal 
at the hotel and a shopping tour as a result.
the journey from the hotel to the port was delayed and the hotel had to remind the 
company they hadnt been picked up. 
one of the flights was an overbooked economy flight with no food on board other than 
a small packet of crisps. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs D but I havent been persuaded to change my provisional findings 
on her complaint. 
I mentioned in my provisional decision that I hadnt seen any independent evidence of what 
had happened on the cruise ship that led to Mrs Ds husband having the accident. And I set 
out that there were a lot of variables to consider, such as whether the door in question 
clearly wasnt visible or was unmarked for a reason. I still havent though been sent anything 
else other than Mrs Ds testimony about what happened and Im afraid this isnt enough for 
me to find that there was a clear breach of contract on the part of S to provide services using 
reasonable care and skill. So, I wont be awarding anything in respect of this part of the 
complaint. 
Ive considered Mrs Ds comments about the delays. I appreciate this would have been 
inconvenient for her. However, it seems she was still able to have the meal at the hotel and 
was able to go on the shopping tour. I might have been minded to make an award if for 
example neither of those things happened, but thats not the case. And I dont think that S 
(and therefore M&S) could be found at fault for a passenger not arriving for the pick-up in 
question. 
Ive also thought about what Mrs D has said about the flights. I mentioned in my provisional 
decision though that Ss terms and conditions set out that economy class would be 
substituted when necessary. So, although I can appreciate that Mrs D didnt enjoy the flight, 
it did go ahead as planned. 
Overall, I find that M&S need only to pay Mrs D the £75 that S offered her for the transfer 
from the airport to her house that didnt happen. I dont think M&S handled Mrs Ds claim 
poorly and I note theyve said they would consider any further information she could send in 
respect of her claim. That seems reasonable to me. I will leave it for M&S to decide whether 
Mrs Ds comments in response to my provisional decision changes how they wish to resolve 
the matter. 
Putting things right
M&S should pay Mrs D compensation for S failing to provide the transfer from the airport to 
her home. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and direct Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc to pay    Mrs D £75.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman