DRN-3052810
The complaint
Mr H complains about end of contract charges and excess mileage charges when his 
agreement with Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited.
What happened
In January 2017 Mr H was supplied with a car and entered into a contract hire agreement 
with VWFS. The term of the agreement was 48 months with monthly payments of £411.32. 
The annual mileage allowance was 11,000 miles.
Mr H said he expected to exceed the annual mileage allowance and that his broker had 
quoted 9.6 pence per mile excess mileage charges before he entered into the agreement.
When the agreement ended in July 2021, VWFS invoices Mr H for damage and excess 
mileage charges.
Mr H resolved the damage charges with VWFS but disputed the excess mileage charges. 
He said hed covered excess mileage of 11,922 miles and that this should be charged at 
9.6p per mile. However, VWFS had asked him to pay 13.3p per mile.
In response, VWFS said it had calculated the excess mileage charges in accordance with 
the terms and conditions of the agreement.
Mr H wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that although the quote from the broker 
said that the excess mileage charge was 9.6p per mile, the agreement which Mr H had 
signed stated that excess mileage charges were 8p per mile plus 5.33 per mile maintenance 
charge. The investigator said that VWFS hadnt acted unfairly because it had calculated the 
excess mileage charges in line with the terms of the agreement.
Mr H didnt agree. He said the broker hadnt provided a quote as such but had passed on 
factual information obtained from VWFS. He said the maintenance charge was something 
which had been added in later, and he felt that this was misleading.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the email from the broker. It says that excess mileage will be charged at 9.6p 
per mile. Mr H has said that the email wasnt a quote but was based on information obtained 
directly from VWFS. Im unable to say, just by looking at the email, where the broker 
obtained the information from. It may have come from VWFS but its equally possible that it 
came from somewhere else. Its also possible that the broker simply made an error. Even if 
the information was obtained from VWFS, I dont think this changes the terms and conditions 
of the agreement which Mr H subsequently signed.
The agreement states that excess mileage charges will be charged at 13.33 pence per mile, 
comprising 8p per mile plus 5.33 maintenance charge per mile. This information is clearly set 
out and I wouldve expected Mr H to read the agreement before he signed it. In signing the 
agreement, Mr H has agreed to be bound by the terms and conditions  including the excess 
mileage charges. 
Taking this into account, Im unable to say that VWFS has made an error or acted unfairly, 
because the excess mileage charges have been calculated in accordance with the terms 
and conditions of the agreement.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im unable to uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman