DRN-1864942
 
The Complaint
Mr N complains the Co-operative Bank Plc unfairly stopped an international payment he 
wanted to make. He wants the payee recognised as a legitimate branch of a charity 
operating abroad. He says his access to his account was also unfairly restricted.
Background
Mr N holds a current account with the Co-Op bank. He regularly sends money to charities 
from his account and sometimes makes payments to individuals in need living in other 
countries, including those serving prison sentences. He used to send money to individuals 
using a popular money transfer provider, but a change to its policy now prevents him from 
using the provider for this purpose.
In February 2019 the Co-Op questioned several payments to a payee based in another 
country. It asked Mr N questions and became concerned he was falling victim to a scam.
In May 2019 Mr N attempted a £300 payment to what he believes is a branch of an 
international charity operating in another country  the same country as above. The Co-Op 
undertook a review and refused the payment, again concerned the payee wasnt genuine. 
During the review Mr Ns debit card and online account access were blocked, restricting him 
to withdrawals in branch using valid identification. It did this to prevent further attempts to 
send money to the payee, and to safeguard Mr Ns interests.
As Mr Ns debit card was blocked, several payments to other charities were rejected, as was 
a payment to his credit card provider. Mr N says he had to use his wifes funds to make the 
payment.
Mr N told the Co-Op the charity wasnt a scam and the individual he attempted to send 
money to in February worked for the charity. This person had previously helped verify his 
concerns about individuals hed made payments to previously. Hed approached her after 
being given her details by one of those individuals. The payment was to thank her for her 
efforts and to contribute to the charitys cause.
The Co-Op investigated further. It decided not to allow any payments to the charity as it 
believes it isnt genuine. Its research indicates the website of the charity in the United 
Kingdom shows it doesnt operate in the country where Mr N wants to send funds, and it 
doesnt mention the person hed been communicating with. 
 
 
Mr N says he rang the United Kingdom branch of the charity and was told its headquartered 
in France. He was given the main website address, which he says shows the charity does 
operate in the country in question. He also says he emailed the main website contact covering the country, who confirmed the charity does operate there, as does the individual 
hed been in communication with.
Two police officers visited Mr N shortly afterwards. He says they showed him a list of 
countries the charity operates in, which didnt include the country in question. He showed the 
officers the main website to show this wasnt true - the charity did operate there. He says the 
list only related to countries in which the United Kingdom branch of the charity operates.
The Co-Op unblocked the account in July 2019 and online access was reinstated. While 
continuing to not allow payments to the payee, it offered Mr N £50 to compensate him for not 
investigating a formal complaint earlier.
Mr N says the Co-Op ought to conclude the charity to which he wants to send money is 
above board, so he brought his complaint to us.
An investigator at our service investigated the complaint. In summary they found:
The Co-Op acted reasonably, based on the legal and regulatory obligations it must 
consider. After reviewing all the available evidence, they didnt think its decision to 
refuse payments to the payee is unreasonable.
The blocking of Mr Ns account and online access were valid measures the Co-Op 
could take while it was investigating. It no doubt caused Mr N inconvenience but 
there was nothing to indicate the restrictions were in place for longer than needed.
The Co-Ops actions were in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Ns account.
 
Mr N disagrees.  He has asked for a final decision, so the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide. He thinks the individual hes communicating with is being unfairly branded a 
fraudster; and the payee account clearly belongs to the charity she works for, and not her.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've decided not to 
uphold Mr N's complaint. I'll explain why.
The Co-Op has extensive and pervasive legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when 
providing accounts to its customers. These extend beyond not just to its duty of care towards 
Mr N, but also to others in order to safeguard against funds being used for potentially 
improper or criminal purposes. If the Co-Op didnt sometimes act, such as refusing to 
process payment requests or restrict accounts, it could risk serious sanction.
Im satisfied the Co-Op had valid concerns over the payees Mr N had been sending money 
to. Indeed, Mr N confirms he discovered some of the payees hadnt been entirely honest 
with him. So, in this context, the question then moves on to whether its reasonable for the 
Co-Op to have concerns re the current payee to whom Mr N wants to send money.
I find Mr Ns commitment to helping people in unfortunate situations admirable. And its 
possible that he is correct. The branch of the charity and the payee account could be 
genuine, and his donation could help its cause. 
Im satisfied there is a website for the main charity (separate to the branch website of the 
country in question and the website of the United Kingdom branch) which details information 
in the manner Mr N describes  it shows the charity operates in the country of the intended 
payee. Ive also read the content of the emails which appear to be sent from the named contact on the main website for the country in question. So, I can see why Mr N thinks these 
emails verify his position. 
But I must weigh what Mr N has presented against the fact that the Co-Op are unlikely to be 
able to confirm for certain whether the person hes been communicating with is genuine or 
whether the account to which he wants to send money is also legitimate  Im satisfied its not 
under an obligation to do this, otherwise it would be very difficult for it to put in place 
measures to fulfil its wider obligations.
The Co-Op should still however treat its customers fairly and account for their individual 
circumstances. And I find in the context of Mr Ns complaint, this means having a reasonable 
basis for its concerns and making the decision it has.
Ive considered the information the Co-Op and Mr N gathered, alongside the wider 
information available to me in order to reach a decision I think is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of this complaint. And while I appreciate Mr N will be very disappointed by 
what I have to say, Im satisfied the Co-Ops position isnt unreasonable based on everything 
Ive seen. 
I find also that the terms of Mr Ns account do permit the Co-Op to restrict his access and 
usage of the account while investigating its concerns. And Im satisfied it didnt cause 
unnecessary delays when performing its investigation.
Mr N would naturally like to see all this information to better understand why the Co-Op is 
refusing to follow his payment instructions. But I find the Co-Op is under no legal obligation 
to reveal all the information it has relied on, so I wont be requiring it to do so now.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2020.
Liam King
Ombudsman