DRN-3640133
The complaint
Mr M complains about the customer service he received from Chip Financial Ltd.
What happened
In late 2021, Mr M received an email from Chip telling him that his account had been 
downgraded because it had been unable to collect his subscription fee. Mr M contacted Chip 
who established that this was because his debit card had expired. 
Mr M provided his new debit card details, but he wasnt able to upgrade his Chip account 
online. After he raised a complaint with Chip, it upgraded his account for him. Chip paid the 
bonus hed missed out on for the period the account had been downgraded. It also offered 
him £5 for distress and inconvenience, which it later increased to £9.60 to match the bonus it 
had already paid. 
Mr M didnt think Chips offer of compensation was enough to put things right. He thought 
£25 would be more appropriate for the distress and inconvenience hed experienced. So, he 
asked our service to consider his complaint. 
Chip said it was willing to increase its offer for distress and inconvenience to £10 but Mr M 
didnt accept this as resolution of his complaint. Our investigator looked into Mr Ms concerns 
and thought Chips offer of compensation was reasonable. 
Mr M disagreed with our investigators outcome. He said Chip hadnt notified him after its 
first failed attempt at taking his subscription fee. It only contacted him after it had gone 
ahead with the downgrade. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
Mr M has raised concerns about Chips processes. However, its not this services role to tell 
Chip what processes or procedures to put in place. Our services role is to fairly resolve 
individual complaints brought against financial businesses. This means I need to consider 
whether Chip treated Mr M fairly and reasonably and, if it didnt, whether it has done enough 
to put things right.
The terms and conditions of the account say:
Fees will be calculated and billed over a clear charging period and will be debited from your 
stored payment card.
They also say:
If we fail to collect the appropriate fee we reserve the right to downgrade your plan or close 
your account.
Mr M says he wasnt aware that Chip hadnt been able to collect his subscription fee from his 
debit card until it emailed him in October 2021. Chip says it had previously notified Mr M 
through its app in September. 
Its possible that Chip didnt communicate with Mr M as clearly as it should have done. It also 
looks like Mr M wasnt able to upgrade the account himself after contacting Chip, and this 
meant he had to contact it again.
However, after Mr M raised his complaint, Chip upgraded his account and Mr M has 
acknowledged receiving the bonus hed lost out on while it was downgraded. So, Mr M 
doesnt appear to have experienced any financial loss.
 
I appreciate Mr M doesnt feel Chips offer is enough to compensate him for the time he 
spent trying to get the matter resolved and the worry of losing out on interest. However, 
using financial services wont always be totally hassle free. Typically, our service would say 
that an apology or small monetary award would be enough to remedy a one-off incident that 
has had minimal impact and is put right quickly. Chip resolved the issue with the account 
within a week of Mr M first making it aware there was a problem. So, I think Chips apology 
and offer of £10 is fair compensation for the inconvenience and the short-lived concern Mr M 
experienced.
Putting things right
Chip should pay Mr M £10 for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
Chip Financial Ltd has already made an offer to pay £10 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Chip Financial Ltd should pay Mr M £10.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022. 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman