DRN-2877007
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain about term assurance policies that they say were mis-sold to them by 
Bradford & Bingley Plc (B&B).
What happened
In 2002 Mr and Mrs J were advised to take out a joint decreasing term assurance policy. 
At the time of the advice Mr and Mrs J had a number of policies. In summary these 
policies were as follows:
A decreasing joint life term assurance policy for the sum assured of around 
£59,000;
Individual Family Income Benefit policies which provided an annual income of 
£7,000 to their respective beneficiaries in the event of their death;
Mr J had a Permanent Health Insurance policy, which provided income protection 
cover to replace income lost through injury or ill health after a deferred period.
The advisers suitability letter dated 6 August 2002 said that Mr and Mrs Js objective was 
to ensure their new mortgage of £110,000 was repaid in full in the event of the first death. 
The recommended policy matched their repayment mortgage amount and term  it was on 
a decreasing basis meaning the cover reduced in line with the mortgage debt. The 
advisers letter said Mr and Mrs J agreed they could afford the monthly premiums of 
£15.88. And the adviser noted that whilst critical illness benefit was discussed, Mr and 
Mrs J didnt want this cover due to the increased cost. The new policy replaced the 
previous decreasing joint term assurance policy.
In 2003 Mr and Mrs J increased their mortgage borrowing. They again received advice 
from B&B about the most suitable cover for this purpose. The fact find from 2003 showed 
that Mr and Mrs Js mortgage had increased by £15,000 and as well as life cover, they 
wanted critical illness cover. At the time of the advice, Mr and Mrs J still had their income 
protection policies. 
The suitability letter dated 18 June 2003 outlined the advisers recommendations. It noted 
that in line with Mr and Mrs Js objectives the adviser was recommending they take out a 
joint term assurance policy that would provide cover for their increased mortgage of 
£125,000 for the same term of 25 years. The policy was also on a decreasing basis and 
the monthly premiums were initially set to be £70.75 but increased to £93.62 following a 
medical underwriting decision. 
In early 2020 Mr and Mrs J complained about the polices sold to them by B&B. They said 
that B&B had recommended the incorrect cover for their needs. In particular, they 
considered they should have been sold level term assurance rather than decreasing cover.
B&B rejected the complaint. It said based on Mr and Mrs Js circumstances, it was satisfied 
its advice had been suitable for their demands and needs.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In short, she thought the recommendations 
received on both occasions, were reasonable. Mr and Mrs J disagreed reiterating that they 
were sold the wrong type of policies. So the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres a degree of subjective judgment when an adviser makes a recommendation. 
Different advisers can reasonably make different recommendations when considering a 
customers demands and needs. Its not my role to substitute the advisers recommendation 
for what I may consider to be a slightly more suitable recommendation. And so with this in 
mind, Id have to be persuaded that the advisers recommendation was wholly unsuitable for 
Mr and Mrs J to conclude the policy had been mis-sold. Having looked at everything Im not 
persuaded this is the case. 
The fact finds from 2002 and 2003 record that Mr and Mrs J were looking for protection for 
their family in the event of death. Specifically they wanted to cover the cost of their mortgage 
in the event of their death and in 2003, they added critical illness cover to their policy. 
In 2002, the only mortgage protection Mr and Mrs J had wasnt sufficient to cover the new 
borrowing when they increased their mortgage. This happened again in 2003. So I can 
understand why Mr and Mrs J sought advice on each of these occasions.
The mortgage is a significant financial commitment and if either Mr and Mrs J were to die, a 
decreasing term policy would ensure that their family could pay any outstanding mortgage 
and potentially avoid having to sell their property. The decreasing cover was based on the 
reducing amount owing and ended at the same time as the mortgage. This type of policy is 
designed to keep costs to a minimum, which was also a stated objective of Mr and Mrs J. 
Taking all these factors into account, Im satisfied the decreasing term policies were suitable 
for Mr and Mrs Js needs and objectives.
Mr and Mrs J say a more reasonable recommendation wouldve been a level term assurance 
policy that ran until their mortgage came to an end. They say a reducing term assurance 
policy could potentially lead to serious financial strain for the remaining family as this would 
mean that apart from the mortgage being covered, there wouldnt be anything left to support 
their children if one of them were to die. Mr and Mrs J said other advisers have told them the 
B&B adviser should have recommended level term policies on an individual basis, which 
they say would have ensured their needs were properly protected.
As they had a young family at the time, I accept Mr and Mrs J also had a need to provide 
protection for their family to maintain their standard of living as well provide a sum to pay off 
their mortgage. But family protection was separately provided for by their respective income 
protection policies - these policies were designed to replace their income up until their 
dependents completed further education. Moreover, as Ive said, different advisers can 
reasonably make different recommendations when considering a customers demands and 
needs. That doesnt mean the advice given by the B&B was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs J. 
Taking all of this into account, on balance, Im not persuaded the recommendations made by 
B&B were unsuitable. I also think that B&B provided Mr and Mrs J with sufficient information 
so they could make an informed choice about what level and type of cover they wanted to 
proceed with. 
Theres some suggestion in the communication between Mr and Mrs J and B&B, that they 
(Mr and Mrs J) also complained about being told the policies were a compulsory part of the lending. But I cant see any evidence of B&B misleading Mr and Mrs J about that. Its notable 
that on each occasion, B&B were approached by Mr and Mrs J independently each time they 
increased their borrowing. This would suggest life cover was something Mr and Mrs J 
wanted B&B to facilitate rather than B&B suggesting it was something they had to have as a 
condition of their mortgage.
All in all, Im satisfied the recommendations in 2002 and 2003 to take out decreasing term 
assurance policies, were reasonable.
For all these reasons, Im not upholding the complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman