DRN-2430459
The complaint
Miss G complains that AWP P&C SA declined her travel insurance claim. My references to 
AWP include its agents.
What happened
Miss G had travelled abroad for a trekking trip on 5 March 2020 and was due to end her 
holiday on 21/22 March 2020. Shed booked the holiday in 2019 and she says she bought 
her travel insurance in January 2020. The insurer was AWP.
Miss G says three days before her trip was due to end the trekking guide received 
information from the tour operator that the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advice 
was for British travellers to return to the UK as soon as possible due to Covid-19. She says 
the guide told her that ignoring FCO advice would invalidate her travel insurance policy. 
Miss G says she tried to call AWP by satellite phone but was unsuccessful because it was 
2am UK time so AWPs office was closed. Miss G says it was 8am where she was and the 
tour operator told them they could be evacuated by helicopter at 10am local time. Miss G 
says she was at a remote camp with a two-day trek to a local airport so to follow government 
advice she paid US $1,100 to get to an airport immediately. She also had to pay £585 to 
change her flight to return to UK sooner than planned. She returned 20 March 2020.
Miss G claimed for the helicopter evacuation and change of flight costs and the costs of the 
portion of the holiday she missed.
AWP declined the claim. It said the policy didnt cover Miss G cutting short (curtailing) her 
holiday due to Covid-19.
Miss G complained to us. She said Covid-19 wasnt an issue when she bought the policy so 
it wouldnt have been in the policy and she was acting on UK Government advice to return 
home.
Our investigator said AWP fairly declined the claim.
Miss G disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. She added that it was safe to travel 
when she left the UK for her trip. The FCO guidance changed while she was abroad when 
she couldnt contact AWP even in an emergency. Miss G felt she had no choice but to be 
evacuated given the information she had. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On the evidence I have the tour operator isnt an ABTA member. If it was member its likely 
to have responsibilities to refund some of the costs Miss G claimed for under her insurance 
policy. My reasoning for my decision is on the basis that Miss G has no other option but to 
claim the costs on the policy.
Miss G had to make a quick decision in a remote location on the information she had. 
I understand why she thought she had to return to the UK as soon as possible. But I have to 
decide whether AWP fairly and reasonably declined her claim, and I think it did. I dont 
uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Travel insurance policies dont cover every situation. The policy only covers curtailment in 
certain circumstances, which the policy lists. The reason Miss G cut short her holiday, FCO 
advice due to Covid-19, isnt one of those circumstances. Miss G says Covid-19 wasnt a 
known problem to have been included when she bought the policy in January 2020. The full 
impact of Covid-19 wasnt known then but that doesnt mean AWP has to cover Miss Gs 
claim. Theres no cover under the policy terms for the situation she found herself in.
As well as the strict policy terms I also have to consider whether AWPs decline of the claim 
was fair and reasonable.
Miss Gs been clear that she incurred the costs claimed because she thought she was  
following FCO advice. 
Ive seen the email the tour operator sent to Miss G dated 18 March 2020. As she couldnt 
pick up communication directly where she was she wouldnt have seen the email that date. 
But I think its probable the trekking guide gave her information based on the tour operators 
email which was that the FCO advised British people against all non-essential travel 
worldwide. The tour operator said that remaining may affect travel insurance claims and it 
strongly recommended Miss G consider returning home.
However, although the FCO advised against all but essential travel abroad on 17 March 
2020, that was for people who were going abroad. It wasnt until 23 March 2020, after 
Miss Gs original planned return date, that the FCO advised British travellers who were 
abroad to return to the UK. So Miss G returned home before the FCO advised travellers to 
do so.
The policy excludes cover for Miss G travelling to a country which the FCO has advised 
against all but essential travel. But thats if Miss G had travelled abroad after the FCO advice 
had been given. The policy also excludes cover in at least some circumstances if she 
remained somewhere against FCO advice. But at the point Miss G cut short her holiday she 
wouldnt have been remaining against FCO advice. And her original return date was before 
the FCO advised travellers to return.
Miss G had to rely on the information she was given by her tour operator. She wasnt able to 
speak to AWP when she tried to call. I note she says AWPs office hours for the number in 
her policy documents showed the office as opening 9am UK time and she thinks the policy is 
unsuitable if she couldnt contact AWP in an emergency. The policy documents give a 
24 hour phone number for medical emergency or curtailment requests so Miss G could have 
tried that number. But even if she did use that number she may well have still been unable to 
get through to AWP given the situation.
I dont think Miss G not being able to speak to AWP means it should pay the claim. If she 
had spoken to AWP I think its probable AWP would have said her curtailment claim wouldnt 
be covered under the policy terms. And I think its more likely than not that Miss G would still 
have cut short her holiday given the situation, her location and the recommendation of her 
tour operator.
Miss G acted reasonably in cutting short her holiday but that doesnt mean her claim is 
covered in the circumstances of this case and with reference to the policy terms. I cant fairly 
say AWP should cover her claim.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman