DRN-3513981
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as C has complained that HDI Global Specialty SE (HDI) unfairly 
turned down its business interruption insurance claim after it closed its business premises 
due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
Mr P, a director of C, has brought the complaint on Cs behalf.
What happened
C held a commercial insurance policy with HDI. It is a consultancy business.
The Covid-19 pandemic led C to stop trading from 1 April 2020. 
C claimed on the policy. HDI declined the claim. It said Cs policy didnt include business 
interruption cover. 
Unhappy with HDIs response, C brought a complaint to us. 
Our Investigator looked into Cs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He didnt 
think the policy included business interruption cover.
C asked for an Ombudsmans decision. There is a separate complaint about the sale of the 
policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Cs business. But I dont intend to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.
Commercial insurance policies offer protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in the 
policy terms and conditions. 
In the 8 page policy summary document HDI said:
The policy is divided into a number of sections and not all sections may be included as part 
of your insurance. Please refer to the quotation or renewal documentation for confirmation of 
the sections of cover selected. 
It then listed the various policy sections which were professional indemnity, contents, 
buildings, business interruption, terrorism, employers liability and public and products 
liability. 
At the beginning of the insurance schedule it says:
This document is a summary of the insurance you've bought. It includes information you or 
anyone acting on your behalf provided before we agreed to insure you. This includes details 
of the cover given, cover limits, the excesses and any changes to the standard policy 
wording which are specific to your own circumstances.
It also says:
You should always read this document together with the policy wording.
The risks listed as being covered were public and products liability, employers liability and 
professional indemnity. C had chosen not to insure its contents.
The policy also referred to the fact that it should be read together with the schedule. It said:
This document, together with its schedule and any attached endorsements is the policy 
which sets out this insurance. It is a legal contract so please read all of it carefully.  
and
Each section sets out the scope of the main coverage and the circumstances in which our 
liability to you is limited or may be excluded. Further, each section sets out other terms and 
conditions relevant to that section. The cover provided by each section is only operative 
if identified as insured in the schedule by stating a limit of indemnity or sum insured, or 
'insured'. Where any schedule heading or sub-heading states 'n/a'. 'not applicable' or not 
insured' then no cover applies for that item.
The business interruption section of the policy stated:
The insurance by this section excludes and does not insure any amount in excess of the 
sum insured shown in the schedule that is the maximum amount we are liable to pay 
during any one period of insurance
The schedule listed the following sums insured:
Public and products liability  covered up to £1,000,000
Employers liability  covered up to £10,000,000
Contents: office contents - not included
Contents: portable business equipment  not included
Professional indemnity  covered up to £100,000
There is no mention of the buildings, business interruption or the terrorism sections of the 
policy within the schedule. So, Im satisfied that business interruption cover wasnt included 
in the policy. 
I appreciate my decision will be disappointing to C. But since business interruption cover 
wasnt included in the policy, I cant say HDI treated C unfairly in declining the claim on the 
basis the policy didnt offer cover for business interruption.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman