DRN-4330136
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy with the standard of repairs and the way Aviva Insurance Limited 
handled their claim following impact damage to their home.
Mr and Mrs H jointly held home insurance underwritten by Aviva. They both raised the 
complaint but, for ease of reading, Ill refer mainly to Mr H as if he completed the actions.
What happened
In summary, Mr H claimed under his buildings insurance policy for car impact damage to his 
integral garage/utility room door and wall. Aviva accepted the claim and arranged repairs.
The circumstances are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. Instead, Ill 
focus on addressing the issues in dispute and giving the reasons for my decision.
Mr H confirmed that the following points remain in dispute:
The cost he incurred replacing the fire door between the garage and the house to the 
correct safety standard. 
The cost of repairing damage in and around the en-suite bathroom above the garage 
repairs. 
The adequacy of the garage blockwork pointing.
The stress and difficulty experienced because of the way Aviva handled the claim.
I issued a provisional decision in August 2023 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mr 
and Mrs Hs complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Firstly, Id like to clarify my role. Im not an expert in building or fire safety regulations, nor am 
I expected to be. My responsibility here is to look at the way Aviva handled Mr Hs claim, 
whether it was fair and in line with the policy, and whether it should reasonably have done 
any more. 
Theres a lot of evidence available to me, including comment from both parties, expert 
reports, photos, call recordings, policy documents, and copies of relevant regulations. I wont 
comment on everything, and our rules dont require me to. Ill focus on giving the reasons for 
my decision, but I wanted to reassure Mr H and Aviva that I have considered everything 
available. 
For consistency, Ill use the same headings set out in our investigators opinion of the 
complaint. Mr H confirmed these headings reflect the four main issues in dispute.
Fire door regulations
Mr H doesnt think Aviva fitted the fire door in accordance with fire safety standards. While 
the documents Mr H provided do seem to show that three hinges and a self-closer are 
required, I must rely on professional opinion. Thats because Im not an expert in building 
regulations, so I cant conclude that the evidence Mr H presented is the latest, or a complete 
picture, of the regulations in place at the time the work was done. Thats not to say I doubt 
the evidence Mr H provided, but its not proportionate or appropriate for me to inspect and 
reach a decision about the proper standard required by the building regulations. So, I cant 
conclude that Aviva failed to meet the fire safety regulations.
With that said, I note Mr H had a door with fire-rated self-closing hinges. Avivas evidence 
shows that it offered to fit a sprung closer on the garage side, which Mr H declined. I dont 
think he disputes that, but it doesnt mean he declined any self-closing mechanism. The 
difference of opinion lies in whether Mr H asked for the original self-closing hinges to be refit, 
as Aviva reported. Mr H said the hinges were damaged, and I think thats likely given the 
nature of the impact damage. Therefore, I consider it unlikely that he wouldve asked Aviva 
to refit the damaged hinges.
Avivas responsibility is to put Mr H back in the position he was in before the damage. As his 
door was fitted with fire-rated self-closing hinges before the impact damage, I dont think its 
unreasonable for him to expect Aviva to replace like with like.
I appreciate this element of complaint is not just about the hinges. Mr H provided evidence 
that Aviva installed a 30-minute fire-rated door, despite it saying it installed a 60-minute door 
even though its agreed the required standard is 30 minutes. Mr H also had concerns about 
the adequacy of the door stop fitting.
Because Mr H was concerned about the fire safety standard of the replacement door, he 
arranged to have a new door installed which he was satisfied met the required standard and 
complied with the manufacturers installation requirements. Therefore, there seems little 
point in me asking Aviva to go and assess the door. However, the evidence provided by both 
parties, which Ive referred to above, persuades me that it was reasonable for Mr H to raise 
concerns about the standard of door installed and, ultimately, replace it with one he was 
confident with. 
Mr H said the cost to him was £655. Ive seen a copy of the invoice Mr H paid and the work 
does appear to relate only to the fire door. Therefore, Im minded to require Aviva to 
reimburse the full cost. If Aviva requires a copy for its records, we can forward the evidence 
or Mr H may wish to send it directly.
Pointing
Mr H said the blockwork pointing in his garage isnt up to standard. Aviva said Mr H wouldnt 
allow access to inspect it.
Our investigator addressed this point in her view of the complaint and recommended that 
Aviva send someone to inspect the pointing. If it was found to be faulty, then Aviva should 
repair or cash settle for the cost of repairs. Aviva accepted this recommendation, but Mr H 
asked that Aviva send a different contractor.
It's clear from the evidence that the relationship between Mr and Mrs H and Avivas 
contractor has broken down, and I understand why they asked for someone different. I dont 
think its an unreasonable request so, in the interest of bringing this matter to a close, I plan 
to ask Aviva to arrange an inspection of the pointing by a different contractor.
En-suiteMr H said theres damage to the grouting, walls and tiling in his en-suite bathroom which sits 
directly above the garage wall repair, and which only appeared after the repairs. Therefore, 
he believes the damage should be covered as part of the overall claim. Avivas inspection 
report concluded that the damage was unrelated.
Ive looked at the expert report and the photos provided by both Aviva and Mr H. I 
completely understand why Mr H considers the damage related with it being directly above 
the area of repairs, but I havent seen any evidence which offers a direct contradiction to 
Avivas expert report. I realise Mr H is doubtful about the reliability of the report, particularly 
in relation to the extent of wall repairs Aviva carried out before the bathroom damage 
appeared. However, I havent seen anything in the evidence which causes me to share his 
doubt. The comments in the report reflect the damage shown in the photos, and the 
explanation seems plausible. So, in the absence of any compelling contradictory evidence, I 
cant reasonably say Avivas expert reached an incorrect conclusion about the cause of 
damage.
Should Mr H wish to arrange a further expert report of the damage, its open to him to do so 
and to provide the evidence for Avivas consideration. As the matter stands, Im not planning 
to ask Aviva to do any more in respect of the en-suite damage.
Compensation
Aviva offered Mr H £300 compensation by way of apology for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. Mr H said the offer was made in full and final settlement, but he declined it. 
Originally, he said an apology would be enough, but hes now prepared to accept the offer.
There will always be inconvenience during a claim of this nature. So, any compensation I 
require will only reflect the avoidable distress and inconvenience caused above that which 
would normally be experienced in similar circumstances. Having considered the overall 
circumstances of the complaint, Im satisfied that Avivas offer was fair and reasonable.
I understand Mr H doesnt agree that Aviva already made payment to him. In light of his 
comments, Ill include a requirement for Aviva to make payment if it cannot demonstrate that 
it has already done so.
I said I was intending to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and I was minded to require Aviva 
Insurance Limited to:
Reimburse Mr H the evidenced cost of his replacement fitted door.
Arrange an independent inspection of Mr Hs garage wall pointing, using a different 
contractor to that previously used. If its found to be faulty, arrange a repair or cash 
settlement. 
If Aviva cannot evidence that it has already done so, pay Mr and Mrs H £300 by way 
of apology for the distress and inconvenience caused beyond that which might be 
expected during the usual course of a claim.I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Aviva responded to say it didnt have any objection to my provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs H accepted my findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For completeness, Ive looked again at the evidence available to me in respect of this 
complaint. Having done so, and because both parties accepted my findings, my provisional 
decision becomes my final decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Hs 
complaint and Aviva Insurance Limited must:
Reimburse Mr H the evidenced cost of his replacement fitted door.
Arrange an independent inspection of Mr Hs garage wall pointing, using a different 
contractor to that previously used. If its found to be faulty, arrange a repair or cash 
settlement. 
If Aviva cannot evidence that it has already done so, pay Mr and Mrs H £300 by way 
of apology for the distress and inconvenience caused beyond that which might be 
expected during the usual course of a claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman