DRN-3221785
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy with the time she was without heating and hot water due to Aviva 
Insurance Limiteds (Aviva) delays handling her claim for a broken boiler. Miss S had 
contents and buildings insurance with Aviva, which included home emergency cover for her 
boiler.
What happened
Miss S claimed under her policy for her broken boiler. Aviva sent an engineer the following 
day, who told her the boiler was beyond economical repair (BER). The engineer said Aviva 
would send a report within 24 hours. Miss S didnt receive any contact from Aviva, so she 
chased an update on two occasions. Aviva provided heaters while waiting for the engineer 
report, and the next day it confirmed to Miss S that her boiler was BER. In line with the 
policy, Aviva paid Miss S £500 towards a new boiler.
Miss S complained that shed been without heating and hot water for almost two weeks. 
Aviva acknowledged its service delays and offered £55 compensation for five days without 
heating and hot water, and for the failure to call when it promised to do so on two occasions. 
Miss S didnt think the compensation was enough. Aviva increased its offer to £100, but Miss 
S still felt it didnt adequately compensate her for the time without heating and hot water.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Ss complaint. He agreed that Aviva hadnt handled the 
claim as well as it couldve done, but he thought it had done enough to apologise to Miss S 
for its mistakes. Our investigator didnt think Aviva needed to do any more.
Miss S didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Miss S will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. Ill 
explain why.
The circumstances of this complaint are not in dispute. Aviva accepted that it didnt handle 
Miss Ss claim as well as it couldve done and it apologised, offering £100 compensation. But 
Miss S doesnt think thats enough, and shed like Aviva to review its service and make 
improvements. 
Ive looked at the evidence to decide whether Avivas offer is fair.
Aviva sent an engineer to inspect Miss Ss boiler on 28 April - the day after she raised her 
claim - and promised to send a report by the following day. Theres nothing in the policy to 
suggest anything here shouldve been done sooner, so I dont think this timescale is 
unreasonable. Its at this point that avoidable delays occurred. Avivas engineer didnt send 
the report until 3 May  four to five days later than promised. Aviva told Miss S on that same 
day that her boiler was BER and raised a payment of £500 towards a new boiler in line with 
the policy. Had Aviva handled the claim in the promised timescales, Miss S wouldve had 
confirmation that she needed a new boiler four or five days sooner. So, Im satisfied that 
Aviva was responsible for avoidable delays of five days at most.
I understand it wouldnt have been comfortable for Miss S to be without heating and hot 
water, but Aviva is only responsible for five days of delay, so thats the period for which 
compensation is warranted.
Aviva offered £55 for the delay and its failure to contact Miss S when it shouldve done. It 
increased its offer to £100 when Miss S complained. Taking into consideration that Aviva 
provided heaters for Miss S the day before it told her the boiler was BER, and I havent seen 
anything in the evidence to suggest Miss S experienced unusual hardship or additional costs 
during the five days she waited for Avivas report, I think its compensation offer was fair.
In summary, Im satisfied that Aviva acknowledged its delays handling Miss Ss claim and 
made a reasonable offer of compensation by way of apology. Otherwise, Aviva handled the 
claim in line with the terms of the policy, so I see no reason to ask it to do any more.
Miss S wanted Aviva to review the way it handles this type of claim and improve its customer 
service. My decision, here, is about putting matters right for this complaint. So, although 
Aviva has already confirmed it took away lessons from the way it handled Miss Ss claim, I 
wont be requiring any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman