DRN-3939850
The complaint
Miss G complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with MotoNovo Finance Limited (who Ill call MotoNovo).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss G but whilst I think the business should repair the fault on her 
car I dont think it would be proportionate to ask them to allow her to reject it at the moment.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss G acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then MotoNovo, who are also the 
supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant 
circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Miss G. The car here was about 
three and a half years old and had completed about 21,000 miles. So I think a reasonable 
person would expect it to have only minor wear and tear.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when MotoNovo were responsible for its 
quality, unless they can demonstrate otherwise. 
Im persuaded there were faults with this car when it was supplied as I can see that the 
window tint was wrong and that there was a service light on when a service wasnt due. 
These issues along with a problem with the Diesel Particulate Filter (DPF), were reported 
within the first few days of ownership.
The DPF problem and the issue with the window tint have been resolved to Miss Gs 
satisfaction but the service light has re-illuminated despite a repair attempt in November 
2021.
The independent engineer who looked at Miss Gs car in May 2022 noted that the service 
light was illuminated but he didnt think it was likely that problem was present when the car 
was supplied to Miss G. I disagree as I can see Miss G complained about it within days of 
taking receipt of the car. 
The relevant legislation provides the business with one opportunity to repair a fault that is 
present, or developing, when goods are supplied. Miss G says the business have now had 
that opportunity and that she should be allowed to reject the car.
Ive thought about that, but I dont think rejection would be a proportionate redress at the 
moment. I say that because although it must be inconvenient for Miss G to have the service 
light on permanently I dont think I have evidence it is causing any problem with the way the 
car is performing. The independent engineer was able to drive the car and didnt identify any 
problems with it. Miss G says shell now have to take the car for a service every three 
months, but I dont think thats the case. The vehicle needs to be serviced in line with the 
manufacturers recommendations and not every time a faulty service light illuminates. I can 
see that the independent engineer subsequently suggested oil samples were taken to 
consider if this may be the reason why the service light was illuminating prematurely. That 
suggestion has been disputed by a mechanic whose comments Miss G sought. It was his 
suggestion the service light could only be illuminating because of an electrical fault. 
Taking all of that information into account, I think its fair to give the business another 
opportunity to fix the fault.
Putting things right
Im asking MotoNovo to repair the car to ensure the fault with the service light illuminating 
unnecessarily is resolved.
Miss G has clearly been inconvenienced by these issues as I can see shes had to take the 
car to a garage on several occasions. Shes also had to escalate her complaint to this 
service when I think it could have been resolved earlier, and Ive read her testimony that 
shes had to arrange alternative transport. In the circumstances I think MotoNovo should 
provide Miss G with £100 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience caused.
MotoNovo will also need to ensure Miss G is kept mobile in a car of a similar specification 
and age whilst her car is being repaired. If that isnt possible MotoNovo should make a pro 
rata reduction from any finance instalments to compensate Miss G for the time the car is in 
the garage and the issue is being rectified.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell MotoNovo Finance 
Limited to:
Arrange for the fault to be diagnosed and repaired, at no cost to Miss G.
Keep Miss G mobile in a car of similar specification and age whilst the car is being 
repaired. If that isnt possible, make a pro rata reduction from any finance instalments 
to compensate Miss G for the time the car is in the garage being repaired.
Pay Miss G £100 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes 
experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman