DRN-3850592
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain because Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) cancelled their 
travel insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs D held an annual travel insurance policy, provided by Great Lakes. The policy 
began in September 2018 and was due to end in September 2019. 
In June 2019, Mr D contacted the seller of the policy to declare a medical condition following 
a successful cancellation claim. The seller of the policy said that Great Lakes couldnt 
continue to insure Mr D. The annual policy was cancelled, and Mr D and Mrs D were given a 
full refund of the premiums theyd paid. 
Unhappy, Mr D complained. He said that, amongst other things, Great Lakes had 
discriminated against him, hadnt taken his personal circumstances into account, and had 
taken the decision to cancel his policy without seeking a clinical assessment from his 
doctors. 
The seller of the policy responded to some of Mr Ds complaint points, but not to others. As 
Mr D remained dissatisfied, he brought a complaint to our service about both the seller of the 
policy and about Great Lakes. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and said he didnt think Great 
Lakes decision to cancel Mr and Mrs Ds insurance policy was unfair or unreasonable in the 
circumstances. Mr D disputed the explanation given by our investigator about the information 
which Great Lakes said it relied upon when cancelling Mr and Mrs Ds policy. Our 
investigator said he thought Great Lakes had based its decision on the answers to its 
questions which were given by Mr D.
As a resolution couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide as the 
final stage in our process. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When making this final decision, Im only considering the actions which Great Lakes is 
responsible for. That is the decision by Great Lakes, as the underwriter of Mr and Mrs Ds 
annual insurance policy, to cancel their contract. 
Im sorry to hear that Mr D was unwell but Im pleased to hear about his positive prognosis. 
Mr D has sent us detailed submissions, all of which Ive read and considered independently 
and impartially. But, when making my final decision, I wont be addressing every argument 
that has been raised  nor am I obliged to. Instead, reflecting the informal nature of our 
service, Ill only be addressing what I think are the key issues. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs D, but I wont be upholding their complaint and Ill explain 
why:
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ds policy allowed Great Lakes to alter the 
annual contract in certain circumstances if a policyholders health changed after the 
insurance was purchased. This included cancelling the contract and this is a 
common term in most, if not all, annual travel insurance policies on the market.
An insurer is entitled to decide what level of risk, if any, it is prepared to accept in 
return for the payment of a premium. This is a commercial decision for an insurer 
alone to make, and it isnt generally a decision which our service would intervene in 
so long as an insurer can demonstrate that it treats consumers with the same 
circumstances in the same way. Each individual insurer is also entitled to decide 
what process it uses in making its decisions about risk. 
Mr Ds doctors can, of course, offer medical opinions about Mr Ds prognosis and/or 
his fitness to travel. But its not for Mr Ds doctors to decide that Great Lakes 
decision to cancel his policy was wrong. Great Lakes decides whether it is prepared 
to continue to offer cover according to its own underwriting criteria. While Mr D 
clearly feels very strongly that Great Lakes should seek feedback from medical 
professionals before making any decision to cancel the cover offered, Great Lakes 
isnt obliged to do this  nor is Great Lakes obliged to provide Mr D with any 
explanation about why it has structured its commercial risk decision-making process 
in the way that it has. The fact that the seller of this insurance, during the call in June 
2019, agreed that clinical feedback should form part of the process doesnt change 
my findings on this point. Its open to Mr D to purchase travel insurance from other 
providers who do seek such feedback if he wishes.  
Ive read all the information which Mr D has provided about various types of cancer 
diagnoses, as well as the letter from the Specialist Registrar in ENT dated 16 
October 2019. For the avoidance of doubt, Im not making any finding about whether 
I think Mr Ds cancer had spread. As Mr D has correctly pointed out, Im not 
medically qualified and it wouldnt be appropriate for me to do. Instead, the key issue 
for me to decide is whether I think Great Lakes decision to cancel Mr and Mrs Ds 
policy was unfair or unreasonable based on the information which was provided to it. 
Ive listened to the call which took place in June 2019. Im satisfied that the questions 
asked on behalf of Great Lakes were clear and understandable. Great Lakes has set 
the questions it uses to determine whether it will offer cover for certain medical 
conditions. This is the process by which it has chosen to make its risk decisions and 
there arent any reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly conclude that its 
questions should be more detailed.  
Mr D was asked whether his cancer had spread to other parts of his body. Mr D said 
that a small amount had spread to one lymph node in his neck. I understand that Mr 
D went on to explain during the call that the tonsil is part of the lymph system and 
that the cancer had not spread any further than that. I also understand that Mr Ds 
doctors disagree with how the answer he gave was interpreted. But, overall, Im 
satisfied that, based on the information provided by Mr D, Great Lakes was entitled 
to treat the answer to this question as yes. 
I understand Mr D wants to know what Great Lakes would have done if hed said his 
diagnosis was T2 N1 M0. Our service decides what evidence we think is required to 
reach a determination about a complaint. As Im satisfied that Great Lakes was 
entitled to rely on the answer given by Mr D in recording that his cancer had spread, I dont think its relevant what (if anything) Great Lakes may have done differently if 
Mr D had provided it with more detailed medical information which, in any event, 
Great Lakes decision-making system for risk-screening doesnt ask about and 
wouldnt record. 
Im satisfied that Great Lakes underwriting criteria shows it made a legitimate 
commercial decision, based on its risk appetite, to cancel Mr and Mrs Ds cover, and 
that Great Lakes wouldnt have continued to offer cover to other policyholders in the 
same situation as Mr D either. So, Im satisfied that Great Lakes hasnt treated Mr D 
any differently or less favourably to other customers in the same circumstances. In 
making my decision, Ive also taken into account the relevant law (the Equality Act 
2010). 
Overall, I dont think Great Lakes acted unfairly or unreasonably by cancelling Mr and 
Mrs Ds policy and I wont be directing Great Lakes to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman