DRN-2771119
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc unfairly rejected her claim for a disputed credit 
card payment. She says she paid for a holiday cottage using her card and that the cottage 
wasnt as described.
What happened
Mrs F booked a holiday cottage for a weekend. The booking was through a third party I will 
call N, and Mrs F paid for it using her Sainsburys credit card. 
Mrs F says she chose that particular cottage because it was described as having an 
enclosed garden which was important to her because she had a dog. But when she arrived 
at the cottage she found there were gaps in the fencing and hedging and one of the gaps led 
to a road. Mrs F says she couldnt let her dog off the lead, and this spoiled the weekend. 
The cottage owner and N didnt agree that the cottage had been misrepresented. Because 
Mrs F paid by credit card, she contacted Sainsburys to dispute the transaction. The bank 
said the holiday terms and conditions say that an enclosed garden doesnt mean the 
garden is secure. So it didnt think the cottage had been misrepresented or that thered been 
a breach of contract, and it declined Mrs Fs disputed transaction claim.
Our investigator agreed with the banks conclusions and didnt recommend that the 
complaint should be upheld.
Mrs F disagreed. She said, in summary, that the photos in the advertising didnt show the 
gap and it led onto a 60mph road. She emphasised that shed specifically chosen that 
cottage to allow her dog to run free in the garden.
Our investigator reconsidered the complaint and thought a 20% reduction in the cost would 
fairly compensate Mrs F. But Mrs F said she would have chosen another cottage if shed 
known about the garden, so wanted a 100% refund.
Having thought about the relevant law to be taken into account here, our investigator thought 
there wasnt a required debtor-creditor-supplier link and that, in these circumstances, 
Sainsburys wasnt required to take any further action.
Mrs F asked for her complaint to be passed to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to decide whether Sainsburys treated Mrs F fairly when she raised a dispute 
about the payment. In considering whether Sainsburys treated Mrs F fairly, I need to have 
regard to the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and 
codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider having been good industry 
practice at the time. In this case, relevant law includes section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974.
Mrs F has been clear about her reason for disputing the payment. Shed paid for a cottage 
which she understood to have an enclosed garden. And shes explained why this was 
particularly important to her.
Banks can help settle some disputes between customers and retailers by submitting a 
chargeback request for a transaction. Chargeback is a way for customers to dispute certain 
card payments and is run by the card scheme. A chargeback can only be done for certain 
specific reasons, such as the goods not being as described or being faulty, and within 
certain timescales. And theres no obligation on a business to carry out a chargeback, 
although we generally take the view that its good practice for a business to do so where 
theres a reasonable prospect of success.
Mrs F had already raised her dispute with the cottage owner and with N and they had both 
rejected her claim that the cottage was misrepresented. When she disputed the payment 
with Sainsburys, it considered what shed told it alongside the description of the cottage and 
the suppliers terms and conditions. It highlighted one of the terms which says:
Please be aware that if a Property is advertised as having an enclosed garden, this does 
not necessarily mean a secure garden. It may be enclosed by hedging or open style 
fencing". 
Sainsburys thought this was reflected in the photos of the property on the website. For this 
reason, it didnt think the cottage had been misrepresented. I think this was a reasonable 
conclusion, based on the evidence available, and I dont think it treated Mrs F unfairly in not 
submitting a chargeback request. I say this because it had evidence to show that the 
chargeback request was likely to be unsuccessful.
But Ive also considered whether Sainsburys has treated Mrs F fairly taking into account 
section 75. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be:
A Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement; and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
The key to whether Mrs F has a valid claim lies in identifying the role of N. I have looked at 
the contract and its website. These identify N as an agent, rather than a supplier, of the 
holiday. The terms also say that the owner of the cottage is solely responsible for providing 
the accommodation.
I am satisfied that the role of N is as an intermediary in advertising the cottage and taking 
payment which it passes on to the owner, or supplier. And that it did what it was contracted 
to do in this case. That means the DCS link is broken. I appreciate this may well appear to 
be a technicality but, as the law is currently drafted, I dont find that Mrs F has a section 75 
claim against the bank. So theres no obligation on it to refund her payment.
Therefore, whilst I sympathise with Mrs F, I cannot uphold her complaint.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman