DRN-3696576
The complaint
Mrs T complains J D Williams & Company Limited (JDW) irresponsibly approved her for 
multiple accounts.
What happened
Mrs T has taken out multiple accounts with JDW. Mrs T says these accounts were all 
irresponsibly approved; and had JDW completed proper checks it wouldve realised she 
could not afford them. Mrs T says she has lost out financially as a result of these accounts 
as she has had to pay out additional interest and charges.
Mrs T has multiple accounts with JDW spanning a number of years. Our investigator looked 
into the complaint and provided her recommendations. She recommended this complaint be 
upheld in part. JDW agreed with our investigators recommendations; Mrs T has agreed in 
part. However, Mrs T remains unhappy on accounts where our investigator has not 
recommended any or full redress. 
For ease Ive set out the accounts Mrs T has with JDW and what our investigator 
recommended and whether Mrs T accepts these findings. In essence Mrs T is disputing the 
accounts which are in bold. However, she has requested a review of all of the accounts. The 
accounts are summarised below:
Account Ending Date Taken Investigator 
AssessmentMrs T accepts
G-256 March 2011 Part upheld from 
December 2011No
T-117 September 2015 Not upheld No
T-169 December 2015 Not upheld No
K-490 February 2016 One order returned in 
fullYes
B-926 March 2017 One order returned in 
fullYes
S-414 August 2018 Part upheld from 
November 2018No
Y-843 August 2018 Part upheld from 
November 18No
Y-490 September 2018 Never used Yes
C-949 December 2018 Offer made in line by 
JDWYes
C-163 December 2018 Offer made in line by 
JDWYes
X-478 July 2019 Upheld in full Yes
N-979 November 2020 Upheld in full Yes
Mrs T had two further accounts (A-168 ad I-557) which dont form part of this complaint; so 
Ive not considered them here. These accounts are being considered under a separate 
reference. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide this complaint.   
Mrs T and JDW are aware of our services approach to irresponsible and unaffordable 
lending complaints; so, for the sake of conciseness I wont set out the detail here. 
Having reviewed everything, Im satisfied this complaint should be upheld in part. Im 
satisfied that the redress should remain the same as that set out by our investigator. I 
appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mrs T; however, I can assure her Ive 
considered all of the information that has been provided and Ive reviewed all of the accounts 
separately. 
Ill start with the accounts which are not in dispute.
As Mrs T and JDW have accepted the findings in relations to accounts N-979, C-949, C-163 
and X-478; I wont set out any further findings in relation to them other than to say Im also 
satisfied this accounts should be upheld in full.
Accounts Y-490, B-926 and K-490 did not suffer any financial loss. This is because either 
the account was not used; or the goods purchased on them were returned in full. As there 
was no financial loss on these accounts there is no finding that I can make in relation to 
them. 
So after taking into consideration the status of those accounts, there are five further 
accounts which are in dispute. Ill set my findings out in relation to each of these in turn.
Account ending G-256
This account was opened in March 2011. The initial credit limit was £125. The limit on the 
account was increased five further times  July 2011 to £200, August 2011 to £300, 
September 2011 to £500, October 2011 to £700 and December 2011 to £1,000.JDW says that it searched Mrs Ts credit file prior to each lending decision; as well as taking 
into consideration her payment history. Due to the passage of time that has passed JDW 
has been unable to provide our service with the details of the results it completed for each 
check.
Our investigator recommended that this account be upheld from the final increase in 
December 2011. JDW agreed with this recommendation. Mrs T says JDW should not have 
provided this account.
Ive considered Mrs Ts arguments, but Im not persuaded by it. Im satisfied that based on 
the information which has been provided that JDW acted unfairly when it approved Mrs T for 
the credit limit increase in December 2011.
I say this because Im satisfied that JDW completed proportionate checks in relation to the 
initial limit and the subsequent limit increase up to December 2011. The credit limit up until 
this point was relatively low (even taking into account any other account limits Mrs T had at 
the same time); meaning that the checks needed to be proportionate to it. Whilst JDW cant 
provide the results of the searches it completed; Im satisfied that searching Mrs Ts credit 
file would be proportionate in this instance. This is because by searching Mrs Ts credit file 
JDW wouldve been in a good enough position to understand how Mrs T was managing her 
existing credit.
Although Ive not been presented with the information from the results of JDWs checks; Ive 
not seen any further information which demonstrates Mrs T was not in a position to 
sustainably make the repayments on the account. So, in the absence of contradictory 
information Im unable to say JDW acted unfairly in providing Mrs T the initial credit limit and 
the subsequent increases in July, August, September and October 2011.
However, by December 2011 JDW had increased Mrs Ts limit to £1,000 which was a 
significant credit limit. At this point Im satisfied JDW shouldve completed further checks to 
better understand Mrs Ts financial position. As it didnt do this Im not satisfied JDW 
completed proportionate checks at this point.
Weve asked Mrs T to provide details of her finances from around this time; but due to the 
passage of time she has understandably been unable to provide much information. So in the 
absence of any further information; Ive had to consider the information we have on file to 
consider on balance what further checks wouldve shown.
The account history demonstrates that Mrs T had begun to fall into arrears with this account 
after the increase in October 2011. Whilst this amount was relatively low; Im satisfied it 
demonstrates that Mrs T was beginning to struggle to manage her account sustainably. Mrs 
T has told us she was struggling financially at this point; and Im satisfied that this was likely 
the case on balance. As such Im satisfied that had JDW completed further checks it 
wouldve likely seen this increase was unaffordable to Mrs T and not provided. 
As stated above JDW has already accepted this finding.
Account ending T-117
This account was taken out in September 2015 and had an initial limit of £100. There is no 
evidence this account had any increases to it.
Again, JDW says that it searched Mrs Ts credit file prior to each lending decision; as well as 
taking into consideration her payment history. Due to the passage of time that has passed JDW has been unable to provide our service with the details of the results it completed for 
each check.
Im satisfied that JDW completed proportionate checks in relation to this account. 
Considering the low value of the account (and the total credit Mrs T had available to her at 
this time); Im satisfied that searching her credit file wouldve been given JDW sufficient 
insight into Mrs Ts finances. As such Im satisfied the checks were proportionate.
Although Ive not been provided with the results of these checks; Im satisfied they wouldve 
likely shown Mrs T could afford the necessary repayments. Again, this is because the value 
of the credit being advanced was minimal that Im satisfied that any information JDW 
gathered wouldve likely shown Mrs T couldve afforded the repayments. 
So overall Im satisfied JDW acted fairly in providing this account. As such JDW does not 
need to do anything further in relation to this aspect of Mrs Ts account.
Account ending T-169
This account was opened in December 2015 and was for a limit of £150. This account also 
did not have any form of credit increases.
Again, JDW says that it searched Mrs Ts credit file prior to each lending decision; as well as 
taking into consideration her payment history. Due to the passage of time that has passed 
JDW has been unable to provide our service with the details of the results it completed for 
this check.
Similar to account ending T-117; Im satisfied that JDW approved this account fairly. This is 
for largely the same reasons as account ending T-117. The checks JDW completed here 
were proportionate as JDW searched Mrs Ts credit file; which wouldve given it a sufficient 
insight into her finances.
And whilst Mrs T had a number of accounts with JDW at this time; her overall credit limits 
remained relatively low. So, Im satisfied that the information JDW wouldve likely seen 
wouldve likely shown Mrs T could afford the necessary repayments for this account too. As 
such Im satisfied JDW acted reasonably in approving this account. 
Account ending S-414
This account was opened in August 2018 and had an initial limit of £150. It had four 
subsequent credit increases: November 2018 to £250, December 2018 to £350, January 
2019 to £500 and November 2019 to £800.
JDW says that it searched Mrs Ts credit file prior to each lending decision; as well as taking 
into consideration her payment history. Due to the passage of time that has passed JDW 
has been unable to provide our service with the details of the results it completed for each 
check.
Our investigator recommended that this account be upheld from the November 2018 
increase. JDW agreed with this recommendation. Mrs T says JDW should not have provided 
this account.
Im satisfied the initial limit had proportionate checks; as this was for a relatively low amount; 
and searching Mrs Ts credit file wouldve been proportionate. And whilst we dont have the 
information from the checks; Ive also not seen any information which demonstrates Mrs T could not have afforded the necessary repayments. As such Im satisfied JDW made a fair 
decision to give Mrs T the initial limit.
However, having reviewed the information we have, Im satisfied that JDW acted unfairly in 
increasing the limit from November 2018 onwards. Whilst the checks were proportionate in 
this instance; Im satisfied JDW made an unfair decision to approve Mrs T for further credit. I 
say this because the account history demonstrates that by November 2018 Mrs T had begun 
to fall into arrears on the account. Im satisfied this information demonstrated that Mrs T was 
not managing her accounts in a sustainable way; and further lending at this point would not 
have been reasonable.
As such Im satisfied JDW acted unfairly increasing this account from November 2018 
onwards. I note JDW has already agreed with this finding.
Account ending Y-843
This account as taken out in August 2018 for an initial limit of £150. There were three further 
increases: October 2018 to £250, November 2018 to £350 and October 2019 to £600.
Similar to account ending S-414 Im satisfied that JDW acted unfairly when it increased Mrs 
Ts limit from November 2018. This is for largely the same reasons as account S-414. Whilst 
the initial lending decision and first increase had proportionate checks and fair decisions; Im 
satisfied that by November 2018 Mrs T was demonstrating she was struggling to manage 
her payments across her various account.
By November 2018 Mrs T had begun to build arrears on her account S-414 and as this 
increase was approved around the same time it is likely Mrs T would not have likely been 
able to afford this increase (or future increases) either.
As such Im satisfied that JDW acted unfairly in providing the limit from this time onwards. 
Before this time, Im satisfied the evidence demonstrates that Mrs T couldve likely afforded 
the initial limit and first increase (this is for the same reasons as those for account ending S-
414). 
I note that JDW has already agreed with this finding too.
So overall; Im satisfied Mrs Ts complaint should be upheld in part. Im satisfied that JDW 
needs to put things right on the following accounts:
Account Ending Date Taken Ombudsman 
Redress
G-256 March 2011 Upheld from 
December 2011
S-414 August 2018 Upheld from 
November 2018
Y-843 August 2018 Upheld from 
November 18
C-949 December 2018 Offer made in line by 
JDWC-163 December 2018 Offer made in line by 
JDW
X-478 July 2019 Upheld in full
N-979 November 2020 Upheld in full
Putting things right
JDWs actions have caused Mrs T to suffer a financial loss as she has had to pay additional 
interest and charges on some of her accounts. As such it needs to take steps to put things 
right. 
Our investigator set out the necessary redress in detail to both parties previously. I note that 
JDW has already actioned the redress our investigator recommended. My final decision 
does not alter any of the redress payments for Mrs T; so, Im satisfied that whilst this 
complaint is upheld; JDW does not need to do anything further than it already has in relation 
to the above mentioned accounts. 
I would also clarify that once the balance for any of the accounts which have been upheld 
has been settled; then JDW needs to remove any negative information in relation to them 
from the relevant point the account has been upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against J D Williams & Company Limited.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman