DRN-2285358
The complaint
Mrs P complains about Phoenix Life Limited. Shes unhappy that shes paid more in 
premiums for her whole of life assurance policy than the sum assured benefit that will be 
payable upon her death. She doesnt think it is fair that she must continue paying the 
premiums or otherwise she wont receive anything in return.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here. 
Mrs P set up a whole of life insurance policy in 2003 with a firm Phoenix Life has since 
acquired liability for. The policy provides a sum assured of £3,825 for a monthly premium of 
£20. 
Mrs P called Phoenix Life in June 2020 to complain about the policy. She was unhappy that 
shed paid more in premiums than she would receive back (sum assured). And so, she didnt 
think she should have to keep paying the premiums. 
Phoenix Life didnt uphold the complaint. They said the policy is designed to insure 
Mrs Ps life and, providing premiums are paid, pay out a lump sum to her next of kin in the 
event of her passing. They also confirmed that the level of cover and premiums payable 
remain fixed throughout, as well there being no surrender or paid up value. Phoenix Life 
acknowledged Mrs Ps frustration with the amount of premiums paid so far but explained 
that, depending on when the policy pays out, it can be more than the benefit. 
Phoenix Life also added that they didnt provide Mrs P with financial advice when she took 
out the policy but it was offered as part of a marketing campaign. It was therefore Mrs Ps 
decision whether to proceed with the policy. 
The complaint was brought to our service. One of our investigators looked in to it but she 
didnt think Phoenix Life had to do anything further. She explained that as the policy was 
sold on a non-advised basis, it was up to Mrs P to ensure it was suitable for her needs. Our 
investigator also thought Phoenix Life made it clear to Mrs P in the product literature that 
benefits would not be payable if premiums stopped being paid. And that Mrs P could end up 
paying more in premiums than the benefit amount. 
Mrs P disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs Ps dissatisfaction that, should she continue to pay the premiums, her 
estate will receive less than what she has paid for the cover. But what I must consider here 
is whether Phoenix Life has acted fairly and in line with the terms of the policy. I know this 
will come as a disappointment to Mrs P but, for the reasons Ill explain, I think they have.
Mrs Ps policy was sold by Phoenix Life by way of a marketing campaign. This means 
financial advice wasnt provided to Mrs P and so it was her responsibility to ensure the policy 
was suitable for her needs. Mrs P couldve sought financial advice at the time if she wished 
but I cant see that she did so. 
Phoenix Life were required however to provide Mrs P with information to be able to make an 
informed decision  thereby allowing her to understand the policy and how it worked. And, 
the policy booklet says:
9 Other restrictions

If you stop paying premiums, your policy will end and we will not pay any 
benefit (see condition 7)
We use your premiums to provide your benefits. You can never cash in your 
policy. Depending on how long your policy is in force you may pay more in 
total premiums than your estate would receive when you die.
I appreciate Mrs P may not have fully understood the risk that she could end up paying more 
in premiums than the benefit payable. But Im satisfied Phoenix Life made this clear to her 
and that there was no cash in value if premiums stopped being paid. And so, although I 
appreciate Mrs Ps frustration with the situation, I dont think Phoenix Life has acted unfairly 
or outside the terms of the policy. 
On a final note, I think it would be helpful for me to explain that the nature of these type of 
policies means that depending how long the policyholder lives for will determine whether 
they receive more or less than the premiums theyve paid. This is a common principle with 
insurance as it only pays out when an insured event takes place. And so, in the early years 
of a policy being set up the premiums paid would be less than the sum assured. But, in Mrs 
Ps case, the premiums shes paid exceed the sum assured as she has fortunately lived for a 
longer period of time. She has however benefitted from the cover being in place while shes 
paid (and continues to pay) the premiums.
I realise this isnt the outcome Mrs P is hoping for but, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont 
think Phoenix Life has to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2020.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman