DRN-2983980
The complaint
Mr X complains about the service provided to his parents  Mr and Mrs H  by The 
Prudential Assurance Company Limited in relation to a joint life assurance policy. 
Mr X is executor of both his parents estates. Hes also one of four beneficiaries of a trust his 
parents set up in 1994, benefiting from the proceeds of the policy in this case. From 2008, 
Mr X was a joint trustee for the trust. The trust funds were distributed in 2017. 
What happened
Mr X first raised this complaint with Prudential between August and October 2020. It covered 
the following points:
Prudential hadnt sent Mr X information about their dealings with Mr H and Mrs H, 
which hed asked for under a data subject access request (DSAR).
He felt the advice given to Mr and Mrs H in 1994 was misleading, and the policy they 
took out had been mis-sold. 
He felt younger family members should have been set as the lives assured, so that 
the policy wouldnt have needed to be surrendered on the death of Mr and Mrs H. 
This, he felt, would have helped the beneficiaries of the trust to better manage the tax 
payable on what they received.
He felt Prudential hadnt given Mr and Mrs H an option to include their family in their 
planning decisions when taking out the policy.
Prudentials response changed over time, in part due to mistakes in their understanding of 
the facts of the case. However, by December 2020, their position on the points above 
appeared to be as follows:
The rules around DSARs only relate to living people. And some of what had been 
asked for was about their business, not Mr and Mrs H specifically. So Prudential felt it 
was reasonable not to provide the information Mr X had asked for. However, they 
also offered him £100 for the inconvenience caused. 
The policy had performed well, and the documents from the time showed Prudential 
had taken steps to base their advice on Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances and 
objectives at the time. 
It was common for owners of a life policy to be the same as the lives assured, and 
the policy could only cover up to two people.
There was no evidence Mr and Mrs H had been vulnerable at the time of the advice  
or in later reviews of the policy  or that someone else needed to be present at the 
meetings. And they said if Mr and Mrs H had wanted to, they could have asked for 
other family members to be present. 
Mr X brought the complaint to us, saying he wanted Prudential to compensate the 
beneficiaries of the trust for the tax theyd had to pay when the policy paid out in 2017. Our 
investigator looked at the complaints, but decided Prudential didnt need to do anything more 
to put things right. 
Mr X wasnt happy with that view, so the complaint has come to me for a formal decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On the first point about Mr Xs DSARs, I can appreciate Prudentials position. The 
regulations about handling DSARs refer to requests from natural persons. Here, Mr X was 
requesting information on behalf of his parents estates. An estate tends to be a collection of 
assets  and sometimes debts  that belonged to someone while they were alive. So I can 
see why Prudential concluded the request wasnt made on behalf of a natural person.
In any case, I can see Prudential did later provide Mr X with the information they had that 
was of interest to him  the advice given to Mr and Mrs H while they were alive. As the 
information has now been provided, I dont think theres anything more needed from 
Prudential on this part of the complaint. 
Turning to the advice given to Mr and Mrs H when they took out the policy in this case, Ive 
seen notes from Prudentials meetings with them in 1994, and in later years. Mr and Mrs H 
were noted to have an inheritance tax liability, and to be getting a low rate of return on the 
money held in a building society account. The advice to invest in the policy seems to follow 
from those facts  to reduce the inheritance tax liability and give a better level of return.
The advice to have the policy in trust appears suitable to reduce the inheritance tax liability. 
And that seems to have worked  the money from the policy passed to the trust beneficiaries 
without Mr and Mrs Hs estates needing to pay inheritance tax on it. 
The key features of the policy also tells me there was an investment element to the policy 
that would give the sum invested a chance to grow. That too seems to have worked. The 
summary of the policy that Prudential sent to Mr X says that the £720,000 invested by Mr 
and Mrs H gave a death benefit of over £1.5 million, with a further £321,500 being withdrawn 
in 2005 during the life of the policy. 
The withdrawal is notable, as it appears to be the maximum Mr and Mrs H could take at that 
time without needing to pay tax. I conclude they probably chose that value for just that 
reason. That tells me they were aware of the potential for the investment to incur a tax 
charge other than inheritance tax. I cant see that was a surprise to them, or that they were 
unhappy about it. I conclude from that they had no complaint about taxes other than 
inheritance tax being payable on their investment. 
So it would appear the policy was suitable to meet the objectives Mr and Mrs H discussed 
with Prudential when they set it up. It met the specific objectives of reducing what their 
estates would have to pay towards inheritance tax, and it provided a return for the 
beneficiaries of the trust theyd set up.
Mr X has talked about having the policy set up so that a younger family member was the life 
assured. Looking at the key facts for the policy, that may have been possible if setting up a 
single life policy. But to be a joint policy, the lives assured had to be husband and wife. And I agree with Prudentials response that setting the lives assured as Mr and Mrs H was a more 
natural way to ensure the proceeds were distributed to their children as an inheritance.
Mr X also talked about other family members not being included in Mr and Mrs Hs 
discussions with Prudential. But I dont agree that this should have been insisted on by 
Prudential, just because of Mr and Mrs Hs age. Their age didnt automatically mean they 
didnt understand the policy that was sold to them. 
The review documents Ive seen show Mr and Mrs H discussed the policy a number of times 
with Prudential over the years. Had they wanted to, I cant see anything stopped them from 
telling their family about their various investments in that time. The fact they didnt suggests 
more of a personal choice by Mr and Mrs H, rather than a failing by Prudential. 
I dont see anything that leads me to uphold this complaint. Mr and Mrs Hs objectives of 
reducing inheritance tax and achieving a return on their money were met. And they seem to 
have understood and been happy with the policy while they were alive. So, I dont think the 
policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estates of Mr H 
and Mrs H to accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman