DRN-3076895
The complaint
Ms W complains that a finance agreement with BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited was 
mis-sold to her. She says she wasnt advised that there was a 58-day interest penalty if she 
settled the agreement early.
What happened
In July 2021 Ms W was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement with 
BMWFS. The agreement was for a term of 36 months with monthly payments of £274.07 
followed by an optional final payment of £11,657.21.
Ms W says that she made the dealership aware that she would be selling another car and 
that she intended to settle the finance early. She says she was assured by the dealership 
that the finance could be settled early without penalty.
Ms W sold her car and requested a settlement figure in August 2021. She was surprised to 
be advised that the settlement figure was more than the amount she had borrowed, even 
having made one monthly payment.
Ms W queried this with BMWFS. It advised her that 58 days interest had been added to the 
settlement quote in accordance with the Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 
2004.
Ms W wasnt happy with the response and brought her complaint to this service. She said 
that if the early settlement charge had been made clear to her at the outset, she wouldnt 
have entered into the agreement and wouldve used the money she had in another account 
to purchase the car.
Since bringing her complaint to this service, Ms W has settled the agreement.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said she wasnt persuaded that there had 
been a misrepresentation because the agreement stated that in the event of early 
repayment, the business was entitled to charge interest in accordance with consumer 
legislation.
Ms W didnt agree. She said the 58-day interest penalty wasnt mentioned in the agreement 
but was instead buried in regulations. She said the penalty ought to have been made clear in 
the agreement. Ms W also said that early settlement with no penalty should be allowed in all 
finance agreements.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to find that there has been a misrepresentation about the finance agreement (or a 
mis-sale), I would need to be satisfied that the dealership made an untrue statement of fact 
which induced Ms W to enter into the agreement.
Ms W has said that she made the dealership aware that she intended to settle the 
agreement early and says that she was advised that she could do so without penalty.
There arent any notes of the discussions between Mr W and the dealership. I wasnt 
present, so I cant be certain of what exactly was said. In circumstances like this, I need to 
look at the contemporaneous documents to decide whats most likely to have happened.
Ive looked at the agreement. This states that partial or full early settlement is allowed. It also 
states that if a partial or full early repayment is made, BMWFS can charge interest in 
accordance with consumer credit legislation.
Ms W has signed the agreement to say that she has read and understood the terms and 
conditions. I appreciate the point that Ms W makes about the 58 days interest charge not 
being expressly referred to in the agreement. However, there is clear reference in the 
agreement to an interest charge in accordance with consumer credit legislation, and I think 
that if this was something which Ms W had concerns about, she could have queried this at 
the time, either with the dealership or with BMWFS.  Further, and as a general principle, its 
not a requirement to define and provide a full explanation of each and every term in a 
contract. There is a balance to be struck between detail, and keeping the contact to a 
reasonable length.
I understand that Ms W feels that early repayment should be allowed in all finance 
agreements without penalty. Im only able to look at the circumstances of this particular 
complaint, so I cant comment on this, save to say that this is something which would need 
to be addressed at statutory level, not by individual businesses themselves. This is because 
the Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 2004 are currently in force and apply to 
agreements of the type entered into by Ms W.
Taking everything into consideration, Im unable to say theres been a  misrepresentation or 
a mis-sale. Based on what Ive seen, BMWFS has correctly applied the relevant legislation 
to calculate the settlement figure.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman