DRN-3756908
The complaint
Mr F and Ms Ps complaint is about their mortgage account with Santander UK Plc. Ms P, 
who has dealt with the complaint throughout, says that, because of mortgage arrears, 
Santander is seeking possession of the property through the courts. Ms P says this would 
have a devastating effect on the family, and she would like Santander to halt legal action and 
agree to accept payment of the arrears over an extended mortgage term on an interest-only 
basis.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 8 July 2022. All parties have a copy of that letter, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mr F and Ms P being identified. So for these 
reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
Mr F and Ms P have a mortgage with Santander originally taken out in 2008. The mortgage 
is currently on a capital repayment basis, with a remaining term of six years. There are 
mortgage arrears of approximately £100,000.
In early 2022 Santander commenced legal action for possession of the property due to the 
arrears. A hearing set for January 2022 was adjourned. Ms P complained to Santander, 
saying that the bank had failed to treat her and Mr F fairly. She wanted the mortgage 
switched to interest-only, and for Santander to come to a payment arrangement. 
Santander didnt uphold the complaint. The bank said that, given the level of arrears and 
Mr F and Ms Ps income and expenditure, legal action had been unavoidable. In addition, it 
wasnt within the banks lending criteria or policy to switch the mortgage to interest-only, and 
a payment arrangement over the remaining term of the mortgage wasnt affordable.
Mr F and Ms P brought their complaint to our service. An investigator looked at what had 
happened, but didnt think Santander had acted unfairly. She was satisfied that Santander 
had explored what options were available to resolve the situation. However, given Mr F and 
Ms Ps financial situation, it wasnt possible to switch the mortgage to interest-only or to 
extend the mortgage term.
Ms P didnt agree with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. Ms P provided a detailed response, the main points of which I summarise below:
given the length of time its taken for the arrears to accrue, its unfair for Santander to 
expect the mortgage to be repaid during the existing term;
there is a large amount of equity in the property which would enable them to buy another 
property outright at the end of the mortgage term;
Mr F and Ms Ps daughter is still suffering from severe mental illness, but whilst she has 
a stable home, she is able to focus on her studies;
Santander should halt legal proceedings until Mr F and Ms Ps daughter completes her 
studies  it would be beyond unfair for Santander to ruin her chances of getting a 
first-class degree and embark on her PhD;
Ms Ps business is recovering and Mr Fs consultancy is starting to take off, in addition to 
which he is working full time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to 
the underlying case than others. There are also a lot of repetition of arguments. In what 
follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail than has been 
presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
I confirm Ive read and considered everything provided by Santander and Ms P  including 
her detailed email of 16 October 2022 setting out the family circumstances. However, I am 
afraid that I have disappointing news for Mr F and Ms P; Im not upholding their complaint. 
These are my reasons.
I will begin by explaining that the Financial Ombudsman Service has no power to interfere in 
court proceedings. The level of arrears is very substantial and, in the absence of affordable 
repayment proposals, I dont criticise Santander for beginning legal action. I cant tell 
Santander not to continue with legal action, and I will make some further comments about 
this later in this decision.
In relation to financial difficulties, the starting point is that lenders have a duty to treat all 
customers, but particularly those facing financial hardship, fairly. Balanced against that, one 
of the fundamental principles underpinning the mortgage contract is that a lender has the 
right to receive payment of the money owed to it. 
The Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (known as MCOB) 
sets out at MCOB 13 what lenders are required to do to help borrowers in arrears. 
UK Finance (formerly the Council of Mortgage Lenders) also has its own guidelines about 
what it expects lenders to do to comply with MCOB, which mirror closely the requirements of 
MCOB.
A lender is required to explore ways to resolve an arrears situation, especially if the problem 
that created the arrears to begin with is one that looks to be short-term and capable of being 
resolved. Mr F and Ms P have, however, had long-term difficulties over a number of years.
For long-term difficulties, a lender must also look at other ways to help, such transferring a 
mortgage from capital and interest repayment to interest-only, deferring interest for a period 
of time or capitalisation of arrears. Balanced against that is the lenders obligation to ensure 
that any arrangement is affordable and sustainable. Having reviewed the account history, I can see that there has been a long period where the 
mortgage wasnt affordable. Arrears were capitalised in 2011, but in the time since then, the 
arrears have grown to over £100,000. With only six years left on the mortgage term, even 
without interest accruing on the arrears, this would require an additional monthly repayment 
of at least £1,400 on top of the monthly instalment to repay them within the mortgage term. 
Mr F and Ms P havent been able to demonstrate that theyd be able to afford this.
Im satisfied Santander isnt required to switch the mortgage to interest-only where there is 
no repayment strategy in place. Nor is there any obligation for Santander to agree to a term 
extension. This would be a material change to the mortgage contract, and could only be 
considered if Mr F and Ms P met Santanders affordability and lending criteria.
I note Mr F and Ms P say their circumstances have changed recently and that the mortgage 
is now affordable for them. They say they are now able to pay an amount off the arrears 
each month. Santander has asked Mr F and Ms P to contact its agent, AC, with evidence of 
this so that the bank can consider what options, if any, are available. In my opinion, its fair 
and reasonable that Santander give Mr F and Ms P another opportunity to satisfy the bank 
that what theyre asking for is affordable. But to be clear, nothing I say here obliges 
Santander to agree to what they want, and nothing of that nature should be inferred. 
Ive noted what Ms P has said about Santanders failure to consider the familys vulnerability. 
I think that, in all the circumstances, particularly given the effect on financial businesses 
during the pandemic, that Santander has done its best here to treat Mr F and Ms P fairly.  Its 
not always possible to have a dedicated member of staff available for individual customers. 
Furthermore, taking a customers vulnerability into account doesnt mean that Santander 
isnt entitled to ask for repayment of arrears, or that the bank is prevented from pursuing its 
legal remedies in court where it appears the mortgage isnt affordable. 
I think that Santander has been sensitive and sympathetic to the family circumstances. I 
appreciate Ms P will disagree with my opinion that Santander hasnt acted unfairly. But the 
outcome Ms P wants  legal action to be put on hold, a switch to interest-only and a term 
extension  are simply not feasible given the level of arrears. In addition, they are not 
outcomes that are required to be put in place for vulnerable customers where the mortgage 
is unaffordable.
As I said above, if Ms P wants to submit evidence of increased income and improved 
financial circumstances to AC, this will be considered. Santander may want to secure any 
payment arrangement by way of a suspended possession order; that would be a matter for 
Santander, its legal advisers and the court to determine.
It is also important to explain here that lenders will generally agree to put recovery action on 
hold whilst we look at a complaint, but they dont have to and we cant force them to. If the 
Financial Ombudsman Service had that power it would undermine our impartiality between 
the parties to a complaint. 
It would also create the potential risk of consumers using our service to bring complaints with 
the intention of obstructing businesses that were trying to take legitimate action through the 
courts to recover money owed to them, by raising multiple complaints, one after another, 
with the intention of postponing legal action indefinitely. I do not wish to alarm Mr F and Ms P, but I would not want them to be under any 
misunderstanding that we would tell Santander that it must suspend any recovery action in 
the event of a new complaint being raised. The mortgage Pre-Action Protocol says that the 
court will usually only adjourn legal proceedings so that we can consider a complaint if there 
is a genuine dispute about the possession action. 
That is not the case here  Mr F and Ms P dont dispute that the mortgage is in arrears, nor 
the amount they owe. Their dispute with Santander is over how those arrears are to be 
repaid and over what period of time, which are issues the court is able to consider and 
decide. I note Ms P has claimed that Santander has failed to comply with the courts 
Pre-Action Protocol. Thats something shell need to raise with the court. Its not something I 
have any power to look into. 
It is a matter for Santander whether the bank applies for a new hearing date, or wants any 
payment arrangement to be secured by a suspended possession order. Our service isnt 
able to interfere with this. It would be up to the court to decide whether or not to adjourn any 
future hearing, not the Financial Ombudsman Service.
As I said at the outset, I have no doubt that Mr F and Ms P have been through a very difficult 
time, and I dont underestimate the impact on them of the events of the last few years. But I 
have to put aside my natural feelings of empathy and reach my decision on the basis of the 
evidence, the rules and what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  not just to Mr F 
and Ms P, but to Santander as well. Having thought about everything Ms P and Santander 
have said, for the reasons given above, Im not persuaded that Santander has done anything 
wrong.
I hope that Mr F and Ms P and Santander are able to resolve this matter but, as I said 
above, if court action is unavoidable, the extent to which our service can become involved is 
very limited once legal action has begun.
In closing, I would remind Santander of its ongoing obligation to treat Mr F and Ms P fairly 
and sympathetically when considering any payment proposals and to treat repossession of 
the property as a last resort. I would also remind Mr F and Ms P of the importance of 
maintaining an open dialogue with Santander, and the need to provide Santander with 
documentary evidence in support of any payment proposals. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Ms P to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman