DRN-3212350
The complaint
Mr Y complained about the response he got from Hastings Insurance Services Limited when 
he asked about the cover he had under his buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Y had a buildings insurance policy with Hastings, which renewed in December 2020. In 
April 2021 he asked Hastings if his policy covered him for damage to the pipe that supplies 
water to his house. Hastings said it couldnt give Mr Y a definitive answer as there are many 
reasons why a water supply pipe would need repairing and it was these circumstances that 
would help the underwriters of the policy make a decision if a claim were made. Mr Y said he 
wanted a definitive answer, but Hastings said it could only give him the information provided 
in his policy booklet. It referred Mr Y to the part of his policy document about trace and 
access and what was and wasnt covered. If a claim was made, it said it would be up to the 
underwriter to decide if the claim was covered or not depending on the circumstances. 
Mr Y complained to Hastings but didnt get a response, so he brought his complaint to this 
service. He said he wanted to know if the water supply pipe was covered so that he could 
get cover elsewhere if not. He thought Hastings was being unethical and he was distressed 
that he might be faced with a huge bill for repair if his supply pipe broke. 
Our investigator didnt think Hastings needed to do anything more. He said Hastings is an 
intermediary for the sale and administration of the insurance policy but doesnt itself decide 
what is and isnt covered. That would be for the insurer (or underwriter). He didnt think he 
could ask Hastings to give any more assurances about future claims. 
As Mr Y didnt agree with the investigators view, his complaint has been passed to me to 
make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Y wanted to know whether or not his policy covered him for damage to the water supply 
pipe to his property. He said he wanted to know so he could cancel the policy if it wasnt 
covered and buy another policy that did specifically cover it. On the face of it, that seems like 
a reasonable request and a good reason for asking.
Hastings response was to say it cant give Mr Y a definitive answer on whether or not his 
water supply pipe was covered. It said that would depend on the circumstances around any 
damage or break. Instead it pointed Mr Y towards the terms and conditions of his policy and 
said that any claim would need to be considered on its merits by the insurer. And, in the 
circumstances, I think thats reasonable. Let me explain why.
Its not for me to say whether Mr Y was covered under his policy for any damage to the 
water pipe supplying his home. But I can see that there are sections in his policy that cover 
damage to underground pipes and its therefore possible he would be covered in some 
circumstances. For example, the terms of his policy say he was covered for accidental 
damage to cables, underground pipes and drains providing services to or from his home for 
which hes legally responsible. But theres an exclusion in the policy to say it doesnt cover 
loss or damage to drains, such as pitch fibre drains, caused by inherent defects in the 
design, material, construction or installation of the pipes and drains. Likewise, the policy 
says Mr Y would be covered for loss or damage caused by vandalism, subsidence, 
earthquake or explosion. But there are important exclusions to each section as well. So, for 
example, although he would be covered for loss or damage caused by subsidence or ground 
heave, that cover doesnt extend to damage caused by normal settlement, shrinkage or 
expansion. The policy also makes it clear that it doesnt cover Mr Y for claims arising just 
from wear or tear or gradual operating causes.
As Hastings said, it wouldnt be in a position to say whether or not Mr Ys pipes were 
covered under the policy, because that would depend on the circumstances of any claim. 
For example, what caused the damage to the pipes? Were there any inherent defects in the 
way the pipes were installed? Was the damage caused by wear and tear? These are 
questions that could only be answered once a claim had been made.
Its also important to emphasise that Hastings is the broker or intermediary for Mr Ys policy. 
Its responsible for selling the policy to Mr Y and for its administration, not for considering 
any claim Mr Y would make. So, it wouldnt be in a position to say whether or not a claim 
would be successful.
In light of the above, I dont think Hastings response to Mr Ys question was unfair or 
unreasonable. And so, while I can understand Mr Ys frustration, I dont think Hastings needs 
to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman