DRN-2275933
The complaint
Ms R complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services plc trading as M&S Bank (M&S) 
made errors when sending out an additional credit card for her son.
What happened
Ms R has a credit card account with M&S and requested an additional card for her sons 
forthcoming business trip abroad. When the credit card arrived, it was misspelt, so Ms R 
rang M&S for a new card to be issued. Ms R asked whether it could be sent to her business 
address but was told it couldnt and she would need to be at home and sign for the card. The 
replacement credit card hadnt arrived when promised so Ms R chased M&S again, when 
eventually the card arrived Ms R was informed that it had been blocked in error and a new 
card would need to be sent, which meant it wouldnt arrive in time for her sons business trip. 
Ms R was told the original misspelt card could still be used. 
Ms R asked to be compensated for the inconvenience caused and time she was kept away 
from her business but was not happy with the amount offered by M&S. 
M&S says they accept they made an error in blocking the replacement credit card and 
shouldnt have said Ms R needed to sign for the credit card. M&S says that they have 
apologised to Ms R and increased the compensation payment to £150 to reflect the mistakes 
they made. 
Ms R wasnt happy with the amount paid by M&S, given the inconvenience caused to her 
and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. He 
says that M&S have paid a fair sum for the inconvenience caused and we wouldnt be 
looking to compensate her for the time she spent away from her business.
Ms R wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
When looking at this complaint I have considered whether M&S acted reasonably when 
settling Ms Rs complaint and if the amount offered in compensation fairly reflects the 
inconvenience caused as a result of their errors. 
What happened here was Ms Rs request for an additional credit card on her account was 
initially incorrectly dealt with, as the credit card was misspelt. The card was needed for a 
forthcoming overseas business trip. The replacement card was then ordered and in error 
was blocked by M&S . I have listened to a number of phone calls between Ms R and M&S 
and the member of M&Ss team have said that the additional credit card needed signing for, 
which wasnt correct. This has meant Ms R had spent time waiting for the replacement credit 
card at home as M&S couldnt send the credit card to her business address. I have 
considered this, but sending cards to home addresses for personal customers, is the 
standard practice for M&S as they say otherwise this can add to the risk of the card falling 
into the wrong hands. I am satisfied this is a sensible precaution and its not my role to tell 
M&S how they should protect their customers in these circumstances. That doesnt alter the 
fact that Ms R was told she would need to stay at home to sign for the card when she didnt 
need to as both the initial and replacement cards were sent by standard post.  
On top of this, the errors M&S made regarding the replacement credit card, resulted in Ms R 
making a number of phone calls to check where the credit card was in transit -which I can 
see would have been inconvenient for her. 
Ms R says that the compensation offered doesnt fairly reflect the time she has spent at 
home when she could have been at her business. Ms R has given a detailed background of 
how she has developed her business and how difficult this has been, and this is a credit to 
her, but my role isnt to punish businesses when a genuine error has been made, but to 
ensure banks, like M&S, act fairly when dealing with the complaint and provide reasonable 
compensation when things go wrong.
Having listened to the  phone calls between M&S and Ms R, I can see the advisors tried to 
put right the mistakes they made and apologised for this, but unfortunately were unable to 
deliver the credit card in time for the business trip.  Its worth mentioning the initial credit 
card, whilst misspelt, was still available to be used for her sons business trip and this was 
explained to Ms R during a telephone call with M&S. I understand Ms Rs son was able to 
use the credit card on his business trip, so any inconvenience caused  was minimised as a 
result.
While Ms R may disagree, I am satisfied, on balance that the amount paid in compensation 
to her is fair and reasonable and what I would expect to see in the circumstances. 
While Ms R will be disappointed with my decision, it follows I wont be asking anymore of 
M&S here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman