DRN-3998786
The complaint
Mrs V complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) unfairly voided her 
policy and declined her claim under her policy for contents and possessions. Mrs V was 
represented during the complaint, but for ease and simplicity, Ill only refer to Mrs V.
What happened
Mrs V made a claim to RSA. She reported she had lost luggage on a flight. She said the 
luggage contained valuable items. RSA appointed a loss adjuster to review and validate the 
claim. The loss adjuster thought the circumstances of the loss were suspicious, so appointed 
a specialist fraud investigator to interview Mrs V and provide a more thorough report on the 
circumstances of the loss.
Based on the recommendation of the specialist fraud investigator, RSA decided to decline 
the claim as it felt a fraud had been committed. It also voided Mrs Vs policy and didnt 
refund her premiums.
Mrs V said she didnt commit a fraud and she doesnt think the investigation properly 
considered the timeline of events. She said shed made a mistake and shed claimed for lost 
handbags by mistake. She said when she realised, she informed RSA immediately. She said 
she informed RSA before it made its decision to decline the claim.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She thought RSA had been fair to rely 
on the fraud clause in the terms and conditions, so thought it was fair to decline the claim 
and void the policy. Mrs V disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
An accusation of fraud is very serious as it can have long lasting consequences on a 
policyholder. Mrs V could have difficulty with getting future insurance cover and its likely to 
cost significantly more. It can cause other issues as well. Therefore, I havent taken this 
decision lightly. However, I think RSA has been reasonable in concluding that a fraud has 
occurred and has taken the appropriate course of action. I think this is most likely what has 
occurred. Therefore, I wont be upholding this complaint, Ill explain why.
When the loss adjuster identified potentially suspicious activities, he appointed a specialist 
fraud investigator. I think this was a reasonable step. A specialist fraud investigator will be 
experienced at looking at similar cases and will be able to draw on these experiences when 
making his judgements. The experience is likely to mean he wont jump to rash conclusions, 
and his recommendations will be based on evidence recovered from a thorough 
investigation.
Ive read the specialists report in detail. His report concludes that a confirmed fraud has 
been committed. The report covers the detail of what investigations have taken place and 
goes into depth of inconsistencies in Mrs Vs account of what happened during the claim. It 
explains in detail why the specialist thought answers provided by Mrs V in her interview were 
suspicious and time stamps these against the actual video interview. The investigation has 
been completed professionally and I find the report that is written persuasive.
I appreciate Mrs V said she withdrew part of her claim after the in-depth interview with the 
investigator and she said she did this before RSA told her claim was declined. However, I 
think from the line of questioning in the interview, I think it wouldve been clear to Mrs V what 
she was been accused of doing. So, I think its most likely knowing what was likely to follow, 
Mrs V thought it best to say shed made a mistake with her claim.
I think the evidence provided by the specialist fraud investigator is overwhelming and proves 
beyond the balance of probabilities that a fraud was committed. Thats why the specialist 
concluded as he did.
The policy sets out a condition on fraud. It says if dishonesty, exaggeration or false 
documentation is used by your family or anyone acting on behalf of you or your family to 
obtain or support: a claims payment under your policy, cover for which you do not qualify, or 
cover at a reduced premium, all benefits under this policy will be lost, the policy may be 
invalid, you may not be entitled to a refund of premium and legal action may be taken 
against you".
I think RSA has been reasonable in relying on the experts viewpoint. It has been fair in 
deciding a fraud has been committed and Mrs V has breached the terms and conditions of 
the policy. I havent seen any contrary evidence that dilutes what the expert said. I think RSA 
has been fair, as its then declined the claim and voided the policy which is consistent with 
the actions set out in the policy when a fraud is committed. Therefore, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont need Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman