DRN-2643051
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that they overpaid for the first two to three years of their home 
insurance policy with Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva). 
Mr and Mrs H have a separate complaint against another insurance provider. But Ill only 
consider their complaint against Aviva in my decision.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H bought their house in 1993. They had a mortgage for the house through their 
bank. The bank offered them home insurance through another provider. Their first premium 
was for £576.30, based on a buildings sum assured of £170,000.
Mr and Mrs H say that their bank transferred their house insurance to a different type of 
policy in 2008. The policy continued to be provided by the same provider. They say that they 
think the policy was transferred to a broker in 2012. In 2016 the broker told them that for the 
2017/2018 policy year their insurance was being transferred to Aviva.
Mr and Mrs H say that Aviva kept the premiums at the same sort of level they had been until 
the 2020/2021 renewal. But on 3 January 2020, Aviva wrote to Mr and Mrs H to tell them it 
was withdrawing the home insurance policy and therefore it would not renew. The letter 
explained that Mr and Mrs H needed to either get insurance from another provider from their 
renewal date, or it could provide an alternative quote. So Mr and Mrs H took out a different 
policy with Aviva. It sent a letter dated 14 January 2020 detailing that the premium under the 
new policy was £279.66 for the policy year starting 6 March 2020. The premium for the 
policy year starting 6 March 2019 under the old policy had been £1,903.11.  
Mr and Mrs H say that the terms of the policy havent substantially changed over the years, 
except for the valuation and rebuild value of the house.
Mr and Mrs H wrote to Aviva to ask them to explain why the premiums had been so high. 
They say that Aviva didnt explain why the premium on the new product was so different 
from the previous one, given the policy terms werent that different. So Mr and Mrs H brought 
their complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold their complaint. He said he didnt think Aviva had treated Mr 
and Mrs H unfairly with how it priced their policy. Mr and Mrs H didnt agree. So their 
complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im dont uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Aviva often insures policies branded with different business names, often taking over a book 
of consumers from another insurer. 
The insurer sets the price of the policy and will be responsible for any claims made. So, 
when a policy has been insured by another insurer they will be responsible for the price at 
that point. 
When the insurer changes, as it did here when the policy moved to Aviva, I need to think 
about what Aviva  as the new insurer - knew about Mr and Mrs H at the point of transfer. 
From what Mr and Mrs H have said, they didnt engage with the price of their home 
insurance policy for a long time. But I need to consider if Aviva was aware of their previous 
lack of engagement on price. I need to understand if Aviva had a role on Mr and Mrs Hs 
policy before it transferred. And therefore if it shouldve known from the point it took over the 
insurance that Mr and Mrs H hadnt engaged with the pricing of their policy for some time. 
I can see who the previous insurer of the policy was and therefore dont believe that Aviva 
wouldve had any role in Mr and Mrs Hs policy before it transferred. So I dont think Aviva 
couldve had any knowledge of Mr and Mrs H and their engagement prior to the policy 
moving to it. As that knowledge wasnt available, I consider that Aviva wouldnt have known 
about Mr and Mrs Hs lack of engagement until theyd been with Aviva for a few years.
 
Mr and Mrs H have said that the initial transfer of the policy should never have been 
accepted by Aviva at the point of transfer. It should have been flagged up as way out of line 
from the start and they should have discussed this with us. They say the proof of their point 
is the fact that their premium dropped so significantly when Aviva offered them a different 
policy for the 2020/2021 policy year. But Im satisfied that Aviva didnt have any way of 
knowing the previous history of Mr and Mrs Hs home insurance purchases. 
Aviva has confirmed that the premium charged on the original policy was calculated correctly 
based on the information it had, including the cover selected and the risk as it viewed it. 
Given this, I think Aviva acted fairly and reasonably when it initially charged a similar level of 
premium to that charged by the previous insurer. 
Ill now look at the considerable decrease in the premium effective from the 2020/2021 policy 
year. Aviva has explained that it took a business decision to stop certain products that it no 
longer provided as new business, and which hadnt been updated in several years. 
I can see why Mr and Mrs H feel that theyve been overcharged under the original Aviva 
policy. They feel that the original policy and the new, much cheaper policy can be 
considered similar. They say that there is barely any difference between the amount of cover 
each policy provides. But Aviva has told them that the policy for the 2020/2021 policy year is 
a totally different product, with different rating factors, and so cant be considered as a like 
for like comparison. Looking at the two policies, I can see that there are differences in 
certain aspects of cover and the policy excesses. And these do often significantly change 
the price of a policy. So I dont have enough evidence to say that Aviva overpriced the initial 
policy.
I know this isnt what Mr and Mrs H were hoping to hear. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman