DRN-2202386
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G say Santander UK Plc (then trading as Abbey National but Ill just refer to 
Santander from now on) mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
The complaint Im looking at is about the sale of a PPI policy taken out in 2001 to protect 
Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage monthly repayments. The policy covered Mrs G for 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. Mrs G mainly said that she had other ways 
to pay the mortgage if she couldnt work. She told us that her employer paid benefit if she 
was made redundant (which wouldve been around five months salary at the time) and her 
existing savings and husbands salary and pension werent taken into consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Gs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
Theres no paperwork available now to show how PPI was sold to Mr and Mrs G. But as this 
happened a long time ago, I wouldnt expect Mr and Mrs G or Santander to have kept this. 
The fact that Santander cant now produce the sale documents isnt a reason for me to 
uphold this complaint. 
Its also completely understandable that Mr and Mrs G mightve forgotten some of the details 
of this sale as it was so long ago. This means that what Mr and Mrs G say isnt enough on its 
own for me to be able to uphold their complaint.
Where theres only limited information and its unclear what happened I have to look at 
everything Ive been told and sent and decide what I think is most likely.
Looking at what this service knows about the way Santander sold PPI around this time, and 
what Santander has told us, I think its likely PPI wasnt automatically included with 
Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage in 2001  they wouldve had to apply separately for the cover if 
they wanted to have it. 
Ive seen an example of the PPI application  that wouldve had to be completed in order to 
take out the PPI. And I think that its likely Mr and Mrs G wouldve filled in a form similar to 
this. It offered them a choice of different levels of cover and the option to split the benefit. 
And it looks like this is what happened because I can see that Santander sent a letter to 
Mr and Mrs G in June 2001 which said Welcome to mortgage payment protection with 
paymentcare... (this is what Santander called its PPI).
I think there mustve been some discussion about the policy options and how Mr and Mrs G 
wanted to share the policy benefits because theyd selected the level of cover they wanted 
when they opted for unemployment cover only, just for Mrs G. 
So, on balance, I think it wouldve been clear to Mr and Mrs G that it was up to them to say if 
they wanted to take out PPI. And it was added to the account when they chose the cover 
they wanted to have. 
Santander recommended the PPI and it looks like it was suitable based on what Ive seen of 
Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances at the time. Ill explain why.
It looks to me like Mrs G was eligible for the policy given her circumstances and the PPI 
terms and conditions that applied. 
I havent seen anything to suggest it was inappropriate that the cover was just in Mrs Gs 
name.
The PPI couldve paid out for up to 12 months per claim if Mrs G lost her job and became 
unexpectedly unemployed. And she couldve made repeated claims. So the policy wouldve 
given Mr and Mrs G long term cover for their mortgage. 
Their mortgage was a major financial commitment and Mr and Mrs Gs home wouldve been 
at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to date. So, I can see why they mightve felt 
it was useful having PPI to protect Mrs Gs income in the event she lost her job unexpectedly 
and was out of work. 
The PPI wouldve paid out on top of any redundancy payment Mrs G mightve got, giving 
some additional financial security in those circumstances. 
Mrs G mentioned having savings at the time. But I dont know if Mr and Mrs G wouldve 
always had savings to rely on if Mrs G had needed to make a claim. And, bearing in mind 
that it appears they didnt put all their money towards keeping down the cost of borrowing, 
I think they wouldve valued the protection PPI offered if it meant being able to keep savings 
intact to provide financial security. 
Also, there was no guarantee when Mr and Mrs G took out this mortgage that they would 
always have savings to rely on as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
Mr G was also in paid work. But I think its likely that losing Mrs Gs income wouldve had a 
significant impact on their joint finances. 
I appreciate that Mr G also had a pension  but that wouldnt have been available to cover 
the mortgage monthly repayments in the event Mrs G was unemployed, at least until Mr G 
reached pensionable age ( or possibly he retired early through ill health.)So, looking at what I know about their circumstances, I think having this unemployment 
cover couldve been helpful to Mr and Mrs G at the time, even if theyve forgotten now why 
they decided to have it. 
Its possible some of the information Mr and Mrs G were given about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. 
There were some things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt look as if those applied in 
Mrs Gs case. So, I dont think having more information about things the policy didnt cover 
wouldve affected their decision to take out the policy to cover Mrs G.
I dont know if the PPI cost was made clear to Mr and Mrs G at the time they bought the 
policy. But looking at the welcome letter it appears theyd signed an instruction form to their 
bank to cover the monthly cost  which was set out in that letter. 
So it seems Mr and Mrs G were happy at the time to pay for it and the policy appears to 
have been affordable for them. As they were paying for the PPI monthly, they could cancel it 
anytime without further cost if their situation changed or they no longer wanted it.
In coming to my decision I've taken into account that the welcome letter and policy 
information wasnt sent to them at the correct address initially. But it looks like copies were 
forwarded to the correct address as soon as Mrs G got in touch about this. So this doesnt 
affect what Ive said in my decision. 
Overall its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Mr and Mrs G still wouldve decided to buy the policy even if theyd been given clearer 
information as it gave useful protection in Mr and Mrs Gs particular situation. 
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs G paid on the PPI  and whether 
Santander treated them unfairly. 
Santander has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Gs PPI was less than half of 
what they paid for each premium. Weve looked at how Santander has been working this out 
and based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Gs commission was less 
than half the cost of the PPI. 
As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell Mr and Mrs G about the commission  so 
I dont think Santander treated them unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay back any of 
the commission Mr and Mrs G paid for the PPI. 
In my decision Ive dealt with all the main issues that affect the outcome of this complaint. 
I can see that Mrs G has raised some other points in correspondence with our adjudicator  
but these have been addressed by the adjudicator and I dont feel theres anything further 
I can usefully add to whats been said already. 
I appreciate that Mrs G feels strongly that she was mis-sold PPI but I hope that setting things 
out as I've done will help explain how I've reached my final decision.My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman