DRN-3235890
The complaint
Mr H, represented by his son, has complained about his motor insurer U K Insurance Limited 
(UKI) because, in his view, it unfairly classified his car as a category B write-off, destroyed it 
without his permission and offered him an unfair settlement for it.
What happened
Mr H was in an accident in mid-December 2020. UKI accepted a claim and assessed the car 
for repairs. It felt that it would cost around £4,000 to repair it. It determined the cars overall 
market value was only £1,500 (when pre-existing damage to the rear bumper was taken into 
account). UKI told Mr H it would write-off the car and pay the market value figure to him in 
settlement of his claim. A settlement cheque was sent to Mr H but he said he wouldnt cash 
it. UKI, noting Mr H disagreed with its position, promised on more than one occasion to not 
dispose of the car. On 1 February 2021, with Mr Hs son making arrangements to go and 
view the car at UKIs salvage yard, Mr H found the car was being advertised for sale for 
parts. UKI declined to discuss the issue further, although it noted in a final response issued 
in March 2021 that it had mistakenly promised Mr H it wouldnt dispose of the vehicle. It sent 
Mr H a cheque for £150 compensation for any upset hed been caused. Mr H returned the 
cheque to UKI and complained to us. 
Our investigator felt UKI had valued the car fairly  but that it shouldnt have deducted the 
amount it had for pre-existing damage. He noted UKI had failed Mr H by promising not to 
dispose of his car and then breaking that promise. But he felt the car could never have been 
released to Mr H in any event, as UKI had recorded it as a category B write-off (meaning it 
had to be broken for parts). Given that, and that UKI had offered £150 compensation 
already, he wasnt minded to make it pay more.
Mr H was unhappy with the findings. He felt our investigator had ignored that he is 
vulnerable and that, in his view, UKI had acted unfairly to record the car as a total loss which 
couldnt be repaired. He said UKI had a vested interest in making this determination as it 
would let it pay less in settlement to him because repairing the car (which is what he had 
wanted UKI to do) would cost more. He said he would have repaired the car if given the 
chance, and sought to have his own engineer assess the car with a view to challenging the 
category B write-off decision. However, with UKI having unfairly disposed of the car he had 
been prevented from doing that. 
The complaint was passed to me and I was minded to uphold it. I felt UKI needed to pay 
Mr H compensation  but not an increased settlement for the car. I issued the following 
provisional findings:
In bringing the complaint to us Mr Hs son said he has checked all of the points hes made 
with the Financial Conduct Authority and other relevant bodies and all agree he is making 
valid points. I note that. But whilst I appreciate that Mr Hs son has received assurances in 
these respects  that wont direct the course of my findings. Rather I have to assess the 
complaint as made, taking into account all the relevant evidence and laws, as well as 
positions taken by this service in respect of certain aspects. Having done all that Ill decide, 
on a fair and reasonable basis, what the outcome for the complaint is. 
I understand that theres a concern that Mr H wasnt treated appropriately because he is 
elderly and/or vulnerable. I see that it wasnt until January 2021 that UKI took on board 
Mr Hs sons concerns and marked Mr H as being a vulnerable consumer. But I also note 
that UKI says it wouldnt have done anything differently if it had applied this marker earlier. In 
the circumstances of this complaint, and bearing in mind the types of actions Ive seen 
businesses take in other cases that involve vulnerable consumers, I think UKI is right. For 
example, where there is a complex and ongoing claim for a vulnerable consumer, an insurer 
might appoint a single point of contact in order to ease the claim process for the consumer. 
But I wouldnt expect an insurer to divert from its normal valuation or settlement process 
automatically because a consumer is marked as vulnerable. And really it is the valuation and 
the way in which UKI has acted to settle the claim and dispose of the car thats in issue here. 
How and why it did that, and whether that was reasonable or not, dont turn, in my view, on 
Mr Hs vulnerability. 
UKI decided Mr Hs car should be written-off. The decision to write it off can be seen as an 
economic one. But its one that insurers often make and, to the extent that its made with a 
view to limiting the insurers outlay, its not a decision this service generally takes issue with. 
Insurance is a matter of risk and an insurer will often look to settle a claim as economically 
as possible. 
Its also the case that an insurer, when assessing the damage to a car, will do so only on the 
basis of what can be seen. So the repair price determined in an assessment like this could 
be subject to change if repairs start and more damage is found. And this is often the case 
when a car is stripped for repair. This means its usually the case that where the estimated 
cost of repair is seen to be approaching a cost equivalent to the cars market value  an 
insurer will look to view the car as a total loss. Thats not an unreasonable decision for it to 
take. And in this case the estimated cost of repairs wasnt just approaching the market value 
for the car  it was about double it. And even taking into account Mr Hs estimated and 
desired value for the car (£3,000)  the estimated repair cost exceeded it by about a third.
I know Mr H thinks the repairs may have been overpriced and that the value was flawed. So 
Ill consider those two aspects in turn.
Insurers and the networks of repairing garages use an industry recognised system to price 
repairs which is designed to produce consistent and reliable estimates for the costs of 
repairs that insurers rely upon. Its worth noting that the majority of claims that insurers deal 
with are for car repairs, and not for total loss. So it's in insurers interests for the costs of 
repairs to remain as low as possible. So I think its unlikely that the price UKI has detailed is 
unreasonable. And Ive looked at the work included  theres nothing listed that seems to me 
to be inappropriate given the photos showing the damage to the car. That means Ive no 
grounds to reasonably conclude that UKIs repair schedule is likely flawed and, as such, 
doesnt represent what repairs are needed and what theyll cost.
UKI has assessed the market value of the car by referring to a trade guide. Mr H thinks this 
is unfair as he doesnt believe that using the trade guides fulfils what the industry group, the 
Association of British Insurers (ABI), says is required to provide a total loss settlement. He 
says the ABI says a settlement should enable [the] purchase of a like for like vehicle, within 
a local radius. But what I think its important to note from this quote is the ABI doesnt set 
out a method for determining the value. Mr H feels that adverts he has found for cars for sale 
in his local area present a fair way of doing this; that the sale prices represent the market 
value (the average being £3,000), so UKIs settlement should be based on them. I can 
understand why Mr H would like those adverts to be taken into account. But this service 
doesnt find adverts like this are a reliable way to determine the market value of a car. Thats 
because the sale price isnt necessarily how much a car will be sold for, if it sells at all. And there are often differences in the advertised cars from the one at the heart of the claim. In 
this case I see the mileage and/or age of the advertised cars differ from Mr H's car. 
I appreciate thats because Mr Hs car is old  so there are fewer exact matches available. 
But the trade guides do take into account the exact details of the car in question. As such, 
this service has for many years found that the most reliable way to determine the fair market 
value for a like-for-like car is to use the trade guides. That is what UKI did here. So I cant 
fairly and reasonably fault it for applying that process.
UKI noted the value set by one of the trade guides was £1,930 and it used that figure as the 
starting point for the settlement it paid. Having checked all of the trade guides, I think UKIs 
starting figure is fair  its in line with the average figure generated by two of the three trade 
guides (£1,940) (one of which was the one UKI used). The third guide gave a figure much 
lower so, to be fair to Mr H, I discounted that one. 
But UKI noted there was pre-existing damage to Mr Hs car. Pre-existing damage can affect 
the sale of a car; it might stop it selling at all, or might affect the price it sells for. Pre-existing 
damage isnt usually taken into account by the trade guides  not unless the car was in 
overall poor condition, which Mr Hs wasnt. So UKI asked its engineer to calculate what 
affect the pre-existing damage might have on the cars market value. The engineer 
calculated what it would cost to repair that damage. He then, before applying VAT, halved 
the total, rounded it down and discounted that sum from the starting market value figure. 
That meant that the starting figure UKI used was reduced by £430, almost a quarter of the 
total. Thats a significant sum and I note the car was quite old. I appreciate that some people 
might expect an older car to be suffering from some wear and tear damage  but that 
doesnt mean they wont take that damage into account when negotiating a purchase price 
for the car. And I see that UKIs engineer felt that the pre-existing damage necessitated 
replacing the bumper. I see there was a significant amount of paint missing and some rust. 
I can understand why UKI felt this damage would significantly affect the market value for the 
car. Im also mindful that this service often thinks that a deduction of 50% of the repair price, 
for pre-existing damage, from the market value figure, is usually a fair and reasonable way to 
account for the likely effect on a cars price of that damage. On this occasion I dont think 
UKI has acted unfairly in applying the deduction it did to generate a final market value for 
Mr Hs car of £1,500.
I understand that Mr H is aggrieved at UKI disposing of his car. And I note that UKI had told 
Mr H, on more than one occasion that it wouldnt do so. Even its offer letter says it wants to 
get Mr Hs agreement. So I think, on this occasion, UKI acted unfairly by disposing of Mr Hs 
car when it did. I appreciate that this was upsetting and frustrating for him. And Ive taken 
account of that when thinking about compensation. But I also note that Mr H believes that 
UKI disposing of the car has prejudiced his chance of challenging its view on fair settlement 
for it, and, by so doing, achieving a better outcome. I think it's clear that with UKI having 
disposed of the car Mr H cant have the damage assessed himself, and any opportunity he 
might have had to get the car repaired has been lost. But Im not persuaded him getting the 
damage assessed would have changed anything. Nor am I persuaded that Mr H would most 
likely have been able to get his car repaired so he could drive it again. 
I say that because when UKI wrote Mr Hs car off it said it was a category B write-off. That 
particular categorisation means the car cant ever be used on the road again and can only 
be broken for parts. The current categorisation process for write-off vehicles comes from an 
ABI code of practice issued in 2019. This code is generally accepted across the relevant 
industries (insurance and salvage included) and is acknowledged by the DVLA. Its purpose 
is to ensure that damage is classified consistently and unsafe cars arent returned to the 
road. So it doesnt mean that all damaged and written-off cars will be broken or scrapped  
only those that are deemed unsafe to return to the road. So whilst UKIs decision to deem 
Mr Hs car a write-off was an economic one  the categorisation that was applied was not. The categorisation was applied by a suitably qualified engineer, applying the ABI code. And 
from considering the content of the code, Im not confident Mr H would ever, even had UKI 
returned his car to him, have been able to successfully challenge and change that 
categorisation. 
But, as I accepted above, the fact that UKI denied him that opportunity  and did so having 
promised that it would not destroy his car  was extremely upsetting and frustrating for him. 
I bear in mind he was already unhappy with the settlement offered too. And he thought hed 
protected his position by having UKI agree not to dispose of the car. I fully understand that 
he doesnt just feel let down by UKI, but betrayed. I also take into account that Mr H felt like 
he was left unfairly without the means to replace his car  that isnt the case, as Ive 
explained above. But the way UKI handled things made him feel that way because he simply 
couldnt trust that UKI had acted fairly in valuing his car, because it had acted totally unfairly 
by destroying it. This meant Mr H was put in a difficult position  being without a car  whilst 
having serious health concerns and during a pandemic. I think £750 compensation is fairly 
and reasonably due in the circumstances here. 
Id add that Im aware Mr H has said he missed key health appointments, that may have 
allowed for early diagnosis of severe conditions, because of the position UKI left him in. That 
being because he has other health issues that mean he cant safely use other forms of 
transport. If that is the case thats truly unfortunate and I hope Mr Hs long-term health hasnt 
been affected. I understand this was a truly difficult position for Mr H to be in, but I think he 
always had a choice about attending these appointments  even if getting there without his 
own car came with its own difficulties and risks. With respect for the fact that Mr H made 
what he felt was the best choice for him in the situation he was in, Im not persuaded I can 
reasonably hold UKI liable for any consequences that flow from that choice. Having taken 
everything into account, bearing in mind the upset and similar which Ive said I can hold UKI 
liable for, Im satisfied that the £750 compensation Ive set out above is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances. 
This is total compensation and not in addition to the £150 UKI offered before in its final 
response. Further, whilst UKI sent a cheque for this sum to Mr H, it was returned to it and 
subsequently destroyed. So Mr H hasnt previously received any compensation for this 
matter from UKI. Meaning, if my final decision remains the same and Mr H accepts it, it will 
now have to pay total compensation of £750.
For completeness, because Im satisfied that UKIs offer of £1,500 in settlement for Mr Hs 
claim is fair and reasonable but Mr H didnt cash the cheque he was sent in this respect, Im 
including payment of this sum in my award below. I note that when UKI sent this cheque to 
Mr H he was advised during a phone call that it was an interim payment and cashing it 
wouldnt prejudice his chance to complain. So Im not going to add any interest to the sum in 
my award. 
UKI said it disagreed with my findings  it felt the £150 compensation previously offered was 
sufficient in the circumstances. But, following a challenge by Mr H about the basis for that 
sum being offered, UKI did agree to offer £25 compensation for a delayed payment. Mr H felt 
hed previously been offered £150 for that delayed payment so wasnt happy to accept the 
£25 UKI had offered. Mr H also made various other points in reply to my provisional findings. Most of these Ive 
included, along with my response to them, in my findings section below. But one point Mr H 
made prompted some further enquiry. In replying to my provisional findings Mr H raised a 
new issue in respect of the damage to the bumper of the car. Mr H said UKI had 
exaggerated the damage whilst the car was in its care. So he felt it wasnt fair for UKI to 
deduct a sum for the damage from the market value for the car. Mr H provided an inspection 
report which he said showed no damage to the bumper was noted when UKI collected the 
car. And he felt photos taken on the day the car was collected, which UKI had copies of, 
would show this too. Having asked UKI for the photos, which it provided, I considered this 
argument. I then issued some provisional findings, as set out below, on this point to both 
parties:
Ive now considered the photos and the inspection report. Ive no reason to doubt the 
content or validity of either. I accept what Mr Hs son says about the inspection report  it 
doesnt show any damage noted to the rear bumper and yet it does record non-accident 
damage at other points on the car. If this was the only evidence about the car before UKI 
took possession of it, I might be minded to think the damage must have occurred later, whilst 
UKI was in control of the car. Otherwise it would be reasonable to think that the bumper 
damage, like other non-accident related damage, would have been captured in the report. 
But the photos Mr Hs son asked UKI to provide, taken of the car, on the day of the accident, 
uploaded by him directly to its systems, clearly show damage to the rear bumper  the same 
as is present after UKI had the car. I cant say why the bumper damage wasnt identified on 
the inspection report but I cant ignore the fact the damage is clearly visible in the photos. So 
Im not persuaded the damage to the bumper was made worse by UKI after it took control of 
Mr Hs car. It follows that I think theres no reasonable grounds for me to say UKI shouldnt 
take the bumper damage into account when determining the cars market value.
Mr H asked to see the photos, which were provided to him. Mr H didnt respond further to 
these findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr H responded to my provisional findings he said I had misunderstood the point 
made about his vulnerability. He said I shouldnt have linked it to the valuation issue; rather 
the point was that, as a vulnerable customer, he shouldnt have been left without a car for 
such a long time whilst the claim was decided. I understand Mr Hs concern about being left 
without a car. But in his complaint letter to UKI of 3 February 2021 he said it had acted in 
disregard of rules in place for vulnerable customers. He said it had sought to exploit his age 
and vulnerability to his detriment and in a way that would likely cause him harm. Im satisfied 
my response on this complaint aspect, as set out provisionally, was fair and reasonable.
In reply Mr H also said that UKI may have tampered with evidence and that may have 
affected my assessment of the reasonableness of the market value figure given. Whilst 
I note Mr Hs comments, Ive not seen anything that makes me think evidence has been 
tampered with. I particularly note that Mr H asked for sight of the photos taken on the day the 
car was collected. Theres nothing in these photos that makes me think theyve been altered 
in any way. And I note that, having seen them, Mr H hasnt made any specific comment in 
this respect or presented any further evidence.In respect of the market value figure, Mr H noted our investigator hadnt seen fit to allow UKI 
to deduct anything from it for the damage to the rear bumper. So he felt Id contradicted that 
by saying UKI could make that deduction. He also said I must have been incorrect when 
I said the bumper was rusty, as it was not made of metal. 
I appreciate that its frustrating for Mr H that my view on the merits of his complaint differs 
from that expressed by our investigator. But when a complaint comes to me for decision, 
I review it afresh and Im not bound to make findings in line with those of our investigator. 
I can understand that Mr H is concerned about what I said about rust on the bumper. But 
even setting that aside; UKIs expert felt that to rectify the damage to the bumper it would 
need replacing, and he calculated what that would cost. Ive no reason to doubt the 
engineers view on the need to replace the bumper. 
But Id add  if this car had been sold, the new purchaser may have chosen to not replace 
the bumper, they might have decided to just live with the damage. But that doesnt mean the 
fact of the damage wouldnt have informed their view of the sale price asked for the car. We 
cant know for sure what impact the damage would have had. But this service takes the view 
that calculating what it will cost to repair the damage, halving that sum and deducting that 
figure from the cars market value, is generally a fair and reasonable way to assess the likely 
impact of the damage on the sale price of a second hand car. And thats what UKI did here.
Mr H also argued that as the car wasnt being re-sold, at worst, the damage to the bumper 
would only possibly, marginally, effect any scrap price for the car UKI might actually achieve. 
So he didnt think it was fair for the cost to replace the bumper to be deducted from the 
market value. With respect, I think Mr H missed the point here. The effect the bumper has on 
the market value determines what he is entitled to in settlement for his claim where his car 
was determined to be a total loss. So the likely sale price of the car, including any impact on 
that which might be caused by pre-existing damage, has to be taken into account. What UKI 
might hope to recoup in scrapping the car, which might off-set some of its claim outlay, 
doesnt affect that. 
I note Mr H has said the £750 compensation I awarded would be acceptable if Id also made 
a suitable award in respect of the valuation. Whilst I understand that Mr H disagrees with 
what I said about the valuation  that doesnt reasonably impact the compensation award 
Ive made. The latter is made for the upset and inconvenience Im satisfied UKI has caused 
Mr H by scrapping his car when it had promised not to do so.  Whilst Ive considered UKIs 
objection to the £750 total compensation I suggested it pay, it hasnt persuaded me my view 
on the compensation is wrong. UKI should now pay Mr H a total of £750 compensation to 
make up for the upset it caused him when it misled him into thinking it wouldnt scrap his car.
Mr H said the £150 compensation Id referred to as having been previously offered by UKI 
for it having mistakenly promised him it wouldnt scrap the car, had actually been made in 
respect of it not sending an interim payment within its chosen timeframe. Mr H referred to 
certain calls hed had with UKI on this issue. Ive listened to those calls. In those calls UKI 
didnt offer any amount of compensation to Mr H when they talked about the delayed interim 
payment. But it did say it may look to offersome form of compensation. UKI then wrote its 
final response letter in which it said it had issued Mr H £150 compensation to address the 
confusion we imposed after you were told under false pretences that the vehicle wouldnt be 
disposed of. A cheque in the sum of £150 was sent to Mr H. The letter containing the very 
specific £150 compensation offer and the cheque in that sum were both sent to Mr H on the 
same day. I think its reasonable to conclude the cheque was sent in payment of the £150 
compensation amount UKI had said in its letter it was issuing. Mr H didnt cash the cheque 
and it was disposed of.UKI, since my provisional findings were issued, has offered Mr H £25 compensation for 
upset caused by its delaying the interim payment. I know Mr H thinks this isnt sufficient as 
he believes he was offered £150. But, having considered all the evidence, including the calls 
Mr H highlighted as relevant to this issue, I dont think thats the case. As referenced 
provisionally and explained in more detail in my paragraph above, Im satisfied that UKI 
originally offered Mr H £150 compensation for upset caused by it falsely promising not to 
scrap his car. UKIs only offer of compensation for upset caused by its delaying the interim 
payment was £25. If Mr H would like to accept UKIs proffered £25, he should contact it.
Having reviewed matters, I remain of the view set out provisionally. In short, I think UKI failed 
Mr H, causing him a lot of upset as a result when it scrapped his car having promised him on 
several occasions it wouldnt do so. But I think the market value it determined to pay in 
settlement of his claim, which included a deduction for pre-existing damage to the bumper, 
was fair and reasonable. UKI said that the £1,500 cheque it was sending to Mr H in this 
respect was net of the policy excess of £0.00. As Mr H didnt cash the cheque for that sum, 
and as Im upholding the complaint with an award being made for compensation, in my 
award set out below, Ill also direct UKI to pay Mr H this sum.
Putting things right
I require UKI to pay Mr H:
£750 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
£1,500 in settlement of his claim for his damaged car.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out above 
at putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman