DRN-3183938
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the actions of HSBC UK Bank Plc surrounding payments he made to a 
trading platform.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here in relation to the funds Mr D hasnt been 
able to retrieve by way of chargeback. In July 2019 Mr D paid a trading platform that 
provides cryptocurrencies a total of £5,302.21, plus £49.56 in fees, across three separate 
payments on his debit card under the direction of a merchant.  
After watching his trading balance decrease and after being asked to invest more money by 
the merchant, Mr D wanted to withdraw his remaining balance, but the merchant then 
decided to ignore his request and restricted his access to its platform. 
Mr D then raised this as a scam and a complaint to HSBC. HSBC considered the complaint 
and refunded debit and credit card transactions Mr D had made to the scammers. But said it 
was unable to refund three debit card transactions he had paid to the cryptocurrency trading 
platform because any chargeback was unlikely to succeed due to Mr D not having the 
evidence to meet the requirements under the chargeback rules of the card scheme. This 
was because Mr D didnt have evidence of his remaining balance and that he had tried to 
withdraw this balance on the same day. It was also noted that because the scam was funded 
through a legitimate cryptocurrency trading platform it wasnt covered through the 
chargeback scheme. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said the payments Mr D 
made to the merchant didnt seem unusual or suspicious compared to other transactions 
Mr D had previously made. And HSBC hadnt treated Mr D unfairly when it said a 
chargeback had no prospect of success for effectively the same reasons. 
Mr D disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said he had lost his life savings 
to this scam and HSBC shouldnt have authorised his payments without making contact with 
him first to check this wasnt related to a scam. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Mr D has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know he 
feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a disappointment to him, so Ill 
explain why. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
It is common ground that Mr D authorised the scam payments totalling £5,302.21 and 
£49.56 in fees. I accept that these were authorised payments even though Mr D was the 
victim of a scam. So, although it wasnt his intention to pay money to the scammers, under 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) and the terms of his account, Mr D is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate
for HSBC to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment in 
order to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So, the starting point here is whether the instructions by Mr D given to HSBC (either 
individually or collectively) were unusual in relation to his typical account activity. So, Ive 
reviewed the account statements around the time Mr D made the payments in question here. 
The account typically maintained a healthy balance which ranged between around £100 and 
on occasions up to around £7,000. And there was a transaction of £1,500 in June 2019.  
As a result, Im not satisfied Mr Ds payments ought to have stood out to HSBC as unusual 
or suspicious because he had recently made a similar payment. So, I dont think there was 
any reason for HSBC to have intervened and to have asked questions of him at that point. 
Because all the payments that HSBC hasnt refunded were made on a debit card, 
chargeback was the only option for HSBC to potentially pursue a refund for Mr D. Whilst 
there are some protections under the relevant chargeback scheme, this isnt a guarantee of 
a refund. 
The chargeback process is voluntary and run by the card scheme whereby it will ultimately 
arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between 
them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so 
there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed or be deemed a valid claim. 
Our role in such cases is not to second-guess the card scheme rules, but to determine 
whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. HSBC) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting 
(or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of Mr D. 
The rules of the scheme and the evidence requirements are very specific. I wouldnt expect 
HSBC to pursue a chargeback where there wasnt a reasonable prospect of it succeeding. 
And a lack of the required evidence is one scenario where I think a claim would be unlikely 
to succeed. 
The potentially relevant chargeback reason under the scheme rules here was 53 which was 
later recoded to 13.5. This required HSBC to present dated evidence that Mr D had an 
available balance (in the form of a screenshot or confirmation from the merchant) and that 
he tried to withdraw sums equal to, or less than, his available balances on the same day.
Ive considered that Mr D wasnt able to obtain this evidence at the appropriate time because 
he didnt realise there was anything wrong until his balance had started to reduce 
dramatically, and it was then too late to get the necessary evidence because his access to 
the scammers platform was restricted. But the card schemes rules are there to be applied 
consistently on all cases and HSBC is aware that not having this evidence will lead to the 
chargeback not being successful. And the reasons for not having this evidence are issues 
HSBC cant pursue on Mr Ds behalf under the chargeback scheme. So, Im satisfied it fairly 
told Mr D there was no prospect of his chargeback for these funds being successful here. Im sorry to hear Mr D lost the funds to the scammers. But in the circumstances of this 
complaint, I dont think HSBC have acted unfairly. So, Im not going to tell them to do 
anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman