DRN-4061767
The complaint
Ms S complains about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) handled and 
settled her claim on her home insurance.
At points throughout the claim Ms S has been represented by a third party. However for 
ease of reading, all references to Ms S include the actions of the third party. 
What happened
Ms S had home insurance with RSA for a property she owns and rents out. In 2018 she 
made a claim for subsidence after noticing significant cracking at the property. RSA 
accepted the claim and identified the cause as some nearby vegetation which it removed. 
Over the months and years that followed, it took some time to come to an agreement about 
a claim settlement. Ms S decided she wanted a cash settlement, but there was some 
disagreement about the amount offered. Further, RSA said that Ms S had originally been 
underinsured by around 25% so this would need to be rectified before the settlement could 
be agreed. And Ms S said she had lost out on many months of rent which should also be 
included in the settlement. 
At the end of 2021 Ms S made a formal complaint. She said her claim for loss of rent hadnt 
been considered properly and she wasnt satisfied with the claim settlement as she felt her 
property needed to be underpinned. RSA didnt respond to the complaint within the required 
time so she asked this service to investigate. 
After the complaint came to this service RSA offered a new settlement offer to Ms S. It 
offered a total of £25,760.30 that was made up of 22 months worth of loss of rent at £750 
per month, £8,760.30 for the required works net of the excess and £500 compensation to 
make up for some delays RSA accepted it had caused. 
While Ms S still thought the property should be underpinned, she accepted that as she didnt 
have any proof this was required then the offer was a fair one. She accepted the offer, 
however thought RSA should pay interest on the amount as she had waited for a long time 
to receive settlement. 
Our investigator agreed and recommended RSA pay the settlement but add 8% interest on 
the claim costs from February 2020 until the settlement is paid. She also thought RSA 
should pay an additional £700 to make up for the distress and inconvenience its poor 
handling of the claim had caused. 
RSA didnt agree that interest should be added. It said it had already offered £500 
compensation and this should make up for any delays in the receipt of the settlement. And it 
said any delays past when it made the offer in November 2022 should be dealt with as a 
separate complaint. 
As agreement hasnt been reached, the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigators outcome for the following reasons:
While Ms S has said she thinks her property should be underpinned and the cash 
settlement isnt sufficient for this, she hasnt provided any evidence to support this view. 
However RSAs loss adjuster has put together a scope of works to reflect the work 
needed based on its assessments. And, in the absence of any other evidence, I think its 
fair for RSA to base its settlement on this. 
There has been an issue of underinsurance raised during this claim, and conflicting 
information has been provided by RSA throughout our investigation. However I 
understand this matter has now been resolved and Ms S has confirmed she is satisfied 
with that element of the claim, so Ive not commented further on this. 
RSA has offered a total of 22 months loss of rental payments, to cover the time it 
considers the property would have been uninhabitable, including an extra three months 
to cover any additional time. Considering the length of the claim and the extent of repairs 
I think this is a reasonable offer. 
However it has taken some time for RSA to come to a final settlement on the claim. And 
from looking at the timeline its provided, as well as its claim and complaint notes, I think 
this could have been offered much earlier. There are many times when RSAs loss 
adjuster has had to chase RSA for answers and confirmation about how the claim should 
proceed and this has caused a number of delays throughout the claim. Further the claim 
was incorrectly closed twice during this time and only reopened after Ms S chased its 
progress. 
Due to these delays Ms S has been caused some distress and inconvenience. She has 
been left without an idea of how the claim will progress, how long it will take to rectify or 
what the settlement would be. And RSA has provided very little information relating to 
this throughout the claim. Ms S has advised that due to the hassle of the claim, she 
eventually sold the property at a significantly reduced amount. So overall, I agree with 
our investigator that RSA should pay an additional £700 to apologise for the distress and 
inconvenience it has caused her. 
Further, considering these delays, its clear that the claim could have been cash settled 
much earlier than it was. And for this reason Ms S has been without the funds that she 
was entitled to for some time. I therefore agree with our investigator that RSA should pay 
8% simple interest on the claim amounts from the date the claim could have been settled 
until settlement is paid. 
Ive considered what the likely date the claim could have been settled if it had been 
progressed promptly. While it isnt possible to know this for certain, I agree February 
2020 is a fair assessment. As by this date the vegetation had been removed and RSAs 
loss adjuster had completed its report on the next steps needed for the claim. So I agree 
RSA should pay interest on the claim settlement from February 2020. 
In regards to the loss of rent, as this is to make up for payments that should have been 
received over a period of time, interest should be paid on this from the date each rental 
payment would have been received until the date payment is made.  My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Ms S complaint and direct Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited to:
Pay the cash settlement offer of £8,260.30 (net excess) plus 8% simple interest from 
February 2020 until final settlement is paid. 
Pay loss of rent offered at a total of £16,500 plus 8% interest on each instalment from 
the date it should have been received until the date settlement is paid.
Pay a total of £1,200 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman