DRN-2885644
The complaint
Mr M complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL), trading as 
American Express, was irresponsible when it increased his credit limit on his credit cards.
What happened
Mr M holds two credit card accounts with American Express, Ive referred to these as 
account 1 and account 2. For both accounts, Mr M requested increases to his credit limit 
several times.
 
Mr M was successful in obtaining increases to his credit limit, on both accounts, in late 2017 
and early 2018. But Mr M now says he shouldnt have been allowed further credit because 
he wasnt able to sustainably pay back the balance on his account. So, he thinks 
American Express decision to provide further credit was irresponsible. Mr M complained 
about the matter in February 2020.
 
American Express issued a final response letter on 28 February 2020. It said Mr M had 
asked for  and agreed to  the credit limit increases at the time, and that any interest 
charged had been applied fairly. Further, American Express said it was sorry to hear of 
Mr Ms difficulties and that it wanted him to contact it as soon as possible to discuss next 
steps. Lastly, American Express apologised to Mr M for the level of contact hed received 
about his accounts and said that  while the contact had been in line with its process  no 
further phone calls would be made in the short term. Mr M remained unhappy, so he referred 
his complaint to our service.
 
An investigator here looked at the complaint, but he didnt think American Express had done 
anything wrong when it agreed to increase Mr Ms credit limit. Thats because he thought 
Mr M appeared to have maintained his credit card accounts well. There were no missed or 
late payments on either account when Mr M had been granted more credit, and his credit file 
didnt show anything that wouldve been of concern at the time. The investigator said Mr M 
passed the checks carried out by American Express, so it didnt have any reason not to 
agree to his requests for an increased credit limit.
 
Mr M disagreed. In summary, he wanted to know what American Express had considered to 
see if he could sustainably repay the debt. He also asked if it had looked at his levels of 
outstanding debt at the time. Mr M explained that hed requested to borrow more from 
American Express to cover other debts and his rent, and he was missing other bills to repay 
his credit card accounts.
 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to review and decide.
I issued a provisional decision saying I intended to uphold the complaint. I said:
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending 
complaints on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry 
practice and law. And Ive considered this approach when deciding Mr Ms complaint.
There are several questions that Ive thought about when deciding if 
American Express treated Mr M fairly and reasonably on the occasions it increased 
his credit limits:
Did American Express complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy 
itself that Mr M would be able to repay his balances in a sustainable way? 
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time? 
Ultimately, did American Express make fair lending decisions?  
Did American Express act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive explained my findings below. 
Did American Express complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Mr M would be able to repay his balances in a sustainable way? 
American Express had to carry out checks which allowed it to assess whether Mr M 
could afford the increases to his credit limit. The rules dont set out what specific 
checks it needed to carry out, but they do set out that checks needed to be 
proportionate to the circumstances of the application. I think what this meant in 
practice, was that the scope and extent of American Express checks needed to 
consider Mr Ms ability to sustainably repay the credit it was providing him with on the 
two accounts he had with it.  
Further, the checks American Express carried out needed to be borrower focussed. 
By that, I mean the checks needed to look at whether making repayments might lead 
to other problems for Mr M  like causing him financial difficulty. This could mean 
considering factors such as the amount of the credit limit, Mr Ms overall financial 
position and his credit history.
In summary, theres not a one-size-fits-all approach to whats proportionate. So, Ive 
thought about whether American Express completed reasonable and proportionate 
checks  specific to Mr Ms circumstances  to satisfy itself that he could afford the 
credit limit increases.
 
My starting point has been to consider what American Express says it checked. Ive 
not seen that it asked Mr M any further questions about his income or his outgoings, 
instead it seems to have relied on his declared income. But it did check Mr Ms credit 
file  a copy of which hes provided to this service  and it considered his requests 
against its internal criteria, in addition to Mr Ms general conduct of his accounts. 
Mr M made multiple requests to significantly increase his credit limits in a very short 
timeframe. But, crucially, I dont think theres enough to suggest American Express 
carried out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that the credit limit 
increases were sustainably affordable for him. Ill explain why. 
Mr M first tried to increase the credit limit on account 1 in September 2017. He asked 
to double it  and, at this point, hed only held the account for around seven weeks. American Express didnt approve the increase because it was too soon after the 
account had been opened, but it wasnt long before it did agree to extend Mr Ms limit 
on both cards. That happened in October, when Mr M requested increases to his 
credit limits for both accounts on the same day. His requests to double the limit on 
account 1 (£1,500 to £3,000), and to borrow even more on account 2 (£1,000 to 
£3,000), were approved.
  
It seems to me, as Mr M had requested significant credit increases on both cards 
only a matter of weeks after having taken them out, that this shouldve alerted 
American Express to carry out checks into his financial circumstances. I say this 
because, objectively, I think such requests to significantly increase his credit limit 
could well have been an indicator that Mr M might be in financial difficulties. 
Shortly after American Express approved his requests in October 2017, in 
January 2018, Mr M tried three times to increase his credit limits even further. Again, 
the requests were for significant increases and made for both accounts. The first two 
requests for both accounts were declined because not enough time had passed 
since October. But despite the developing pattern, and emerging regularity of Mr Ms 
requests, American Express approved Mr Ms third attempt  increasing the credit 
limit on account 1 from £3,000 to £5,000, and from £2,000 to £4,000 on account 2.
 
Given everything Ive set out, I think there were enough indicators which shouldve 
alerted American Express to investigate Mr Ms financial position in more detail  
beginning when he first requested more credit in October 2017. While it accepted 
what Mr M had declared as his income, checked his credit file and looked at his 
general account management, Im not persuaded that American Express carried out 
borrower focussed checks to satisfy itself that Mr M would be able to sustainably 
afford to make payments in respect of the increased credit. So, it follows that I dont 
believe American Express carried out proportionate checks. 
what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time? 
I think its important that American Express checks were adapted to the 
circumstances of Mr Ms credit limit increases. And in this case, as Ive set out above, 
he was asking for significant credit limit increases for both accounts. 
The approved requests amounted to an increase of £6,500 to his credit limit across 
both accounts. So, given this significant request, I think American Express needed to 
carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure it understood the potential 
impact on Mr M of the increased credit it was proposing to provide. Mr M has 
provided copies of his bank statements from the time and a copy of his credit report. 
Ive looked at these alongside the information American Express said it checked.
From what Ive seen, Mr M had no recorded defaults, bankruptcy or county court 
judgments against him at the time of the credit limit increases. But Mr Ms credit 
report does show some late payments had been recorded for other commitments. 
And while that had occurred sometime prior to October 2017, the late payments are 
indicative that Mr M had problems in the past making payments in respect of his 
financial commitments. 
Both of his card balances with American Express were close to the limits at the time, 
but Mr M seemed to be maintaining his accounts well. He was making his repayments, and these were often for more than the minimum balance. So, the way 
Mr M was making repayments doesnt suggest  on the face of it  that he was 
having difficulty managing his accounts. But I think its significant that he was using 
the cards close to his credit limit each month. 
Ive also looked at the bank statements Mr M has provided, specifically those from 
August; September and October 2017. And for each month, his statements show he 
was regularly overdrawn. His account, when in credit, was operating with a relatively 
low balance for much of each month. Further, Mr Ms bank statements dont appear 
to support the level of income hed declared. And I think that, if American Express 
had chosen to investigate Mr Ms broader financial position in more detail, and 
interrogate the information he had provided to it, it wouldve seen and realised this. 
Moreover, Mr M has explained he was borrowing from multiple sources and missing 
out on bills to keep up with his credit card repayments and rent. And this appears to 
fit the pattern shown in his bank statements. That being; regular repayments to 
various credit cards, including American Express, but a generally low or overdrawn 
balance for most of the month. Ive also looked at Mr Ms existing credit commitments 
around the time he was first approved for further borrowing by American Express in 
October 2017. From what Ive seen, his bank statements show outgoings of over 
£1,500 to what appear to be existing credit commitments in August and September. 
And I think that indicates Mr M may have already been over extended with his 
existing borrowing at the time. 
Mr Ms next credit limit increase for both accounts was approved shortly after the 
first, in January 2018. From what Ive seen, theres no indication that his 
circumstances had changed. Nothing in his bank statements from the time suggests 
his salary had increased, nor is there anything to show the overall pattern  being 
overdrawn and running a low balance  had changed. 
Mr M tried three times in January 2018 to significantly increase his credit limit. And I 
think that also demonstrates how Mr M was finding himself under increasingly more 
financial pressure. So, given nothing had changed which indicated Mr M could 
sustainably afford to borrow more, I dont think I can reasonably say 
American Express made a fair lending decision here either. 
To sum up, everything seemed to be in order with Mr Ms repayments; general 
account management and credit file on the surface. But if American Express had 
taken a deeper look into his circumstances, and investigated what hed told it, I dont 
think it couldve safely concluded that Mr M wouldnt be put under any increased 
pressure if it doubled his credit limits. 
Rather, I think there were a range of indicators American Express saw  or ought to 
have seen  that shouldve made it realise Mr M was unlikely going to be able to 
sustainably repay the credit he was asking for. And, on that basis, I think 
American Express shouldve realised it wasnt appropriate to increase the credit limits 
for either card  in October 2017 or January 2018  given Mr Ms circumstances at 
the time. 
Putting things right
 I currently think it is fair and reasonable for Mr M to repay what hes borrowed, 
because hes had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid interest on an amount 
of credit that shouldnt have been provided to him. So, with that in mind, I think 
American Express should:
 
- rework the accounts as if the increases hadnt happened, ensuring any additional 
interest, fees and charges incurred are refunded;
- any refunds should be applied to reduce Mr Ms outstanding balances. If 
American Express deducts any income tax from this amount, it must provide the 
necessary certificate to Mr M;
- check for any periods when Mr Ms payments would have been enough to clear 
his balances and, if this is the case, it should pay 8% annual simple interest on 
any periods when Mr M would have been in credit; and
- remove any late payment markers, or adverse data, relating to either credit card 
from Mr Ms credit file after the date his credit limits were first increased on 
30 October 2017.
American Express didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr M did respond  he said he 
agreed with my findings and had nothing further to add. So, the case has now been returned 
to me to consider again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive not been provided with anything further to consider by either party, so I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold the 
complaint, and I require American Express to put things right as set out in my provisional 
decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require American Express Services Europe 
Limited (AESEL), trading as American Express, to take the steps set out under the heading 
Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman