DRN-3401008
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the quality of a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement 
with Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Porsche Financial Services 
(PFS). 
Hes also unhappy with how his request for assistance because of the Coronavirus (Covid-
19) pandemic was dealt with; and about the end of contract charges applied after hed 
voluntarily terminated (VTd) the agreement.
What happened
On 25 October 2018, Mr D was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement 
with PFS. He paid a £500 deposit and the agreement was for £49,433 over 49 months, with 
48 monthly repayments of £730.33 and a final payment of 24,510. At the time the car was 
around 18 months old and had done 34,203 miles.
Mr Ds income was affected by Covid-19 and he was unable to maintain his payments. So, 
on 17 April 2020, he contacted PFS for assistance. He completed an online assistance form 
and provided details of his income and expenditure. PFS replied on 1 May 2020, explaining 
what his options were, including a payment deferral (also known as a payment holiday).
On 18 May 2020, Mr D told PFS that hed already asked for a payment deferral when he 
contacted them in April 2020, and said he was concerned that theyd now issued him with a 
default notice. PFS declined the payment deferral request because Mr D was in arrears. But 
they didnt tell Mr D this decision until he chased them for an update on 22 June 2020.
PFS provided Mr D with a period of breathing space and, on 29 July 2020, they suggested 
that he reapply for a payment deferral. He did, and PFS declined the second application, 
also because of the arrears. 
Mr D agreed a payment plan in October 2020, where he would pay an additional £100 a 
month towards the arrears. At the same time, PFS agreed to remove any arrears from his 
credit file, as they accepted these were caused because of Covid-19. And they offered him 
£50 as a gesture of goodwill.
However, Mr D didnt think the agreement would be affordable in the long term. And he VTd 
the agreement in early 2021. The car was collected and inspected, and PFS charged him 
£565.20 for damage that fell outside of normal fair wear and tear guidelines.
Mr D complained to PFS about how hed been treated, that hed experienced problems with 
the car, and that itd spent time off the road for repair. PFS didnt think that there was any 
evidence the car had faults which were present or developing at the point of supply. But they 
did offer to reduce the outstanding VT liability by £1,000 because of the inconvenience Mr D 
had suffered. They also reviewed the damage charges and reduced them to £277.20. 
Mr D wasnt happy with this and brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said hed seen evidence of an ongoing fault with the car which was 
investigated between August 2019 and November 2020. And successful repairs were carried 
out in December 2020. While he thought the fault meant the car wasnt sufficiently durable, 
he considered the repairs being successfully carried out, and the £1,000 offered by PFS, to 
be reasonable in the circumstances. And he didnt think Mr D had been treated unfairly.
The investigator also said he didnt think PFS had done enough to consider Mr Ds financial 
circumstances. And the arrears on his account had only accrued because of Covid-19. So, 
he didnt think PFS shouldve refused the payment deferral requests. Given this, he thought 
PFS should pay Mr D £500 compensation for the impact of whatd happened; and also 
increase their offer of compensation from £50 to £150 for the trouble and upset caused by 
their incorrect reporting of arrears on Mr Ds credit file.
However, the investigator thought Mr D had been treated fairly regarding the VT, as the 
minimum liability was clearly stated in the agreement. And Mr D hadnt paid this, meaning 
there was a shortfall to pay upon termination. Finally, the investigator said that the end of 
contract damage charges were fairly applied, and PFS were entitled to invoice Mr D for this. 
PFS accepted the investigators view, but Mr D didnt. He said that, because the repairs 
were completed in December 2020, and he handed the car back in January 2021, this 
shouldnt be held against him  he wasnt prepared to continue to keep the car. And the 
30,000 miles he did while the car was in his possession were accumulated with repeated 
interruptions to a great amount of inconvenience. 
Mr D also thought it was disproportionate to consider this mileage equating to a liability of 
over £17,000. And that the £1,000 reduction in the VT liability was a small gesture of 
goodwill [which was] disproportionate to the inconvenience I suffered. So, Mr D considered 
that PFS should waive the VT liability in full as any terns would be superseded by the 
quality or lack of enjoyment of this product.
Because Mr D didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr D was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
Having reviewed the file and the comments from both parties, the only remaining element of 
dispute is the quality of the car. PFS agreed with the investigators comments about how 
theyd dealt with Mr Ds request for Covid-19 assistance, and about the end of contract 
damage charges. They also accepted the recommendations for putting this right.In his extensive comments, Mr D didnt refer to the Covod-19 assistance or the damage 
charges, only the fault with the car. So, its fair to assume that he also agreed with the 
investigators comments about these areas, and with the recommendations. As such, my 
decision will focus on the quality of the car itself.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) implies, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, PFS 
are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other relevant 
circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage at the 
time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless PFS can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified after 
this, the CRA implies its for Mr D to show it was present when the car was supplied. So, if I 
thought the car was faulty when Mr D took possession of it, and this made the car not of a 
satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask PFS to put this right.
Mr D bought a used car, so I wouldnt expect the same quality as Id expect in a brand-new 
car. But I would expect the car to be free from major defects and for it to be safe and 
durable. And I also need to consider the price he paid for the car - almost £50,000. The more 
expensive the car, the fewer minor issues Id expect to be present. 
It's not disputed there was an ongoing fault with the car relating to the engine warning light. 
This first occurred in August 2019 and at 53,005 miles - 10 months and 18,802 miles after 
the car was supplied to Mr D. And its also not disputed that Mr D took the car back to the 
dealership on multiple occasions to have the fault checked and/or a repair attempted.
While Mr D first raised this fault with the dealership in August 2019, he didnt raise it with 
PFS until November 2020, after hed agreed with them to VT the car. The final repair took 
place in December 2020. And, as theres no evidence to show that this repair was 
unsuccessful, its reasonable for me to conclude that it was.
Given the above, Im satisfied that the car wasnt sufficiently durable, and this made it of an 
unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr D. The CRA allows goods to be rejected 
after one unsuccessful repair attempt. But Mr D didnt ask to reject the car, instead he 
continued to let the dealership attempt to repair it until a repair was successful. And, given 
that a successful repair was carried out, I dont think its now reasonable for Mr D to also be 
allowed to have the agreement restructured as if he had rejected the car instead of VT.
But this doesnt mean that Mr D wasnt inconvenienced because of what happened. And 
PFS should do something to put this right.
The agreement Mr D signed on 25 October 2018 states the maximum annual mileage is 
15000 and the maximum total mileage is 95453. And hed done more that 15,000 miles in 
the less than 12-months before the fault first occurred in August 2019. Between this date 
and November 2020, when the fault last occurred, Mr D covered another 12,831 miles. And, 
given that this also included periods of national lockdown when movement was restricted by 
the government, Im satisfied that Mr D had fair usage of the car.As I understand it, whenever the car was in for repair, Mr D was also provided with a 
courtesy car. So, he remained mobile throughout the entire time he was in possession of the 
car. Given all of this, I dont think its fair for Mr D to be refunded any payments he made to 
PFS, as these payments reflect his usage.
Taking all the above into consideration, Im satisfied that the most appropriate remedy would 
be for PFS to compensate Mr D for the inconvenience and upset hed been caused by being 
supplied with a car that wasnt of a satisfactory quality. Theyve already offered him £1,000 
for this, which I consider to be reasonable in the circumstances. So, I wont be asking them 
to increase it.
Under the heading Termination: Your Rights the agreement Mr D signed said You have 
a right to end this agreement. To do so you should write to the person you make your 
payments to. They will then be entitled to the return of the goods and half the total amount 
payable under this agreement, that is £30,037.92. If you have already paid at least this 
amount plus any overdue instalments and have taken reasonable care of the goods, you will 
not have to pay any more.
As such, Im satisfied that Mr D wouldve been reasonably aware that, unless hed paid at 
least 50% under the agreement (which he hadnt), then there would be a VT shortfall that 
would need to be paid. In addition to the payments hed missed and the charge for any 
damage to the car that fell outside normal wear and rear guidelines. So, Im satisfied that 
PFS acted reasonably by charging him for this.
Putting things right
PFS should:
reduce the outstanding liability by £1,000 to compensate Mr D for the inconvenience 
and upset hed been caused by being supplied with a car that wasnt of a satisfactory 
quality (unless this reduction has already been applied);
pay Mr D £500 for the trouble and upset hes been caused by PFS not treating him 
fairly when he reported his financial difficulties;
pay Mr D a total £150 compensation for recording adverse information on his credit 
file, when his arrears were caused as a result of Covid-19; and
ensure all adverse markers are removed from Mr Ds credit file for the five payments 
he missed because of Covid-19.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Ds complaint. And Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited trading as Porsche Financial Services must follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman