DRN-4083302
The complaint
Mr M complains that Experian Limited gave his details to a third party business and that he 
was contacted about someone elses debt as a result. 
What happened
Last year, Mr M was contacted by a business Ill call W about an outstanding debt. Mr Ms 
explained the debt W was seeking to collect didnt belong to him and that he had been 
contacted in error. Mr M complained to the businesses involved and was sent final 
responses. The final responses sent by W and the business that instructed it (C) both said 
Mr Ms details had been provided by Experian. 
Mr M contacted Experian and raised concerns his details had been included on someone 
elses credit file which led to him being incorrectly linked to a debt in their name. Experian 
issued a final response but didnt agree it had made a mistake. Experian said it provides 
debt tracing services to businesses. Experian said that where personal details like 
someones name and date of birth are the same or very similar, an address may be provided 
for a possible match. But Experian says its then up to the business attempting to conduct a 
trace to verify whether the details provided are for the person being pursued. 
Experian issued a follow up response and apologised for the way a call with Mr M was 
handled. Experian also provided further information about the debt tracing process and 
which party is responsible for ensuring contact is made with the correct person. 
Mr M referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Experian had dealt with Mr Ms complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. 
Mr M asked to appeal and said Experian was reporting his personal details on a third partys 
credit file as he had been contacted by W in respect of someone elses debt. Mr M also said 
both W and C had responded to complaints he made and said his address had been linked 
by Experian and was a more accurate and up to date address for the borrower. Mr M also 
pointed out he didnt have any accounts with the original lender so it shouldve been clear to 
Experian that he wasnt the borrower C was seeking to contact. As Mr M asked to appeal, 
his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
I understand Mr M has separate complaints about Ws and Cs actions in relation to the 
contact he received. We consider complaints on an individual basis and in this decision Im 
only looking at Experians actions, whether it made mistakes and how it dealt with Mr Ms 
complaint. Im not going to comment on W or Cs actions other than to provide context and 
background to Mr Ms complaint about Experian. 
Mr Ms told us that hes concerned Experian recorded his details on someone elses credit 
file which is what led to him being contacted by W. But Experian has confirmed that it hasnt 
recorded Mr Ms details on a third partys credit file. The address was provided as part of a 
tracing activity completed by C when trying to find a borrower with the same name as Mr M. 
And Experian says it provided Mr Ms address as a potential match following a trace request 
from C. In its file submission to us, Experian advises that the potential match information it 
provides is subject to checks by the requesting business to confirm its correct before making 
contact. 
I understand why Mr M is concerned. But theres no evidence to support the claim his details 
were recorded on a third partys credit file. Experian has explained Mr Ms address was 
provided following the trace request, not because it was found on a third partys credit file. 
Im satisfied that Mr Ms address was shared following a trace request. 
Experians explained its not responsible for ensuring a business contacts the right person 
about a debt its seeking to collect and that it only provides potential matches. I think thats a 
reasonable point. When C attempted to trace its customer, it contacted Experian. And 
Experian provided the address of Mr M as his name matched that of the borrower C was 
attempting to contact. Whilst I agree Experian gave Mr Ms address as a potential match 
following the trace request, I havent been persuaded that was unreasonable or that by doing 
so it made a mistake. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr M as I can see how strongly he feels in this matter. But Im 
satisfied Experian has correctly explained its role and the nature of the tracing activities it 
conducts for businesses seeking borrowers. I appreciate the information led to Mr M being 
contacted by W about a debt that isnt his, but I havent been persuaded that Experian made 
a mistake or acted unfairly. 
Experian issued a follow up final response to Mr M and apologised for the service provided 
during his call with an agent. Im satisfied that Experians apology to Mr M was a fair way to 
deal with this element of his complaint. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but as Im satisfied Experian dealt with his complaint fairly Im 
not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman