DRN-2350763
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken in 
2003. Mr N says MBNA Limited mis-sold him the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which include Mr Ns 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here. Mr N 
wasnt able to recall whether he was entitled to more than statutory pay for sickness. Hes 
told us he didnt have anything else, like savings, to help pay his card if he couldnt work. His 
length of service makes me think he was at least entitled to statutory pay for redundancy.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the mis-sale complaint but thought MBNAs offer to pay back 
some of the cost of the PPI, because of the non-disclosure of high commission and profit 
share Mr N paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Mr Ns representatives disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated complaint points and arguments theyd previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ns. I havent set out that detailed information 
here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Ns complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided MBNA should have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that MBNAs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused, is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
Mr N has said he was sold the PPI after getting a letter through the post  and that the 
PPI was sold by post and just included on his card as part of the package. MBNA has 
told us it sold the PPI to Mr N by phone after hed applied for the card. Ive thought about 
this carefully. I can see that Mr Ns card application form offered PPI, but he didnt select 
it on that form  so I think it likely the PPI was sold to him later. Where the PPI was sold 
after a card, it was typically sold by phone. So, taking everything into account, I think it 
likely MBNA sold the PPI to Mr N by phone. From what we know of the call scripts used 
by MBNA at around this time, I think MBNA wouldve usually made it clear the PPI was 
optional and added it only if the customer agreed  and what I have in Mr Ns case isnt 
enough to make me think this isnt also what happened here. With all this in mind, on 
balance I think it more likely MBNA made it clear Mr N didnt have to take the PPI and 
added it to his account only after he agreed to take it.
MBNA didnt recommend the PPI to Mr N - so it didnt have to check the PPI was right or 
suitable for him. But it did have to give Mr N enough clear and timely information so he 
could decide for himself if it was right for him.
Its possible the information MBNA gave Mr N about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found he chose to take it, and I dont think it likely he wouldve 
taken it without at least a broad understanding of the cover it provided - so it looks to me 
like he wanted this type of cover. His job situation wouldnt have made it hard for him to 
claim and he hadnt any health issues the policy excluded. He wasnt affected by the 
significant exclusions or limits on the cover and it wasnt fundamentally wrong for him.
Ive nothing to suggest Mr N was entitled to more than statutory pay for redundancy or 
sickness - and he didnt have anything else, like savings, to pay his card if he couldnt 
work. I think the PPI benefit wouldve been useful for him. I dont think Mr N wouldve 
agreed to the cover without a broad idea of the approximate cost. I think it unlikely he 
was told the whole story, though - for example how the premiums attracted interest  but 
with the actual cost, Mr Ns circumstances and the policy benefit in mind, on balance Im 
not persuaded more information about this wouldve changed his decision to take cover.
Overall, I dont think the cover was too dissimilar to what its likely Mr N thought he was 
buying, from the information its likely he was given. With this and all Ive said above in 
mind, I dont think he wouldve declined it had MBNA done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations or exclusions on claims relating to back and mental 
health conditions, in light of Mr Ns circumstances at the time of sale and despite its 
limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong for him  and I think he 
wouldve still thought he had some good reasons to take it.
Overall, I consider Mr N wouldve still taken the PPI. It was sufficiently close to what its likely 
he thought he was getting and couldve provided a useful benefit at a difficult time, given his 
circumstances at the time. And, in those circumstances, I think he wouldve taken the policy 
in any event.
Mr Ns representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; that these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and that the duty of utmost good faith meant MBNA should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
Mr Ns representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Ns individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Ns particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint. For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means MBNA doesnt have to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mr N.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided MBNA should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that MBNAs offer, to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness 
caused, is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
MBNA didnt tell Mr N about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this case. 
So, taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the 
non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
MBNA and Mr N was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
MBNA didnt tell him about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case; 
I dont think MBNA acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr N, because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr Ns representatives have made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on his complaint.
In summary they have said Mr N should get back all the money he paid for the policy 
because: MBNA failed to tell Mr N about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, 
the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipmeant the policy was poor value, they say I should find Mr N wouldnt have taken the policy 
had he known about the level of commission and he should receive a refund of all the 
premiums he paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- a court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a court 
would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a consumer 
would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; and
- the FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge the 
considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance about 
mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) and that the 
impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it should be 
considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for Mr N 
in order to remedy the unfairness caused by MBNA not disclosing the high level of 
commission to him before he purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr Ns representative suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for MBNAs failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above;
I think it was fair for MBNA to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mr N paid for his PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mr N 
with the policy Ive concluded above he wouldve still taken if MBNA had done everything it 
should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that MBNAs offer of a payment of an amount equivalent to the commission 
and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms, is fair in all the circumstances. MBNA 
has sent us information that says it made this payment to Mr N in 2019. If MBNA has already 
paid Mr N compensation on this basis, I wouldnt consider that it needed to do anything else. 
Im grateful to Mr N for his courtesy and patience throughout our consideration of this matter 
and for the prompt attention hes given all our communications and requests for assistance.my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr Ns complaint or make any award in 
favour of him for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
MBNA Limited should pay Mr N an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share 
paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable) - if it 
hasnt already done so (MBNA has said it has already paid this).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021. 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman