DRN-3088379
The complaint
Mr T says Loans 2 Go Limited irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
In February 2020 Mr T took out a £550 loan with Loans 2 Go. The loan was due to be repaid 
over 18 months, with a monthly repayment of £125.71.
Mr T has said he shouldnt have been given this loan and cant afford to repay it. Hes 
argued that if Loans 2 Go had looked properly it would have seen the problems he was 
experiencing, and it wouldnt have agreed to lend. Mr T has also said he believed he was 
signing up for a six month loan as this was the quote he requested, but instead he was given 
an 18 month loan term. In addition, Mr T has argued that the interest rate was too high, and 
it wasnt fair to charge him more than a payday lender would have charged him for a loan of 
the same amount over a 12 month repayment period. 
In response to his complaint Loans 2 Go said it did complete proportionate checks before 
agreeing to lend. Its said it took details from Mr T about his income and expenditure and 
completed a credit check. Its also said it verified his income using their income verification 
tool and reduced the amount relied on slightly. And it increased his expenditure declarations, 
including adding a 10% buffer to his expenditure amounts, before determining that the loan 
repayments were affordable for him. It also said that the amount of interest charged was 
clear on his loan agreement. 
Mr T was unhappy with Loans 2 Gos response and so referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator reviewed his complaint but didnt uphold it. She felt that Loans 2 Go had 
completed proportionate checks and based on these, the loan was affordable for Mr T. She 
also explained that as this loan wasnt a high cost short-term loan, it isnt subject to the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) price cap and that the terms of the loan including the 
interest charged were made clear to Mr T. 
Mr T disagreed with the investigator and so this complaint has been passed to me to 
consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Loans 2 Go needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr T 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner.  Theres no set list of checks a lender 
needed to complete, but the checks completed needed to be proportionate and could take 
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
Looking at the checks Loans 2 Go completed, I can see it asked Mr T to declare his income 
and his regular expenditure for Home costs, Groceries, Utilities, Transport, Credit 
Commitments and Other regular expenses. Mr T declared an income of £1,700 per month 
and expenditure of £1,175 per month. In addition, Loans 2 Go completed a credit check. 
This showed two CCJs from April and May 2018, one of which was satisfied in January 
2019. Based on this Loan 2 Go felt it was reasonable to lend to Mr T and that he could afford 
to repay this loan.
Having considered all the information available, I agree the checks Loans 2 Go completed 
were proportionate and suggested that Mr T couldve afforded to sustainably repay this loan. 
I appreciate what Mr T has said about his circumstances and how this might not have been 
his actual position (although he hasnt provided any additional evidence to demonstrate this). 
However, what I need to consider is did the lender complete proportionate checks (when 
considering things like the amount lent, the term of loan etc.). And based on this, did it make 
a reasonable lending decision. Having done so, I think Loans 2 Go did.
Loans 2 Go relied on Mr Ts self-declared income and expenditure declarations (increasing 
the expenditure amounts slightly and decreasing the declared income as described above.) 
In addition, it completed a credit search. Ive taken into consideration the two CCJs which 
appeared on Mr Ts credit search results. However, they were sometime before the loan in 
question and Ive not seen anything else which should have suggested to Loans 2 Go that 
Mr T was having trouble managing his money when the loan was given. In addition, I think 
the income and expenditure amounts declared seemed plausible and so I think it wouldve 
been reasonable for Loans 2 Go to have relied on them. Taking everything into 
consideration, I think Loans 2 Go completed proportionate checks before agreeing to lend 
and based on the information it gathered, this suggested that Mr T could afford to 
sustainably repay the loan. 
Ive considered Mr Ts comments that the interest charged on the loan is very high and that 
he thought the loan term was only six months. However, from looking at his loan agreement 
(which Mr T has electronically signed), this sets out the loan term, monthly repayment 
amount, total interest charged and total amount to be repaid. So, I think Loans 2 Go 
provided Mr T with sufficient information about the cost and term of the loan. It was then for 
Mr T to decide whether or not he wanted to proceed with the borrowing.
In addition, Ive noted Mr Ts arguments that if the same amount was lent over a 12 month 
term the lender wouldnt have been able to charge as much interest. I think Mr T is referring 
to the price cap for high cost short-term credit and whilst I appreciate his point, this price cap 
doesnt apply to the loan in question. As Ive explained above, I think Loans 2 Go gave Mr T 
sufficient information about the costs involved in this loan before he agreed to take it out. So 
it was for Mr T to consider these costs and whether he was willing to pay them.  
To summarise, I think Loans 2 Go completed proportionate checks before agreeing to lend, 
and I think the results of those checks suggested that Mr T could sustainably afford to repay 
the loan. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint against Loans 2 Go Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
 
Claire Lisle
Ombudsman
