DRN-3459591
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the advice given by Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) in relation
to a defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme that she held. Portal processed the 
transfer of Mrs Bs DB scheme benefits to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) on an 
insistent client basis. Mrs B says Portal were negligent in the advice they provided, which 
she says has caused a loss.
What happened
Mrs B approached Portal around the middle of 2017 to discuss her pension and retirement 
needs.
In August 2017 during a phone call, Portal completed a fact-find to gather information about 
Mrs Bs circumstances and objectives. It also carried out an assessment of Mrs Bs attitude 
to risk, which it deemed to be cautious.
On 12 September 2017 Portal sent Mrs B a letter saying that it recommended she didnt 
transfer her DB pension scheme benefits because of the guarantees / benefits that she 
would be giving up and because of the growth rate that would be required by a new pension 
to match her scheme benefits. But Portal said it could still help Mrs B if she wanted to go 
ahead and it asked her to complete and return the enclosed insistent client form.
On 20 September 2017 Mrs B returned the insistent client form. Where asked Mrs B 
indicated on the form that she acknowledged her new pension was unlikely to achieve the 
required growth rate and that she was giving up guaranteed benefits. Mrs B indicated that 
she wanted to access her pension money early because she was ...finding it difficult to 
manage financially and need some extra income to help me through to the new year when I 
will be able to sell some land.. then I will be comfortable.
On 3 October 2017 Portal sent Mrs B a suitability report setting out its advice. The report
outlined Mrs Bs circumstances at the time, which in summary said that she was employed 
part-time; she was renting; she owned land worth around £100,000; she had no further 
assets; she had a loan costing around £200 a month; and she had no disposable income 
each month.
The report went on to set out the details of Mrs Bs existing DB pension scheme, which
included the transfer value and the amount of pension Mrs B could expect from her scheme 
at age 66. 
It also said the critical yields required to match Mrs Bs existing scheme benefits was 13.7% 
and 12% - Mrs B held two separate funds within the scheme - assuming a reduced pension 
and tax-free sum being paid. 
The report said that Mrs Bs objective was to access her tax-free cash entitlement to go 
towards her general living costs. Portal noted that it had explored with Mrs B other ways to 
generate the money required to meet her objective - but said that she didnt have enough 
assets to raise the money required, or enough disposable income and she didnt want to 
take on further lending.
The report then set out Portals recommendation. It said that it had already recommended
that Mrs B shouldnt transfer out of her DB pension scheme because of the benefits she 
would be giving up  but it said that Mrs B had decided to disregard the advice and that it 
would be treating her as an insistent client. It went on to propose that Mrs B transfer her 
pension to a SIPP to enable her to meet her objective.
Mrs B signed the relevant application forms and in June 2018 the transfer completed. Mrs B 
received her tax-free cash payment and the proceeds were invested in a range of funds, 
which Portal deemed matched Mrs Bs attitude to risk.
In 2020 Mrs B complained, via a representative to Portal about the advice she received.
Portal responded to the complaint querying the regulatory status of Mrs Bs representative 
and said it wouldnt answer the complaint.
Mrs B referred her complaint to our service. An investigator considered the matter and they
concluded that Mrs Bs representative was one we could deal with. I understand this 
particular matter has been clarified and that Portal no longer has issue with dealing with 
complaints from the representative. As such I wont consider this particular matter further. 
The investigator also concluded that Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld. In summary they 
said that Portal hadnt clearly explained the reasons why the transfer wasnt suitable or the 
risks involved. They said the suitability report was only issued after Mrs B had returned her 
form saying she wanted to go ahead. And they said Mrs Bs reason for wanting access to 
cash couldve been met by her using her savings particularly given her loan was due to be 
repaid within two months reducing her income deficit  but this wasnt properly explored.
Portal disagreed. In summary it said: 
it believes it acted fairly and reasonably and with Mrs Bs best interest in mind.
it advised against the transfer and clearly explained this to Mrs B  the transfer was only 
facilitated on an insistent client basis.
Mrs B clearly chose the option to go against Portals recommendation and she
confirmed that she was aware of the risks and the benefits she would be giving up by 
transferring.
the returned insistent client form was in Mrs Bs own words.
it believes it followed the correct insistent client process and says that its postal
correspondence process demonstrates best practice for insistent client transactions.
it believes the evidence shows Mrs B would have transferred her DB pension with or 
without Portals involvement due to her strong language throughout and her strong 
objective to release funds early.
Because the investigator wasnt persuaded to change their mind, the case was passed to
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given by
the investigator. My reasons are set out below.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it
is unsuitable. So, Portal should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Cs best interests (COBS 19.1.6).
A key aspect in this case is Portals categorisation of Mrs B as an insistent client - this is a
client that wishes to take a different course of action from the one recommended and wants 
the business to facilitate the transaction against its advice.
At the time of the advice there were no regulatory rules in place in respect of insistent
clients. But in February 2016 the regulator provided guidance on its website about what
steps it expected businesses to take when advising an insistent client. There are three key
steps, which it set out on its website as follows:
1. You must provide advice that is suitable for the individual client, and this advice must
     be clear to the client. This is the normal advice process.
2. You should be clear with the client about the risks of their chosen course of action. If the 
advice includes a pension transfer, conversion or opt-out, there may be additional
requirements. These may include ensuring the advice is provided by or checked by a 
pension transfer specialist, comparing the defined benefit (DB) scheme with the
defined contribution (DC) scheme and starting by assuming the transfer is not
suitable (see COBS 19.1).
3. It should be clear to the client that their actions are against your advice.
The regulator said the advice should be set out clearly in the suitability report, and that it
needed to be clear with its client about the risks of their chosen course of action and that
he/she is acting against it advice. It also added that if the client used their own words to
indicate that they want to act against its advice, this would normally be clear. The regulator 
also published additional guidance on its website giving examples of good and poor practice. 
It gave the following example of good practice relating to suitability reports:
The adviser gave a personal recommendation in clear and unambiguous terms regarding
both the advice on whether or not to transfer and, if the client chose to transfer, the receiving
product and the funds into which the client was advised to invest.
The adviser discussed the client's reasons and the risks of not accepting the personal
recommendation. The adviser documented the reasons, the discussion and its outcome in a
separate document to the original personal recommendation.
Robust warnings were given and documented.
Whilst this was guidance, and not rules, I wouldve expected Portal to have been aware of
this and ensured that the advice and process it followed was consistent with the regulators
expectations.
Portal says that it provided suitable advice and acted in Mrs Bs best interests. It says that it
followed the correct insistent client process and that its postal correspondence process
demonstrates best practice for insistent client transactions. Mrs B says Portals advice was negligent and shes suffered a loss as a result.
Having carefully considered all of the evidence presented, I think there were weaknesses
and failings in Portals advice process, which meant it didnt act in Mrs Bs best interests. 
And I think Mrs B likely understood or believed overall that Portal was recommending she 
should go ahead with the transfer.
I say this because on 12 September 2017 following the telephone discussion Portal had with 
Mrs B about her pension options, it sent her what I think can only be described as a brief 
letter with the outcome of its advice. It said that because of the growth rate required to match 
Mrs Bs guaranteed benefits from her DB scheme, and because shed be giving up those 
guaranteed benefits, it recommended she should not transfer away from her DB scheme to 
access a tax-free cash lump sum.
In this situation Id expect the emphasis of the documentation to be the reasons why the
transfer was not in Mrs Bs best interests. But the information on this form was limited to the
loss of guarantees and the growth required to match her existing benefits. While Portal later
sent a more detailed suitability report, which I will refer to later on, at this stage Mrs B had
little information to go off to decide if being an insistent client was truly in her best interests.
Yet immediately underneath the brief summary of why Portal recommended Mrs B should 
not transfer away from her DB scheme, it said that she could go about doing it regardless, by
effecting her right to transfer on an insistent client basis. And while it said this would be
against Portals recommendation, it enclosed the necessary forms Mrs B needed to 
complete and return to pursue this option. And option 1 she was presented with was to go 
against Portals advice  the second option was to do nothing as per its recommendation. It 
strikes me that Portals process here was geared towards facilitating the transfer.
I think if Portal firmly believed in its advice and recommendation and it was acting in Mrs Bs
best interests, not only would it have given more detail upfront and placed greater emphasis
on the reasons why the transfer wasnt in Mrs Bs best interests, it also wouldnt have told 
her at the same time as delivering its recommendation - albeit briefly - how she could put it
aside and bypass it. I think the wording and the emphasis placed on how Mrs B could ignore
Portals recommendation was unfair to her and wasnt in her best interests.
I dont think it was in Mrs Bs best interest to go against Portals recommendation  yet Portal
made it very easy for her to do so. I also think, given the context and the emphasis placed
on this, that Mrs B could reasonably have interpreted this overall that Portal was 
recommending she go ahead and transfer.
I think it ought to have been clear to Portal that Mrs B had little knowledge or experience of
financial matters based on the information available at the time of the advice. For example
theres nothing recorded on the assets section of the fact-find, which suggests Mrs B was an
experienced investor  in fact it appears she was completely inexperienced. Im mindful too
that Portal assessed Mrs Bs attitude to risk as being cautious. This process involved Mrs b 
giving answers to a series of questions  one of which was about her understanding of 
investments to which she replied, I am likely to rely on an adviser but understand the 
fundamentals when they are explained to me. 
I think this shouldve put Portal on notice that it had to be very careful if it was to take matters
through the insistent client route.
I can see that Mrs Bs insistent client forms included a section where she put in her own 
words why she wanted to access her pension fund early. And while this was something the 
FCA guidance pointed to as being good practice, I dont think Mrs Bs response adequately
demonstrates that she knew and understood the risks involved and the recommendationbeing made. I say this not only because the majority of the form was pre-completed and Mr 
B simply had to tick a box to say that she understood what she was giving up by transferring. 
But crucially as I indicated earlier on, she hadnt yet received Portals full suitability report 
and had time to read and digest it before deciding to go ahead anyway. So Im not 
persuaded Mrs B was able to make an informed choice here. And I dont think this document 
alone sufficiently showed Mrs B was an insistent client.
It was only after receiving Mrs Bs confirmation that she wanted to proceed with the transfer
that Portal sent her its full suitability report. And while this repeated the recommendation
not to transfer out of the DB scheme, this was followed by a positive recommendation,
advising Mrs B to transfer her benefits to facilitate access to her tax-free cash. And this was
all set out under a heading titled Our recommendation.
In order to fulfil the regulators requirements under COBS 9.2, Portal needed to give Mrs B
advice on the overall suitability of the transaction envisaged, that is the transfer and the
choice of pension and investment. Instead, it first gave Mrs B advice on the advice to 
transfer, and only considered the suitability of the proposed alternative in the full suitability 
report after securing Mrs Bs confirmation to proceed on an insistent client basis.
So, by recommending that Mrs B transfer her benefits to a particular scheme, not only did 
this undermine the recommendation not to transfer, I think Portal has effectively 
recommended that she transfer out of her DB scheme. If Portal didnt think that transferring 
out of the DB scheme to a personal pension arrangement was in Mrs Bs best interests, it 
needed to ensure that it gave clear advice that the whole of the transaction was unsuitable 
for her. It couldnt separate out the elements. For this reason, I think on receipt of the full 
suitability report Mrs B likely believed Portal was recommending he transfer out of the DB 
scheme, and it was reasonable for her to do so.
Mrs Bs objective for accessing her pension early was to enable her to generate a lump sum 
with which she could use to support her general living having recently reduced her working 
hours  the result of which was putting a strain on her monthly budget. Portal recorded that 
Mrs Bs income deficit was around £400 a month. But Portal also recorded that her loan 
payment of £200 a month was due to end in October 2017- so her income deficit and 
financial pressure would already have reduced at this stage regardless. Furthermore Portal 
recorded that Mrs B had savings, which although she was already drawing upon and had 
been for several months, she still had £9,000 left.
But crucially in my view, Portal appears to have overlooked what Mrs B said in her insistent 
client form together with what else it recorded in the fact-find about Mrs Bs assets and her 
plans. I say this because in the fact find it says Mrs B had land worth around £100,000, 
which she intended to sell at the beginning of 2018 to enable her to purchase a house. And 
in her insistent client form Mrs B said that she needed extra income to help her through to 
the new year when shed sell her land at which point she says shed be comfortable. 
So it appears that Mrs Bs need for extra money to support her income was a short-term one 
 a few months at most. Mrs Bs plans to buy a house in early 2018 would free up the £400 a 
month she was paying in rent enabling her to live within her means. But if her plans 
changed, she could use the not inconsiderable sum of money to supplement her income 
over a longer period of time. In the meantime Mrs B already had sufficient savings she could 
use to supplement her income. Based on a £400 a month income deficit, £9,000 wouldve 
lasted her almost two years  so there was a built-in contingency if her plans took longer to come to fruition. Portal says that it explored the alternative ways of meeting Mrs Bs needs  
but it overlooked what I consider was an obvious and easy solution.
 
In any event, the transfer was likely to take some time to complete  so it was highly unlikely 
to provide Mrs B with the cash she needed in the time frame she needed it. Indeed 
according to some pension statements Mrs Bs pension provider has supplied us with, it 
appears Mrs Bs transfer didnt happen until the middle of 2018. 
 
It strikes me that Mrs B was likely seduced by the sum of money she was told she could gain 
access to. But I dont think it was necessary for Mrs B to gain access to her pension monies 
early to achieve her objective - yet I think she most likely went ahead with the transfer 
because she believed this to be the case.
I acknowledge there were no specific insistent client rules at the time. But I consider the
rules and guidance that were in place at the time were clear that Portal had to act with due
care and skill and in Mrs Bs best interests. And by not seeking to properly understand Mrs 
Bs objectives and what she was really trying to achieve before carrying things out, Im not
persuaded this was acting in Mrs Bs best interest.
Ultimately I dont think Mrs B was able to make an informed choice here  it seems to me 
that she most likely went ahead with the transfer as she believed it seemed like a good idea 
and this was the only way to meet her objective. Portal failed to properly understand Mrs Bs 
overall financial position and overlooked or ignored what I consider was the clear and 
obvious solution to her short-term income need as I described above. Furthermore I think 
Portal gave Mrs B a positive recommendation to transfer out of the scheme, which in the 
circumstances I think wouldve given her the impression that Portal agreed with her 
approach.
Overall and on balance, given these failings, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to
conclude the process Portal followed meant that Mrs B can truly be regarded as an insistent
client - I think Portal made it altogether too easy to agree that she was an insistent client.
Portals overall communication with Mrs B wasnt clear or fair. It didnt act in Mrs Bs best
interests. And it failed to act with due care and skill.
I now need to consider if Portal had followed the insistent client process correctly, whether
Mrs B wouldve still gone ahead. Portal says that because of Mrs Bs strong language and 
objective, this is evidence that she wouldve accessed her DB pension benefits early 
regardless of Portals involvement.
But I disagree. If Portal had acted in Mrs Bs best interests, providing a recommendation on 
the suitability of the whole of the transaction envisaged at the outset, and addressing Mrs Bs 
true objectives at the time, I dont think Mrs B wouldve insisted on going ahead with the 
transfer. As Ive outlined above, I dont consider Mrs B was an experienced investor who  
possessed the requisite knowledge, skill or had the confidence to go against the advice she 
was given. I think she relied solely on the advice and process Portal employed.
So if things had happened as they should have, taking everything into account, I dont think
it likely Mrs B would have insisted on going ahead with the transfer.
In light of the above, I think Portal should compensate Mrs B for its failings using the 
regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
I can see the investigator also recommended an award of £300 for the distress and
inconvenience the matter has caused Mrs B. So Ive also thought about whether its fair to 
award compensation for distress and inconvenience - this isnt intended to fine or punish 
Portal. But I think its fair to recognise the emotional and practical impact this had on Mrs B. And taking everything into account, including that I consider Mrs B is now at the age when 
her retirement provision is of greater importance to her, I think the unsuitable advice has 
caused her distress. So I think an award of £300 is fair in all the circumstances.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Portal to put Mrs B, as far as possible,
into the position she would now be in but for its failings. I consider Mrs B would have
most likely remained in her DB scheme if suitable advice had been given and the correct
process followed.
Portal must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
My understanding is that Mrs B couldve taken her DB pension benefits without reduction at
age 66. So I think if Mrs B had remained in her DB scheme she wouldve most likely 
accessed them at this point. So, compensation should be based on her schemes normal 
retirement age of 66. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly
following receipt of notification of Mrs Bs acceptance of the decision.
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mrs Bs
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mrs Bs SERPS/S2P
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid
into Mrs Bs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mrs B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount
must where possible be paid to Mrs B within 90 days of the date Portal receives notification 
of her acceptance of my final decision.
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year
simple from the date of any final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of
90 days, that it takes Portal to pay Mrs B.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above - and so any
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Portal Financial 
Services LLP to pay Mrs B the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Portal Financial Services LLP should also pay Mrs B £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Portal Financial Services LLP to pay Mrs B any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Portal 
Financial Services LLP to pay Mrs B any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Portal Financial Services LLP pays Mrs B the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mrs B.
If Mrs B accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Portal Financial 
Services LLP.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mrs B can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mrs B may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman