DRN-1620220
 
The complaint
Miss E complains about the way Zurich Insurance PLC handled an escape of water claim 
she made on her home insurance policy.
What happened
In July 2019, Miss Es home was damaged by an escape of water. She made a claim on her 
home insurance policy. Zurich accepted the claim and appointed contractors to deal with the 
repairs on its behalf. It agreed that Miss E could move into alternative accommodation while 
the works were going on.
Miss E was unhappy with the standard of the repairs the contractors had carried out and she 
complained. Zurich arranged for the work to be inspected and agreed that the work wasnt 
good enough. It offered Miss E a cash settlement so she could arrange for her own 
contractor to put things right. But Miss E turned down this option. So Zurich appointed 
another contractor to carry out the necessary work.
The new contractor identified further issues and found the property hadnt been fully dry. So 
works were further delayed. Miss E needed further alternative accommodation due to a 
health issue which could be exacerbated by dampness. But there were some issues with this 
being arranged and extended in good time. The works were ultimately finished around five 
months after they initially started.
Miss E remained unhappy with the handling of her claim. In particular, she was unhappy 
because she said her shower had been moved by the original contractor when they were re-
fitting it. She said it was now in line with the edge of the bath, which had left the shower 
unusable. 
Zurich accepted it had made mistakes in its handling of Miss Es claim. So during the life of 
the claim, it arranged to pay her overall compensation of £500. But it didnt agree that its 
contractors had moved the shower. It said the contractors had used the original pipework 
and put the shower back in the same position. 
Miss E still felt Zurichs contractors had left her with an unusable shower and she wanted it 
to be fixed. She didnt think the compensation was enough to recognise her distress and 
inconvenience. And she also complained that the disturbance allowance shed been paid 
while shed been staying in alternative accommodation hadnt been enough given her 
expenses.
Our investigator didnt think Miss Es complaint should be upheld. He didnt think there was 
enough evidence to show Zurichs contractors had moved the shower unit. He didnt think 
Zurich needed to do anything more.
Miss E disagreed. She felt the fact the contractor had completed shoddy work throughout 
her home indicated it hadnt properly fixed her shower. She said shed been caused anxiety 
and stress as a result of Zurichs handling of her claim.
The complaints been passed to me to review. I understand Miss E made a separate 
complaint to Zurich about the disturbance allowance payment which has been dealt with by 
Zurich. As this issue wasnt looked into by Zurich as part of this complaint, I havent 
considered it here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Es complaint. Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Miss E that while Ive only included a summary of the claim and the 
way it was handled, I have considered all both parties have said and sent us. Ive focused 
though on what I think are the key issues.
The fitting of the shower
Its clear Miss E feels strongly that Zurichs contractors didnt refit her shower properly. Im 
sorry to hear that shes experienced issues with the shower following the claim. Ive looked 
carefully at the evidence to decide if I think its most likely Zurichs contractors did move the 
shower when they refitted it.
Unfortunately, Miss E wasnt able to provide us with any photos which showed how and 
where the shower unit was installed before the claim happened. So I cant compare the 
photos of the shower after the works with how it looked beforehand. And check whether it 
clearly was refitted in a different place or using different pipework. Miss E also hasnt 
provided us with any expert reports which show the shower now isnt working properly or 
was refitted in a faulty way. 
Zurich contacted its first contractor to investigate how the shower unit had been refitted. 
They told Zurich that theyd used the original pipework when refitting the shower and that the 
shower hadnt been moved. An inspection of the shower was also carried out by another 
contractor. Ive seen a copy of their findings. These say: This review concluded that it would 
not be easy to move the shower control unit even a small amountFrom our inspection, we 
were of the opinion that the feed pipe to the shower was the original and had not been 
altered.
This suggests it wouldve been difficult to remove the shower unit in order to re-fix it in place. 
On balance, particularly taking into account the findings of the reviewer, it seems more likely 
than not that the shower was fixed in its original position and using the same pipework. 
So while I sympathise with Miss Es position, I simply havent seen enough evidence to 
persuade me, on balance, its most likely the contractors didnt properly re-fit her shower 
unit. So I dont think Zurich needs to do anything more.
The compensation Zurich has paid
Its clear that significant mistakes have been made in the handling of Miss Es claim. There 
were delays in the works being carried out, which were largely down to the poor 
workmanship of Zurichs first contractor. This mustve been highly frustrating and upsetting 
for Miss E at a time when she was already having to live away from her home and dealing 
with the stress of a claim.
Zurich also accepts there were issues in the arrangement and renewal of alternative 
accommodation for Miss E. Miss E had let Zurich know she had a health condition which 
could be affected by damp. So I think it shouldve ensured alternative accommodation was arranged and extended in good time. Again, the issues Miss E experienced likely caused 
further unnecessary worry and upset.
Im pleased to see Zurich recognised its errors and has paid Miss E £500 compensation. Ive 
thought about this. I think its a significant amount of compensation and I think it takes into 
account the additional distress and upset its handling of the claim caused her at an already 
difficult time. Its broadly what I wouldve awarded if Zurich hadnt already arranged this 
payment and I think its a fair award for Miss Es distress and inconvenience.
This means Im not telling Zurich to pay anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 August 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman