DRN-1797627
The complaint
Ms B and Mr C have complained that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Birmingham Midshires 
and referred to here as BM) has treated them unfairly in the way its handled their buy-to-let 
(BTL) mortgage accounts during a period of financial difficulty.
To settle the complaint, they want BM to sell off the properties.
What happened
In 2009, after taking advice from an independent financial adviser, Ms B and Mr C took out 
two BTL mortgages with BM in order to purchase two investment properties in a new 
development. Each mortgage was for £86,100 (including fees) on an interest-only basis over 
a term of ten years. The mortgages were at a fixed rate of 5.49% until 1 April 2012.
(I understand Ms B and Mr C had other BTL properties which have been sold, but this 
complaint concerns only the mortgages detailed above.)
In September 2018 Ms B and Mr C were told by the managing agents that theyd underpaid 
the ground rent on the property over a period of years and owed £2,680. They didnt have 
the money to pay this and so asked BM if it would pay it on their behalf and add it to the 
mortgage balance. BM agreed to do so, but explained to Ms B and Mr C that, as the 
mortgages had only a few months left to run, their monthly repayments would increase from 
£268.75 to £944.46 in order to ensure that this additional debt was cleared by the end of the 
mortgage term.
The mortgages reached the end of their term in 2019, but Ms B and Mr C werent able to 
repay the balances. BM considered a term extension, but, after looking at Ms B and Mr Cs 
income and expenditure, BM concluded that this would be unaffordable. 
BM appointed Law of Property Act (LPA) receivers to manage the properties, as there were 
arrears of around £8,000 on the accounts.
In October 2019 Ms B and Mr C complained that theyd been treated unfairly. They were 
unhappy that the monthly payment had increased so much after BM had paid the 
outstanding ground rent on their behalf.  They said they couldnt afford the increased 
payments. They were also unhappy that BM wouldnt offer them a term extension, and that 
they were being sent letters about arrears and LPA receivers, which they found annoying. 
Finally, Ms B and Mr C complained about charges being added to the account.
BM didnt uphold the complaint so Ms B and Mr C brought it to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, where an investigator looked at the complaint. After reviewing everything that had 
happened, he didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that, given the 
very limited options available, BM hadnt done anything wrong. He was also satisfied that 
BM was entitled to add charges to the account and to appoint LPA receivers. 
The investigator noted that things had moved on since the complaint had originally been 
raised; the LPA receivers had handed the properties back to BM. One had been sold by BM 
and the other was on the market, but there was a significant shortfall debt that would be 
outstanding after the sales had gone through.
Ms B and Mr C maintain that they dont think its fair BM can add fees and charges to the 
account. They are pensioners and say they cant afford this.
Because the matter remains unresolved, it now falls to me to issue a decision on this 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I fully sympathise with the position Ms B and Mr C find themselves in relation to these BTL 
mortgages. But after looking at everything thats happened, I dont think BM has done 
anything wrong.
A BTL mortgage is a commercial venture and is not a regulated product. What this means is 
that the regulations lenders have to follow which apply to residential mortgage borrowers 
who are in arrears dont apply here. But BM is still required to treat Ms B and Mr C fairly, 
taking into account their circumstances. 
The mortgages were taken out for investment purposes. Like any investment, a BTL 
property may produce a healthy return or it may result in a heavy loss for the investor. I have 
no doubt that Ms B and Mr C took out these mortgages in the hope that the rental income on 
the properties would cover the mortgage repayments and provide them with additional 
income, as well as long-term capital growth. 
Unfortunately the properties have fallen in value since 2009. I also note from what Ms B and 
Mr C have told us that they have had to use the rent for their own living expenses, resulting 
in arrears on the BLT mortgages. 
The account terms and conditions allow BM to appoint a LPA receiver (who is the agent of 
the borrower, not the lender) to manage the properties. Having looked at the position on the 
account and the absence of any proposals to repay the mortgages at the end of the term, Im 
satisfied BMs decision to appoint LPA receivers was reasonable. 
If Ms B and Mr C are unhappy at the actions of the LPA receivers or their charges, thats 
something they will need to take up with the receivers; LPA receivers not covered by the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.
BM considered whether or not a term extension was reasonable, but after looking at Ms B 
and Mr Cs income and expenditure, concluded that this was unaffordable. Im satisfied this 
is a decision BM was entitled to make. Payment of the mortgage balances in full was due at 
the end of the ten-year terms, and BM wasnt under any obligation to grant a term extension 
where it would not be affordable. 
I think this was a reasonable decision for BM to make. Granting a term extension where the 
borrowers are unable to pay even the current mortgage would make their position worse not 
better, as additional interest and charges would increase the debt if the term was extended.
I appreciate Ms B and Mr C are unhappy that their mortgage repayments increased 
significantly when the unpaid ground rent was added to the account. But BM explained that this debt would need to be cleared before the end of the mortgage term, which had only 
about four months left to run.
Because there was unpaid ground rent owed to the freeholder, BMs security was at risk, as 
the freeholder would have had the right to forfeit the leases if the ground rent remained 
unpaid. So Im satisfied that, because Ms B and Mr C didnt have the money to do so, it was 
reasonable for BM to pay these charges in order to preserve its security. I also note that the 
payment was made at the request of Ms B and Mr C and that BM confirmed how this would 
impact on the monthly payment.
I appreciate Ms B and Mr C were annoyed at receiving letters saying they were in arrears. I 
dont think BM did anything wrong here; lenders are required to let borrowers know the 
position on their accounts, particularly where there are arrears or where the term has 
reached its end. 
Im also satisfied that BM was entitled to add fees and charges to the account where 
payments were missed. Ive looked at the account history and Im satisfied the fees and 
charges have been fairly applied, and in line with the account terms and conditions.
After taking into account everything Ms B and Mr C and BM have said and provided, Im 
unable to conclude that BM has done anything wrong or treated Ms B and Mr C unfairly. I 
know this isnt the outcome Ms B and Mr C were hoping for. As I said at the outset, I have 
considerable sympathy for Ms B and Mr C; the BTLs that they hoped would give them a 
comfortable income in their retirement have instead put them into significant debt. But Im 
afraid I cant hold BM responsible for this.
I see that in its final response letter BM provided Ms B and Mr C with details of free debt 
advice services who may be able to assist them. I would urge Ms B and Mr C to take 
advantage of any advice available to them so they can be fully aware of their options going 
forward.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman