DRN-4120463
The complaint
Mrs T complains about the service she received from Tesco Personal Finance PLC while 
she was struggling financially.
What happened
Mrs T complained to Tesco that it had: 
Ignored her pleas and concerns when made aware of her financial difficulties.
Failed to consider the circumstances around her health.
Continued sending letters which she found to be abrupt and unempathetic.
Tesco issued several letters to Mrs T in relation to her complaints about how it has handled 
her financial difficulties. It responded to the first two complaint points in a final response 
dated 31 December 2021 and a follow up letter on 26 February 2022. And it responded to 
the third complaint point on 19 August 2022. Unhappy with the responses Mrs T referred her 
complaint to this service on 7 February 2023. 
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Ts complaint. But he didnt think we could look at 
all the complaint points Mrs T had referred to us. He thought Mrs T had referred her original 
complaint points to us too late  outside the six months time limit set out in our rules. He 
said if Mrs T didnt respond he would assume that she accepted this outcome and would go 
on to investigate the other complaint point as this had been referred to us within six months 
of that final response being issued by Tesco. 
Mrs T didnt respond. So, the investigator went on to consider the part of the complaint he 
thought we could look at  the third complaint point. But he didnt think Tesco had done 
anything wrong. He said that Tesco was obliged to send customers letters about the status 
of their account and any action it was intending to take  even when it was aware of a 
customers financial difficulties. So, he didnt uphold the complaint.  
Mrs T responded to say she didnt agree with the investigator findings. She said: she had 
kept Tesco updated about her circumstances; she hadnt used the account for further 
spending; and she had made payments to the account. Mrs T added that Tesco was making 
her feel as though shed done something wrong. She asked for the complaint to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman and so the complaint was passed to me.
Before I could review Mrs Ts complaint, I wanted to clarify whether Mrs T was disagreeing 
with both views issued by the investigator or just the later. So, the investigator contacted   
Mrs T on my behalf. He asked her to clarify what she disagreed with, and he added that if a 
response wasnt received, wed assume she had accepted that we couldnt consider the first 
two complaint points. 
Mrs T didnt respond. So, for clarity, this decision solely relates to Mrs Ts complaint point 
about Tesco continuing to send correspondence after it was aware of her financial situation 
which she found to be abrupt and unempathetic.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear of the financial and health issues Mrs T has experienced. I understand 
managing her repayments and dealing with Tesco has been a source of worry and 
frustration, at what has already been a challenging time. But, overall, Ive reached the same 
overall conclusion as the investigator. I know Mrs T will be disappointed, so Ill explain why. 
Tesco  like all lenders, has a regulatory responsibility to inform customers of the status of 
their account and any action it intends to take. Here, I appreciate that Mrs T made Tesco 
aware of her circumstances  both financial and health, and she has continued to pay what 
she could afford. 
But the payments Mrs T made werent enough to meet her contractual payments. As a 
result, arrears accrued on her account. So, I dont find Tesco did anything wrong if it sent 
letters about the arrears on the account.
I can see Mrs T feels that Tesco is making her feel she has done something wrong. And I 
accept Mrs Ts ability to keep up with her contractual payments is a result of financial and 
health problems beyond her control. But Mrs Ts account was in arrears for many months 
and industry guidance sets out that lenders can default an account in such circumstances. 
So, I dont find Tesco acted unfairly in deciding to default Mrs T account. 
I appreciate it was upsetting for Mrs T to find that Tesco had made the decision to default 
her account. But, when an account is defaulted, charges and interest are automatically 
stopped, thereby stopping the debt from increasing. And it allows the account holder to come 
to an agreement with the lender about making lower  and more affordable monthly 
payments. So, I dont find - given Mrs Ts situation, that Tesco acted unfairly here.
When such decisions are made, lenders are required to notify the account holder of its 
actions. And here, its not in dispute that Tesco wrote to Mrs T to give notice that it intended 
to default her account and that it wrote to confirm the account had subsequently been 
terminated. 
I understand Mrs T felt the letters were abrupt and unempathetic. But I havent seen 
anything to suggest the letters sent to Mrs T were anything other than the standard statutory 
notices and letters I would expect to be sent to any customer in Mrs Ts circumstances.  
Overall, I dont find Tesco has treated Mrs T unfairly, so I wont be asking it to take any 
further action in respect of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 Sandra Greene
Ombudsman