DRN-4310408
The complaint
Mr M complains that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited is unfairly trying to collect a debt in 
his name. 
What happened
In November 2022 Link acquired an overdraft debt in Mr Ms name from a business Ill call H 
with an outstanding balance of £1,517.93. Link went on to contact Mr M with a view to 
agreeing a repayment plan. 
Mr M raised a complaint with Link and said hed overpaid the overdraft with H and was in 
fact due a refund of around £500. Link contacted H and raised a dispute about the 
outstanding balance. But when H responded it advised the outstanding balance was correct 
and no refund was due. H sent Link a copy of a final response it had issued to Mr M that 
confirmed overdraft fees, interest and charges had been correctly applied. H didnt agree 
that the wrong balance had been sold to Link. 
Link issued a final response to Mr M on 22 February 2023 but didnt agree it had made a 
mistake. Link said it would review any other evidence Mr M had that showed H had sold an 
incorrect credit card balance and suspended further collections activity for two months. But 
Link said that if no new information was provided, it would continue attempts to collect the 
outstanding balance. 
Mr M referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Link had reasonably disputed the debt with H and received confirmation that the 
outstanding balance is correct. Mr M asked to appeal and said hed been overcharged by 
Halifax for his overdraft since at least 2008 and reiterated that the outstanding balance is 
wrong. As Mr M asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms explained that he believes H overcharged him for his overdraft over the years and 
that, as a result, a refund is due. But Link wasnt the current account or overdraft provider 
and wasnt the business that applied fees or interest. When a consumer raises a dispute of 
this nature wed expect the business that purchased the debt to raise a dispute with the 
original lender. Here, I can see that Link did that and contacted H to check what 
Mr M said about the outstanding balance. So Im satisfied Link followed the right process. 
Link received a response from H that confirmed Mr M had previously complained about the 
overdraft fees and interest applied to his account but it had been rejected. H confirmed the 
correct outstanding balance of £1,517.93. So whilst I understand Mr M disputes Link is 
collecting the correct amount, Im satisfied it correctly disputed the debt with H and has acted 
on the response. I havent seen any evidence of a mistake or that Link treated Mr M unfairly. 
I also note that when Link responded to Mr Ms complaint it agreed to place a two month 
collections hold on the account to allow him time to supply further evidence. I think this 
demonstrates Link wasnt dismissing Mr Ms concerns without due consideration and shows 
it was willing to work with him. But without further evidence that showed the balance Link 
seeks to collect is wrong, Im satisfied its dealt with Mr Ms dispute fairly. 
If Link receives contact from H that later confirms the balance it sold was wrong, Id expect it 
to act on any directions it receives. But the way overdraft fees, charges and interest were 
applied is a matter for H to consider, not Link. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but as I havent been persuaded that Link has made a mistake 
or treated him unfairly Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman