DRN-3956686
The complaint
Mr H complains about Fortegra Europe Insurance Company Ltds (Fortegra) decision to 
decline his household warranties claim. 
What happened
Mr Hs fridge freezer stopped working so he made a claim to Fortegra. Mr H felt things were 
taking too long so he complained about the delay in dealing with his claim. Fortegra 
responded and explained the fault to Mr Hs fridge had been caused by moving it to the 
garage, and this wasnt covered under the policy. Fortegra also cancelled the policy as they 
said it was void. Fortegra did uphold part of the complaint and apologised for their handling 
of the claim. They explained they shouldve realised sooner that the fridge was kept in the 
garage and declined the claim. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr H. She thought Fortegras decision to decline the 
claim was unfair and recommended they arrange to repair the fridge and pay £150 
compensation for the inconvenience caused. She also recommended they remove any 
record of the cancellation and voidance from any database. Mr H agreed but Fortegra didnt 
reply so the matter has come to me for a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation here is a fair way to resolve matters. 
My role requires me to say how a complaint should be settled quickly and with minimal 
formality and so Ill focus on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint and the main 
areas of dispute. The key dispute between the parties relates to whether the location of the 
fridge amounts to a breach of the manufacturers user manual and the terms and conditions 
of the policy. Fortegra believe it does as they consider the fridge was located in Mr Hs 
garage. Mr H doesnt believe he has acted against the terms of the user manual and terms 
and conditions as the fridge was in an integrated and converted garage/store room which 
was temperature controlled. Mr H also explains the fridge was only in the garage/store room 
temporarily while his kitchen was being renovated. So, Ive looked to see whether Fortegras 
decision is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Fortegra have referred to a section in the user manual which says, The appliance might not 
operate consistently (possibility of temperature becoming too warm in refrigerator) when 
sited for an extended period of time below the cold end of the range of temperature for which 
the refrigerating appliance is designed. Fortegra also refer to the General Exclusions 
section of the policy terms and conditions. This includes a term which says Failure to 
comply with the manufacturers instructions for the care of the product or to comply with any 
routine service requirements; eg. replacement or clearance of filters.  
The user manual contains a section headed Selecting the best location for the refrigerator. 
This refers to key factors an owner should take into account when deciding where to place 
the fridge. The first point I would make is that the user manual doesnt say the fridge should 
never be placed in a garage. Ive gone beyond this however and looked through the list of 
factors described by the manufacturer and, from the information and photos provided by    
Mr H, I cant see that his fridge being placed in a temperature controlled garage/store room 
goes against any of the factors listed. 
The user manual also has a section headed Ambient Room Temperature Limits which says 
the fridge is designed to operate in ambient temperatures specified by its temperature class. 
This refers to an extended temperate class with a requirement for the ambient temperature 
range to be between +10 to +32 degrees Celsius. And a temperate class with a requirement 
for the ambient temperature range to be between +16 to +32 degrees Celsius. I havent seen 
any evidence which shows the fridge, while being located in the garage/store room, was 
outside of the ambient temperature range. 
I would add however, Mr H has provided a photo showing the thermostat situated in the 
garage/store room and this shows the temperature at 22 degrees Celsius - which is within 
the relevant ambient temperature range. While I cant say for certain that this temperature 
was maintained throughout the whole time the fridge was located in the garage/store room, I 
think its important to make the point that Fortegra havent provided any evidence showing 
the correct ambient temperature range wasnt maintained. So, based on the evidence Ive 
seen, Im not persuaded that, in the circumstances of this case, the fridge being placed in 
the garage/store room is against the terms of the user manual. 
I note Fortegra say a garage is not a suitable environment for any appliance to be stored. I 
acknowledge Fortegras point here, but Im deciding this complaint based on the facts and 
the circumstances relevant to Mr Hs complaint. And in this case, and based on the points 
Ive mentioned above, Im persuaded the location of Mr Hs fridge isnt against the user 
manual or policy terms and conditions. 
Fortegra refer to the policy terms and conditions, and specifically, to the definition of Callout 
which says The attendance of an engineer to your home and the definition of Product 
which says The appliance detailed on the policy confirmation installed within the home for 
domestic use. Fortegra say these definitions require the fridge to be stored inside the home 
and they dont insure appliances that are stored in garages or outbuildings. Ive carefully 
considered this point but the policy terms and conditions define home as the property where 
the appliance is situated  and theres no exclusion for garages or outbuildings. But going 
beyond this, Mr H explains the fridge was in a garage/store room and this is an integrated 
part of his home. He has provided photos which show its temperature controlled and has 
features such as underfloor heating. This not only persuades me the room is treated as an 
integrated garage/store room, but the features also suggest the room is able to be 
temperature controlled to meet the terms of the user manual.   
I can see Fortegra also refer to the engineers report which they say details a compressor 
failure  which they say occurs when a fridge is not in the correct environment. Ive looked at 
the engineers report and this says Checked compressor operation, compressor ok So, 
Im not persuaded the compressor failed or that any issues with the compressor were 
caused by the location of the fridge. Fortegra also say the relevant part is a PCB board. 
They say the fault reported was that the fridge wasnt cooling or freezing which they believe 
could possibly have been caused by the compressor over working due to the storage 
environment. I have considered this point, but again, I havent seen any evidence that the fridge was stored in an environment which was against the terms of the user manual or 
policy terms and conditions. 
I can see Fortegra have provided links to articles around not keeping a fridge in a garage but 
Im not persuaded by these. I say this because Mr H wouldnt be expected to research these 
articles and I think its reasonable in the circumstances for Mr H to have acted in line with the 
user manual and policy terms and conditions  which I believe he has. So, taking into 
account the points Ive made, I think Fortegras decision to decline the claim is unfair. 
Mr H has been without his fridge for a number of months now and, given that I think 
Fortegras decision to decline his claim is unfair, I think they should compensate him for the 
inconvenience caused. And I think £150 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Fortegra have unfairly declined Mr Hs claim for his fridge. So, they 
should arrange to carry out repairs and handle the claim in line with the remaining policy 
terms and conditions. Fortegra should also update any internal or external databases to 
show Mr H hasnt had this policy cancelled or voided. Fortegra should also pay Mr H 
compensation of £150.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Fortegra Europe Insurance Company Ltd 
must take the steps in accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman