DRN-3485033
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim 
they made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system they say was misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mr and Mrs S are represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around September 2016, Mr and Mrs S were contacted by a representative of a 
company Ill call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be 
installed at their home. After being visited by a representative of P, Mr and Mrs S decided to 
purchase the system and finance it through a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with 
Shawbrook. The system was subsequently installed.
In April 2020 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr and Mrs Ss behalf under section 
75 of the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr and Mrs S to enter into the contract with P. The 
CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
the system would generate free electricity, which could be sold to the national grid;
the system would be self-funding; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on their electricity bills would provide enough 
income to cover the monthly loan payments.
Shawbrook didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr and Mrs S or that there 
were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr and Mrs S and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view. It said:
the sales documentation on which the adjudicator had relied was lengthy, confusing, 
and misleading;
negative information was in such small print as to be illegible, whereas positive 
information was in large print and in bold;
there was a vast amount of technical information, which would be confusing for the 
average consumer; and
it was implausible that Mr and Mrs S would purchase solar panels which would take 
in excess of ten years to make a return on their investment, unless they had been 
misled.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr and Mrs S paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr and Mrs S could claim against 
Shawbrook (the creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same 
way they could have claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr and 
Mrs S and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In 
this case, the CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr and Mrs S say that during a sales meeting they were told that the system would be 
entirely self-financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both parties. These include the 
credit agreement and two versions of the solar quote, titled Getting Started and Your 
Personal Solar Quotation. Ive considered these, along with Mr and Mrs Ss testimony and 
recollection of the sales meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened.
The quotes are detailed documents that set out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. They have both been 
signed by Mrs S. P, via Shawbrook, has told this service that the quote formed a central part 
of the sales process and the representative of P would have discussed this in detail with Mr 
and Mrs S, explaining any benefits of the system, prior to them agreeing to enter into the 
contract, and that a copy would have been emailed to them after the meeting.
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with Mr and 
Mrs Ss version of events, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of 
fact. I do not agree that these documents are illegible or confusing. I shall elaborate on this 
below.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system), 
the interest to be charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.
FIT payments and savings
Mr and Mrs S have said that they were told their monthly loan repayments would be 
covered, or self-funded by the FIT payments and the savings on their energy bills. Ive 
considered the quote that was provided by P as well as Mr and Mrs Ss recollections of their 
meeting with Ps representative to decide what is most likely to have been said.
The system analysis page of each quote sets out the estimated income Mr and Mrs S could 
expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected 
FIT payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT 
scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr and Mrs S could expect to receive a total 
FIT income in year one of £205.46, which results in an average monthly income of £17.12. 
Im satisfied that the quotes also set out that there would be a monthly loan repayment due 
of £96.80. As a result, Im not able to conclude that Mr and Mrs S were told that the monthly 
loan repayments would be covered by the FIT payments alone.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr and Mrs S could expect from the 
system. The expected year one electricity savings is £261.60 and, when taking into account 
the optional extras chosen by Mr and Mrs S, the combined income and savings in year one 
is shown as £867.06. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
Theres another section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 
60 months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months as this is 
the length of the loan that Mr and Mrs S entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the 
loan as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £96.80. (This is incorrect; the loan agreement 
gives the correct monthly figure of £98.39, but the difference  £1.59  is too small to affect 
the following observations.) For each year of the 15 year loan it shows the expected grand 
total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, and subtracts the 
monthly loan repayment of £96.80, to give an average difference between the monthly return 
from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. This gives a negative figure 
for the first six years of the loan, meaning that the system would not make enough money to 
cover the loan payments until year seven.
I think this table is legible, and that the quotes clearly set out the income Mr and Mrs S could 
expect to receive from the system, by way of FIT payments and savings, as well as their 
expected contractual monthly loan repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply 
compare the FIT income and savings to the monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out 
that the overall income they could expect to receive by way of FIT income and any additional 
savings would not be immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. (This 
supports my finding above that Mr and Mrs S werent told that the FIT payments alone would 
cover the loan repayments.) Ive carefully thought about Mr and Mrs Ss version of events. 
However, as Ive found that the quote did form a central part of the sales process which the 
salesperson went through at the meeting, I dont think I can reasonably find that they were 
told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income and savings.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr and Mrs S that the system would be self-funding from the 
outset. In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to 
have happened.
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand (notwithstanding the £1.59 
discrepancy in the monthly payments). That section of the quote has been signed by Mrs S, 
so Im satisfied that P did enough to bring it to her attention. On balance Im also satisfied 
that the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out there would be a difference between the expected income and 
the monthly loan repayments.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start. 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr and Mrs S were told by P that the system would be self-
funding over a certain period of time.
The Key Facts page of the quote titled Your Personal Quotation has a graph detailing the 
estimated performance over 25 years. Below that is a graphic summarising it, which shows 
that it would take 9 years for the overall benefits that Mr and Mrs S could expect to receive to 
match the cash price of the system.
I think the 9-year estimated payback time is clear and prominent, being in large print on page 
2, and so I dont consider that it needed further explaining.
Both versions of the quote have a table detailing the estimated performance of the system 
over 25 years. This also shows that during year 9 the overall benefits that Mr and Mrs S 
could expect to receive would reach the cash price of the system, £9,159 (see the 
Accumulated grand total column and Year column).
I agree with the CMC that this table looks technical and is in small print, and might be off-
putting to some consumers, with the result that they might ignore it. Consequently I have not 
given this part of the quote as much weight as the rest of the evidence I have described 
above. Taken on its own, it might not have been enough to persuade me that P did not 
misrepresent the system, but I think that it does corroborate the rest of the evidence in this 
case, and reinforces my opinion that the salesman did not mislead Mr and Mrs S. (In the 
interest of clarity, however, I have only set out an excerpt  years 8 and 9  instead of the 
whole table.)
(This table also shows that the total amount payable under the loan agreement would be 
reached by the end of year 14, although that total is not shown in the quotes but only in the 
loan agreement.)
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr and Mrs S that the system would pay for its 
cash price in 9 years (and for the loan in about 14 years), as supported by the graph and the 
table above, which were included in the quote. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and 
Im satisfied that this was what induced them to enter into the contract, and they 
subsequently suffered a loss, then that could amount to a misrepresentation.
The CMC does not appear to dispute those timescales, but rather says that Mr and Mrs M 
were not made aware of them. But for the reasons I have given above, I do not accept that, 
or at least, I do not accept that P did not take adequate steps to inform them.
Performance
For completeness, Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this 
is in line with the contract between P and Mr and Mrs S.
The MCS certificate and quotes set out that the system is expected to produce 3,096 kWh a 
year. I have looked at Mr and Mrs Ss FIT statements and can see that their system, on 
average, has generated 2,915 kWh a year. This is only slightly less than estimated by P at 
the point of sale, so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2015 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think 
this explains why Mr and Mrs S havent been receiving the financial returns they may have 
been expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system have 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr and Mrs S could 
have expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may 
not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due 
to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr and Mrs S entered into the 
contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr and Mrs S 
to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman