DRN-1984878
 
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the way his insurers Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited 
(LV) has dealt with his claim under his home buildings insurance.  
What happened
In October 2018, Mr C found a leak in his kitchen and reported this to LV. LV sent out 
contractors to carry out a trace and access assessment. During the course of this, it 
removed a vanity unit in his bathroom which also housed a toilet. Unfortunately, that unit was 
damaged during the removal. The contractors found that the leak didnt come from the 
bathroom, which meant that they had misdiagnosed the source of the leak and the unit didnt 
have to be removed.
LV told Mr C that the damaged unit would be subject to the policy limit under the trace and 
access cover. Mr C argued that the limit shouldnt apply, as it was an error by LV that 
caused the damage due to its unnecessary removal. 
Since the claim was started, Mr C has been without the use of his bathroom, which is now 
around 18 months. LV has attempted to replace the unit, but it proved unsuccessful.
Mr C was unhappy so complained to our service. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint and found that LV acted unfairly due to the delay in 
repairing the unit. He felt that LV shouldnt include the cost of the unit within the policy limit 
and said that LV should award compensation of £1,000 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
LV didnt agree and asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
Since the investigator gave his view, LV decided to make a bespoke vanity unit. After it 
experienced difficulties, it sourced materials in Australia. But because of delay it also offered 
(over and above the £250 it had already paid) an additional compensation of £1,400, on a 
full and final settlement basis. This made a total compensation payment of £1,650. Mr C 
didnt accept this offer as a full and final settlement but considered it as a contribution 
towards the compensation he believed he ought to be awarded.
My provisional decision.
I considered the complaint and I thought the complaint should be upheld. I issued a 
provisional decision on 7 May 2020 which said:
LV accepted that it is responsible for the damage caused to the vanity unit and based on the 
evidence that I have seen, I agree. So, I think that LV ought to replace the vanity unit on a 
like for like basis or pay for the cost of a new unit. 
LV had agreed to remake Mr Cs vanity unit. It has said that the unit will be made as per the 
specifications of the damaged one. It has also said that the unit will be installed and the 
other bathroom fittings will be reconnected, allowing Mr C to use his bathroom again.
LV has provided a breakdown of costs for the replacement unit which is in the region of 
£1,250. It has recognised that there could be further delay and has offered a cash alternative 
of the same amount.
Our investigator has made further enquiries with LV and Mr C. Mr C would like a complete 
re-fit of the bathroom which he has estimated will cost £7,000. I dont think its reasonable to 
expect LV to pay for the complete re-fit of the bathroom as the damage was limited to the 
vanity unit. As LVs offer places Mr C in the position he wouldve been in, had the damage 
not occurred, I think LVs offer (of full replacement of the unit or £1,250 alternative cash 
offer) is reasonable. 
I also think that Mr C was caused distress and inconvenience because he was unable to use 
the bathroom for around 18 months (potentially longer). So, I think that LV should also award 
Mr C compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him.  LV accepts that Mr C 
has been caused distress and inconvenience and has offered him £1,400 compensation for 
this. But Mr C wants £3,000.
I appreciate that there has been a lengthy delay.  But I also note that Mr C said that this 
bathroom was rarely used. Mr C confirmed that it is a guest bathroom, which meant that he 
had another bathroom that he could use. So, I think that the level of inconvenience was 
somewhat reduced. In these circumstances, I think LVs offer of compensation for distress 
and inconvenience is fair. 
Overall, I am satisfied that LV has taken steps to resolve the issues by compensating Mr C 
for the delay caused, as well as offering to remake the vanity unit (or pay a cash alternative). 
So, I think LV has acted fairly and reasonably in the level of compensation offered. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
I have received no response from LV. Mr Cs main responses were: 
The first £1,000 compensation recommended by our investigator has never been 
paid by LV.
LV has deliberately prolonged the process with its various delaying tactics.
LV wont replace the unit and will be given a buy out option.
Ive reconsidered all the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. While Im sorry to disappoint Mr C I havent changed my 
findings. Ill explain why. 
Compensation recommended by our investigator.
Mr C is correct that our investigator recommended that LV pay compensation of £1,000. But 
as LV didnt accept the recommendation and asked for a decision by an ombudsman, then 
the whole complaint has been re- examined. This includes the level of compensation 
recommended and what I think is fair and reasonable. It should be noted that despite LV being unhappy with the investigators decision and compensation recommendation, it paid a 
total of £1,650, which was beyond what our investigator recommended. 
When deciding on the fair and reasonable compensation that I considered how LV has acted 
towards Mr C and whether it responded fairly to his concerns, and the impact its handling of 
the claim has had on him.
During the course of the complaint Mr C has been paid compensation totalling £1,650 by LV. 
Those payments were made for the trouble and upset caused to Mr C and I have considered 
whether this is fair or not.
Delay
It is accepted by LV that it caused delay by its poor customer service. I can appreciate that 
Mr C thinks this should be more but Based on all I have seen, £1,650 as a total 
compensation award feels appropriate and fair for the distress and inconvenience Mr C has 
suffered.  
LV and the unit
I can understand that Mr C is concerned that LV wont replace his unit and or has been given 
what he describes to be a buy out option. But LV has confirmed that it intends to put Mr C 
back into the position that he was in before the event, which its required to do under the 
terms of the policy. So, I am satisfied that LV intends to replace the unit and has taken steps 
to do so.
But If LV are ultimately unable to replace the unit and put Mr C back into the position he was 
in as before, it will pay for a cash alternative. LV said the cash alternative will allow for the 
unit and tiling the area to be installed and allow Mr C the full use of the bathroom again. 
Finally, I thank Mr C for pointing out some oversights which I have corrected in the body of 
the decision. 
Impact
Whilst I can appreciate that this whole episode was stressful for Mr C, I can see from the 
evidence that this was a guest bathroom and that he had access to other facilities in the 
house.
Also, LV has accepted that the poor customer service it showed to Mr C was unacceptable 
and as such has made steps to address this with the compensation it has paid and the offer 
of replacing the unit. I am satisfied that LV has acted fairly towards Mr C and there is nothing 
further that I can ask it to do. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint, for the reasons given above. And I require 
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to:  
Pay Mr C a total amount of compensation of £1,650 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. This is over but not in addition to the award from our 
investigator. I understand that this payment has been made and I dont ask it to pay 
anything further. To supply and fit the bespoke unit that was damaged or pay Mr C a cash alternative 
of £1,250. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2020.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman