DRN-1908438
The complaint
The estate of Mr Y (the estate) complains that Farsight Financial Limited (Farsight) was 
paid adviser fees but didnt provide any service or advice to Mr Y in exchange for this. The 
estate also complains about the adequacy of Farsights handling of this complaint. To put 
things right, the estate wants all adviser fees deducted from Mr Ys pension plan refunded.
Scope of this final decision 
The estate complains about adviser fees deducted from Mr Ys pension plan following 
pension switch advice in July 2013. Adviser fees were deducted from his plan until                  
August 2019. Mr Y was a client of the same regulated adviser during this period. The estate 
believes the adviser is personally accountable for the issues complained about. This isnt 
true. Rather, the two regulated businesses the adviser represented during this period are 
accountable for his actions and/or omissions and investigating any complaints.
The two businesses are separate legal entities and unconnected from a regulatory point of 
view  this is demonstrated by the fact they have separate reference numbers on the 
financial services register. Therefore the complaint has been severed in two so that the 
issues can be considered separately against each business. This is because Farsight isnt 
responsible for the acts and/or omissions of the adviser when he represented the 
unconnected business and vice versa. Both businesses have accepted that the complaints 
have been set up against them correctly. 
This final decision covers events from the point Farsight took over servicing of Mr Ys 
pension plan on 8 March 2019 until he terminated their relationship in August 2019. Events 
before 7 March 2019 have been considered under a separate final decision.
What happened
On 8 March 2019, the servicing of Mr Ys pension plan was transferred to Farsight. As part 
of this transfer, an ongoing adviser fee of 1% per year was to be deducted from the plan and 
paid to Farsight. This ongoing fee was based on the plan fund value, with a proportionate 
amount of the fee deducted daily throughout the year.
Farsight didnt make Mr Y aware servicing of his plan had been transferred to it or seek his 
agreement to pay the ongoing adviser fee  he said he first became aware of this when he 
saw Farsights name on a statement received from the plan provider. He was unhappy that 
adviser fees were deducted from his plan but hadnt received any service or advice in 
exchange for this. He called the adviser on several occasions in July 2019 to discuss this but 
received no immediate response. They met in late August 2019 when the adviser offered a 
formal review of his plan, but Mr Y declined this.
The adviser accepted that he had provided a poor level of service and paid Mr Y £500 
compensation  this offer was made by the adviser while representing the unconnected 
business, as confirmed by the letterhead on which the offer was made.
Although Mr Y accepted the £500 compensation, he felt he was entitled to a full refund of all 
adviser fees deducted from his plan since July 2013 which amounted to about £3,000 
including the initial fee for the pension switch advice. So he complained and requested a full 
refund. In August 2019, Mr Y instructed the plan provider to stop paying the ongoing adviser 
fee to Farsight.
In its final response letter Farsight explained to Mr Y that it was only responsible for events 
after it took over servicing of his plan on 8 March 2019. It acknowledged that it didnt send a 
welcome letter and that it couldve provided a better level of service. It said it didnt carry out 
immediate servicing of his plan because the annual renewal date fell on 28 July 2019. And 
because the adviser was away on holiday in early August 2019, it meant he couldnt meet  
Mr Y until late August 2019 at the earliest. To remedy the matter, Farsight offered to refund 
to Mr Y the full £111.07 in adviser fees it had received from his plan since                                 
8 March 2019. He didnt accept this and instead referred the matter to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She concluded that Farsight had provided a 
poor level of service which resulted in Mr Y experiencing trouble and upset because he 
wasnt kept up to date about the changes applied to his plan. But she didnt think it had 
handled his complaint unfairly. Overall, she was satisfied Farsight had taken reasonable 
steps to put things right by offering a full refund of adviser fees of £111.07 it had received 
from Mr Ys plan. But he didnt accept this because he wanted all adviser fees refunded. 
Therefore this complaint has been referred to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I take account of relevant law, regulation, guidance 
and what I consider to be good industry practice. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, 
what I think it most likely to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
Mr Y recently passed away. Before going any further, Id like to offer my sincere 
condolences to his family for their loss. 
From reading the substantial correspondence, its clear the estate feels aggrieved about the 
adviser fees deducted from Mr Ys plan and Farsights handling of this complaint. The estate 
says that when handling this complaint, Farsight knew Mr Y was disabled but harassed and 
intimidated him which breached his rights under the Equality Act 2010. The estate says 
Farsights unfair treatment had a detrimental impact on Mr Ys health and contributed to his 
death. Im very sorry to hear that Mr Ys family feel this way and will bear this is mind when 
reaching my final decision. 
Ill look at each issue separately.
Adviser fees paid to Farsight
Its not in dispute that Farsight provided a poor level of service to Mr Y from the point it took 
over servicing of his plan on 8 March 2019 until he terminated their relationship in                     
August 2019. To remedy the matter, Farsight offered a full refund of adviser fees of £111.07 
it received from Mr Ys plan. 
To determine if theres any other financial loss flowing from Farsights poor level of service, 
Ive thought about what might have happened had Farsight sent a welcome letter to Mr Y in March 2019 and he responded to it immediately. Since Mr Y wasnt prepared to pay adviser 
fees and declined Farsights offer in August 2019 to carry out a formal review of his plan, I 
find it more likely than not that he still wouldve made the same decision to terminate his 
relationship with Farsight, albeit sooner  and I think its likely this would have led to Farsight 
refunding the adviser fees it had received up to that point, which is exactly what its offered 
to do. So its the same outcome. Therefore Im content theres no other financial loss to 
consider.
The estate says it wants all adviser fees deducted from Mr Ys plan refunded  this is exactly 
what Farsight has offered to do. Bearing in mind Farsight is only responsible for adviser fees 
deducted from 8 March 2019 onwards and its already offered to refund these, Im content 
this is a fair offer and in line with what I wouldve directed it to do had it not already made the 
offer. To be clear, Farsight isnt responsible for either the pension switch advice in July 2013 
and the initial advice fee in connection with this or the ongoing charges before                              
8 March 2019.
Farsights told this service its offer remains open. 
Farsights complaint handling
Complaint handling itself isnt a regulated activity. This means I cant consider the quality of 
a businesss complaint handling. Although, I think its important to note here that I havent 
seen any evidence the actions taken by Farsight in response to this complaint amount to 
harassment or intimidation. Or that Farsight treated Mr Y differently because he was 
disabled or that it breached his rights under the Equality Act 2010. Rather, in response to 
this complaint, I can see that Farsight instigated its formal complaint process, as it was 
required to do so under the regulators rules, and issued within eight weeks a 
comprehensive final response letter in which it accepted the complaint and offered 
compensation to Mr Y  compensation which Ive deemed to be fair, as explained above. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint against Farsight Financial Limited. Should the 
estate now wish to accept Farsights offer of a refund of adviser fees as set out in its final 
response letter, then it should contact it to arrange settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr Y 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 January 2021. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman