DRN-3729100
The complaint
Mr P complains (through a representative) that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out 
proper affordability checks before it advanced his loans. Had it done so, Morses wouldve 
realised Mr P couldnt afford his repayments. 
What happened
Mr P took three loans between October and December 2018. Ive included some of the 
information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £100.00 02/10/2018 11/12/2018 20 £7.50
2 £100.00 06/12/2018 sold 33 £5.00
3 £150.00 11/12/2018 sold 33 £7.50
Morses statement of account shows loans 2 and 3 were sold to a third party in 
November 2018. Morses says that as of March 2022 an outstanding balance of around £302 
remained due. 
The weekly repayment column above is the cost per week per loan. So, where loans 
overlapped the cost will be greater. For example, when loans 1 and 2 were running at the 
same time Mr Ps weekly commitment was £12.50. 
Morses investigated the complaint and concluded it had made a reasonable decision to 
provide these loans and so it didnt uphold the complaint. Unhappy with this response, 
Mr Ps representative referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator who thought a reasonable decision had 
been made by Morses to advance loan 1. However, he didnt think loans 2 and 3 should 
have been granted. In the adjudicators view the portion of Mr Ps income that would have to 
be used to make the repayments was too high and therefore the loans were likely to be 
unsustainable for him. The complaint was upheld about loans 2 and 3.  
Morses disagreed with the adjudicators recommendation to partly uphold the complaint. Ive 
summarised its response below. 
Adequate affordability checks were completed before these loans were approved. 
For loan 2, Mr P provided evidence of the benefits he was in receipt of. 
It doesnt consider the loan repayments to be excessive. 
Mr P had sufficient disposable income to afford the loan repayments. 
When loan 3 was approved, Mr Ps income was checked with a credit reference 
agency. 
There was only a six day overlap between loan 2 being granted and loan 1 being 
repaid.
Mr P, up to loan 2 being approved had a good repayment history. 
Neither Mr P or his representative acknowledged or provided any further comments following 
the adjudicators assessment. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mr P could afford to pay back the amounts hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. Morses checks could have taken into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ps income 
and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr P. These factors include:
Mr P having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr P having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr P coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr P.
Morses was required to establish whether Mr P could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr P was able to repay his 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, in particular made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ps complaint. 
Neither Mr Ps representative nor Morses have disagreed with the adjudicators outcome in 
relation to loan 1, so this loan, as far as I can tell, is no longer in dispute. So, I dont need to 
make a full finding about this loan. But for completeness given what was apparent about 
Mr Ps circumstances a reasonable decision to lend was made. Loans 2 and 3
For loan two Mr P declared his weekly income had decreased slightly from loan 1 to £120 
and his declared weekly expenditure was £72.50  which included the repayment for loan 1. 
This left, £47.50 per week to afford the loan repayment of £5 per week. 
For loan three, Mr Ps weekly declared income increased slightly to £127 with his weekly 
outgoings increasing to £77.50  which included the loan repayment for loan 2.  This left 
around £49.50 per week disposable income to afford the repayment on this loan of £12. 
For loan 2, Morses has recorded that Mr P was in receipt of benefits and it saw some 
evidence of this. Its worth saying again that Morses hasnt provided the information that it 
saw or provided details of the type of benefit evidence that was provided. 
Morses says for loan 3 it also carried out an income verification check, which given my 
understanding of Morses processes was done through a credit reference agency. Although, 
no details about this check, including the results that Morses saw have been made available 
to the Financial Ombudsman. 
Before loan one was granted Morses also carried out a credit check and it has provided the 
results of that search. There is almost no information contained within the results, so either 
the results have been corrupted and / or not complete or the information suggested that Mr P 
had almost no credit history. The only thing I can say for certain is that Morses was aware 
Mr P didnt have any County Court Judgements. 
However, in saying that I dont think, given what Ive seen, that Morses made a fair decision 
when it decided to lend these loans to Mr P. Im, therefore, upholding Mr Ps complaint about 
loans 2 and 3. 
Considering the information Mr P provided about his income and expenditure, Morses may 
have felt, these loans were pounds and pence affordable because this is what the 
information showed. However, as Ive explained above, that is only part of what Morses had 
to consider before granting these loans. 
As Morses has pointed out in response to our adjudicator, Mr P was committed to spending 
nearly 11% servicing his debt when loans 1 and 2 were outstanding and 10% of his income 
when loans 2 and 3 where outstanding. In my view these payments in this case were too 
high when considering what it knew about Mr Ps circumstances. 
In these circumstances, there was a significant risk, in my view that Mr P wouldnt have been 
able to meet his existing commitments without having to borrow again. So, I think its unlikely 
Mr P wouldve been able to sustainably meet his repayments for these loans.  
I say this because Mr P was making a commitment to pay Morses for 33 weeks for each 
loan and I think its fair to say that Mr Ps income was modest and potentially made up solely 
of benefits. On top of that, the information Morses was given suggested that with each loan 
his income remained broadly flat. In addition, Morses knew from the expenditure information 
Mr P declared was quite low and really only had utilities, food and some other credit 
commitment of £10 a week that we dont have details for. So, I think, that Morses ought to 
have realised that for example a weekly shop of £25 is modest, so his living costs are likely 
to be greater than he declared. While Morses doesnt think those percentages are excessive, I think they were. There is 
clearly going to be a line beyond which it wouldnt have been reasonable for Morses to lend, 
but thats going to be particular to the circumstances of each individual complaint. And whilst 
a large proportion is going to increase the likelihood in any case that something has gone 
wrong there isnt an automatic cut off  well always look at the broader circumstances  as 
Ive done here. 
Im not suggesting that just because Mr P had a modest income which was likely made up 
solely from benefits that funds couldnt be lent to him but what Morses needed to do is 
appreciate that taking into account the commitments that he had to it and over the time 
period was in my view not sustainable.  
Ive considered what Morses says in response to the adjudicator, but I dont think these 
comments change my mind. As Ive said above, some checks were carried out which may 
have shown the loans were affordable, but Morses also had to consider whether the loans 
were sustainable and I dont think, in this case it did that. 
In addition, Ive thought about the overlap between loans 1 and 2. While this was only for six 
days, Morses wouldnt have known that loan 1 would be repaid so quickly when it approved 
loan 2. Therefore, this makes no difference to my thinking about the complaint. 
Based on what Ive seen Im upholding Mr Ps complaint about loans 2 and 3 and Ive 
outlined below what Morses needed to do in order to put things right. 
Putting things right
I would say here that in the final response letter Morses says both loans 2 and 3 had been 
repaid. Whereas, the information that it has sent us, as well as its cover email does show the 
loans were sold to a third party and as far as Morses is aware an outstanding balance 
remains. 
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it not lent to Mr P from loan 2, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly 
there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr P may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr P in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr P would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Mr P loans 2 and 3.If Morses have sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back if it is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If Morses is not able to buy the debts back then it should liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A. Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr P towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything you have already refunded.
B. Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by
Mr P which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr P originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Morses should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr P as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr P having 
made overpayments then Morses should refund these overpayments with 8% simple 
interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would 
have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Morses should then refund the 
amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in 
a surplus, then the surplus should be paid to Mr P. However, if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Morses should try to agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Mr P. Morses shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal it may 
have already written-off.
E. Morses should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ps credit file in 
relation to loans 2 and 3. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should give 
Mr P a certificate showing how much tax it deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Ps complaint in part.
  
Morses Club PLC should put things right for Mr P as Ive directed above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman