DRN-2452697
The complaint
Mr B complains George Banco Limited irresponsibly approved him to act as a guarantor for 
a loan taken out by a third party (the borrower). Mr B says George Banco did not explain 
the full responsibilities of being a guarantor, and it also failed to complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks before accepting him as a guarantor. Mr B says because of these 
failings he has lost out financially.
What happened
George Banco approved the borrower for the below loan; which Mr B was accepted as a 
guarantor for:
Date Capital amount Term Monthly repayment
June 2018 £4,500 60 months £177.56
Mr B says he was not made fully aware of the responsibilities of being a guarantor. He says 
George Banco conducted a short telephone call with him; and that this was not sufficient 
for him to understand the full liability he was agreeing too. Mr B also says the borrower has 
recently entered an IVA; and he says the responsibilities of this situation were not 
explained to him prior to agreeing to act as the guarantor.
Mr B also says George Banco did not complete reasonable and proportionate checks. He 
says at the time of the loan he had just started a new job and was a on a probationary 
period. He says the loan was unaffordable to him.
I wrote to both parties setting out my provisional decision. I asked for both parties to 
respond with any further comments they wished to make. I set out my provisional findings 
as below:
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable 
lending as well as the key rules, regulations and we consider to be good industry 
practice on our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Bs 
complaint. Bearing in mind the dispute before me, I think that there are a number of 
overarching questions that I need to consider in order to fairly and reasonably 
determine Mr Bs complaint. These are:
1. Did George Banco complete reasonable and proportionate checks to 
satisfy itself that the borrower would be able to repay this loan in a 
sustainable way?
o If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
o If not, would those checks have shown that the borrower would have 
been able to do so?
2. Did George Banco obtain Mr Bs properly informed consent before binding 
him to the guarantee and indemnity agreement?
3. Did George Banco complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr B 
to satisfy itself that he was in a position repay the loan in the event the 
borrower did not?
o If so, did it make a fair decision?
o If not, would those checks have shown that Mr B would have been 
able to do so?
4. Did George Banco act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ill deal with each question in turn.
Did George Banco complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the borrower would be able to repay this loan in a sustainable way?
Ive not been presented with any information regarding the affordability checks 
completed by George Banco from either party. I appreciate Mr B says the borrower 
entered into an IVA at some point after the loan was taken out; however, this is not 
enough information for me to make a definitive finding on the above question as this 
concerns the borrowers financial situation at the time of the application of the loan.
Mr Bs testimony states that the borrower made some initial payments towards the 
loan; which may suggest they were able to afford it before he - Mr B - ultimately was 
required to make payments. However; in the absence of any persuasive evidence Im 
not in a position to say George Banco acted unfairly in regard to this aspect.
Did George Banco obtain Mr Bs properly informed consent before binding him to the
guarantee and indemnity agreement?
Mr B says he didnt fully understand what he was agreeing to when he became the
guarantor for the borrowers loan. He says he received a short phone call from 
George Banco; and the full extent of his liability wasnt explained to him. He also 
says the situation regarding a borrower entering an IVA wasnt explained to him.
George Banco disagrees with this. It says the call was sufficiently detailed in 
explaining the responsibilities Mr B was agreeing too. It says it also sent Mr B a copy 
of the indemnity agreement; as well as a copy of the borrowers loan agreement 
before he signed to accept being the guarantor. It says this information combined 
with the telephone call was sufficient to gain Mr Bs informed consent. In support of 
this George Banco has provided us a copy of the call recording as well as the 
documentation it sent to Mr B.
Having reviewed all of the information as well as listening to the call with Mr B; Im 
satisfied George Banco has acted reasonably in relation to this aspect of Mr Bs 
complaint; and that it obtained his informed consent before binding him as a 
guarantor.
Reviewing the documentation that was sent, Im satisfied that the indemnity 
agreement was accompanied by the loan contract between the borrower and George 
Banco. And having looked at the agreement I can see that it is sufficiently clear in 
explaining the full extent of Mr Bs liability. This includes the capital amount, as well 
as the total repayable. This process seems to be standard practice, and what 
happens in most other agreements of the same nature. So, I dont find it particularly 
unusual in this instance.In relation to the telephone call; Im again satisfied it sufficiently clear in explaining 
the liability Mr B was entering into; as well as the situations in which he may become 
liable to make repayments in the event the borrower did not. It is particularly 
persuasive that at the end of the call Mr B is asked questions about the role of the 
guarantor and he seemingly answers these correctly and with the necessary 
information to hand. When considering this call in conjunction with the documentation 
which subsequently followed; Im satisfied that George Banco did enough to set out 
the main responsibilities and liabilities to Mr B before he agreed to becoming the 
guarantor.
I appreciate Mr B says the specific situation of a borrower entering into an IVA was 
not explained to him. Whilst that may be the case; I dont think that it materially alters 
the outcome of this aspect of his complaint. Ultimately Mr B was aware that should 
the borrower be unable to meet any of the repayments for a list of reasons; he may 
well be liable for the outstanding balance. He agreed to the arrangement; and so, I 
dont see the fact the above scenario wasnt discussed changing either Mr Bs 
answers or mind. And for that reason, I remain satisfied he was given sufficient 
information before agreeing to become the guarantor.
Finally, as I understand it, Mr B signed the documents electronically and in his own 
time. So, Mr B had the opportunity to consider this information before signing the 
agreement, and to ask any questions which he mayve wished to. As Mr B appears to 
have signed the documentation without doing any of this, Im afraid that there simply 
isnt enough here for me to agree George Banco treated him unfairly in relation to 
this matter.
Did George Banco complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr B to satisfy 
itself that he was in a position repay the loan in the event the borrower did not?
Mr B says George Banco didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks 
before agreeing to accept him as a guarantor. He says had George Banco done this 
it wouldve seen the loan was unaffordable to him. He says he had only recently 
joined his current employer and was on a probationary period.
The rules and guidance which applied at the time, required George Banco to assess 
Mr Bs affordability to meet the loan in the event he was required to make payments. 
The rules dont set out what specific checks need to be completed, but they do need 
to be proportionate to the amount being borrowed. They also need to ensure the 
credit is repaid in a sustainable manner, without the guarantor incurring further 
financial difficulties or experiencing adverse consequences.
When considering affordability, the guidance (whilst not an exhaustive list) highlights 
the types of sources of information which could be used included, evidence of 
income, evidence of expenditure and reviewing credit reports.
It is also important to note the fact that Mr B was acting as the guarantor not the 
borrower, in no way diminished the requirements on George Banco. It is also not 
enough for George Banco to complete checks, it also needs to carefully consider the 
information it is provided before agreeing to accept Mr B as a guarantor.
In this instance George Banco completed an income and expenditure check on Mr B, 
as well as searching his credit file and verifying his income via an online tool through 
a third party. It says these checks showed Mr B had an income of approximately 
£1,300; that he had some existing credit commitments in the form of credit cards; and 
paid a regular amount of rent to his family. It also used national average statistics to calculate Mr Bs other outgoing commitments. George Banco says the credit file 
shows Mr B was maintaining his credit commitments well. George Banco says this 
showed Mr B had sufficient disposable income to meet the repayments should he be 
required too.
Ive carefully considered whether I agree these checks were proportionate; and in 
this instance Im not persuaded they were.
The information George Banco has provided demonstrates that Mr B was managing 
his finances to a relatively small margin. I note that George Banco say Mr B had 
around £200 disposable income per month which it says was a sufficient buffer to 
cover any unexpected costs for Mr B.
Reviewing the same information, Im satisfied there are sufficient doubts that 
persuade me further checks shouldve been completed in order to verify Mr Bs 
affordability. In particular I note that George Banco was aware of Mr Bs existed debt 
(around £6,000) and that this was attributed to credit cards. George Banco has 
seemingly applied a 3% repayment figure to this amount. Im not persuaded this is a 
sufficient amount to use a calculation, and a more realistic and substantiable number 
shouldve been around 5%. This wouldve been more proportionate the amount being 
borrowed on the cards as well as ensuring Mr B was reducing his debt. This of 
course in turn means the amount associated for this outgoing would increase 
meaning Mr Bs disposable income wouldve been lesser than the £200 it
believed.
I also note inconsistencies in the allotted living expenses that George Banco 
calculated; as well as there not being a recorded amount of £300 for rent payments 
on Mr Bs application form.
Im persuaded when you combine these together there is sufficient doubts cast about 
Mr Bs declared disposable income to require George Banco to complete further 
checks; and in particular to verify the full extent of Mr Bs outgoings. As it didnt do 
this; it follows that I dont agree George Banco completed proportionate checks in 
this instance.
Would further checks on Mr B have shown he was in a position to sustainably repay 
the loan in the event the borrower did not?
Ive explained why I think the checks George Banco werent proportionate; and that 
in particular it shouldve done more to verify Mr Bs outgoings. George Banco 
couldve done this in a number of ways, such as requesting banks statements or 
copies of bills. In this instance Mr B has provided us copies of his statements from 
around the time the loan was taken out by the borrower. Ive reviewed these when 
coming to my decision.
Mr B says the loan was always unaffordable to him. He has also given us copies of 
his budget spreadsheet which he sent to George Banco sometime after the loan was 
taken out.
Ive considered this information along with his statements from the time of the loan; 
and Im not persuaded they definitively show the loan was unaffordable to Mr B at the 
time it was taken out by the borrower.
Looking at the statements there seems to be a healthy balance showing; with Mr B 
not entering into his overdraft. I note there is a mixture of essential and non-
existential spending across the account as well. There is also seemingly a second current account which Mr B is transferring money in to and from. The statements 
seem to be consistent with the information Mr B declared in the application form with 
George Banco. This would seem to suggest the amounts wouldve been affordable to 
Mr B in the event he was required to make them.
It is important to note that when looking at the information provided, Im considering 
whether if George Banco was given the same information at the application it 
wouldve also proceeded with the loan at that time based on the verification it was 
seeking. And based on what Ive seen; Im satisfied it wouldve. As Ive explained 
there is no negative markers on the statements; and it looks as if Mr B, whilst 
managing to a budget, is none the less managing his account reasonably. It is also 
important to note we are considering the information before the loan was taken out; 
and not after; as this would not have been available to George Banco at that time.
I appreciate Mr B will disagree with this; but based on the information Ive seen so 
far, I cant reasonably say George Banco wouldve acted unfairly by approving him as 
a guarantor.
Did George Banco act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Based on the information Ive seen so far, Ive not been presented with any 
information that George Banco has acted unfairly in another way before approving Mr 
B as the guarantor for the borrowers loan.
George Banco responded agreeing with my provisional decision. Mr B responded 
disagreeing with it and provided further information for me to consider. He maintained his 
opinion that George Banco had not completed proportionate checks on the borrower. He 
also gave further information in to the payments he was making at the time. He explained he 
didnt think he could meet the payments in a sustainable way. He maintained George Banco 
had not acted fairly when dealing with his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered both parties responses Im satisfied that my provisional decision 
should remain. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr B, but Id like to assure 
him Ive taken his recent submissions into consideration.
Mr Bs response focuses on questions one and three of my provisional findings. He 
maintains George Banco shouldve completed further checks on the borrower, and had it 
done so it wouldnt have approved him. Ive considered this response, but the information 
doesnt alter my opinion. As Ive explained in my provisional decision there isnt sufficient 
information to suggest George Banco acted unfairly in this respect. Mr Bs testimony states 
that the borrower made some initial payments towards the loan; which may suggest they 
were able to afford it before he - Mr B - ultimately was required to make payments. The 
information which Mr B provided doesnt alter this; and as such Im not minded to change my 
findings.
Mr B also says the repayments were not sustainable for him. He has given further 
information about his circumstances when George Banco required him to make payments. 
As Ive explained in the provisional decision, the checks were about Mr Bs financial 
circumstances at the time of the application. The information which he provided 
demonstrated that there was sufficient income, and that on balance the loan was likely affordable to him. I note Mr Bs comments in relation to the fact he didnt have an overdraft 
facility and was paying for a car on finance, however this doesnt persuade me the checks 
wouldve prevent George Banco from approving Mr B.
I note Mr B made no comments in response to other aspects of my provisional decision. So, 
in the absence of any new information I see no reason to change my opinion on these 
aspects either. 
So, for the reasons Ive outlined in my provisional decision, as well for the comments Ive 
made here, Im satisfied that Mr Bs complaint should not be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman