DRN-1341245
 
The complaint
Ms L1 complains on behalf of the estate of the late Ms L, that National Westminster Bank Plc 
has failed to provide details of life cover Ms L held with it. 
What happened
Ms L died in October 2018 and at the date of her death she had an outstanding amount 
owing in respect of her mortgage of around £15,000. Ms L1 was appointed to act for the 
estate of Ms L under a Grant of Probate obtained in March 2019. She made enquiries of 
NatWest in relation to life cover held by Ms L. It was unable to find any record of any existing 
life cover.
In its final response to her complaint NatWest explained what enquiries it had made in 
determining there was no current life cover. It said that it had checked the mortgage Ms L 
had taken out in 2003 and which had been redeemed in 2009. It said that having checked 
with its life insurance department they had confirmed Ms L had a decreasing term assurance 
(DTA) policy from 2006 for a term of five years but this had ended in 2008. It referred to Ms L 
indicating an interest in a further policy in 2008 but didnt take one out. It said that, with 
regards to the live mortgage account of Ms L, there was no life cover with NatWest.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He 
confirmed that the information from NatWest showed the mortgage started in 2003 had been 
redeemed in 2010 and that there was no active life cover at that time. He also said that Ms L 
had taken out a DTA policy in 2006 but this had ended in 2008. 
The investigator said that on the information he had seen he could only say NatWest had 
provided accurate information about the life cover Ms L had. There was some further email 
correspondence between the investigator and Ms L1, but the investigator didnt change his 
opinion and said NatWest had made a thorough check.
Ms L1 asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint, so the matter has been referred to 
me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms L died in October 2018 at which time there was still an amount owing on her mortgage. It 
is understandable that Ms L1 has made enquiries about possible life cover for the mortgage. 
But she has been unable to provide any evidence that there is a current life policy in Ms Ls 
name with NatWest. I note she has an ongoing complaint with regards to a separate 
business about it having a current life policy. But that has no bearing on this complaint.
NatWest has no record of their being a current life policy in Ms Ls name. The only life policy 
it does have a record of is a DTA policy Ms L took out in 2006 and stopped in 2008. Its records show that she considered taking out another policy in 2008 but didnt go ahead with 
this.
Ms L took out a new mortgage with NatWest in 2010 and Ms L1 has explained this was as a 
result of her moving at that time. This is the mortgage which has an outstanding amount 
owing on it. There is no evidence that Ms L took out life cover with NatWest to protect this 
mortgage.
I am satisfied that NatWest has searched as much as is reasonably possible for evidence of 
a current life policy and there is no evidence of such a policy. In the circumstances I dont 
think it has done anything wrong. I know this will be disappointing for Ms L1 as, subject to 
the outcome of her other complaint, this means the outstanding mortgage amount will have 
to be paid for out of Ms Ls estate. But, although I sympathise with the position she is in, I am 
unable to help her with this given there is no evidence of life cover.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained above and in my provisional 
decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L1 on behalf of 
the estate of Ms L to accept or reject my decision before 6 March 2020.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman