DRN-2648526
The complaint
Mr D has complained that a broker, Allianz Business Services Limited trading as Complete
Insure failed to act in his best interests when he notified it of a change of vehicle four days
after he bought a car insurance policy through them.
What happened
Mr D bought a car insurance policy with an insurer direct in 2017. Before renewal in April
2018, the insurer decided to no longer offer insurance on the market directly. So Mr D was
directed to a broker, Complete Insure.
Complete Insure arranged a policy for Mr D which happened to be with the same insurer. Mr
D bought the policy in April 2018.
Four days later he contacted Complete Insure as hed changed his car. Complete Insure
said the insurers premium would be higher. So Mr Ds premium went up from £228.72 to
£463.88 (including an administration fee of £25).
Mr D asked why the insurance had almost doubled in price. Complete Insure said this was
due to the new car being in a higher insurance group than his previous car. Mr D accepted
the brokers explanation and paid the extra premium.
At renewal in 2019, Complete Insure arranged a policy with a different insurer within the
panel of insurers it works with. Mr Ds premium was £255.19.
While Mr D was very happy with the price, he questioned Complete Insure as to why it was
so much less than what hed paid the year before. Complete Insure told him this was
because the previous insurer was expensive.
Mr D complained to Complete Insure. He didnt think it had acted in his best interests when
he changed his car in 2018. He said he believed that the price he paid was the best
available because when he queried the increase, Complete Insure said it was due to the
new car being in a different insurance group. Mr D feels Complete Insure should have given
him the option to cancel this policy and buy one with another insurer which may well have
been cheaper, as he was well within the cooling off period.
Mr D wanted Complete Insure to refund the difference in price which he believes he overpaid
when he changed his car in April 2018.
Complete Insure didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. It said it operated on a non-advised basis,
so it wouldnt have made the suggestion to use a cooling off period to explore other insurer's
prices following a change to the policy. It said it searches the market at quotation and
renewal stages to find a policy which meets Mr Ds needs at the most competitive price. So
Complete Insure didnt agree it should have remarketed the policy when Mr D told it about
the change of car.
Mr D remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. He didnt believe it was fair or
clear as to the role of the broker in his case.
Our investigator thought Complete Insure had acted reasonably.
Mr D didnt agree. So the case was passed to me. 
I issued a provisional decision on 23 February 2021 recommending Mr Ds complaint be 
upheld. I thought as a broker, Complete Insure didnt do enough when Mr D contacted it. 
I didnt think it was fair for the broker to only provide information as to the reason why the 
premium was higher under Mr Ds existing policy, while failing to mention at all to Mr D that it 
was possible another insurer might provide cover for a different price. I didnt think the 
brokers Terms of Business prevented it from giving such information to Mr D. Given that the 
broker had access to a panel of insurers, and given it was four days from the start date of his 
policy, I thought this was reasonable information which it should have shared with Mr D. 
So I recommended Complete Insure pay Mr D £250 compensation for failing to provide Mr D 
with sufficient information to make an informed decision. 
Mr D accepted my provisional decision. Complete Insure didnt agree. In summary it says 
the agent provided a comprehensive reply to Mr D when he asked why the price was much 
higher. Complete Insured answered Mr Ds question. Mr D didnt indicate he wanted a 
search of the market, and the agent didnt indicate she would do this either. 
Complete Insure says that as it was a mid-term change, it says within its terms that it will 
contact the insurer. It doesnt say it will carry out a full market review. It asks whether we 
consider it crucial in this case that the change was four days after the policy started  or 
whether wed consider it reasonable for a broker to review the market at any time during the 
policy year. 
So the case has been passed back to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the Terms of Business Complete Insure provided when Mr D bought his policy
in April 2018. This set out the service it would provide to Mr D. It says:
Our services will consist of arranging your insurance cover with the insurer or
insurers you choose and helping you with any ongoing changes you make to your
policy.
We offer products from a range of insurers and will inform you which insurers are on
our panel upon your request. We are not under any contractual obligation to offer or
sell products exclusively for any insurer. Our selection of insurers takes into account
their financial standing and our understanding of market conditions. Our assessment
is subjective and we cannot guarantee the future ability of any insurer to meet its
obligations to pay claims.
We will provide you with insurance quotations based on information provided by you.
We will not provide you with any advice or make any recommendations in relation to
the insurance policies which you purchase through us. You will need to make yourown decision as to the suitability of any such product for your circumstances.
Its Terms of Business also sets out what Complete Insure will do if Mr D makes a change
after the policy has started, which applies in this case:
Mid-term changes
If you ask us to arrange an increase in or amendment to the cover provided under
your policy we will submit your request to your insurer within the following timescales
provided that you supply to us all of the information we need to submit that request:
(a) If your request is made by telephone we will submit your request to your insurer
immediately;
(b) If your request is made by either post or by email we will submit your request to
your insurer within 3 working days of receipt by us of your request.
We will have no responsibility for the decision of the insurer in respect of any request
to increase or amend your cover.
We look at what is fair and reasonable in each case. Ive also kept in mind that the
Regulations (Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook by the Financial Conduct
Authority) require insurance intermediaries to provide customers with sufficient information
with which to make an informed choice. And they say a firm must act honestly, fairly and
professionally in accordance with the best interests of the customer.
In this case, information provided by Mr D changed significantly within four days of the start
of his policy. A broker will be aware that the insurance group of a vehicle isnt the only thing
that might affect the price an insurer decides to charge. An insurers risk appetite can vary
widely  which is something Complete Insure explained when it replied to Mr Ds complaint
in September 2019.
In my provisional decision I said that Mr D challenged the increase in premium and believed 
that the reason why his premium was higher was due to the insurance group and that alone. 
Complete Insure says that the agent provided more than one reason as to why the premium 
increased. But I remain of the view that I dont think it was fair or reasonable for the broker to 
only provide information as to the reasons why the premium was higher under Mr Ds 
existing policy, while failing to mention at all to Mr D that it was possible another insurer 
might provide cover for a different price. I dont think the brokers Terms of Business 
prevented Complete Insure from giving such information to Mr D. 
Given that the broker had access to a panel of insurers, and given it was four days from the 
start date of his policy, I think this was reasonable information which it should have shared 
with Mr D. I think this would have reasonably fallen under the Terms of Business in helping 
Mr D with any ongoing changes he made to his policy. And I think on balance that had Mr D 
been made aware that it was possible he could pay a lower premium with another insurer, 
he would have explored this option.
Mr D said he had no reason to look for an alternative policy as he thought the price 
Complete Insure quoted was the best one he was going to pay. Mr D believed Complete 
Insure was acting in his best interests. I can understand why Mr D didnt shop around. 
The fact that the change was four days after the policy started meant it was possible Mr D 
could have changed insurer without paying a cancellation fee as he was within the cooling 
off period. But in any event, I think as his broker, Complete Insure should have given Mr D 
more information to help him make an informed decision. 
So I think Complete Insure didnt treat Mr D fairly when he told it about his change of vehicle
in April 2018. While I cant make a decision as to what premium Mr D might have paid ifComplete Insure had explained that he might be able to get insurance cheaper with another
insurer, I think a fair outcome is for Complete Insure to pay Mr D £250 compensation to put
things right.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Allianz Business Services Limited 
trading as Complete Insure to pay Mr D £250 compensation for failing to provide him with 
sufficient information to help him make an informed decision about his policy when he 
changed his car.
Allianz Business Services Limited trading as Complete Insure must pay the compensation 
within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr D accepts my final decision. If it pays later 
than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to 
the date of payment at a simple rate of 8% a year.
If Allianz Business Services Limited trading as Complete Insure considers that its required 
by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr D how 
much its taken off. It should also give Mr D a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so 
he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman