DRN-3708131
The complaint
Mr L has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) hasnt properly 
considered his claim made under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
In September 2013, Mr L purchased timeshare membership from a timeshare provider (the 
Supplier) and paid for it using his NatWest credit card  the cost of which was £14,331. The 
timeshare was bought together with his wife, but as the credit card used was Mr Ls, only he 
is the person able to bring this complaint. 
Using a professional representative (PR), Mr L made a claim against NatWest. He said that 
he was unhappy with the timeshare and, under s.75 CCA, NatWest was jointly liable with the 
Supplier for what had gone wrong. In summary, Mr L said:
Under s.75 CCA, the creditor (here NatWest) is jointly liable with the Supplier for any 
misrepresentations or breaches of contract.
He was told he would be able to book holidays with the Supplier, but hes not been 
able to do so  that was a misrepresentation.
There was a misrepresentation that the holidays would be exclusive, but the 
timeshare accommodation was available to anyone to use.
There was a misrepresentation that holidays could be booked at a 10% discount to 
what was available online, but in fact holidays were more expensive than what was 
available online once the annual membership fees were factored in.
The terms of the timeshare were such that the timeshare could run in perpetuity and 
Mr L had no control over the sums charged under the contract. The effect of these 
clauses was not explained to Mr L fully by the Supplier and that was a breach of 
contract.
Mr L was not given details about attending the general meeting of timeshare 
members, which was a breach of contract.
Finally, it was said that not providing exclusive accommodation was also a breach of 
contract.
NatWest responded to the claim raised. It said that there wasnt evidence to support the 
claims made, but in addition it didnt think s.75 CCA applied in this case as the payment was 
made to a different party to the Supplier. But NatWest also treated Mr Ls claim as a 
complaint about its decision not to accept it, so it said he could refer the matter to our 
service, which he did. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but didnt think NatWest needed to do 
anything further. He said he thought there was the right sort of arrangement in place for Mr L 
to be able to make a claim under s.75 CCA. However, he didnt think there was enough 
evidence to suggest there had been a misrepresentation or breach of contract.
In response to our investigators view, PR said the complaint should have been upheld as a 
claim under s.140A CCA would be successful. But our investigator said that as no such 
claim had ever been made to NatWest, he couldnt consider it under this complaint.
NatWest didnt respond to our investigators view.
As the parties didnt agree with what had been said, the matter was passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I dont think Mr Ls complaint should be upheld.
How did Mr L pay for his membership?
Although Mr L used his credit card to take out membership with the Supplier, the money 
wasnt paid to it directly. Instead it was paid to a third party, F, who also acted as a trustee 
for the timeshare.
s.75(1) CCA states:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) 
or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against 
the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a 
like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and 
severally liable to the debtor.
So the starting point is to determine whether there is a debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) 
agreement in place, as defined by the CCA  without that NatWest cant be liable under s.75 
CCA. Normally that means the creditor  from whom the debtor borrows money to pay for 
goods or services  pays the supplier of good or services directly through the relevant credit 
card scheme. But in this case, NatWest didnt pay the Supplier directly, instead it paid F.
There is case law that means there can be a DCS agreement in place even where a supplier 
hasnt been paid directly by the creditor. One of those instances is when the entity that 
receives payment is doing so on behalf of the supplier and only acts in that capacity. Our 
investigator thought that applied in this case and F was acting as a payment processor for 
the Supplier. I dont disagree with our investigators conclusions, but I make no firm finding 
on the legal position. That is because, even if I find there was a DCS agreement in place, I 
dont think its likely Mr Ls s.75 CCA claim would succeed.
The s.75 CCA claim
To understand the claim being made, I think its helpful to set out what was purchased. Mr 
and Mrs L already had a timeshare with the Supplier and in 2014 upgraded to fractional 
membership. Under that membership they had a number of points that they could use each 
year to book holiday accommodation at the Suppliers resorts. The cost in points to stay in 
accommodation differed depending on location, time of year, size of accommodation, etc. 
But as fractional members, they also were entitled to receive a share of the proceeds of 
sale of a timeshare property that was earmarked to be sold in the future. In Mr and Mrs Ls 
case, they were entitled to a share in the proceeds of sale of two specified units and the 
proposed sale date of the properties was at the end of 2028.  
Mr L has made a number of specific allegations about what he says went wrong, as set out 
above. For NatWest to be liable for a claim under s.75 CCA, it would have to be shown that 
Mr L had a valid claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract against the Supplier. For there to be a misrepresentation there needs to be an untrue statement of fact or law 
made by one party to another, which induces the party receiving the statement to enter a 
contract thereby causing them loss. A statement of opinion can be a misrepresentation if the 
opinion amounts to a statement of fact and it can be proved that the person who made it 
didnt hold that opinion, or couldnt reasonably have held it. For there to be a breach of 
contract, it needs to be shown that one party to a contract failed to do something they should 
have done under that contract. Ill deal with each in turn.
Was there a misrepresentation?
Mr L has said that he tried to book holidays with the Supplier, but he wasnt able to do so. I 
dont think that was a misrepresentation, rather I think it could amount to a breach of contract 
as he is effectively saying the Supplier didnt provide accommodation he was entitled to 
under the agreement. But whether this was a misrepresentation or a breach of contract, I 
would need to see evidence that Mr L was unable to book any holidays. But I havent been 
provided with anything to show that was the case beyond what Mr L has said. Ive not seen 
anything to show Mr L has tried unsuccessfully to book accommodation in the four and a half 
years between him taking out membership and making a claim. So I cant see how this part 
of the claim could succeed.
Mr L has said that he was told membership was both exclusive, and therefore not available 
to non-members, but also that holidays could be booked at a 10% discount to what was 
available online. These two statements cant both be true as an exclusive membership as 
Mr L described wouldnt allow non-members to book accommodation online. Given that, I 
find it hard to place much weight on what Mr L has said about what he was told. In any 
event, Ive seen that Mr L took notes at the time of sale and he has supplied them in support 
of this complaint. Neither of the alleged misrepresentation were recorded in the notes, which 
I would have expected had they been important to him. Finally, Ive not seen any other 
evidence, such as marketing materials setting out the benefit of timeshare membership, that 
shows these representations were made to Mr L. On balance, Im not able to say these 
representations were made to him at the time of sale.
Was there a breach of contract?
Mr L has said that the timeshare could run in perpetuity and he had no control over the sums 
charged under the agreement. Ive seen that the properties in which Mr and Mrs L held 
interests were scheduled to be sold at the end of 2028. But Ive also seen that no guarantee 
was given as to when the properties would actually be sold, which I dont find surprising as 
the seller of property cant say when a sale may take place. But here PR has identified parts 
of the contract that it says could have operated to Mr Ls detriment and he should have been 
told about. I cant see how that could amount to a breach of contract, rather it might be 
something to take into account if there was an allegation that the terms had been operated 
unfairly. But that isnt something that NatWest could be liable for under s.75 CCA.
Mr L has said that he wasnt given notice to attend all general meetings of timeshare 
members. Again, Ive not seen any evidence that there were meetings that he was not 
invited to, beyond what PR set out in its letter of claim. So I cant say there was any breach 
of contract.1 
Finally, Mr L has said that not providing exclusive accommodation was a breach of contract. 
But Ive not been directed to any term of the agreement that said the accommodation offered 
was exclusive or  reserved for timeshare members only. Without that, I cant say there has 
1 I also cant see what damages Mr L would be entitled to if there was any such breach, as I cant see 
hes lost out as a resultbeen any breach of contract.
In conclusion, I cant see that there is enough evidence to show Mr L would have any 
successful claims against the Supplier, to which NatWest could be jointly liable under s.75 
CCA.
Is there any claim under s.140A CCA?
In response to the investigators view, PR has pointed to s.140A CCA and said Mr L may 
have a claim under that provision. S.140A CCA deals with unfair debtor-creditor 
relationships and allows the court to make certain orders under s.140B CCA to put right any 
unfairness found.
Mr L, through PR, specifically made a claim to NatWest under s.75 CCA and set that claim 
out in detail. It was NatWests response to that claim that Mr L wished to complain about 
when he came to our service.
A claim under s.140A CCA is a separate matter and, importantly, one that has never been 
made to NatWest. NatWest has never had the opportunity to consider it and give its 
response. But NatWest has properly considered the complaint that was referred to our 
service, so I see no reason for our service to tell NatWest to consider any further claims that 
havent been raised before. However, Mr L is free to make whatever further or alternate 
claims directly to NatWest that he feels is appropriate.
My final decision
 I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint about National Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman