DRN-4479605
The complaint
Ms R has complained about the ring provided by an approved jeweller when Lloyds Bank 
General Insurance Limited settled her claim against her home insurance policy by way of a 
voucher. 
What happened
Ms R made a claim under her home insurance policy for a ring. In May 2022 her insurer 
Lloyds settled the claim by paying a voucher to Ms R to use at an approved jewellers to 
replace the ring. 
Ms R was unhappy with the ring provided by the jeweller and contacted Lloyds. Lloyds said 
as it had provided a voucher for Ms R to purchase a replacement with the jeweller, any 
dispute about the order was between Ms R and them. 
Ms R asked us to look at her complaint. Our Investigator explained that she could look at the 
actions of Lloyds in its handling of the claim. As it had fairly dealt with the claim, she didnt 
recommend the complaint should be upheld. 
Ms R didnt agree and wants Lloyds to pay her a cash settlement. So Ms R wants an 
ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is a dispute as to what was agreed between Ms R and the jeweller in her order of a 
replacement ring. Ms R says the jeweller hasnt had a bespoke ring made for her. She says 
the jeweller didnt measure her ring size before ordering the ring and it doesnt fit, and the 
shape of the stone isnt what she ordered. Ms R is very unhappy with her dealings with the 
jeweller and now wants Lloyds to pay her a cash settlement for the ring instead. 
The jeweller has agreed to change the shape of the stone, and agreed to send the ring to Ms 
Rs home address as she no longer wants to visit the store. But it says it made Ms R aware 
that once the ring was ordered, it couldnt be returned. 
Lloyds says as it has paid the jeweller for the ring (when Ms R used the voucher) and a ring 
has been provided, it cannot pay Ms R a cash settlement as it has already fulfilled its 
obligations under the claim. 
Our role is limited to deciding whether Lloyds as the insurer dealt with Ms Rs claim in a fair 
and reasonable way.
Having done so, I cant safely conclude that Lloyds has acted unreasonably. From the 
evidence available to me, I think Lloyds dealt with Ms Rs claim in line with the policy terms. 
I understand Ms Rs strength of feeling about the ring - and her dealings with the jeweller. 
And I have taken her personal circumstances into account when reaching my decision. But 
for the reasons Ive explained, I cannot uphold her complaint and ask Lloyds to do any more 
than it already has. The complaint is with the jeweller.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Ms R. My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman