DRN-3384367
The complaint
Miss R is unhappy Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds), wont refund the money she lost after falling 
victim to an authorised push payment (APP) advanced fee scam whereby she sent money 
to an account held at Lloyds.
What happened
The details and facts of this case are well-known to both parties, so I dont need to repeat 
them at length here. 
In summary, Miss R fell victim to an advanced fee scam. In between 2013 and 2014, Miss R 
was involved with a professional gambler who she would receive betting tips from. As a 
result Miss R says she lost a significant amount of money. In March 2020, Miss R was then 
contacted by a private investigator who said he would help recover some of the funds she 
had lost. And this required Miss R to pay some advance fees. 
Over the course of April and May 2020 Miss R made a series of payments from two of her 
accounts held with her bank to five different payees whose accounts were held at different 
providers.
As part of the scam, Miss R made two payments from one of her bank accounts, to an 
account held at Lloyds. Miss R made the following payments to the account held at Lloyds:
Date Amount
20 May 2020 £550
21 May 2020 £4,950
After the scam was revealed, Miss R complained to her bank and also raised concerns 
about Lloyds and another receiving bank, where the receiving bank accounts were held. 
Miss Rs Bank, Lloyds and the other receiving bank are all signed up to the Lending 
Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code). 
The CRM Code was implemented to reduce the occurrence of APP scams. It sets out what 
is expected of the Sending Firm when payments are made which includes a consideration 
of whether a customer met their requisite level of care when making the payment. And it also 
sets out the obligations for the Receiving Firm to prevent, detect and respond to the receipt 
of funds from APP scams in order to prevent accounts from being opened, or used, to 
launder the proceeds of APP scams. 
Where there is a failing by either the Sending Firm or Receiving Firm, they may be required 
to reimburse the customer. And the customer may also be required to share some 
responsibility for the loss if it is determined that they also failed to meet their requisite level of 
care under the CRM Code.
Miss R brought her complaint about her Bank, Lloyds, and the other receiving bank to our 
service. 
Miss Rs complaint about her Bank, as the Sending Firm, was looked at under a separate 
complaint reference. In that case, an ombudsman issued a final decision which concluded 
that both Miss R and her Bank should share responsibility for some of the losses. Miss R 
accepted the ombudsmans decision and it therefore became a legally binding decision on 
both parties.
In this case, Miss R says Lloyds, as the Receiving Firm, should also share some 
responsibility. Miss R wants it to refund her the remaining loss as she considers one of its 
accounts was opened and being used fraudulently.
Lloyds in its final response letter to Miss R didnt agree that it was liable for any loss Miss R 
incurred. It said that the account had been opened correctly and had been operating 
normally prior to receiving the payments  and it had no concern about the account usage 
prior to the report of fraud. 
One of our Investigators looked into things and didnt recommend that Lloyds needed to do 
anything further. Overall, he was satisfied Lloyds had met the standards required of it under 
the CRM Code and wasnt responsible for Miss Rs losses as it couldnt reasonably have 
done more to prevent Miss Rs loss. He was also satisfied it had responded appropriately to 
the notification of fraud. 
Miss R disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, to clarify, this decision focuses solely on the actions of Lloyds  as the Receiving Firm 
of the account where Miss R made payments to. Miss Rs complaint about her Bank was 
looked at separately under a different complaint reference with a final decision being issued 
on the matter. And Miss Rs concerns about the other receiving bank, where she made 
payments to, is also currently being looked at by our service under a separate complaint 
reference.
Im sorry to disappoint Miss R but Im not upholding her complaint about Lloyds. I know shes 
been the victim of a cruel scam and I dont doubt that these events have had a significant 
impact on her. But I dont believe Lloyds has acted unfairly or unreasonably in its answering 
of the complaint. Im satisfied Lloyds has met its requirements under the CRM Code and 
therefore isnt liable for any of Miss Rs remaining losses. Ill explain why.
Among other things, regulated firms receiving payments like Lloyds, are required to
conduct their business with due skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2)
and to comply with legal and regulatory anti-money laundering and countering the financing
of terrorism requirements.
Those requirements include maintaining proportionate and risk-sensitive policies and
procedures to identify, assess and manage money laundering risk  for example through
customer due diligence measures and the ongoing monitoring of the business relationship
(including through the scrutiny of transactions undertaken throughout the course of the
relationship).And, more generally given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, as
a matter of good industry practice at the time, I think firms should reasonably have had
measures in place to detect suspicious transactions or activities that might indicate fraud or
financial abuse (something also recognised by the Banking Standards Institutes October
2017 Protecting Customers from Financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse 
Code of Practice).
And Im satisfied that this good practice requirement meant not just looking out for situations
where a customer might be the victim of fraud, but also situations where the customer might
be the perpetrator of fraud or a money mule.
Also relevant in this case, as mentioned earlier, is the CRM Code that Lloyds have signed up 
to.
The relevant considerations for Receiving Firms under the CRM Code sets out the following:
CRM Code: Payment Journey  Receiving Firm
 
SF2 Receiving Firms should take reasonable steps to prevent accounts from being 
used to launder the proceeds of APP scams. This should include procedures 
to prevent, detect and respond to the receipt of funds from APP scams. 
Where the receiving Firm identifies funds where there are concerns that they 
may be the proceeds of an APP scam, it should freeze the funds and respond 
in a timely manner.
Prevention
SF2(1) Firms must take reasonable steps to prevent accounts being opened for 
criminal purposes.
Detection
SF2(3) Firms must take reasonable steps to detect accounts which may be, or are 
being, used to receive APP scam funds.
Response
SF2(4) Following notification of concerns about an account or funds at a receiving 
Firm, the receiving Firm should respond in accordance with the procedures 
set out in the Best Practice Standards.
In considering all of the above, and to determine if Lloyds met the standards required of it 
under the CRM Code, I have looked at whether Lloyds opened the receiving account 
correctly, whether there was anything in the way the account was being used that should 
have given Lloyds any cause for concern and finally; once notified of fraud did it act 
appropriately and in a timely manner. And if I consider there were failings in relation to any of 
the above, I have to consider whether Lloydss acts or omissions fairly resulted in Miss Rs 
loss.  
I would like to point out to Miss R at this point, that while Lloyds has provided our service 
with information about the receiving bank accounts  it has done so in confidence. This is to 
allow us to discharge our investigatory functions and Lloyds has provided that which is 
necessary for the determination of this complaint. Due to data protection laws our service 
cant share any information about the beneficiary, the receiving bank account or any 
investigation and action Lloyds subsequently took. However I would like to assure Miss R I 
have thoroughly reviewed and considered all the information provided before reaching my 
decision.Prevention - The account opening process
To help decide whether or not a bank failed to prevent the loss of an APP victim when
opening the beneficiary account, we would generally ask to see evidence that; it correctly
followed its account opening procedures; carried out checks to verify the identity of the
named account holder; and did its due diligence when opening the account.
However, our service only has powers to consider complaints about Receiving Firms since 
31 January 2019  and we cant consider any acts or omissions carried out by a Receiving 
Firm that occurred before this date. That means if the account was opened before this date, I 
am unable to comment or make a finding as to whether I consider a Firm may have failed in 
its obligations in any way.
Lloyds has said that the account was opened correctly and in accordance with its 
procedures. But in this case, the beneficiary account was opened prior to 2019, so I am 
unable to comment on or make a finding about the account opening process  as the act of 
Lloyds opening the account happened prior to when our service had the power to look into 
complaints about Receiving Firms. 
Detection - Account activity
The primary duty of a bank is to follow their customers instructions and make payments as
directed in line with the mandate  which is usually set out in the terms and conditions of the
account. The CRM Code sets out that Firms must take reasonable steps to detect accounts 
which may be, or are being, used to receive APP scam funds. This ties in with long standing 
regulatory and legal obligations Banks and Building Societies have to monitor their business 
relationships and to be alert to other risks - such as fraud, which would include giving 
consideration to unusual and out of character transactions.
Ive looked at the account history for the beneficiary account and I cant say there was any 
account activity that I think would reasonably have stood out to Lloyds as suspicious or 
significantly outside of what might be expected for an account of that type. Im also satisfied 
there was no notification of fraud on the account prior to the payments Miss R made into the 
account and no other red flags where it could reasonably be argued that Lloyds might have 
had sufficient grounds to suspect fraud and refuse execution of their customers payment 
instructions.
So, from what Ive seen, Im satisfied Lloyds has demonstrated that it has taken reasonable 
steps to detect accounts which may be, or are being, used to receive APP scam funds. I also 
dont think Lloyds ought reasonably to have had concerns where I would have expected it to 
have intervened, so I cant fairly say that it could have prevented Miss Rs loss in this way 
either.Response to notification of fraud
The Best Practice Standards set out that a Receiving Firm must take appropriate action, in a 
speedy manner, upon notification of APP fraud and notify the Sending Firm if any funds 
remain for recovery. Here, once notified of the scam, Im satisfied Lloyds took the necessary 
actions required of it and did so in a timely manner. Unfortunately, no funds remained in the 
account that could be recovered as they had already been moved on / withdrawn from the 
account.
So, taking the above into consideration Im satisfied, following notification of APP fraud, 
Lloyds responded in accordance with the procedures set out in the Best Practice Standards. 
And I dont think I can fairly say Lloyds didnt do enough to respond to the alleged APP 
fraud.
Overall, while Miss R was the unfortunate victim of a scam, Im satisfied that Lloyds met the 
standards required of it under the CRM Code. I also dont think Lloyds couldve done 
anything more as the Receiving Firm to have prevented the loss of Miss Rs money. And it 
responded appropriately once notified of the fraud. So, it follows that I dont think they are 
liable to reimburse Miss R for her remaining loss under the CRM Code or otherwise.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman