DRN-2645212
The complaint
Mr E and Ms M, who are represented by a claims management company (CMC), complain 
that First Holiday Finance Ltd (FHF) rejected their claim under s 75 Consumer Credit Act 
1974 in respect of the purchase of timeshare points.
What happened
Mr E and Ms M purchased a membership from a company I will call C in September 2010. 
The purchase was funded by a point of sale loan provided by FHF. 
They believe the product was misrepresented to them and that they were treated unfairly 
during the sale. The CMC asked FHF to look into this and refund the total cost of the 
product. 
FHF investigated this claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act but concluded that 
it had been brought too late. It also refuted the various allegations about the sale which had 
been made by the CMC.
The complaint was brought to this service where it was considered by one of our 
adjudicators who didnt recommend it be upheld. The CMC asked that the matter be 
considered by an ombudsman and it said further representations would be sent. These have 
not been received after some six months.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint, Im 
required to take into account: relevant law and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, 
guidance and standards and codes of practice.
Under s.75, FHF is jointly and severally liable with the supplier of the goods or services for 
any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. This means, Mr E and Ms M 
have a like claim against FHF just as they would have against the supplier. So, if this claim 
against the supplier of the timeshare has likely expired under the Limitation Act, then that is 
something FHF could take into account when it considers claims against it.
The Limitation Act sets out the time limits which apply to different types of claims. The CMC 
has said the timeshare Mr E and Ms M bought was misrepresented to them.
Under the Limitation Act, they would have six years from the date upon which they suffered 
a loss as a result of the misrepresentation to bring their claim. 
As FHF steps into the shoes of the supplier for the purposes of the s.75 claim, to work out 
when the clock starts running under the Limitation Act, we need to work out when it would 
start if the claim had been brought directly against the supplier.
Misrepresentation claims can be made once the person bringing the claim has experienced 
damage and or loss as a result of the misrepresentation.  In this case, given the nature of 
the complaint, I think damage occurred when Mr E and Ms M suffered a financial loss as a 
result of purchasing the timeshare. Ill explain why below.
 They say that as a result of the suppliers misrepresentation, they paid to enter an 
agreement which has caused them to suffer a loss. They say that but for the 
misrepresentation, they wouldnt have entered into the contract at all and wouldnt have paid 
any money to the supplier.
So, I think the point of loss was the point at which the transaction was entered into, which 
was in September 2010. Thats the moment when they accepted any potential benefit under 
the contract, and it was also the moment they accepted the cost under the contract.
The time limit applicable to misrepresentation is six years from the date of loss. So, Mr E and 
Ms M needed to raise their claim no later than September 2016. As I understand it, they 
raised their claim in April 2019, which is nearly nine years after the loss occurred.
They may say that they werent aware they could raise concerns about the 
misrepresentation until much later. But the time limits set out for misrepresentation claims 
such as this, start to run from the date of loss, which may fall earlier than the date Mr E and 
Ms M became aware that something might have gone wrong.  
Ive also considered section 140A (s.140A) of the Consumer Credit Act when looking into 
this complaint. Under s.140A, the courts may make an order under section 140B in 
connection with a credit agreement if it determines that the relationship between the creditor 
and debtor arising out of the agreement is unfair to the debtor due to a number of factors. 
Only a court has the power to decide whether a relationship between the credit and debtor is 
unfair, but it is relevant law we need to take into consideration. 
The Limitation Act still applies for these types of claims. For a s.140A claim, Mr E and Ms M 
would have six years from the date the related finance agreement ended. From the 
information I have, the finance agreement ended in May 2012 so a s.140A claim needed to 
be raised no later than May 2018. As I understand it, they raised their claim in April 2019, 
which is nearly seven years after their finance agreement ended.
Ultimately, it is for the courts to decide whether or not any claim they may have against the 
supplier or the creditor has expired under the Limitation Act.
However, given the above, it seems to me that this misrepresentation claim against the 
supplier and the like claim against FHF more than likely exceeded the relevant time limits 
set out in the Limitation Act. So, it would not be unreasonable for FHF to take this into 
account when considering the s.75 claim against it. 
So, given that Mr E and Ms Ms claim now is more than likely time barred under the 
Limitation Act, I think FHFs decision not to look into the claim was fair. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman