DRN-3710413
The complaint
Mr H complains about a term assurance policy he took out after speaking with Barclays 
Bank UK PLC. 
What happened
In early 2020 Mr H took out a term life assurance policy after speaking with staff in a branch 
of Barclays.
In 2022 Mr H found out that it was a policy with a term of 32 years and that it didnt last for 
the whole of his life.
Barclays looked at the sale but didnt agree it was mis-sold. They said the documents were 
clear about the term and that Mr H was given information from the policy provider.  
Remaining unhappy Mr H brought his complaint to this service where one of our 
Investigators looked into what happened. They thought the terms of the policy had been 
made clear in the documentation and also in a telephone call with the product provider. 
Mr H disagreed so the complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has provided a lot of information about his complaint and its clear to me how strongly 
he feels about what happened. Ive summarised some things which reflects the informal 
nature of our service. I want to assure Mr H that Ive read and carefully considered 
everything that has been provided.
Where the information about what happened is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as 
some of it is here, Ive come to a decision based on the balance of probabilities about what I 
think is most likely to have happened.
The policy was taken out in a branch of Barclays where Mr H spoke to a staff member. 
Because the conversation was in a branch there isnt any written record of what happened. 
What I do know is that Barclays use an online portal with direct access to the product 
provider, so the information provided was used to set up the policy. Theres no paper 
application form as any declarations are agreed verbally and recorded on the system. The 
policy documents from the product provider show this was a term policy for 32 years. 
Barclays have said the policy was sold on a non-advised basis. This means they presented 
information for Mr H to make a choice about whether the policy was suitable.
The absence of any recorded notes or information from the time doesnt necessarily mean 
the product was mis-sold. 
Looking at everything I know Im satisfied, on balance, that the policy was set up as intended 
with a 32 year term. 
Ive also taken into consideration a telephone conversation with the product provider some 
months after the policy was set up. In that call the product provider confirmed all the details 
of the policy including the term. They then asked Mr H to confirm if the information was 
correct, and if the policy still met his needs; to which he agreed. 
Mr H has asked for a refund of the premiums he paid while the policy was active. However 
the policy documents make clear that there is no cash in value at any time. So Barclays 
dont have to refund any of the premiums.
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied Mr H Was treated fairly 
and reasonably and that the policy wasnt mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2023. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman