DRN-4108259
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J are unhappy Society of Lloyds (SOL) declined a claim they made under their 
home insurance policy for subsidence damage to an outbuilding.
Where Ive referred to SOL, this includes the underwriting syndicate which actually provides 
the cover under Mr and Mrs Js policy.
What happened
There have been several businesses involved in this claim and complaint acting as agents or 
representatives of either Mr and Mrs J or SOL. But for ease of reference, Ill only refer to 
Mr and Mrs J and SOL by name in this decision, even when referring to evidence or 
arguments put forward by their agents or representatives.
Mr and Mrs J raised a claim for cracking damage to an outbuilding in 2020. Site 
investigations confirmed the cause of subsidence was the influence of nearby mature trees 
on adjacent land causing clay shrinkage and downward movement of the land beneath the 
foundations. SOL subsequently declined the claim on the basis that the foundations of the 
outbuilding were faulty or defectively designed, owing to not having been built deep enough 
to take into account the likely influence of nearby trees. It relied on a specific exclusion under 
the policy terms for faulty or defective foundations.
Unhappy with SOLs decision, Mr and Mrs J brought their complaint to our service where it 
was considered by one of our investigators. He considered the available expert evidence 
from both sides, and said he found the evidence provided by SOL to be the most persuasive. 
He said he thought SOLs conclusions that the dominant cause of damage was defective 
foundations was reasonable, and so it was fair for SOL to have declined the claim.
Mr and Mrs J didnt accept our investigators conclusions. So, as no agreement has been 
reached, their complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and while I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs J, I 
agree with the outcome reached by our investigator. Ill explain why.
The various claim investigations completed established the following:
The presence of nearby vegetation on adjacent land, including a mature oak tree at a 
height of 14m around 9m from the corner of the outbuilding.
The foundations of the outbuilding in the locations of the excavated boreholes were 
between 650mm to 750mm.
The ground the foundations were built upon was a highly shrinkable, silty clay.
Tree roots within the various boreholes to a depth of up to 1.5m.
Desiccated soil to a depth of at least 2.6m in at least one borehole.
SOL has pointed to guidance published by one of the UKs leading new home warranty 
providers which it says would have required engineer designed foundations of at least 2.5m 
in conditions like Mr and Mrs Js, with such close proximity to a mature oak tree.
SOL accepts that this warranty providers guidance would not have applied to construction of 
Mr and Mrs Js outbuilding. However, it says this guidance is used across the industry as a 
good starting point for the consideration of foundation depths in proximity to nearby trees. 
SOL also says it has primarily referenced this guidance to show that the foundation depths 
present at Mr and Mrs Js property were woefully inadequate when compared to such 
guidance.
SOL has further accepted that building regulations approval would not have been required 
for the outbuilding either. But it says the outbuilding should still have been built in line with 
good industry practice. And it says this would ultimately mean that it met the requirements of 
the building regulations.
Based on all the above, it says the dominant cause of the damage is the inadequate depth of 
the foundations. So, it maintains its decision to decline the claim is in line with the policy 
terms, as damage resulting from faulty design is specifically excluded:
What is covered:
9.Subsidence or Heave of the site upon which the Buildings stand or Landslip
What is not covered:
We will not pay:
d) for loss or damage arising from faulty design, specification, workmanship or 
materials."
Mr and Mrs J say that the investigations undertaken by SOL were inadequate as they didnt 
include an arboriculturist or drainage report. Theyve said neither the warranty providers 
guidance nor building regulations applied to the outbuilding and so shouldnt be relied on. 
And theyve said that as desiccated soil was present at 2.6m, even if the foundations were 
built to 2.5m, subsidence would still have occurred. Based on this, they say its unfair for 
SOL to consider the foundations were defective.
Ive carefully considered everything both sides have said and provided. It doesnt appear to 
be in dispute that neither the warranty provider standards nor building regulations strictly 
applied to the construction of Mr and Mrs Js outbuilding in 2008. However, I agree that 
doesnt mean foundations of any depth would be considered adequate. Good industry 
practice should still have been followed to ensure that the builder erected a structure that 
was likely to stand the test of time and that took into account things like ground conditions 
and the presence of nearby vegetation. In circumstances like this, I would consider that the relevant building regulations at the time 
of construction, as well as any associated supporting guidance for those regulations, can 
reasonably be considered as a good guide to how deep the foundations for a structure ought 
to have been. And the building regulations in place at the time the outbuilding was 
constructed required foundations in clay soils to be, at a minimum, 900mm deep. 
Mr and Mrs Js own engineer seems to agree that building regulations can reasonably be 
considered as a minimum standard, even though they dont strictly apply:
Having said that, in my report I did recognise that Approved Document A (2004) of 
the Building Regulations does make reference to the relevant code of practice 
BS8004:1986 and where section 3.2.8.2 of the same does point to special 
foundations at depths greater than 900mm being provided. Whilst I recognise that 
there is an argument that Building Regulations does not apply, it is arguably 
persuasive that British Standards represent a "minimum standard" (but not best 
practice), irrespective of regulatory requirements.
SOLs engineer has also referred to the above building regulation approved document and 
associated guidance and, in particular, what it says about constructions near trees:
Care should be exercised to ensure that there is adequate space between new 
buildings and existing trees or the sites of trees that have been removed. 
Alternatively, special foundations founded at depths greater than 900mm should be 
provided.
Given that the outbuilding was founded on clay, within close proximity to a mature oak tree 
and other closely grouped vegetation, Im not persuaded that the builder observed good 
industry practice in place at the time when constructing the foundations of the outbuilding at 
c.750mm. 
I say this because, in my view, the reasonable minimum depth of the foundations, as a 
starting point, ought to have been 900mm. Then, due consideration should have been given 
to the likely impact of the nearby vegetation. Therefore, in order for me to be persuaded that 
the builder even broadly followed good industry practice, Id expect the foundations to have 
exceeded 900mm in depth, in order to demonstrate that the ground conditions and the likely 
effects of nearby vegetation had been taken into account during construction.
As the foundations here are significantly shallower than the reasonable minimum depth, I 
dont think it would be fair for me to conclude, even on balance, that the builder followed 
good practice by considering the ground conditions and nearby vegetation when 
constructing the foundations of the outbuilding. And I note that Mr and Mrs J have nothing 
from the time of construction to show that the foundations were appropriately designed to 
resist the influence of the trees either. So, taking all of this into account, I think it was 
reasonable for SOL to conclude that the foundations of the outbuilding were not 
appropriately designed or constructed.
Mr and Mrs J have also argued that desiccated soil was found at 2.6m and that tree roots 
were likely to run deeper than the 1.5m they were identified at. So, they say subsidence 
would still have occurred even if the builder had followed building regulations and/or the 
warranty provider guidance and built the foundations to 2.5m. Ive thought very carefully about this argument, but it hasnt persuaded me that SOLs 
decision to decline the claim on the basis of the faulty design exclusion was unfair. I say this 
because none of the guidance or regulations Ive referred to provide a specified depth for 
adequate foundations. Rather they set out a minimum depth and require that consideration 
be given to the particular conditions present at the site. 
Based on the available evidence, I cant be certain whether foundations at 2.6m, or even 
deeper, would have been sufficient to mean that the outbuilding wouldnt have suffered from 
subsidence damage. But I am persuaded that by building the foundations at the shallow 
depths they did, that good practice at the time was not even broadly followed.
SOL has also pointed out that while the outbuilding was exempt from building regulations, it 
would have required planning permission due its height and proximity to the boundary of the 
property. But it says no planning permission was obtained. SOL argues that had planning 
permission been obtained, its likely that building control would have expected a detailed site 
assessment, including consideration of the subsoil and nearby trees. 
Ive thought carefully about this argument, and I find it persuasive. On balance, I think its 
likely if planning permission had been sought, such site investigations would likely have 
been recommended and carried out prior to the construction of the foundations. Had this 
have happened, the influence of the trees and the depth of roots and desiccation would likely 
have been identified, and therefore the foundations placed at such a depth as to resist the 
influence of the trees, i.e., greater than the 2.6m depth where desiccation was identified. And 
had all of this happened, I find it unlikely that the subsidence damage which is the subject of 
this claim would have happened. 
None of the above took place, and instead the building was founded on foundations which 
were significantly shallower than the minimum suggested depth for foundations on clay  
seemingly without taking into account the presence and likely impact of the nearby 
vegetation at all.
Given the above, and taking into account all the expert evidence provided, Im persuaded 
that the dominant cause of damage in this case is the faulty design and construction of the 
foundations. So, it therefore follows that I think SOLs decision to decline the claim on the 
basis of that exclusion was both in line with the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Js 
policy, and that it was fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances of this claim and 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman