DRN-3567660
The complaint
Mr L complains that U K Insurance Limited trading as Darwin (UKI) unfairly charged him a 
cancellation fee when he cancelled his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to all parties, so in my decision Ill focus on giving 
reasons for reaching the outcome I have. 
In summary, Mr L wasnt happy UKI charged him a cancellation fee after he cancelled his 
motor insurance policy in 2021. UKI says the documents sent to Mr L when he purchased 
the policy made clear a £50 fee would apply if he cancelled it after the first 14 days. They 
also say they told him during a phone call before he cancelled, he could either replace his 
car in 14 days and remain on cover, or cancel it, which would result in a fee. Mr L wasnt 
happy with UKIs response to his complaint, so he approached our service. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He felt the documents provided 
to Mr L when he purchased the policy clearly set out a £50 cancellation fee would apply in 
these circumstances. Ive considered these, and Im also satisfied the cancellation fee is 
clear and should apply here. 
Mr L says he found a policy online that wouldnt have charged him a cancelation fee in these 
circumstances. But Mr L ought to have reasonably been aware the UKI policy he did 
purchase included this fee. He cancelled the policy as his car needed to be scrapped, which 
wouldnt have been foreseeable when he took the policy out. So, Im not persuaded Mr L 
would have done anything differently even if hed found the other policy without a 
cancellation fee when incepting the UKI policy. 
It follows, I find UKI applied the cancellation fee fairly, in line with the policy terms, and the 
amount was proportionate based on other fees Ive seen charged when a policyholder 
cancels after the first 14 days. So, I wont be directing UKI to do anything further here. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2022.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman
