DRN-4120517
The complaint
Miss A complains about how Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) handled a claim made by a 
third party under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Miss A had a motor insurance policy with Aviva. In December 2021 Aviva received a call 
from a third party who alleged Miss A had driven into their vehicle.
Aviva took details of the third partys claim directly from them, which related to an incident in 
April 2021. Other allegations were also mentioned by the third party, which were serious in 
nature and would have probably meant police involvement. Aviva then called Miss A and 
asked her for some information about what had happened.
Miss As version of events was very different from the third partys and she told Aviva there 
had been no damage to either vehicle and consequently there was no claim to be made. 
Aviva told her it would investigate.
Aviva continued to handle the third partys claim and settled it for about £3,500 in March 
2022. Miss A was unhappy about this and complained.
Aviva looked into her complaint and said it hadnt handled her claim fairly. It said it failed to 
investigate the third partys claim properly. It offered Miss A £100 compensation which Miss 
A didnt accept. Aviva also reinstated Miss As No Claims Discount (NCD)
Miss A remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service. She asks that the claim 
is removed from her records and an external database where it was recorded. Our 
investigator looked into her complaint and upheld it. She thought Aviva should pay a total of 
£200 for her distress and inconvenience.
Aviva agreed with the view, but Miss A didnt. Because she didnt agree, her complaint has 
been passed to me to make a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision to allow both parties to consider things further. This is set out 
below.
In later correspondence, Miss A says that the cost of her insurance is much higher because 
she needs to tell insurers about the incident. She asks that the claim is removed from an 
external database because she thinks it was recorded incorrectly, and it will affect her policy 
for the next few years.
Miss A says she doesnt think its fair to bear the responsibility for an incident she says didnt 
happen, as well as Avivas failure to investigate the third partys claim properly.
Ive thought about Avivas comment that it failed to investigate the third partys claim 
properly. From the evidence I have, I can say Aviva did make contact with Miss A about it, 
but the notes I can see from its system then seem to talk about inconsistencies in Miss As 
version of events, rather than the third party.
I must also consider that under the terms of its policy wording, Aviva has the right to resolve 
the claim as it sees fit, even without notifying Miss A.
Aviva has now settled the third-partys claim, but it seems to me that it has failed in its duty 
of care to its policyholder. Given Miss As vehement denial, I think Id reasonably expect 
Aviva to have investigated the situation much further especially given the eight-month delay 
in the third party making the claim.
Miss A has talked about the increase in her premiums because of this claim. Shes 
mentioned an increase of 80%, which is based on a quotation from Aviva of £1,876 and an 
estimate of about £3,378. Miss A has sent this service screenshots of various quotes shes 
obtained from insurers which also includes taking off the claim, which reduces the estimate 
to about £2,354.
Its important that I say these figures represent quotations rather than the actual amounts 
paid out by Miss A.
The situation is more complex because, from the information I have, I can see that shes 
moved home during the period in question, which has had a significant impact in reducing 
her premiums.
Ive also thought about the records of the incident on Avivas system and another external 
database.
I asked both Miss A and Aviva to provide evidence about the incident from the police. Aviva 
didnt have any, and Miss A provided some evidence shed had which mentioned an offence 
was being investigated, but from what I have, this isnt the same as what was alleged by the 
third party in their conversation with Aviva.
Having looked at this information, on balance I think its reasonable to say that an incident of 
some sort took place between Miss As car and the third-party vehicle in April 2021. Having 
established that, I cant fairly ask for Aviva to remove details of it from its system or the 
external database.
But by not investigating the claim, Aviva has put Miss A in a situation where her records 
show that a third-party claim was paid and Aviva couldnt recover its costs. This is commonly 
known as a fault claim.
Miss A has talked about the third-party claim being fraudulent and as such she wants it to be 
removed from the external database. This service doesnt have jurisdiction over the 
database so Im not able to consider this as part of my decision.
Keeping in mind that I think a record needs to be kept, I think its also fair that I ask Aviva to 
change the details on its system and the external database to show it was a notification 
only incident or similar.
I can see from Avivas evidence that its reinstated Miss As NCD, which I think is fair and 
reasonable.
Taking everything into account, I think its fair to ask Aviva to pay Miss A additional 
compensation for her distress and inconvenience, which I can see has been significant. Im 
not able to determine the impact on Miss As premiums caused by Avivas failure to 
investigate the claim properly, so instead I propose to increase its compensation payment to a total of £500.
Id invite both parties to consider this carefully. If further evidence can be provided about the 
actual amount paid out by Miss A directly caused by Avivas failure to investigate the claim, 
then Id be able to consider this in my final decision.
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss A accepted my provisional decision. 
Aviva responded and said it didnt agree with the level of compensation Id proposed to 
award. It pointed out that Miss A had other entries on the external database which 
reasonably would have affected the premium she was paying. It thought the appropriate 
level of compensation should stay at £200. 
It said the incident was recorded as non-fault, with bonus allowed, on the external database.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I asked Miss A to send evidence of her premium increase and Ive considered the 
information she sent me. Its been very difficult to establish the level of increase due solely to 
the actions that Aviva took in handling the third-party claim. 
But I am satisfied that Aviva made a substantial error in dealing with the claim in the way that 
it did, and I am satisfied that there has been a direct impact on the premium Miss A paid. 
This is in addition to the distress and inconvenience I can see shes been caused.
Taking everything into account, I think the fair and reasonable decision is to award her £500 
compensation in total. 
I have amended this final decision slightly from my provisional decision because Aviva has 
already changed the details on the database to reflect the nature of the incident.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part. I direct Aviva Insurance Limited to 
pay Miss A a total of £500 compensation for her distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman