DRN-2949679
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that UK Moneyman Limited (UML) advised them to make mortgage 
applications to lenders in error. The applications were declined because Mr and Mrs M did 
not fit the lenders criteria and this led to them losing money and the house they wanted to 
purchase.
What happened
In 2019 UML helped Mr and Mrs M apply for a mortgage which progressed to offer stage. 
However, the purchase didnt proceed to exchange due to the vendor. 
In July 2020, Mr and Mrs M asked UML to source another mortgage  for a greater amount 
than the last  as theyd reserved a new build property. At UMLs request, they sent up-to-
date copies of their credit file reports and they confirmed theyd asked for one entry on       
Mr Ms credit file to be corrected.
UML received a decision in principle from the first lender it tried on 30 July 2020. It updated 
its fact find before Mr and Mrs M made a full application on 11 August 2020. But on 14 
September 2020 the application was declined by that lender. 
On 15 September 2020, Mrs M emailed UML asking it to suggest alternative lenders. UML 
sent a mortgage illustration from a second lender to Mrs M on 16 September 2020. UML 
received a decision in principle from the second lender on 16 September 2020. Mr and Mrs 
M made a full application to the second lender on 17 September 2020 and it was declined by 
the lender on the same day.
Mr and Mrs M say UML initially made an error calculating the amount they could borrow. It 
then chose a lender whose criteria they didnt fit. They say UML failed to identify a notice of 
correction on their credit file. Mr and Mrs M say they also didnt fit the criteria of the second 
lender UML chose. They say the second lender has told them UML made numerous errors 
submitting the application resulting in three hard and two soft credit searches on the same 
day. And UMLs errors caused them to lose the house they reserved, solicitors fees and the 
time they spent obtaining a help to buy loan offer.
In its final response letter of 20 October 2020, UML said it was aware of past adverse credit 
history and the notice of correction, but Mr and Mrs M advised them the adverse credit 
history had been removed. It said the first lender explained the notice of correction didnt 
result in the application failing the decision in principle stage, but it needed to be assessed 
by an underwriter. It decided at underwriting stage that application did not meet its criteria 
and Mr and Mrs Ms credit score was low.
UMLs final response letter explained that the second application was initially declined and 
then a technical error message had to be resolved which triggered another credit search. 
UML made a further application to the second lender  reversing the applicants as the lender 
had told them that can sometimes result in success. That also triggered a credit search but 
resulted in another declined application. 
It reminded Mr and Mrs M that it had previously obtained a mortgage offer and, despite the 
vendor withdrawing from the sale after the mortgage offer, UML allowed Mr and Mrs M to 
carry their broker fee forward. Usually the broker fee is non-refundable after a mortgage offer 
is obtained. It offered to refund the broker fee and had arranged for the first lenders 
application fee to be refunded as well as requesting that the second lender remove the credit 
searches from Mr and Mrs Ms credit file.
Our investigator didnt think UML needed to take any further action to resolve Mr and Mrs 
Ms complaint. He found that, on 30 July 2020, Mr and Mrs M confirmed to UML that their 
credit files were now reflecting correctly  UML having previously identified some adverse 
data. He quoted the following from the first lender regarding its criteria around adverse credit 
history:  
One missed mortgage payment or two unsecured payments in the last 12 months 
can be considered provided the application still passes credit score and a satisfactory 
explanation is received by the underwriter. Any payment less than the contractual 
monthly amount will be classed as a missed payment. Mortgage payments made by 
housing benefits are not acceptable.
And the only adverse credit he identified from Mr and Mrs Ms credit file was one missed 
payment in December 2019 and one in January 2020  which theyd told UML was incorrect 
and had been corrected. So, he said he hadnt seen anything indicating that the first lender 
was unsuitable.
Our investigator reviewed the second lenders criteria and found nothing to suggest to UML 
that there was a specific level of missed or late payments it wouldnt accept. So, it wasnt 
unreasonable for UML to recommend that Mr and Mrs M apply with that lender, given that 
they had received a positive decision in principle. 
With regard to the credit searches, our investigator noted that Mr and Mrs M had already 
raised a complaint with the second lender and received its response.
In conclusion, our investigator said that hes not found that UML had done anything wrong. 
And, if it had, he would likely have concluded that the action it had already taken  the offer 
of the broker fee refund  was sufficient redress.
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree. They said the broker is paid a fee to correctly research the 
lenders criteria and to fully understand the case before proceeding with fees payable by the 
client. So, the complaint has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To decide Mr and Mrs Ms complaint Ive thought about whether UMLs actions in relation to 
the failed mortgage applications were reasonable in all the circumstances. In particular, Ive 
thought about whether UML should have recommended the lenders it did, given what it knew 
about Mr and Mrs Ms financial circumstances.
The lenders recommendedBefore UML made the recommendations in question it had reviewed Mr and Mrs M 
circumstances, seen up to date credit files and been assured that one entry was in error and 
was being corrected. It also knew that Mr and Mrs M had made a successful mortgage 
application  one where an offer was received from a lender  as recently as 2019. From the 
credit files, it could see that there was historic adverse credit but none in the last 12 months 
aside from the entry in the process of being corrected. 
I would expect a broker to have general knowledge about the requirements of the lenders 
available to it. However, I wouldnt expect a broker to be able to have direct contact with a 
lenders underwriter. Instead Id expect a broker to apply for a decision in principle from a 
lender before proceeding to a full application.
Our investigator explained what information UML would have had access to in relation to 
both lenders criteria. I would add to this that I would expect UML to have overlaid this 
information with their own experience of dealing with those lenders. So, where Mr and Mrs M 
say they think the broker is paid a fee to correctly research the lenders criteria and to fully 
understand the case, I agree. But I think the brokers knowledge will always be limited by the 
accuracy of the information provided by the prospective borrower and the knowledge made 
available by the lender about its criteria.
Ive seen that, for both lenders, UML obtained agreements in principle. It had received       
Mr and Mrs Ms reassurance that the credit file entry it may have had doubts about was 
being corrected. UML also knew that Mr and Mrs M had a mortgage application agreed 
within the last 12 months. And their circumstances were not outside of the known criteria of 
the lenders recommended. Ultimately, it is for the lenders underwriter to decide whether it 
should accept a mortgage application. And I wouldnt expect a broker to have the same level 
of knowledge of how the lender might chose to apply that criteria in individual circumstances. 
So, I think it was reasonable for UML to recommend   Mr and Mrs M make full applications to 
the lenders they did in 2020, given what it knew then.
The credit searches
UML has explained that it triggered an additional search when keying-in Mr and Mrs Ms 
application. Its difficult to know what actually happened in that regard. UML says it needed 
to correct a technical error message and the search was triggered as a result. 
Based on its knowledge of the second lender  that reversing the order of the borrowers may 
result in success  it caused a further search by doing so. I think it was reasonable to have 
keyed the application again in those circumstances and I think its likely Mr and Mrs M would 
have been pleased if it had been successful.
In any event, I think  in requesting that those credit searches were removed by the second 
lender  UML acted fairly. UML has provided emails showing that it made this request and 
had chased the second lender on that by the end of October 2020. I know the issue went on 
longer than that and, in error, the second lender triggered another credit search in May 2021. 
But Ive also seen that Mr and Mrs M made a complaint to the second lender which resulted 
in the second lender compensating them for their inconvenience and the cost of credit 
reference agency subscription over the corresponding period.
Overall, I dont think it was unreasonable for UML to make the recommendations it did, given 
what it could have known about all the relevant circumstances at the time. I havent seen 
that it acted without sufficient care with regard to the credit searches that were triggered as a 
result of its efforts to obtain a mortgage for Mr and Mrs M. It refunded its fee to                   
Mr and Mrs M despite previously obtaining a mortgage for them, meaning it received no 
renumeration for all the work it carried out on Mr and Mrs Ms behalf. And it made efforts to have the additional credit searches removed from Mr and Mrs Ms credit files. So, while I 
dont think it has acted unreasonably, I think it has made fair efforts to redress the errors    
Mr and Mrs M believe it made  
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint about UK Moneyman Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman