DRN-3157678
The complaint
Miss C and Mr M complain Somerset Bridge Insurance Service Limited, trading as 
Go Skippy, unfairly cancelled their motor insurance policy.
What happened
In May 2020, Miss C and Mr M bought a new car and insured it with Go Skippy on 
21 May 2020. The policy was financed through a company Ill call C. 
Go Skippy required a driving licence summary (DLS) from the Driver and Vehicle Licensing 
Agency (DVLA) for both Miss C and Mr M  and it told them this on 26 May 2020. Usually, 
Go Skippy would be able to check this with the driving licence number, which Miss C and Mr 
M did provide. Go Skippy then thought it may be due to a recent change of address that was 
causing this issue. So, Miss C and Mr M tried to get the DLS directly from the DVLA, but 
there were delays with them of several months, so they couldnt. Go Skippy said itd cancel 
their policy if the DLS wasnt provided, and Miss C and Mr M said it eventually did so. On 12 
August 2020, Mr M received his DLS, and contacted Go Skippy about this, but he says they 
didnt want to know  and the policy wasnt reinstated.
Miss C and Mr M said since all this had happened, theyd been contacted by debt collectors, 
and a default had been applied to Mr Ms credit file. In resolution, they wanted:
The default removed along with any trace of this unfairly cancelled insurance policy.
Refund the second premium unfairly taken of around £240.
Go Skippy refund the initial deposit as an apology / gesture for its actions
An apology letter, and for each week the policy was cancelled the months premium 
to be paid as payment for loss of earnings, damages
Go Skippy said itd explained further information might be needed when setting up the policy 
and written to Miss C and Mr M on 26 May 2020 asking for the DLS for both of them. As itd 
not heard back by 5 June 2020, it wrote to them again, saying cover continuing was 
dependent on the DLS being provided. It said it sent a text, and then called, speaking to 
Mr M. Go Skippy said Mr M told them he didnt have time to get it, and Go Skippy said it 
could get this information, if he consented to this  but it says he terminated the call. Go 
Skippy says it did get authority, and tried to get the details, but couldnt and it suggested 
Miss C and Mr M get in touch with the DVLA. During this time, Mr M and Go Skippy had a 
number of phone conversations to try and resolve matters  with Miss C and Mr M saying 
the policy had been mis-sold as theyd not been told about having to provide further 
documents when taking it out.
In summary, Go Skippy accepted itd caused some delays in registering Miss C and Mr Ms 
complaint due to a staff member leaving  which it said itd pay £15 for. But it didnt accept 
itd mis-sold the policy to them by asking for more information as it did tell Miss C and Mr M 
this was a possibility once the policy had been set up. In relation to the cancellation, Go 
Skippy said itd agreed a further extension for Miss C and Mr M to provide the DLS, but this 
deadline was 20 July 2020  and as the DLS hadnt been provided the policy had been 
cancelled.
Unhappy with this, Miss C and Mr M asked us to look into things. One of our Investigators 
did so and found Go Skippy hadnt acted fairly. He felt the reason for cancelling the policy 
was outside of Miss C and Mr Ms control, that theyd clearly told Go Skippy this, and it still 
went ahead and cancelled the policy. He recommended Go Skippy take a number of actions 
and pay £200 compensation.
Go Skippy provided a calculation to show how our Investigators recommendations worked 
out  meaning it needed to pay Miss C and Mr M £135.30 after charges had been applied. It 
also explained it couldnt do all of the actions listed. Our Investigator passed this information 
over to Miss C and Mr M, but they didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to 
decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Outcome of the complaint
I can see the documents Go Skippy provided to Miss C and Mr M allowed it to ask for the 
DLS. So, I dont think it did anything unreasonable in asking for this information initially.
But I do agree that Go Skippy shouldnt have cancelled the policy given the difficulties 
Miss C and Mr M had  as this was outside of their control and theyd clearly communicated 
that. So, as Go Skippy have now accepted that, Ive focused on the way to resolve this 
complaint.
Removal of any record of the cancellation
As Miss C and Mr Ms policy was unfairly cancelled, there shouldnt be any record of that on 
Go Skippys internal databases, nor should this be recorded externally.
This means that Miss C and Mr M dont need to declare theyve had an insurance policy 
cancelled in future. 
Go Skippy have said theyve arranged this since our Investigators outcome  so I wont 
comment on this further in this section.
Impact of the cancellation on another insurance policy
As a result of Go Skippy cancelling Miss C and Mr Ms policy, theyll have had to take out 
new policies if they wanted to continue using their car. In doing so, theyd have been 
required to declare theyd previously had a policy cancelled  and this can result in their new 
insurer charging higher premiums.
Often, insurers will amend their premiums when presented with evidence to show this. But, if 
they dont, then Miss C or Mr M can ask Go Skippy to refund the difference. If a further 
dispute arises out of this issue, itd be a new complaint.
Default on Miss C or Mr Ms credit file
As a consequence of the cancellation of the policy, and the dispute that arose because of 
that, Miss C and Mr M have said a default has been applied to Mr Ms credit file. When taking out this insurance, Miss C and Mr M financed the cost of their policy through a 
finance agreement with C. Go Skippy has said its not recorded any adverse information on 
their credit files  and generally thats as Id expect.
Mr M has said Go Skippy should sort this out because theyre linked companies. But, theyre 
not, they are separate companies. Its not unusual for separate companies to be involved in 
the same transaction for a customer  as has happened here. I cant require one company to 
direct another entirely separate company to take any action.
So, I find Go Skippy hasnt done anything wrong in saying this. But I note its said in 
response to our Investigators outcome its asked C to update Miss C and Mr Ms records. 
So, nothing further is required here. If Miss C and Mr M check their credit files, and this 
hasnt been updated, they should contact C directly to discuss it.
Further impact
Miss C and Mr M have also said:
£240 / £260 was taken that hasnt been returned
Mr M wasnt able to work so lost out because of this
I arranged to ask Miss C and Mr M about this  but they didnt reply by the deadline set. So, 
Ive based my thoughts on this on the information already provided to date by both parties.
Miss C and Mr M have said a payment of £240 / £260 was taken which wasnt included in 
the calculation. Looking at the calculation it shows a deposit of £259.95, and a direct debit 
payment of £240.96 were both factored in.
This calculation has been provided to Miss C and Mr M. Go Skippy has also been clear and 
consistent in saying only one direct debit payment was taken. Its provided evidence to show 
the second direct debit failed. So, on balance, I think the payments Miss C and Mr M are 
referring to were likely factored into the calculation. This means I dont require Go Skippy to 
do anything further here.
When Mr M first contacted us, he said he wasnt able to move employer because his current 
employer had taken unfair disciplinary action against him. Mr M had more recently said, he 
wasnt able to work because of this error. But, as he didnt reply to help me understand the 
full chain of events here, Ive no evidence in which to decide what may have happened.
Compensation  and Go Skippys calculation
Ive thought about the distress and inconvenience Miss C and Mr M were caused. Its clear 
that cancelling the policy really did have an impact on them so I think compensation is fair. 
Due to Go Skippys errors theyve had to get new insurance  which in itself is time 
consuming. And theyve been caused a number of other inconveniences as a result of this 
error. Taking everything into account, Im satisfied £200 is fair to reflect this.
Next though, I need to think about anything Miss C and Mr M legitimately owe Go Skippy for 
their time on cover. The calculation Go Skippy have provided says:
£371.51  charged by Miss C and Mr Ms insurer
£0  cancellation fee when its usually £75 (to be clear, Id not expect this to be 
charged in a scenario where Go Skippy have made an error)
£0  direct debit set up fee when its usually £50
£0  broker fee when it was £238.03£25  for personal accident cover
£6.42  for breakdown cover
£177.68  interest charged by C
-£15  compensation for the service
Meaning the total charged came to £565.61. The total payments were the £259.95 deposit, 
and first direct debit payment of £240.96 Ive mentioned above. Those payments come to 
£500.91, meaning £64.70 is still outstanding. I think the calculation is fair, as Go Skippy have 
removed the direct debit set up fee, and the broker fee along with the cancellation fee. So, I 
think Miss C and Mr M do legitimately owe £64.70.
Once you factor in the £200 compensation, it does mean £135.30 is whats due to Miss C 
and Mr M and that calculation includes the £15 gesture of goodwill Go Skippy said itd pay. 
Go Skippy told our Investigator itd already paid this money to Miss C and Mr M.
Putting things right
Although Go Skippy has said its carried out the actions below, Im still required to confirm it:
Updates all internal and external databases to show no cancellation took place.
Pays Miss C and Mr M £200 compensation total, which becomes £135.30 once the 
remaining charges are deducted.  
My final decision
It follows I uphold this complaint, and require Somerset Bridge Insurance Service Limited, 
trading as Go Skippy, to carry out the actions in the Putting things right section above (if it 
hasnt already).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman