DRN-2799348
The complaint
Mrs C complains that she should receive more compensation from Santander UK plc for the 
issues that shed had in relation to a replacement debit card.
What happened
Mrs C has a bank account with Santander. She contacted it in September 2020 to report her 
debit card as lost or stolen. It was noticed that her address was incorrect and that when 
shed contacted it previously her address had been incorrectly changed. Mrs C complained 
to Santander and it apologised for its mistake and credited £250 compensation to her 
account.
Mrs C then went to a branch with identification documents to change her address and to 
order a replacement debit card. But her address wasnt correctly changed and the 
replacement card was sent to the incorrect address. Mrs Cs address was then correctly 
updated, the debit card that had been sent to her was blocked and a new replacement debit 
card was sent to her using the correct address. Santander apologised for these mistakes 
and credited another £250 to her account.
Mrs C then complained to this service but our investigator didnt recommend that her 
complaint should be upheld. She said that Santander had updated Mrs Cs address 
correctly, issued a replacement debit card to her, apologised for its mistakes and had given 
her compensation totalling £500. She felt that the level of compensation awarded was fair 
and reasonable. 
Mrs C has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She says she 
doesnt feel that £500 is anywhere near enough compensation for the stress that she 
endured. She says that bank cards that should have come to her home address were 
dispatched elsewhere and she had a lot of money in her account and couldnt use online 
banking to check if it was still there. She says that each phone call she made to Santander 
was for a minimum of 45 minutes and Santander kept telling her that cards had been sent 
out when they hadnt been. She says that this was a huge breach of her security and a 
horrible experience but when she couldnt tell Santander what date any transactions went 
through her account she didnt clear security.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
its clear that Santander has made significant mistakes with changes to Mrs Cs 
address and that, as a result, her replacement debit card was sent to an incorrect 
address;
her address has now been correctly updated, the debit card that had been sent to her 
was blocked and a new replacement debit card was sent to her using the correct 
address  and Santander has apologised to Mrs C for its mistakes and has paid her 
a total of £500 compensation;
these issues have clearly caused distress and inconvenience for Mrs C and I 
sympathise with her for the difficulties that shes been caused and the experience 
that shes described;
I consider that the £500 that Santander has paid to Mrs C is fair and reasonable 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience that shes been caused; and
Im not persuaded that a higher award of compensation is justified in these 
circumstances and I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require 
Santander to pay Mrs C any more compensation or to take any other action in 
response to her complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman