DRN-4111195
The complaint
Mr L complains that Oplo PL Ltd lent him a loan he couldnt afford.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so I wont repeat them here.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint as he thought Oplo had done enough before 
lending. Mr L disagreed, he said he was a compulsive gambler and proper checks would 
have shown Oplo that, he also said his disposable income after repaying the loan was 
insufficient.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Oplo is aware of its duty to lend responsibly  by carrying out borrower-focused checks to 
ensure Mr L could repay the loan over the term.
Oplo has provided evidence to show it asked Mr L about his monthly income, living costs 
and credit commitments. To verify some of this information, Oplo requested Mr Ls bank 
statements and searched his credit file. The bank statements showed Mr L received a 
regular income, the lowest payment over the three months before the loan was around 
£1,636. The credit file showed Mr Ls credit commitments were broadly well managed and 
even though he was at the limit on one of his credit cards, his credit commitments were 
around £279 a month. Overall, the checks showed Mr L would have around £211 in 
disposable income after repaying the loan.
Looking at the circumstances around the loan and what Oplos checks revealed, I think the 
checks went far enough. I say this because, Oplo didnt just take what Mr L told it, it took 
steps to verify some of the information it was given. It requested Mr Ls bank statements 
which showed his income and some of his living expenses. Those bank statements didnt 
have anything concerning on them like gambling transactions. 
I havent seen anything from the information Oplo did see that should have prompted it to 
request more information. Mr L didnt tell Oplo he had a gambling problem, and this wasnt 
something Oplo discovered from what I consider to be proportionate checks in the 
circumstances.
Mr L has said the disposable income he was left with was insufficient. Mr L told Oplo the 
loan was for debt consolidation and although Oplo doesnt appear to have worked out what 
debts he was consolidating, it seems to have presumed the consolidation would have put Mr 
L in a better financial position overall. Even without working out what the debt consolidation 
meant for Mr Ls finances overall, he was left with over £200 in disposable income.
I know Mr L believes this amount is insufficient, but I think given the checks Oplo carried out, 
it wasnt unreasonable for it to think the disposable income was sufficient for any 
emergencies Mr L may have encountered during the term of the loan. Also, I note Mr L 
shared household bills with his partner who also had an income, I think that likely gave him 
more scope on his finances.
Oplos checks showed Mr L could reasonably afford to repay the loan over the term. I 
appreciate Mr L has now encountered difficulties repaying the loan as he struggled to keep 
up payments since the pandemic but in my view, this wasnt something that was due to 
Oplos lending when it shouldnt have.
I appreciate Mr L feels strongly about his complaint and will likely be disappointed but based 
on the information Ive seen, I dont think Oplo acted unfairly and I wont be asking it to write 
off the debt.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint or make any awards against Oplo 
PL Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman