DRN-4135514
The complaint
Mr M complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) gave a third-party (TP) information about his 
account without his authority.
What happened
Mr M held an account jointly with another party (JP) with TSB. The JP died on 1 March and 
Mr M informed TSB of the death and it removed the name from the account. The day after 
this on 15 March the JPs next of kin (TP) - who was the named informant on the JPs 
death certificate - requested statements for the account. TSB failed to notice that the 
account had been transferred into Mr Ms sole name and provided the statements including 
statements for the period after JPs death when the account had been transferred into Mr 
Ms sole name. 
Mr M complained to TSB about the release of this information. He says this has resulted in a 
family dispute with him receiving death threats and has damaged his reputation.
TSB say that as the account would have formed part of the estate of the JP the executor 
would have the right to view the statements up until the date of death anyway. But TSB 
accepted that it had made an error in disclosing details of the account to the TP which it 
shouldnt have - including transactions that occurred after the JPs death - and that it wasnt 
able to see that the correct forms had been completed for the registration of the JPs death. 
TSB apologised and offered compensation of £200 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
Mr M was dis-satisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service. TSB increased its 
offer of compensation to £500. Mr M still wasnt willing to accept this, he says as a result of 
TSBs disclosure he has received death threats from his family and his mental health has 
been affected and is looking for compensation of between £5,000 to £7,500.
One of our investigators looked into the Mr Ms concerns and reached the conclusion that its 
likely the TP wouldve had access to the information on the account in an Executor role but 
recognised that Mr M has suffered due to the disclosure and thought that TSB should 
increase its offer of compensation to £1,000.
Mr M believes the distress he has suffered warrants more compensation than this. TSB 
thought £1,000 was excessive but accepted this recommendation in order to resolve the 
matter. 
So the complaint was progressed for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I hope that the Mr M wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed the complaint in the 
way that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on 
what I consider to be the outstanding matters in their complaint. Our rules allow me to do 
that. And the crux of Mr Ms complaint is that TSB wrongly disclosed details of his account to 
TP which has negatively impacted his relationship with his family and his mental health.
It might help if I explain that my role is to look at the problems the Mr M has experienced and 
see if TSB has done anything wrong or made a mistake. If it has, I would seek  if possible - 
to put Mr M back in the position he wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I 
may award compensation that I think is fair and reasonable if I consider it warranted. My role 
isnt to punish or penalise businesses for its performance or behaviour  thats the role of the 
regulator, in this case the Financial Conduct Authority.
TSB accept that it made an error in providing the TP with information regarding the 
transactions post the JPs death. So all I need to consider here is whether the compensation 
of £1,000 offered is a fair way to settle Mr Ms complaint. And I think it is. Indeed, I think this 
is at the higher end of what I would consider a fair and reasonable offer as Im not 
persuaded the outcome wouldve been much different had TSB not disclosed the information 
it did. 
TSB have explained that some of the information disclosed  including account balances 
and transactions up to the date of the JPs death - the TP wouldve been entitled to anyway 
as they were the JPs next of kin, named on the death certificate and the executor. Mr M 
disputes that the TP was the executor, but even if they werent the executor, my 
understanding is they were part of a class of people (including Mr M) who wouldve been 
entitled to apply to administer the estate and therefore were entitled to this information. 
TSB have also shown us transactions from the account that Mr M had already removed most 
of the funds (around 80%) from the account the day before the JP the died and that this 
wouldve been seen on the statements - information which I believe the TP was likely entitled 
to. So regardless of TSBs error the TP wouldve still found out that the majority of account 
funds had been withdrawn from the account and the remaining transferred over to Mr M the 
surviving account holder  which I believe is the reason for the family dispute and for all the 
distress caused.
So while I agree that Mr M has been negatively impacted from the TP having access to this 
information  I think it is likely this wouldve been the result regardless of TSBs mistake.
So on this basis I think Mr M should accept the compensation of £1,000 already offered as I 
am not persuaded anymore compensation is warranted. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided that the compensation of £1,000 that TSB Bank 
plc has agreed to pay Mr M is fair way to settle the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman