DRN-3234684
The complaint
Mr W complains about delays and poor communication by Phoenix Life Limited when he 
needed information about linked endowment and life assurance products his mother had 
taken out. 
Mr W complains as the trustee holding the life assurance product, and as the executor of his 
mothers estate. 
What happened
In his role as executor of his mothers estate, Mr W wanted to know the value of the policy 
shed had with Phoenix Life. And then as trustee holding the life assurance, Mr W needed to 
claim the proceeds of the policy, and pass that to its beneficiaries. 
I can see Phoenix Life gave a figure for the policy value to Mr Ws financial adviser in a letter 
on 23 July 2020. And I can see a claim form for the life assurance proceeds was sent to 
Mr Ws financial adviser in October 2020. Mr W seems to have got a grant of probate in 
November 2020. And the life assurance funds look to have been sent to Mr W in February 
2021, shortly after he returned a completed claim form. 
Mr Ws complaint stems from mistakes made during that activity. Some of those mistakes 
have been accepted by Phoenix Life. They agree they didnt do enough to sort out a delay 
getting a death certificate to the right department. They also accepted that some of their 
communication had been confusing for Mr W. They particularly noted the impact on Mr W 
when theyd told him hed been sent some money, when in fact he hadnt. But on other 
points, Phoenix Life explained their position, and felt their service had been reasonable.
To put things right, Phoenix Life confirmed the value of the policy and what would be needed 
to claim the proceeds of the life assurance. They also sent Mr W cheques totalling £275 to 
compensate him for the upset and inconvenience caused. 
Mr W didnt feel this did enough to resolve his complaint, so he brought it to us. It also 
appears Mr Ws financial adviser brought the same complaint to us, on his behalf. We set up 
two investigations, both of which concluded that the steps taken by Phoenix Life did enough 
to put things right in this case. 
Mr W has disagreed with our investigators findings, so the complaint has come to me for a 
formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find Phoenix Life have done enough here to get things back on track 
where needed, and to compensate Mr W for the distress and inconvenience caused. Ill 
explain why.
I note that Mr W has questions and issues that he feels havent been answered by our 
investigation. But I dont intend to respond to those in specific detail. Thats because our 
service is an informal alternative way to resolve disputes. Were looking to reach a quick, 
effective solution to a problem, rather than completing a detailed audit of past events. 
So here  where Phoenix Life have accepted there were mistakes in the service they gave to 
Mr W  Im really looking to see what lasting impact thats had on Mr W, and whether 
anything still needs to be done to put that right. 
Ive thought about any lasting financial impact on either the estate or the trust that Mr W acts 
for. I cant see any evidence provided of such a loss. I appreciate the probate process may 
have been delayed a little, but I cant see thats added any costs for the estate. And while the 
trust was waiting for funds the money remained invested. So its not lost the opportunity to 
grow because of any delay. 
So I dont see that theres a financial loss here that needs to be put right. 
What remains is the non-financial impact on Mr W. I can see from his correspondence with 
Phoenix Life that he was very upset about the mistakes being made here. And although 
those do look to be corrected shortly after hes raised them, it didnt help that Phoenix Life 
then made further mistakes. 
I can also appreciate the context of the events. Mr Ws complaint reflects the frustration 
caused by Phoenix Life as he was trying to achieve his mothers intentions for these policies. 
To carry out the duties shed trusted him to carry out for her. And this wasnt a trivial amount 
of money. That all makes the impact of the mistakes here more significant. 
Compensation for that impact is the right outcome here. But picking a value is a matter of 
opinion. Ive factored in that the mistakes came up throughout the work. They were problems 
that could be fixed fairly quickly  with seemingly no lasting financial impact on either the 
estate or the trust  but that caused deep upset and frustration for Mr W. 
With those factors in mind, Ive considered the £275 of cheques that Phoenix Life sent to 
Mr W. In my opinion, that  together with the apologies and explanations about the problems 
 strikes the right balance for the factors above. So Im not going to direct any more 
compensation from Phoenix Life here.  
That means well record this complaint as not upheld. Thats not saying there werent 
mistakes by Phoenix Life. But it reflects that the actions theyd taken before the matter came 
to us were suitable to achieve a fair and reasonable outcome for Mr W. 
I appreciate from Mr Ws correspondence that hes still very unhappy with Phoenix Life. And 
I dont expect this remedy to change that. But  in these specific matters at least  its worth 
noting the work needed to administer these policies has ended. That looks to give Mr W a 
choice about how much he has to use and engage with Phoenix Lifes services in future.
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs 
W to accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 Paul Mellor
Ombudsman