DRN-2967023
The complaint
Mr S has complained about several issues relating to the administration of his SIPP (Self
Invested Personal Pension) by Curtis Banks Limited. In summary:
There had been long delays in merging four SIPPs leading to higher charges.
Some of the fees charged were excessive; including £240 per property for insuring 
the properties himself, and a £1,230 fee for the purchase of a commercial property.
Curtis Banks scheme fees appeared to have been overcharged by £4,080.
He was charged a fee of £500 for Curtis Banks receiving a form from him disclosing 
no conflict of interest in the purchase of 30,800 shares at a capital cost of £100,000. 
He thought this was excessive.
There had been various other administrative errors which Mr S listed. As a result he 
considered Curtis Banks should rebate some of its fees.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 12 April 2021. The background and 
circumstances to the complaint and the reasons why I was minded to uphold it in part were 
set out in that provisional decision. 
In summary:
Delays in merging the four SIPPs
I said my understanding was that Mr S had initially requested the merger of the four 
SIPPs in August 2018. A series of e-mails had been sent between Mr S and Curtis Banks 
discussing what was required and costs. These included, but were not limited to, the 
following:
Curtis Banks internal e-mail dated 26 September 2018 said, amongst other things:
The member wants to amalgamate all of the SIPPs into one SIPP for ease of 
administration going forward. .Ive spoken to [name of employee] in the Transfer in team 
and he confirms this should not be a problem.
Curtis Banks e-mailed Mr S on 15 October 2018 saying:
Just to confirm I have today clarified our instruction to [the solicitors] which hopefully you 
would have seen in an earlier email that you were copied into. With regards to VAT, my 
colleague, will be dealing and is aware of the amalgamation of your SIPPs. He will 
action accordingly.
With regards to your investment portfolios, I note that our investment team is already 
dealing with the transfer to [portfolio manager]. Our Transfer Team will deal with your 
request to transfer all of your investments to [SIPP number] as part of the transferring.
Curtis Banks e-mailed the solicitors on 7 February 2019 saying:
Still trying to piece together this one. I have found the attached which agrees to your fees. 
Obviously, please do advise if these have changed as I will need to re-seek authority. If the 
fees have not altered, are you okay to proceed or do you need anything further from me?
From the sounds of it, this is cosmetic works and has no bearing on our internal SIPP 
merger or VAT as the ultimate proprietor is remaining the same. I will advise the internal 
teams to start progressing with their tasks. Apologies you did not have instruction
prior to this as the internal teams have been waiting on the property work first... clearly 
miscommunication somewhere [internally] but hopefully we can progress forwards.
Mr S e-mailed Curtis Banks and the solicitors on 18 February 2019. He said he thought 
there was some confusion over the issue, went into some detail about how he saw the 
matter and then said The failure to comply with these instructions in a reasonable time 
frame has implications in terms of excessive fee levels being incurred.
I said there were a number of e-mails exchanged up until February 2019, but then very few 
after that date (copies that had been provided). A further e-mail from August 2019 showed 
that the merger still hadnt been completed.  Another e-mail dated September 2020 showed 
that the merger had been completed by that time.
In an e-mail to us dated 22 March 2019 Curtis Banks said:
There is an ongoing action to pool property investments in to one SIPP. There are multiple
plans and property investments involved and this requires the re-registration of the
properties to a single plan. This is essentially an internal transfer of multiple plans which will
ultimately reduce some charges incurred by [Mr S].
I understand [Mr S] made his initial request to pool in August 2018. This task is progressing
and I have been informed it should be completed by Tax Year end.
 However each property will still be subject to separate VAT requirements and will still
incur charges for being VAT elected, there will therefore be no change in the VAT fees
incurred. The pooling of the plans to allow a single VAT reference will not reduce the level of
work involved unless the properties are themselves being registered as one single property,
which I do not believe is the case. As detailed within the Schedule of fees, a VAT fee is
charged against each property. I attach a copy of the email I sent to you on 7 February 2019
providing details of the plans and a copy of the Schedule of Fees. You will note that VAT
elected properties, incur a VAT related fee for each property."
I said the merger process appeared to have had some third-party involvement, but my
understanding was that it was largely an internal process. I hadnt seen any persuasive
evidence that there were lengthy delays by third-parties that might have been outside the
control of Curtis Banks. And the e-mails suggested that there was some internal confusion 
about what was required to complete the merger.
I said I accepted the process may not have been straightforward given the multiple 
properties involved. However Curtis Banks was obliged to process the merger in a timely 
and efficient manner, which I wasnt satisfied it achieved. Id seen no reason why the 
mergers shouldnt have been completed by the start of the 2019/20 tax year, which allowed a six-month period. I said I therefore intended to award Mr S any cost savings associated 
with the merger being completed by that date.
Some of the fees charged were excessive
Curtis Banks had sent a letter to Mr S dated 27 September 2016. This letter explained that it 
was making changes to its property administration services and, in accordance with its 
terms and conditions it gave three-months notice of the changes which were to be 
introduced on 1 January 2017. The letter included a schedule of the new fees. It also said 
the changes involved adjustments to its charges and that, if Mr S didnt want to accept the 
changes, he could transfer to another pension product (before 1 January 2017) and it would 
waive its transfer out fee. It went on to outline some of the main changes and charges.
I said Curtis Banks was providing a product. To a large degree, it was able to set the 
prices it charged for the services that it offered that were related to that product. 
Customers could then choose whether that product was suitable for their requirements, 
including whether it was competitive on price. If not they could transfer to another provider 
without being charged the transfer out fee.
I said in terms of the £240 fees, they were provided for in the schedule and I was satisfied 
Curtis Banks was entitled to apply those charges. I understood Mr S comments about the 
amount of work required by Curtis Banks given his own involvement. However I thought it 
was a matter for Curtis Banks to decide whether it wanted to offer a bespoke arrangement 
with Mr S given his particular background and experience. Similarly, in general terms, I 
thought the £1,230 fee had been charged in accordance with the Fee Schedule.
Mr S had said he managed the property investments himself, dealing with rent demands,
insurance, rent reviews and lease renewals, instructing lawyers, and agents as was 
necessary. So I understood he may have considered the fees were high given the work 
required of Curtis Banks. However as Id said, I thought it was for Mr S to decide whether the 
SIPP was suitable for his own particular requirements (including pricing) following receipt of 
Curtis Banks 27 September 2016 letter.
Curtis Banks scheme fees appeared to have been over-charged by £4,080
Curtis Banks had provided invoices for SIPP 0176 and it seemed to me that the fees 
charged were in line with the SIPP schedule. The only figure I was unable to reconcile for 
this SIPP was the £150 (plus VAT). However I thought, as had been suggested by Mr S, this 
likely reflected the loan to the SIPP.
Curtis Banks hadnt provided copies of invoices for SIPPs 0263/0444/0445. However the
£642 charged on each was consistent with the Annual Administration fee. The £1,260 on 
0263 was consistent with the combination of fees associated with the Annual Property 
Admin fee. 
I hadnt been able to reconcile the £1,050 fees charged on SIPPs 0444 and 0445. However
each included a commercial property. So I thought it was likely they related to the Annual 
Property Admin fee (and associated fees for the Annual Non- block Insurance Fee and 
Quarterly VAT Return Fee). 
Fee of £500 for a minor administration task relating to the purchase of 30,800 shares
Mr S sent an e-mail about the purchase of the shares on 18 October 2018. It included:The purchase of the shares constitutes a non-standard investment and as such [an
employee] at Curtis Banks is required under SIPP regulations to carry out some basic
checks.
Could you e-mail to Technical Team the following:-
An outline of the companies investment/business plan
Management accounts
A financial forecast
Confirmation that the transfer of the shares has board approval for being held in a SIPP.
Once the information is received it may take up to four weeks for approval and to forward
£100,100.
The Curtis Banks charge for this review is £500 which I hereby approve.
I said it was largely for the firm to decide its pricing structure and there appeared to be work 
involved in any event. Mr S was clearly aware of the charge  albeit I couldnt reconcile the 
£500 with the Schedule of Fees which appeared to say the cost (for 2018) of a Non-standard 
investment transaction was £250 per transaction. I said I thought Curtis Banks was entitled 
to apply the charge  albeit in accordance with its Fees Schedule/Terms and
Conditions. Mr S didnt appear to have thought the charge was incorrect (rather than
excessive). I said Mr S and Curtis Banks could provide further evidence and arguments 
about this if the fee wasnt in line with the applicable Schedule/Terms.
Other administrative errors
Mr S had raised several other concerns about the poor administration of the SIPP(s). We
asked Curtis Banks for its comments on these issues. It provided copies of documentation
and some comments. I listed them as outlined in Mr S e-mail to us dated 21 July 2020,
along with Curtis Banks responses:
Mortgage interest to [Mortgage Provider 1] was paid for two months after the 
mortgage was redeemed.
The [Mortgage Provider 2] mortgage was allowed to go into arrears prompting a 
Default Notice and default fee.
Curtis Banks said:
With regards to any interest paid to a bank after the redemption, the bank should have
refunded any surplus paid to the SIPP. I cant actually see a record of a [Mortgage Provider
1] loan - there is a repaid [Mortgage Provider 2] loan and a current loan from the member a
connected lender. Well need further details on any payments he is referring to.
And
The [Mortgage Provider 2] loan was repaid on 13 January 2020 so Im not sure how we
could have defaulted on the 14 January.
I said Id seen a copy of a letter dated 9 January 2020 from Mortgage Provider 2 to the SIPP
Trustees which said that the loan had matured and was in default. It included a default
notice. It asked that the loan be repaid in full. And another letter dated 9 March 2020 from
the Trustees to Mortgage Provider 2 confirming that the loan had been repaid in full. And the
closing statement showed this was on 13 January 2020.It appeared that there was an administrative problem as Mr S had said. But I said it wasnt   
clear whether this was due to a failure by Curtis Banks or by the mortgage provider, as the 
evidence suggested the mortgage had been repaid on time. My understanding
was that it didnt result in any financial detriment to the SIPP (Mr S).
Insurance premiums paid by the tenants to Curtis Banks had been refunded back to 
the tenants.
Curtis Banks said:
For the insurance, can he be more specific on dates and which Tenants? I can only see one 
Tenant with any insurance rent outstanding and I cant see any payments out in respect of 
refunds.
I said my understanding was that some of the tenants in the commercial properties were 
paying their insurance premiums to Curtis Banks along with their rent. However Mr S had 
arranged insurance cover outside of Curtis Banks block policy, and so the insurance 
premiums needed to be paid direct to the insurance broker. Mr S had said that under the 
terms of the lease the tenant was required to pay the rent plus the insurance premium to the 
landlord. He also said that the tenants had ignored my instruction to pay the premiums 
direct to the broker. Curtis Banks Property Guide said that Curtis Banks was effectively 
responsible for the insurance. So I said I didnt think it was unreasonable for it to have 
forwarded the premiums to the broker rather than refunded them back to the tenants.
Rents on two properties were lost /returned to the tenant
Curtis Banks said:
If payments are made without relevant references attached it can be difficult to match funds
to the relevant SIPP and payments may be returned.
Once a tenant is in place the responsibility for paying rent in line with the terms of the
lease is theirs. They are provided with relevant banking details and requested to establish
regular bank transfer by either Direct Debit or Standing Order with particular references in
order that we can reconcile funds received with the appropriate SIPP. We cannot accept
liability if a tenant fails to comply, we will however enter debt recovery processes if debt
remains unpaid.
Mr S had provided copies of a series of e-mails from April/May 2019 relating to a missing
payment of £38,792. I understood it was paid by the tenant on 18 March 2019, received by
Curtis Banks on 20 March 2019, but not allocated to the SIPP as the payment didnt have
the correct reference. The funds were returned to the tenant on 4 April 2019, but the tenant
returned them on 15 April 2019. Mr S letter dated 27 May 2019 shows he was still chasing
the missing sum at that time. Further e-mails showed he was chasing another payment for 
the same property in June 2018, and also a payment missing for another property.
Mr S had said there was sufficient information sent with the payments to have enabled Curtis
Banks to have identified the intended account. I hadnt seen copies of the original
payments. However I thought the evidence showed payments were missing, and Curtis 
Banks was charging an annual property fee which, at least in part, was applied for the 
collection of rents. Yet it appeared it was Mr S who was investigating and chasing the 
matter. Rental receipts were credited as debits in the SIPP account reducing the balance
from £284,317 to £85,000. The correct balance should have shown £196,260.Mr S had said:
Rental receipts have been credited as debits reducing the balance by £100,000 .That
error has now been corrected.
Curtis Banks had said:
I cant confirm why rent would be showing as debits instead of credits as this is no longer
visible, however would assume if this had been the case it would have been flagged
immediately as an error on the account and rectified. If not then it could have been an error
on the portal which would not affect the account.
Submitting Form W-8BEN-E by Curtis Banks was ignored which meant the SIPP 
would have been unable to avoid USA withholding tax.
The documents provided showed that Mr S received an e-mail about the form in December
2019. And Curtis Banks sent the form on 21 February 2020. Again, it appeared that it was
Mr S who was having to chase the matter, albeit no damage was caused.
Curtis Banks failed to renew the LEI number which meant the SIPP would have been 
unable to buy or sell shares.
There were a series of e-mails exchanged between 23 January 2019 and 12 February 2019
chasing Curtis Banks to update the LEI number. Mr S then e-mailed our adjudicator on 13
February 2019 saying as a result of the delay in updating the number he was unable to trade
on his portfolio of over £4 million.
It appeared the matter wasnt initially dealt with in a timely manner and Mr S was
chasing it. But my understanding was that no losses resulted from the delay albeit, again, Mr 
S was having to spend time on it.
Mr S also sent us a letter dated 1 September 2020 saying he wanted to add another 
issue to his complaint. He said he had used his own solicitor to initially buy a property 
through his SIPP and then sell it. He didnt think Curtis Banks should be charging 
£240 both on purchase and sale. He said the previous SIPP administrator didnt 
apply such charges and to add another £480 to his claim.
I said Curtis Banks was obliged to apply charges in line with its Schedule of Fees, which I 
thought it had (subject to what Id said earlier). And it was largely a matter for Curtis Banks 
to set its pricing structure and for clients to decide whether its product is suitable for their 
needs.
I said however that I had thought about whether, given the number of administrative failures 
that Mr S had alleged, he should be able to transfer to another provider without incurring a 
charge.
I said on the evidence provided at that time, there did appear to have been a number of 
administrative failings. I said each might be considered relatively minor when considered in 
isolation.  I said I understood they didnt result in any financial detriment. However that when 
they were are all considered together and in the round, I thought they could reasonably lead 
to Mr S losing confidence in Curtis Banks ability to manage the SIPP in a timely and efficient 
manner.
I said my view at that time was that there had been a number of errors, but that the 
appropriate remedy was a refund of some of the charges as I went onto set out. My provisional; decision was therefore to uphold Mr S complaint in part. 
I said I intended to uphold the complaints about the delays in merging the SIPPs, and make 
an award for the other administrative issues.  
I said I didnt intend to uphold the complaints about the excessive fees; scheme fees being 
overcharged; or the £500 fee relating to the purchase of the 30,800 shares.
For the delays in the merging of the SIPPs, I said I intended that Curtis Banks Limited 
should calculate any additional fees that Mr S paid as a result of the delayed merger during 
the period from 6 April 2019 to the date the SIPPS were merged. I asked that both parties 
should provide a breakdown of the costs they considered would have been saved over that 
period.
For the other administrative issues I said I hadnt been able to make a finding on all the 
issues that Mr S had raised. I said on the one hand the evidence suggested that there were 
a number of administrative failures over a period of time. However on the other, that it 
appeared they were all eventually resolved with no financial loss to Mr S. I said it was clear 
that Mr S had spent a lot of time and effort monitoring the administration of the SIPP, and 
he had active involvement in the management of the commercial properties.
I said taking everything into account, I intended to award £500 back to Mr S for the 
administrative failings.
I said Curtis Banks Limited should pay the compensation into Mr S pension plan to increase 
its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. However that Curtis Banks 
Limited shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. And that If this was the case, for example if Mr S has any 
protections, he should let us know.
I said if Curtis Banks Limited wasnt able to pay the compensation into Mr S pension plan it
should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would
have provided a taxable income. Therefore I said the compensation should be reduced to
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
I said Curtis Banks should also pay Mr S £300 for the distress and inconvenience I was 
satisfied the matter had caused him.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or arguments that they wanted me to 
consider before I made my final decision.
Curtis Banks said it agreed some of the annual fees for the SIPP should be refunded due to 
the delay in merging. In total this was £2,016. It also agreed to pay Mr S the £500 refund for 
the administrative failures listed, and the £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused to 
Mr S. In total this was £2,816.
Mr S said he accepted the £2,816 which he understood to be in relation to poor 
administration. However he said there remained the outstanding fee of £240 per property 
because he arranged insurance through his own broker rather than through Curtis Banks. 
Mr S also said the firms offer didnt compensate him for another issue he had raised 
following my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive seen no reason to depart from the finding in my provisional decision to 
uphold Mr S complaint in part.
Mr S has referred to the additional £240 per property he had to pay as a result of not 
arranging the properties insurance on Curtis Banks block policy. However, for the reasons I 
explained in my provisional decision, I dont think that part of his complaint should be upheld. 
Mr S has also raised additional issues with the administration of the SIPP since I sent my 
provisional decision. However, as I explained in that decision, Mr S had already raised 
issues through the lifetime of the original complaint, and I said I thought it was appropriate to 
draw a line under those issues and provide my provisional view on them at that point. Mr S 
complaint has been under consideration for some time, and I dont think its appropriate or 
practical to keep adding issue to those already under consideration as part of this complaint  
- as I said, the current complaints could otherwise go on indefinitely.
Mr S can raise any issues that werent considered as part of this complaint separately with 
us if he cannot resolve them with the firm.
Putting things right
For the reasons I set out above in my provisional decision, I think fair compensation is for  
Curtis Banks Limited to pay Mr S £2,516. And £300 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr S through the time and effort he has had to spend to rectify matters.
The £2,516 (and £300) shouldnt be paid into the SIPP, as Mr S has confirmed that he has 
Enhanced Protection on his pension. It should therefore be paid to him directly.
Mr S has provided evidence to show that, with reliefs claimed, his income wasnt liable to 
basic rate tax for 2019/20. He says the position will be similar for 2020/21 and 2021/22. 
Curtis Banks should therefore pay the compensation to Mr S directly, and without a 
deduction for income tax.
Interest at the rate of 8% per year simple should be added to the compensation from the 
date of this decision to date of payment if settlement isnt made within 28 days of us notifying 
Curtis Banks that Mr S has accepted this final decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr S complaint in part as I set out above and in my 
provisional decision. I order Curtis Banks Limited to pay compensation to Mr S as I have 
outlined in Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman