DRN-2376337
The complaint
Mr W complains about Temple Finance Limited trading as Perfecthome (PH) and their 
decision to decline the claim he made on his Theft and Accidental Damage (TAD) 
insurance policy after his TV was stolen.
What happened
In early February 2020, Mr W purchased a TV on a hire purchase agreement. As part of this 
agreement, Mr W also agreed to take out a TAD insurance policy to cover that TV.
Later that month, Mr Ws was accidentally damaged, and the screen was smashed. So, Mr 
W contacted PH to claim on his TAD policy. But two days later, Mr W contacted PH again, 
explaining the TV had been stolen from the porch of his property. So, the claim was altered 
to a theft claim, rather than a claim for accidental damage.
PH assessed the claim against Mr Ws policy and declined it. They didnt dispute the TV had 
been stolen as Mr W provided a crime reference number. But they thought Mr W had failed 
to take reasonable care of the TV by leaving it in his porch with the door open, meaning it 
wasnt stored securely. So, they didnt provide Mr W with a replacement.
Mr W wasnt happy with this, so he raised a complaint. He explained he was having works 
completed to his property at the time, meaning he had limited space to store the TV. And he 
needed to store the TV away from the main part of his property as it was damaged with 
glass showing which wouldve been a danger to his son. So, he thought hed stored it as 
securely as he couldve done. So, he didnt think it was fair for PH to decline the claim.
PH didnt agree. They thought theyd assessed the claim fairly and referred to section 3 and 
4 of Mr Ws policy to support this. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. 
They also made Mr W aware he still had a responsibility to maintain the payments agreed in 
his hire purchase agreement. Mr W remained unhappy, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She recognised the difficulty 
Mr W faced storing the TV due to its damage and his limited storage space available. But 
she didnt think storing the TV in an open porch in sight of the front of his property took 
reasonable steps to protect it. So, she didnt think PH had done anything wrong when 
declining the claim for this reason. 
Mr W didnt agree and maintained hed stored the TV as securely as he could at the time. He 
explained hed been keeping an eye on the TV and it was unfair to hold his responsible as a 
crime had been committed. As Mr W didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this situation has had on Mr W. Ive no doubt it wouldve 
inconvenient when his newly purchased TV was damaged. And I can appreciate he agreed 
to the TAD insurance policy to cover the financial burden of situations such as this. And I 
understand this wouldve been made worse when he discovered the TV had then been 
stolen. 
Its not in dispute that the TV was stolen, and Ive seen Mr W reported this to the police and 
received a crime reference number. And Ive considered Mr Ws testimony about similar 
crimes being committed in his area at the time. But the TV being stolen doesnt mean the 
claim Mr W made should automatically be accepted. Any claim Mr W made needed to be 
assessed against the policy Mr W held. And its my role to decide whether PH did this fairly. 
And then, whether their decision to decline the claim was reasonable. And in this situation, I 
think it was.
Mr W has confirmed the TV was stored in his porch. And he confirmed due to the size of the 
TV, the door of this porch needed to be opened in order for it to fit in the space available. 
And Mr W has confirmed his neighbour had left an appliance outside to be scrapped and 
that it was those who collected this appliance that took the TV. So, based on this account, I 
think its reasonable to assume the TV was in sight of the front of his property. PH have 
explained this shows Mr W failing to take reasonable steps to protect the TV. So, Ive 
thought about whether I agree.
Ive considered Mr Ws reasoning for storing the TV in the porch. Mr W has explained his 
property was undergoing maintenance work, meaning there wasnt much space available. 
And due to the damage on the TV screen, he felt it was unsafe to keep the TV somewhere in 
his property where his son may come into contact with it. And I think both reasons are fair. 
But I dont think these reasons are enough to say Mr W took reasonable steps to secure the 
TV. 
Although Im aware Mr W was keeping an eye on the TV, there was still time for the TV to be 
stolen. And when the TV was stolen, this was managed without there needed to be any 
forced entry to Mr Ws property. Although I appreciate his fence was damaged, this was 
protection to the boundary of his property and his front garden. Not the property itself. As Mr 
W left the door open, and the TV in sight of the public, I think this increased the chances of 
the situation that did eventually occur from happening. And because of this, I dont think Mr 
W took what I would deem to be reasonable steps to secure the TV.
The policy Mr W held explains that a policyholder must take reasonable steps to protect the 
goods and prevent any theft as well as saying the policy does not provide cover for theft of 
the goods from the premises where no forcible or violent entry to or exit from the premises is 
evident.
And as Ive explained, I dont think Mr W took reasonable steps to protect the TV by storing it 
in the porch with an open door, in sight of the front of his property. So, I cant say that PH 
acted unfairly when assessing the claim based on the information Mr W provided. And I think 
their decision to decline the claim was reasonable, and in line with the terms of the policy. 
Because of this, I cant ask them to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr W was hoping for. And I appreciate there are disputes 
surrounding the outstanding payments that were due under the hire purchase agreement he entered into. But these remain separate to the decline of his insurance claim. And as Ive 
explained, I cant say PH did anything wrong in relation to that.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint about Temple Finance 
Limited trading as Perfecthome.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman