DRN-4457415
The complaint
Mrs M complains about ineffective repairs and delays in Tesco Underwriting Limiteds
(Tesco) handling of her claim for storm damage to her roof, under her home buildings
insurance policy.
Mrs M is represented by her son in law, Mr A. But Ill refer to Mrs M in my provisional
decision for ease.
What happened
In September 2022 part of Mrs Ms roof was damaged during a storm. This allowed
rainwater to cause further damage internally.
Mrs M contacted Tesco to make a claim. It sent a surveyor who agreed the claim was due to
storm damage. Around eight days later, a contractor visited to assess the repairs. Mrs M
was then told there were no storm conditions at the time of the loss. This meant her claim
wasnt covered. Mrs M complained to Tesco. A further inspection was arranged at the end of
October 2022. The claim was accepted following this inspection.
Mrs M says Tescos initial make safe repairs to the roof were inadequate and only lasted
two weeks. She says the leaking roof wasnt repaired until April 2023. The delay resulted in
dampness and fungus. Mrs M says a further repair was needed to repair some roof tiles in
May. This didnt work and rainwater continued to enter her home. Tesco told her this would
need a second claim. It later changed its mind and included this in the original claim.
Mrs M says Tesco told her a gas test was needed to identify where the leak had originated
from. She complained about the time taken to effect the repairs. As well as the impact this
had on her mental and physical health.
In its final complaint response dated 4 May 2023 Tesco says Mrs M contacted it in March to
say water was still entering her property. It discussed Mrs M using her own builder, to allow
for a quicker make safe fix. It says following its surveyors visit in March it concluded a
second claim wasnt warranted. Tesco says it then forwarded its schedule of works to its
appointed repairer.
Tesco apologised for delays in its repairer arranging for the work to be done. It says the work
was expected to begin on the same day it sent its complaint response. For the delays in
dealing with the roof repairs Tesco offered Mrs M £300 compensation.
Mrs M didnt think Tesco had treated her fairly and referred the matter to our service. Our
investigator didnt uphold her complaint. He says Mrs M was inconvenienced by the delay in
Tesco repairing the damage to her home. But he thought the £300 compensation it offered
was fair. He says Mrs Ms home was still habitable and he could see that Tesco had made
reasonable efforts to progress the claim.
Mrs M didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in October 2023 explaining that I was intending to Mrs Ms 
complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so my intention is to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Let me explain.
Mrs M made a storm damage claim toward the end of September 2022. Her claim was
initially accepted, following an inspection. It was then rejected eight days later. Mrs M
disputed this. A further inspection took place at the end of October. Following this the claim
was accepted and a scope of work was produced.
Ive read both inspection reports. The first refers to damage caused by an on-off storm
cause. The second report doesnt explain why the claim was now being accepted.
Arrangements were then made for a contractor to carryout repairs.
Its for the insured to show that they have suffered a loss resulting from one of the causes
covered by their policy. Mrs M told Tesco that high winds had damaged her roof. I can see
that her policy provides cover for storm damage. Tesco accepted this.
Tesco doesnt explain why it changed its decision from rejecting to then accepting Mrs Ms
claim. But it has accepted it. So, I neednt consider whether storm conditions caused the
damage, only how Tesco handled the claim.
Its not been clearly explained why the claim was accepted, declined, and then accepted
again. However, the original survey was completed around 5 October 2022. The second
report reaffirming the claim was sent to Tesco mid-November. From what Ive seen this
delayed appointment of a contractor by around six weeks.
A temporary repair was put in place to stop rainwater entering Mrs Ms home. She says this
failed after two weeks. I can see from Tescos claim records that an urgent request was
made on 11 January 2023. This says the make safe had failed and an urgent resolution is
required. The record refers to a ceiling having partially collapsed in Mrs Ms bedroom due to
ongoing rainwater ingress. The record says, currently there would be no use in doing
another temp repair, for this to fail.
I asked Tesco to confirm when the temporary repair was completed. It responded to say this
was on 14 October 2022.
Tescos claim records say the substantive repairs to the roof were planned to start on 13
February 2023. I asked Tesco to clarify if this is when the work actually started. It responded
to confirm this was correct.
Mrs Ms son-in-law emailed Tesco on 13 March 2023 to advise water was still entering both
the sitting and dining rooms. The claim records show a surveyor attended on 20 March. The
note says, Damage Description There are broken tiles to the left-hand side of the dormer,
we believe this has been caused by persons being on the roof and accidentally breaking
themwe feel this damage should be covered under [sic] original claim. In its final
complaint response, Tesco says the repairs for this issue were due to commence on 4 May.The rules by which our service operates are set by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
These are called the dispute resolution or DISP rules. The rules say that we can only
consider a complaint that has first been raised with the regulated business. This means that I
can only consider the complaint up to the date of Tescos final complaint response. This was
dated 4 May 2023. If Mrs M remains unhappy with the handling of her claim beyond this
date, she can of course complain to Tesco about this. If shes not satisfied with its response
she can then ask our service to consider the matter.
Claims of this nature will invariably result in some level of inconvenience and disruption. But
we expect Tesco to handle claims effectively. This means it should avoid causing
unnecessary delays and carry out repairs that are effective and long lasting. I dont think
Tesco handled Mrs Ms claim effectively. This has caused her inconvenience, but also
significant distress over a prolonged period.
I say this because from the start there were delays due to Tesco changing its mind as to
whether the claim should be accepted. It decided it was. But I havent seen a clear
explanation for the change in its decision. This caused over a months delay in progressing
the claim. A make safe repair isnt intended to be a permanent fix. But I think its reasonable
to expect this to last longer than two weeks. Because it didnt it meant Mrs M had to have
buckets in place to try and mitigate the ongoing rainwater damage.
Tesco says the temporary repair was completed on 14 October 2022. I think this shouldve
happened sooner. Similarly, the roof wasnt repaired until April 2023. But due to damage
caused by the roofers this meant water ingress continued beyond 4 May 2023. This is
around eight months after Mrs M reported her claim. During this time several rooms in her
house were unusable. She had to regularly empty buckets of water to prevent further
damage. Its also clear that Mrs M is elderly and not in good health, which made this
situation more difficult for her.
Mrs M describes how the rooms in her home were affected by fungus due to the ongoing
rainwater ingress and general dampness. There was a strong smell of damp for the full
period the repairs were ongoing. I acknowledge her comments that the ongoing damp and
delays in Tescos handling of her claim also caused her anxiety.
Having carefully considered the evidence and all the circumstances of this complaint, I dont
think Tesco handled Mrs Ms claim fairly. This caused disruption, distress, and
inconvenience over a prolonged period. Because of this I think Tesco should pay Mrs M a
higher level of compensation. A total payment of £750 is fair here.
I said I was intending to uphold this complaint and Tesco should pay Mrs M £750 
compensation.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Mrs M responded to say she accepted my provisional decision. 
Tesco responded to say it had no further comments or information to provide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As neither party has made any further submissions or provided further evidence for me to 
consider, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Tesco Underwriting Limited should:
pay Mrs M £750 compensation, in total, for the distress and inconvenience it caused 
her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman