DRN-3381041
The complaint
Mrs W complains MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo) supplied her with a car that she 
doesnt believe was of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In March 2020, Mrs W entered into 48 month hire purchase agreement for a used car at a 
cash price of £5,690. It had travelled over 80,300 miles and it was first registered in March 
2010. She paid a deposit of £1,000. Mrs W had an existing car finance agreement with a 
balance of £6,024 and she part exchanged her previous car at £3,377 meaning there was 
negative equity. As part of this agreement, she took out a loan for £1,223 to cover the 
negative equity. Based on the total amount payable, she was required to pay £200 per 
month with a final payment of £359.
Mrs W said within a few days, she experienced issues with it. She said it was shuddering 
and jerking when driving. She said she phoned the dealership about it but due to the Covid-
19 pandemic, she was unable to take the car to them because they were temporarily closed.  
She eventually returned the car to the dealership in June 2020 when they re-opened. In 
total, it was returned on three occasions:
- 18 June 2020  order placed for an injector;
- 22 June 2020  injector 3 replaced;
- 30 June 2020  EGR valve repaired.
Despite these repairs, Mrs W reported issues with the car remained. She complained to 
MotoNovo and requested to reject it in June 2020. 
On 30 July 2020, an independent inspection of the car was carried out, the car had travelled 
around 83,164 miles at that point. It concluded given the time and mileage since the car was 
supplied, the fault with the injector wouldnt have been present at supply. It said the previous 
repairs to the injector had failed and should be returned to the repair garage to fix. 
On this basis, MotoNovo said they wouldnt allow the car to be rejected. But they confirmed 
the dealership would carry out a further repair to rectify the issue. Mrs W was unhappy with 
this given what had happened so far. 
Despite the conclusion of MotoNovos investigation of the complaint, the dealership later 
refused to carry out the further repair. As a result, MotoNovo agreed they would cover the 
cost of it subject to Mrs W providing two quotes from different garages. Mrs W said there 
was no assurance a further repair will fix the fault. 
Mrs W said the car was returned to her in July 2020 and it has since been declared SORN 
but she continues to pay the monthly instalments. She also said as this car wasnt working 
she had to buy another one and maintaining both of them was causing her financial 
hardship. 
Mrs W referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator recommended the case wasnt 
upheld. They said given the conclusions of the inspection, they cant say the fault wouldve 
been present at supply therefore the car was of satisfactory quality when Mrs W acquired it. 
They believed MotoNovos decision not to allow a rejection was reasonable and their 
proposed resolution of covering the cost of the repair to be a fair remedy. 
Mrs W disagreed. In summary she said the dealership had the car for a long time and they 
covered lots of miles when they were trying to fix it and they also told her to take it on long 
drives to see if it would resolve the fault. She maintained she first reported the fault shortly 
after acquiring the car and based on the law they only had one chance to fix it and they had 
done so on more than one occasion.
In February 2022, I issued my provisional decision upholding the complaint. I said:
I must determine whether the car provided to Mrs W was of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied in March 2020. In this case, the car was 10 years old and had travelled over 80,300 
miles. So I believe its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect that parts of the car 
were likely to have already suffered significant wear and tear meaning it might need repairs 
and/or maintenance sooner than a brand-new car or one that was less travelled. 
Ive reviewed the submissions provided by both parties including job cards, Mrs Ws 
testimony and the inspection report and its clear there is a fault with the injector. Although I 
find this to be the case, I must consider whether this fault was present when the car was 
supplied and Ive already set out the reasonable expectations above.
 
Mrs W said she reported the fault within days of acquiring the car but she wasnt able to 
return it to the dealership due to the nationwide lockdown. Neither Mrs W nor the dealership 
has provided documentary evidence of when the fault was reported. However what I do 
know is by the time the car was looked at on 18 June 2020 a fault was found with the injector 
and it was replaced on 22 June 2020. The car had travelled around 2,700 miles since supply 
at that point. 
Overall, Im persuaded by Mrs Ws testimony. From the outset, she has consistently said she 
noticed the fault within days of acquiring the car. She said it was shuddering when driving 
which is often a sign that this is an issue with the injector. From my understanding, it would 
be possible to drive the car with such a fault but it wouldnt be a smooth ride as one would 
expect. Equally I find the timeline of events as to when the car was supplied, the nationwide 
lockdown and when restrictions started to ease in June 2020 match to what Mrs W has said 
throughout. What she has said is plausible. It appears as soon as restrictions started to 
ease, she returned to the dealership so the car could be looked at. She has also explained 
the dealership advised her to take the car on long drives to see if that resolved the issue. Its 
unclear whether she simply took it out for a simple 20 minute drive or for an hours drive 
along a motorway. Either way, Mrs W said this didnt help and it added to the cars overall 
mileage. Given her consistent and credible testimony throughout, I find its likely she was 
told this by the dealership and it wouldve contributed to the mileage overall. 
On balance, I believe Mrs W noticed the fault and reported it to the dealership within a 
matter of days of acquiring the car. I dont believe a reasonable person would expect a car at 
a cost of over £5,600 to experience such an issue at the point of supply or imminently 
afterwards, even if its a used car. Im satisfied the fault with the injector was most likely 
present and or developing at the point of supply meaning the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality therefore there was a breach of contract.
At this point, its worth pointing out that the CRA says consumers have 30 days to reject a 
car thats of unsatisfactory quality. Its unclear when exactly Mrs W told the dealership she 
wanted to reject the car. However for reasons outside of her control due to the lockdown, the car wasnt able to be looked at because the dealership was temporarily closed. I can also 
understand she may not have realised she could have reported the fault to MotoNovo 
directly.  The CRA outlines the short term right to reject and waiting periods, stating the 30 
day clock stops if the consumer requests a repair or replacement of goods. Equally the CRA 
says where a car is found not to be of satisfactory quality and its beyond the 30 days of 
supply, the business is allowed one opportunity to repair. If this fails, rejection is possible. 
Im aware that MotoNovo may say that they were unaware of the faults so they didnt have 
the right to repair because Mrs W didnt let them know until June 2020. However I believe 
even if she had, its likely they wouldve advised her to contact the dealership anyway 
meaning she wouldve been in the same position had she contacted them sooner. Whether 
the short term right to reject or the business final right to repair, I believe Mrs W validly 
exercised her right to reject the goods.
In this case, the car was returned for repair on 22 June 2020 where the injector was 
replaced. Thereafter on 30 June 2020, a valve was also replaced. Additionally, the 
independent inspection concluded the repair to the injector failed so I think its fair to say the 
repair failed. As this is the case, I believe Mrs W should be allowed to reject the car. 
I anticipate MotoNovo will raise the fact that the independent inspection report concluded the 
fault wasnt present at supply and the inspectors further comments said We do not believe 
the faults would have been present at the point of sale due to the time and mileage, the 
customer would have known about this issue sooner had it been present. However for the 
reasons Ive explained above, Im persuaded Mrs W did notice and report the fault to the 
dealership at supply or imminently after acquiring the car. 
To put things right, Im proposing MotoNovo should end the agreement and collect the car at 
no cost to Mrs W. While I appreciate there was an injector fault and the car didnt perform as 
expected, she was still able to drive it up until June 2020 and cover over 2,700 miles so its 
fair Mrs W pays to reflect that use. However I believe its reasonable for MotoNovo to refund 
the monthly payments from July 2020 onwards as this is when the inspection confirmed the 
injector repair had failed. 
MotoNovo should also refund the cash deposit of £1,000 and the part exchange value of 
£3,377. However I must bear in mind that when entering into the agreement, Mrs W settled a 
previous car finance agreement with a balance of £6,024. She part exchanged at £3,377, 
paid a cash deposit of £1,000 and took out a loan for £1,223 to cover the negative equity, 
this left an overall negative equity of £423. I believe its fair for PSA to offset the above 
refunds against the negative equity. If upon calculating the above this leaves a balance due 
from Mrs W then I believe its fair she pays this to PSA. In the event Mrs W is experiencing 
financial difficulty, I wish to remind PSA of the expectation she is treated with due 
consideration and forbearance.   
Given the impact the situation has had on Mrs W including the multiple trips to the dealership 
and having to find alternative means of transport, I believe MotoNovo should also pay £200 
compensation. 
Response to the provisional decision 
Both parties were invited to respond. MotoNovo hasnt provided any comments. Mrs W 
accepted the findings. She also said since the car was returned to her and it hasnt been 
workign, shes continued to insure the car at a cost of £87 a month. She has provided 
evidence of the same and she wants MotoNovo to reimburse her for this. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mrs W for her further comments and evidence. As per the terms of the agreement, 
she continued to pay the insurance even though the car wasnt drivable due to the above 
faults as detailed. For this reason, I believe its fair for MotoNovo to also reimburse her for 
the cost of insurance from July 2020 onwards. Our service will arrange for this evidence of 
the payment of the insurance to be sent to MotoNovo.
Overall, with the addition of MotoNovo reimbursing Mrs W for the cost of the insurance from 
July 2020 onwards, I still consider my findings of my provisional decision to be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
To put things right, MotoNovo Finance Limited must:
- End the agreement with nothing further for Mrs W to pay;
- Collect the car at no cost to her;
- Refund the £1,000 cash deposit amount plus pay 8% simple interest per year from 
the date it was paid up to the date of settlement;
- Refund the part exchange value of £3,377 plus pay 8% simple interest per year from 
the date it was paid up to the date of settlement;
- Refund the monthly instalments from July 2020 onwards plus pay 8% simple interest 
from the date of payment up to the date of settlement;
- Refund the cost of the car insurance from July 2020 onwards plus pay 8% simple 
interest from the date of payment up to the date of settlement;
- The above refunds should be offset against the negative equity; 
- Remove any adverse information relating to this agreement from Mrs Ws credit file;
- Pay £200 compensation to Mrs W for the trouble and upset caused.
If MotoNovo Finance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs W how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mrs W a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman