DRN-2311777
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) have reported several missed 
loan payments on his credit file.
What happened
Mr S has a personal loan with RBS. In September 2019, Mr S contacted RBS in response to 
a letter advising him that he had insuffiicient funds in his current account to cover the 
monthly loan repayment. Mr Ss financial situation at that time was such that RBS suggested 
that Mr S might be able to restructure the loan agreement to pay a lower monthly amount 
over a longer term. However, the RBS agent that Mr S spoke to at that time was unbale to 
help Mr S with this.
Mr S contacted several other RBS departments to try and learn more about the possibility of 
restructuring his loan, but without success. In November 2019, Mr S was able to speak with 
the correct department of RBS, and after submitting income and expenditure details and 
other information a new loan repayment structure was agreed in January 2020.
However, later that month, Mr S discovered that RBS had reported missed payments on his 
credit file corresponding to July, August, September, November, and December 2019, and 
January 2020. Mr S wasnt happy about this, so he made a complaint.
RBS looked at Mr Ss complaint, but they noted that they had a responsibility to make 
accurate reports to the credit reference agencies, and that Mr S hadnt made those 
payments toward the loan. So, they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr S remained dissatisfied, especially given that RBS hadnt explained to him that he 
needed to continue making loan repayments whilst he was negotiating the restructuring of 
the loan with them. So, he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they noted that Mr S hadnt been told 
by RBS that he didnt need to make the contractual repayments, so they didnt uphold the 
complaint either.
Mr S remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr S feels strongly about this complaint, and Id like to thank him for the 
detailed submissions that he has made to this service confirming the reasons for his dispute. 
I hope the fact that I dont respond in similar detail here will not be taken as a discourtesy. As 
an informal dispute resolution service, we are tasked with reaching a fair and reasonable 
conclusion with the minimum of formality. In doing so, it isnt necessary for me to respond to 
every point made, but to concentrate on the crux of the issue. 
Id like to assure Mr S that any specific points he has raised which I havent responded to 
here shouldnt be taken an indication that I havent read and considered these points. 
Rather, whilst I have considered those points, they havent had any significant impact on the 
decision that Ive reached here, and so I havent felt it necessary to address them in this 
letter.
Mr S has confirmed that he contacted RBS in September 2019. However, it must be noted 
that loan repayments were first missed in July 2019. Indeed, at the time that Mr S contacted 
RBS in September 2019, three loan repayments had already gone unpaid at that time - July, 
August, and September 2019.
Ive listened to a telephone conversation between Mr S and RBS where the reasons why the 
loan repayments were initially missed was discussed. On this call, Mr S confirms that the 
first missed payment was because there werent sufficient funds in his current account to 
meet the repayment, and he also mentions cash flow problems in relation to him trying to get 
his new business off the ground.
I understand from Mr Ss complaint that hes unhappy that RBS didnt inform him that he had 
to keep meeting his loan repayments whilst he was negotiating the restructuring of the loan. 
But given that the three loan payments referenced above were missed by Mr S before he 
entered into these negotiations with RBS, its difficult to conclude that RBS have acted 
unfairly or unreasonably toward Mr S in reporting these earlier missed payments to the credit 
reference agencies.
With regard the later missed payments  November, December, and January - Mr S has 
explained that, once he began discussions with RBS about the possibility of restructuring his 
loan, he assumed that no payments would need to be made against the loan while the 
negotiations were ongoing. 
Mr S has further explained that one reason for this was because whilst he was involved in 
similar discussions with RBS about an amount outstanding on an overdraft, he was told by 
RBS that he wouldnt need to make payments toward reducing that overdraft. So, Mr S 
assumed that a similar logic applied here. Mr S also notes that RBS didnt tell him that he 
would need to keep meeting payments toward the loan while the possibility of the loan being 
restructured was being discussed.
Unfortunately, the assumption that Mr S made here  that he didnt need to make the loan 
repayments while a discussion about potential loan restructuring was ongoing  was an 
incorrect one. A loan works differently to an overdraft, and the repayments for a loan are 
scheduled as a fixed amount at a fixed time. 
The loan agreement that Mr S entered into included a commitment to meet the agreed loan 
payments at the agreed times. So, it doesnt feel fair to me to consider that RBS should have 
needed to confirm to Mr S that the loan agreement should continue to be adhered to. Rather, 
it seems reasonable that Mr S should have sought confirmation from RBS that the loan 
agreement could be suspended while discussions were ongoing, if that was what he was 
intending to do.
I acknowledge that Mr S may have had the facility to meet these later payments and only 
missed them because he thought, in good faith, that he didnt need to make the payments on 
the basis explained above. However, I cant reasonably ask RBS to make any amendments 
to Mr Ss credit file regarding those later missed payments because the assumption that Mr S was operating under when choosing not to make these payments wasnt a correct one - 
and I cant fairly hold RBS responsible for that incorrect assumption.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr S was wanting, but it follows that I cant 
conclude that RBS have acted unreasonably or unfairly toward Mr S by reporting these 
missed payments to his credit file. 
It further follows that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking RBS to take any further 
action at this time.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman