DRN-2494018
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc turned down a claim made on their
travel insurance policy.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision this complaint in December 2020 explaining why I wasnt 
intending to uphold this complaint - part of which is copied below:
For many years Mr and Mrs G had the benefit of a travel insurance, as part of a packaged
bank account, underwritten by AXA.
Under the policy theyre required to make medical disclosures in certain circumstances and
at particular times  such as before booking a holiday, if their health had changed and they
wanted the medical conditions that had developed covered under the policy.
Mr G developed pain in his lower back, shin and thigh as a result of an isolated incident in
August 2018. His pain continued and, in November 2018, he was diagnosed with foraminal
narrowing with impingement of the right L3 nerve root by a consultant orthopaedic spinal
surgeon. He was placed on a waiting list for a L3 block.
The following month, in December 2018, Mr G booked a holiday abroad for June 2019 (the
holiday).
Due to the ongoing issues relating to his back Mr G cancelled the holiday at the end of April
2019. He sought to make a claim on his and Mrs Gs travel insurance policy to cover his
unrecoverable losses relating to the holiday being cancelled such as airline and
accommodation costs, totalling over £700.
AXA initially indicated it would accept the claim. But after receiving further information, it
notified Mr G that it would be declining the claim as hed cancelled the holiday due to his
back condition. This hadnt been declared to  or accepted by - AXA before booking the
holiday. Unhappy, Mr and Mrs G complained to our Service.
Our investigator partly upheld Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. He concluded that had Mr G
declared his back condition when he shouldve, AXA wouldve covered the condition at an
additional premium. Usually, in this situation, he explained that a business was entitled to
make a proportionate settlement of the claim. However, as Mr and Mrs Gs travel insurance
policy formed part of a packaged bank account for which they also paid a fee for a number of
insurance policies, AXA said it was unable to confirm how much Mr and Mrs G had paid for
the travel insurance policy it had underwritten. So, in order to put things right, our
investigator recommended AXA pay the claim subject to the remaining terms of the policy -
less the additional premium Mr and Mrs G wouldve been asked to pay had Mr G declared
his back condition prior to booking the holiday.
AXA doesnt think thats fair. So, this complaint has been passed to me to look at everything
afresh and make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont intend to uphold it. I know Mr and Mrs G will be very disappointed
but hopefully theyll understand my reasons when I explain why.
AXA has a duty to handle claims promptly and fairly. And it mustnt unreasonably decline a
claim.
The policy doesnt cover the cancellation costs for any claims arising directly or indirectly
from:
any medical condition you have, or have had, for which you are taking prescribed
medication or are waiting to receive, or have received treatment (including surgery,
tests or investigations) within the six months prior to opening your premier account or
within the six months prior to booking any trip, whichever is later, unless you have
contacted AXA on a stipulated phone number and it has agreed, in writing, to cover
them.
And Medical condition is defined under the policy as:
any disease, illness or injury.
Im satisfied that the back injury Mr G sustained in August 2018 amounts to a medical
condition and that he had received treatment (having undergone tests and investigation) for
this within six months of booking the holiday.
The policy goes on to stipulate when Mr and Mrs G should contact AXA if they wish to apply
for cover of a medical condition. I think the policy is clear in this regard.
Mr G hadnt injured his back before taking out the policy, or before the first trip that he or
Mrs G had booked after taking it out. So here Im satisfied, had Mr and Mrs G wanted to
cover Mr Gs back condition under the policy, they shouldve disclosed it to AXA on the
health check date as per the terms of the policy.
The policy defines health check date and relevant to this particular case is:
before booking a trip if your health has changed (you have developed a new
medical condition).
Looking at the medical evidence Ive seen, I think a reasonable person would consider the
type of back injury Mr G sustained and the fact that he was awaiting surgery to be issues
which they should tell their insurer about to see if they affected their insurance cover. So,
under the terms of the policy Im satisfied that Mr G shouldve disclosed this to AXA, if he
wanted it covered.
At the time of booking his holiday, not only had Mr Gs health changed, but he was on the
waiting list for treatment.
The policy says it wont cover the cancellation costs for any claims arising directly or
indirectly from:any medical condition you have at a health check date for which you are on a
waiting list or have knowledge of the need for surgery, in-patient treatment or
investigation at a hospital, clinic or nursing home.
So, all in all, in the circumstance of this case, I dont think AXA has unreasonably relied on
the policy terms to decline the claim - and not covering the unrecoverable losses relating to
the cancelled holiday.
When proposing to make this finding, Ive taken into account that AXA says it wouldve
covered Mr Gs back condition had he disclosed it prior to booking the holiday for an
additional premium of around £115.
As such, Ive also thought about whether it would be fair and reasonable for AXA to cover Mr
Gs unrecoverable losses as a result of cancelling the holiday less the additional premium he
wouldve paid, or to make a proportionate settlement of his claim. Whilst it might be fair and
reasonable for an insurer to do that in some cases, Im not currently persuaded that it would
be here.
If I were to direct AXA to pay part of the claim, it would follow that AXA was effectively on
risk for covering a claim relating to Mr Gs back injury even though Mr G hadnt told AXA
anything about it before booking the holiday. And if he wanted it covered, he ought to have
done. I dont think that would be fair on AXA in this case. At the time of booking the holiday,
Im persuaded there was a foreseeable risk that Mr G might not be able to make the holiday
because of the ongoing pain that he was experiencing (as reflected in his consultant
orthopaedic spinal surgeons letter dated 27 November 2018) - and the possibility of
undergoing treatment before that date.
Responses to my provisional decision 
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further information or 
arguments they wanted me to consider.
AXA had nothing to add. Mr G raised several points in reply which can be summarised as 
follows:
He had his consultation in November 2018, and he was put on the waiting list for 
back treatment as a precautionary measure, due to the waiting list at the time being 
up to two years. At that time, he didnt need an injection or any medication. And Mr 
Gs consultant informed him that if he did the exercises, hed been given his back 
shouldnt get any worse; but there was a chance that it could.
He was only suffering with slight discomfort in his lower back, not his shin or leg.
He was living a relatively normal life including playing sports. It wasnt until March 
2019 when the discomfort in his back started to get worse, so he cancelled the 
holiday as a precaution and had a back injection then (which he paid privately for) to 
help relieve the pain. He ended up having his operation in August 2019.
Mr G doesnt understand why I made reference to the policy being connected to his 
bank account, or why this should form part of the decision-making process. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
That includes the additional comments received from Mr G. 
Mr Gs further representations havent changed my thoughts about the outcome of this 
complaint. I say that because:
Mr Gs consultant orthopaedic spinal surgeons letter dated 27 November 2018 refers 
to him having back pain with pain going down to his shin and anterior thigh pain. And 
as this was written around the time Mr Gs consultation with the surgeon, Im 
satisfied, on the balance of probabilities, that this more likely reflects Mr Gs 
symptoms at the time. 
Even if I accepted that Mr G was only experiencing slight discomfort at the time, he 
had been placed on the NHS waiting list for back treatment a month before booking 
the holiday. He cancelled the holiday because of his back injury - and the pain he 
was experiencing. So, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I dont think 
AXA unfairly relied on the policy terms to decline the claim - and not covering the 
unrecoverable losses relating to the cancelled holiday.
At the time, Mr and Mrs G had the benefit of the policy as part of a packaged bank 
account as opposed, for example, to a standalone travel insurance policy taken out 
to cover a single trip or an annual multi-trip policy which can be renewed annually. I 
referred to the policy being part of a packaged bank account in the background 
section of my provisional decision because its a fact. And its relevant to how the 
policy terms have been drafted and some of the policy terms specifically refer to the 
(premier) bank account. 
So, for the reasons set out above  and in my provisional decision  I dont uphold Mr and 
Mrs Gs complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman