DRN-3827034
The complaint
Ms C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do enough to protect her from the loss of 
money to an investment scam.
What happened
Ms C has said that in 2019 she made the following payments from her HSBC account to 
fund what she thought was a legitimate investment. 
Transaction number Date Amount (£)
1 01 March 2019 2,000.00
2 15 March 2019 2,100.00
3 23 April 2019 899.98
4 24 April 2019 1,999.82
5 04 June 2019 2,000.00
6 16 July 2019 479.68
Total 9,479.48
The first five were push payments, and the sixth payment was made by debit card. The 
parties will note that the sixth of these payments wasnt included in the investigators 
assessment of this complaint. However, given Ms C referred to it in her response to the 
investigator, Ive addressed this payment for the sake of completeness.
Ms C got in touch with HSBC to report shed been scammed. HSBC didnt reimburse her lost 
funds. Remaining unhappy, Ms C referred her complaint about HSBC to this service. As our 
investigator was unable to resolve the matter informally, the case has been passed to me for 
a decision. 
I sent Ms C and HSBC my provisional decision on 15 November 2022 explaining why I 
wasnt intending to uphold Ms Cs complaint. I asked the parties to let me know by 
24 November 2022 if they had any more comments or evidence they wanted me to consider 
before I made my final decision. Neither Ms C nor HSBC replied to my provisional decision. 
Im therefore now ready to explain my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions, and for the same reasons, as explained 
in my provisional decision. Ive explained my reasons again below. 
Ms C has said in response to the investigators assessment that the scammers used 
software to remotely access her computer and make some or all of the relevant payments. 
So she says the payments should be treated as unauthorised transactions. However, Im 
satisfied from Ms Cs previous submissions that in any event she was aware of and 
consented to the payments  and so that these were authorised transactions.
Im sorry Ms C lost this money to a scam. But in circumstances like this, this doesnt 
automatically entitle her to a refund from HSBC. It would only be fair for me to tell HSBC to 
reimburse Ms C if I thought it reasonably ought to have prevented the payments to the scam, 
and/or if it hindered recovery of the funds. 
Prevention
I dont think HSBC can reasonably be expected to have prevented the payments Ms C lost. 
This is because at the time generally, banks were expected to process payments a customer 
authorised it to make. And under The Payment Services Regulations and terms and 
conditions of the account, Ms C is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance, in 
circumstances where she authorised the payments. That said, as a matter of good industry 
practice, HSBC should have taken proactive steps to identify and help prevent transactions  
particularly unusual or uncharacteristic transactions  that could involve fraud or be the 
result of a scam. However, there is balance to be struck: banks had (and have) obligations to 
be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their customers best interests, but they cant be 
involved in every transaction. And here Im satisfied the relevant payments 
werent sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic for me to say it was unreasonable for HSBC 
to process these payment instructions from Ms C without first speaking to her.
The third and the sixth payments are relatively straightforward to address. At the amounts 
they were for  £899.98 and £479.78 respectively  they just werent sufficiently large or 
otherwise unusual to reasonably warrant intervention bearing in mind what Ive said above.
The first, second, fourth and fifth transactions were for larger amounts  £2,000, £2,100, 
£1,999.82 and £2,000 respectively. These were, as I understand matters, payments to an 
overseas bank. And its fair to say, looking at her account history, that Ms C didnt habitually 
spend these amounts  they were a bit unusual for her account. However, it doesnt 
automatically follow that HSBC ought reasonably to have been obliged to have paused the 
payments pending enquiry before allowing them through. 
As Ive said, there is a balance to be struck. Banks cant reasonably be involved in every 
transaction. And here, at the amounts the payments were for, and given their spread in time, 
and notwithstanding they were payments to an overseas bank, Im not satisfied I can 
reasonably say they were sufficiently unusual or suspicious for HSBC to reasonably have 
been obliged to have spoken to Ms C before processing them. If they had been for larger 
amounts, or clustered together closer in time (for example on the same day), I might have 
reached a different conclusion. But they werent. And Im satisfied here  given everything 
Ive said above  that it just wouldnt be fair (given the balance Ive mentioned that needs to 
be struck) to say that HSBC unreasonably missed an opportunity to prevent the payments 
before they were sent.  
Recovery
After the payments were made, I couldnt reasonably expect HSBC to have done anything
further until Ms C notified it shed been scammed. 
With regards to recovery of the push payments (payments one to five), I understand Ms C 
reported the scam to HSBC in July 2019. I am satisfied from the information Ive seen that 
HSBC then contacted the beneficiary bank (as Id expect it to) to try and recover the money 
but unfortunately the funds werent available for recovery. I cant see that this was HSBCs 
fault. Id only expect it to apply reasonable endeavours in seeking to recover the money, and I think thats what it did, its just that unfortunately for Ms C the beneficiary bank wasnt 
prepared to return the funds. 
With regards to the sixth payment, this was a debit card payment to Simplex, which I 
understand to be a legitimate crypto exchange. Given this was a debit card payment, the 
only recourse for potential recovery of this payment would have been via the chargeback 
scheme. HSBC is bound by the card scheme providers chargeback rules which in this case 
is Visa. Whilst there is no right to a chargeback, I generally consider it to be good practice 
that a chargeback be raised if there is a reasonable chance of it succeeding.
However, as Ive said, Ms C made this sixth payment using her debit card to Simplex (and 
not directly to scammers). This means the merchant here, for chargeback purposes, would 
be Simplex (and not the scammers). I understand Simplex legitimately provided the services 
intended (which was the purchase of cryptocurrency). Any subsequent transfer of the 
cryptocurrency/funds onto scammers from there would not give rise to a valid chargeback 
claim through HSBC. So Im satisfied such a chargeback claim would have failed. So 
declining to pursue a chargeback claim on Ms Cs behalf where there were no reasonable 
prospects of success was neither an unfair nor unreasonable exercise of HSBCs discretion 
in my view.
I realise this means Ms C is out of pocket. And Im sorry she lost this money. But I think this 
was ultimately caused by the scammers here, and not HSBC. I cant reasonably ask HSBC 
to reimburse Ms C in circumstances where I dont think it ought reasonably to have 
prevented the payments or recovered them.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman