DRN-4205073
The complaint
Mr D complains that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) reinvested his matured Bond 
funds into a low paying Bond without his knowledge.
What happened
Mr D says that he opened a Bond with NS&I in January 2018 for three years. Mr D says that 
in 2021, he read from a national newspaper that matured NS&I accounts would be 
transferred to high interest accounts, so he left the account to continue, but when he needed 
to reset his NS&I password, he discovered his account was only earning 0.4%, when it had 
previously been earning a much higher rate of interest. Mr D says he tried to access these 
funds for a number of months, but he says he wasnt allowed access or to reinvest this 
money. Mr D says that they had reinvested his matured funds without his knowledge. Mr D 
made a complaint to NS&I.
NS&I did not uphold Mr Ds complaint. They said that they provide customers with 60 days 
notice before a detrimental change is applied to their investment. They said as such the 
maturity packs they sent him (30 days before maturity) explained this change and they also 
advised that they were giving an additional 30 days for him to make up his mind after the 
maturity date. NS&I said the new terms came into effect on 1 May 2019 and these were 
publicised in the press and on their website, and these new terms were then applied to 
maturing investments at the date of maturity. Mr D brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ds complaint. He said Mr D was provided with maturity 
instructions, and NS&I also sent emails to Mr D in December 2021 and January 2022 which 
said they had made an important change to NS&I Guaranteed Growth Bonds, and they said 
that he wouldnt be able to cash it in before the new maturity date, so he would need to hold 
the Bond for the full term. Our investigator said that although Mr D said he missed the emails 
as he no longer had access to this email address and that these wouldve been returned 
undeliverable, he didnt think NS&I acted unfairly by solely using the email address to 
communicate. He said they used the email address on the account  and they confirmed 
none of the emails bounced back.
Mr D asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He said he never received a 
notification from NS&I, and he only became aware of the new account when he tried to 
recover his password in September 2022.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has made a number of points to this service, and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here. 
NS&I have confirmed that Mr D has been registered for paperless communication since he 
opened an account in 2015. As such, their communication has been through secure 
messages and emails. I can see that they have sent the emails to the registered email 
address that Mr D gave them. Mr D has told us that it seems at some stage around February 
2020, during the initial stages of the pandemic, his email box was cut, so any emails to this 
address would have been returned to sender as they were not delivered. 
But NS&I have confirmed that none of the emails they sent him bounced back. So while I 
dont doubt what Mr D has said about not finding out about the new Bond until September 
2022 when he rang to reset his NS&I password, in order to uphold his complaint, I would 
need to see if NS&I acted against the terms of the account. 
NS&I met their responsibility to inform Mr D that his account was maturing. They both 
emailed him and sent him a secured message. But Mr D didnt receive these because his 
email box was cut in his words, and its likely he couldnt view the secured messages 
because he needed his password resetting, which only happened in September 2022. 
But it is Mr Ds responsibility to keep his contact details up to date with NS&I, or to let them 
know if he cant successfully use his online password. So as NS&I had sent the required 
communication to Mr D using the registered email address they had on file for him, then I 
cant say they acted against the terms of the account. They sent Mr D an email which 
informed him they had sent a secure message about his maturing investment and asked him 
to log in to read it. They also told him they had made some important changes to the NS&I 
Guaranteed Growth Bonds which meant he wouldnt be able to cash it in before the maturity 
date and he would need to hold the Bond for the full term. The email also introduced a 30 
day cooling off period. 
So Im satisfied that NS&I gave the required 60 days notice that their terms require for the 
change, as Mr Ds email was sent to him in December 2020, with his account maturing on 30 
January 2021. And then he had another 30 days cooling off period. So he did have 60 days 
in total. The secure message gave Mr D options of what he could do with the matured funds. 
Option one was to reinvest for another three years. 
The communication said On its maturity date your Guaranteed Growth Bond will 
automatically start a new 3-year term at the new rate of 0.40% gross/AER*, unless you 
choose option 2 or 3. Even if the rates on offer for Guaranteed Growth Bonds fall between 
now and the maturity date, you'll still earn the rate quoted above if you renew your 
investment for a further term of the same length. If the rates go up between now and the 
maturity date, you will receive the higher rate. It goes on to say For option 1, you don't 
need to do anything - we will renew your Bond automatically if we don't hear from you by 
3pm on 28 January 2021.
So as NS&I did not hear from Mr D by 28 January 2021, they renewed his Bond in line with 
what they said they would do. And when Mr D did not contact them prior to the cooling off 
period ending, this meant he was then unable to access this Bond until the maturity date 
apart from exceptional circumstances. 
So NS&I acted in line with how we would expect them to act for someone receiving 
paperless communication, even if Mr D didnt see this communication. They sent this to the 
registered email address, and they have confirmed the emails they sent didnt bounce back, 
so they would be unaware of any issues. 
Mr D ought to have been reasonably aware that his bond was due to mature, so it would be 
reasonable for him to expect to receive communication from NS&I, which was set out in his 
terms that they would communicate with him prior to maturity. So it would have been 
proportionate for Mr D to contact them when he heard nothing about the maturity. And as Ive seen no evidence that Mr D contacted them to change his email address or to tell them 
he couldnt access his online account prior to their maturity, or to ask them to send paper 
communication to him if he knew his emails had been cut off, then Im satisfied NS&I acted 
in line with the terms of the account. 
NS&I have confirmed that Mr Ds email address is still the email address that he says is cut 
off. So Mr D may wish to contact NS&I to change this (or to ask them to turn off paperless 
communications) to avoid the same scenario occurring when his renewed Bond matures. 
Ive then considered what happened when Mr D found out the Bond had been renewed for 
another three years. He told them his personal circumstances and why he needed to access 
money from the Bond. NS&I have told us that they can allow in exceptional circumstances 
for funds to be released from the Bond, such as in extreme financial difficulty. But they have 
said that Mr D had funds in other holdings with them that he could use instead of releasing 
this from the Bond, and therefore they were unable to agree to release funds from the 
renewed Bond. 
Id like to explain to Mr D that it is not within this services remit to tell a business what 
specific exceptional circumstances should occur in order for them to release funds from a 
renewed Bond. It would be the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority, who 
have the power to instruct NS&I to make changes to their policies and procedures, if 
necessary. So as Ive not seen that NS&I have made any errors in how theyve handled the 
maturity or his cancellation request, it follows that I dont require NS&I to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman