DRN-3820448
The complaint
Mr G complains about St Andrews Insurance Plcs (St Andrews) decision to decline several 
claims he made under his home buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G made a claim to St Andrews as the walls inside his home became damp due to water 
ingress following a storm. He also made claims relating to an escape of water from a 
downstairs bathroom, damage to his back door caused by someone kicking it, and 
accidental damage to his garage door. He thinks St Andrews decision to decline the majority 
of his claims is unfair, and he says it has been unresponsive. 
St Andrews says the claims were declined correctly. It says the water ingress is due to the 
poor condition of the roof, not a storm. It says Mr G decided not to pursue a claim for the 
escape of water as his policy excess meant this wasnt economically viable. St Andrews 
says Mr G noticed the door having been booted in during June 2020 but didnt report this 
till September. It says it asked for documents and evidence, including a crime reference 
number  but Mr G didnt provide this. 
St Andrews says a payment was made to Mr G in relation to accidental damage caused to 
his garage door. But it says he didnt allow its assessor full access to his garage to consider 
concerns Mr G had raised about further damage. 
Mr G didnt think St Andrews had treated him fairly, so he referred his complaint to our 
service. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She says the evidence shows St 
Andrews tried to arrange visits and contact Mr G to request information to support his claims. 
She thought its assessor had reasonably shown why his claims were declined, and that he 
hadnt supplied the information St Andrews had requested. 
Mr G didnt accept this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint. Let me explain. 
Dampness due to water ingress
Mr G says some walls in his house are damp because of water ingress due to storm 
damage. 
The approach we take in relation to storm damage claims is to consider the following three 
questions:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage?
I can see from the records supplied that a storm claim was discussed in July 2020. St 
Andrewss agent says wind speeds were recorded at the time the claim was registered at 
54mph. And on the day before, wind speeds of 60mph were experienced. St Andrewss 
records say it could potentially be storm damage, but it would only cover damage caused by 
a one-off event. St Andrews agent offered to send an assessor, but Mr G wanted to arrange 
this himself using a builder. He also said he would provide photos and a quote. 
Based on the records there were storm conditions around the time of Mr Gs claim. Its 
possible that the damage Mr G describes was caused by a storm. St Andrews acknowledges 
this in its claim records. So, the answers to questions one and two are yes. But St Andrews 
disputes that the storm conditions were the main cause of the damage. 
Ive read the report provided by St Andrews surveyor to understand the reasons for its 
decline decision. The report says:
The house is in a poor condition. The roof has been replaced many years ago with concrete 
tiles. The tiles do not appear to overhang the guttering on the front elevation of the house 
and water ingress over many years is evident. [It] Seems water is dripping onto the front wall 
of the house. There is no evidence of storm damage and the cause is an issue with the 
design of the roof. On the rear elevation where the pitched kitchen roof meets the back of 
the house there has been a water ingress, this is where the flashing meets the rear 
elevation. Very hard to view but no evidence of storm damage and rear bathroom roof also 
in a poor condition with evidence of water staining where the roof tiles miss the guttering. 
Have declined as no evidence of storm damage.        
I note Mr Gs comments that a roofing company told him there was nothing wrong with the 
overhang of the roof tiles. He also says the guttering is in very good condition, and there are 
areas inside the property that arent affected by damp, showing it isnt the overhang of the 
tiles that is the problem. 
Ive looked at the photos of the roof including those more recently supplied by Mr G. But Im 
not persuaded that hes shown the main cause of the problem was a storm. I think the 
photos support the view provided by St Andrewss surveyor that there is evidence of a pre-
existing problem with the roof. This doesnt align with Mr Gs claim that the damage resulted 
from a one-off storm event. 
I havent seen a report from another expert that shows a storm was the cause of the 
damage. Based on this information I dont think it was unreasonable for St Andrews to 
decline Mr Gs claim. 
Damaged door/escape of water
Mr G told St Andrews about the damage to his door in September 2020. Albeit he advised 
this had happened in June. I can see that St Andrews requested some further information 
about this incident, including a crime reference number. But the requested information 
wasnt supplied. 
Mr G has more recently sent a copy of a crime report to our office, which is dated in August 
2020. This relates to an attempted burglary. However, he must first send this to St Andrews 
in order for it to consider his claim. I cant consider this point here. I note St Andrewss comments that it requested further information to support the escape of 
water claim. It didnt receive any information but indicates Mr G didnt want to proceed as the 
£600 policy excess meant it wasnt worth claiming given the cost of the repairs needed.
I can see from Mr Gs policy terms and conditions that its a requirement for him to be able to 
substantiate any claim for loss or damages. This is set out under the section headed, 
Claims conditions. As Mr G didnt provide information to prove he suffered an insured loss, 
I dont think St Andrews behaved unreasonably here. 
Garage
In his submission to our service Mr G says St Andrews has yet to assess the damage to his 
garage. St Andrews says it has paid an accidental damage claim for the garage door. It says 
its surveyor reported some blown render at the front of the garage but that this isnt covered 
by its policy. St Andrews comments that its surveyor wasnt permitted access into the 
garage and that Mr G hasnt provided any further information to support his claim.  
Mr Gs policy terms, under the heading Your policy agreement say:
Remember, no policy covers everything. We do not cover certain things such as wear and 
tear, maintenance or loss or damage that happens gradually over a period of time.
Ive seen a photo of the front of Mr Gs garage. The render appears to be in a deteriorated 
state. I dont think Mr G has shown that this is the result of something covered by his policy. 
Based on the surveyors comments and the photo provided I dont think it was unreasonable 
for St Andrews to decline to pay for repairs. It looks like the render has deteriorated due to 
wear and tear over time. If Mr G has information that shows the cause of the damage to his 
garage is something that should be covered by his policy, he can of course supply this to St 
Andrews for it to consider. 
Having considered all of this I dont think St Andrews behaved unfairly when relying on its 
policy terms and declining to cover the repairs claimed by Mr G. I understand this will be 
disappointing for him, but I cant reasonably ask St Andrews to do anything more to resolve 
his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman