DRN-4339714
Complaint
Mr K complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) unfairly entered into a 
conditional sale agreement with him. Hes said that the monthly payments to this agreement 
were unaffordable. 
Background
In October 2017, Moneybarn provided Mr K with finance for a used car. The purchase price 
of the vehicle was £6,100.00. Mr K paid a deposit of £400 and took out a conditional sale 
agreement, over 60 months, with Moneybarn for the remaining £5,700.00. The loan had 
interest charges of £8,208.07. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of £13,908.07 
(not including Mr Ks deposit of £400) was due to be repaid in 59 monthly instalments of 
£235.73.
Mr K complained that the agreement was unaffordable and so should never have been 
provided to him. Moneybarn didnt uphold the complaint. It said that its checks confirmed that 
the finance was affordable and so it was reasonable to lend. 
Mr Ks complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He didnt think that Moneybarn 
had done anything wrong or treated Mr K unfairly. So he didnt recommend that Mr Ks 
complaint should be upheld. Mr K disagreed with our investigator and the complaint was 
passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ks complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding           
Mr Ks complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Moneybarn needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is that Moneybarn needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether any lending was sustainable for Mr K before providing it. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the 
amount lent was high, or the information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired 
credit history  suggested the lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers 
ability to repay. 
Moneybarn says it agreed to this application after Mr K provided details of his monthly 
income. It says it also carried out credit searches on Mr K which had shown Mr K had low 
existing borrowing and no recent defaults or county court judgments (CCJ) taken out 
against him. And when the amount owing plus a reasonable amount for Mr Ks living 
expenses were deducted from his monthly income the monthly payments for this agreement 
were still affordable. 
On the other hand, Mr K says his existing commitments meant that these payments were 
unaffordable and there was no way he was going to be able to maintain them.
Ive thought about what Mr K and Moneybarn have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Im not persuaded that the checks Moneybarn carried out 
did go far enough. For example, Im not persuaded that it was reasonable to rely on an 
estimate of Mr Ks living costs given Moneybarn saw an outstanding default on its credit 
search. Moneybarn says that this wasnt recent but, in any event, I do think that this ought to 
have led Moneybarn to do more to verify Mr Ks actual expenditure. That said, I dont think 
that obtaining further information on Mr Ks actual living costs would have made a difference 
to Moneybarns decision to lend in this instance. 
I say this because the information Mr K has provided about his finances at the time appears 
to show that when his committed regular living expenses and existing credit commitments 
were deducted from his monthly income, he did have the funds, at the time at least, to 
sustainably make the repayments due under this agreement. 
I accept its possible that Mr Ks actual circumstances at the time might have been worse 
than what the information hes provided shows. I know that he says he was in rent arrears 
and council tax arrears. But I cant see that this is the case in the information hes now 
provided. And while Mr K says that he would have disclosed this to Moneybarn if asked, I 
dont see why Moneybarn would have had reason to suspect any such arrears given what 
the information it had at the time demonstrated.
Furthermore, and perhaps only for the sake of completeness, I would add that even if I were 
to accept that Moneybarn should have asked Mr K was in rent and council tax arrears, I wish 
to make it clear that I do not, I cannot place much weight on what Mr K now says he would 
have disclosed at the time. I say this because Mr Ks current submissions are geared 
towards reaching a successful outcome on his complaint. Whereas at the time, anything    
Mr K would have told Moneybarn would have been geared towards being accepted for the 
finance. 
I find it difficult to accept that Mr K would have disclosed that he had rent and council tax 
arrears, knowing not only the impact that this would have on his application but also knowing 
what he did about his ability to make the monthly payments, in circumstances where he had 
decided that this was the time he wished to purchase a vehicle. Im afraid I find Mr Ks 
submissions on this matter to be unpersuasive and implausible and as such I cannot 
reasonably place any weight on them.   
In any event, the key here is that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in 
circumstances where a lender did something wrong. And I dont think that Moneybarn could 
possibly be expected to have known that the payments to this agreement were unaffordable, 
bearing in mind that the information provided now doesnt clearly show that this is the case. 
  
So overall and having carefully considered everything, while Im not persuaded that 
Moneybarns checks before entering into this conditional sale agreement with Mr K did go far enough, Im satisfied that carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks wont have 
stopped Moneybarn from providing these funds, or entering into this agreement with him. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Moneybarn acted unfairly or unreasonably towards         
Mr K. So Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate that this will be disappointing for       
Mr K. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and at least consider that his 
concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman