DRN-2954782
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs G (the complainants) are represented. They say Capital Professional Limited 
(trading as Ascot Lloyd) misinformed them about the nature of a Real Estate Investment 
Trust (REIT) investment it recommended to them in 2006  when Ascot Lloyd was known 
as Pantheon Financial Management (PFM). 
What happened
Ascot Lloyd challenged this services jurisdiction to address the complaints merits. It said 
the complaint was out of time. I issued a Jurisdiction Decision (JD) on its challenge and 
concluded that the complaint was made in time and that we have jurisdiction to address its 
merits. I repeat, as follows, some of the background related information mentioned in the JD:
The complainants followed PFMs advice (in 2005) to invest £1 million in a Lombard 
Offshore Bond (the LOB); they made this investment in early 2006; in July 2006 
PFM advised them to perform an investment switch within the LOB in order to invest 
£200,000 in the REIT; they followed this recommendation and invested £200,000 in 
the REIT. 
The complainants appointed a new firm of financial advisers/planners in 2019 and 
had their investments reviewed. From the review they learnt, afresh, that the REIT 
investment had not been a switch within the LOB, that it had been a disinvestment 
out of the LOB and a reinvestment in the REIT (within a new/different policy), that a 
tax related chargeable event had been triggered for that reason at the time and that 
this had subsequently resulted in a retroactive chargeable events certificate (CEC) 
and tax liability upon them. They say Ascot Lloyd (for PFM) is responsible for the tax 
liability, interest and costs they have incurred because of this.
After the JD, Ascot Lloyd appeared to accept responsibility to meet the complainants tax 
liability. The investigator assigned to the complaint liaised with the complainants 
representative to clarify their tax liability. The representative confirmed that HMRC settled 
and closed the complainants tax case after their payment of the tax liability only, and that no 
penalties or interest were incurred by them.
The investigator upheld the merits of the complaint and he made the following main findings:
The complainants incurred and paid a total of £53,639 in tax as a result of the 
retroactive CEC; their REIT investment made a total loss; and their LOB was partly 
liquidated in March 2020, then completely liquidated in June 2020. 
The complainants do not dispute, in isolation, recommendation of the REIT 
investment. However, in the context of its associated tax implications, they are 
correct to say they would not have invested in it if they knew about those 
implications. There is no evidence that they had such knowledge prior to their 
investment  PFM did not inform them, the LOBs administrator has conceded that it 
did not produce the CEC at the time and the complainants tax planning accountant 
(who worked in-house at PFM) was also not informed. The tax liability is 25% of the 
complainants £200,000 investment in the REIT, given that they had a capital growth 
objective it would not have made sense for them to make such an investment. In 
addition, they also had a tax efficiency objective, so such a tax liability defeated that 
too. For these reasons, the complainants would not have made the investment if they 
knew about the tax implications.
The complainants should be compensated for the total tax liability they incurred (and 
paid), plus interest on the compensation for the period over which they have been 
deprived this amount. Given that the complainants would not have made the REIT 
investment if they were properly informed, it follows that their £200,000 capital would 
have been left in the LOB, so they should be compensated for any negative 
difference between what the £200,000 would have been worth if left in the LOB (from 
2006 and up to when the LOB was completely liquidated (the end date)) and what 
the REIT investment was worth on the same end date. Furthermore, they should 
receive £400 for the trouble and upset the matter has caused them. Ascot Lloyd 
should make all these compensation payments to the complainants.
Ascot Lloyd affirmed that it is prepared to make good the complainants tax liability, but it 
strongly disagreed with the investigators finding that it should also compensate for 
investment loss related to the REIT. It said the investigators finding in this respect unduly 
expands the complaint, because the complainants have sought, only, compensation for their 
tax liability, without disputing suitability of the REIT investment. It also said that it is arguable 
the complainants may have gone ahead with the investment if PFM had undertaken to meet 
any tax liabilities at the time. 
The investigator disagreed and considered the finding a logical conclusion that flows from 
acceptance that the complainants would not have invested in the REIT if they knew of the 
tax implications. He also considered it unlikely that PFM would have compromised the 
income it generated from its advice at the time by undertaking responsibility for a tax charge 
of £53,639. 
Ascot Lloyd maintained its disagreement and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no evidence that the REIT investment was expressly presented to the complainants 
in 2006 as arising from a disinvestment from the LOB and as a reinvestment in a new policy. 
There is also no evidence that it was presented to them as an investment that had 
associated chargeable gains and tax liability. There is also no evidence that the 
circumstances in which they received and implemented PFMs advice to invest in the REIT 
gave them implicit awareness of the disinvestment and the potential for a tax liability. 
Ascot Lloyds arguments about the complainants awareness have been rehearsed, 
exhausted and, I consider, defeated in the course of the investigators enquiries and findings 
 and, to some extent, within the JD, because the matter of awareness was also relevant to 
the JD. In this respect, I incorporate into this decision the relevant contents from the JD.
To its credit, Ascot Lloyd appears to have revised the initial position it adopted in which it 
disclaimed responsibility for the complainants tax liability. It now accepts that responsibility. 
The implication is that it accepts  as it should and as I find  that the complainants were misinformed about the REIT investment because they were not told about the disinvestment 
it required and they were not told about the associated tax implications. 
The remaining matter to determine is the redress that the complainants should fairly be 
entitled to. Again, to Ascot Lloyds credit, it has undertaken to compensate them for the tax 
liability they incurred. For the sake of clarity, I find that it is responsible for that tax liability 
and that it must compensate the complainants for it. As the investigator determined, the 
complainants have faced no HMRC penalties in the matter and no interest payments (or any 
other fees) were taken from them. Evidence says the total amount of their tax liability is as 
stated above, but for the sake of transparency I will order below that the complainants 
disclose to Ascot Lloyd, if they have not already done so, a copy of the relevant 
documentation from HMRC about the tax liability.
I agree with the investigators proposal of £400 compensation for the trouble and upset the 
matter has caused the complainants. The HMRC enquiry they were subjected to would 
undoubtedly have been an unwanted, and perhaps arduous, experience for them. £400 
reasonably reflects the distress and inconvenience that would have caused them and it is an 
amount that is broadly consistent with the sort of award this service has made for trouble 
and upset in comparable cases.  
The matter that Ascot Lloyd disputes is the investigators proposal for compensation related 
directly to the REIT investment. It says compensation in this respect goes beyond the 
complaint and its overall argument has included the following submissions: 
The clients have not complained prime facie about investing in Matrix REIT.
 there were no tax implications on investing into Matrix REIT, the tax implications were on 
surrendering funds from the Lombard Bond and we have agreed to make good on that.
Investment in Matrix REIT has not been proven, in principle, to be unsuitable for the clients
circumstances at the time of advice.
The clients have not complained about the failure to achieve their primary goal of increasing
their capital so I would dispute your right to expand the limits of the complaint on the clients
behalf.
 if [the complainants] had other funds available for investing in Matrix REIT without
creating the tax liability, would they have invested that and could those available funds have
totalled £200K?
I understand Ascot Lloyds overall line of argument, but I am not persuaded by it. I agree 
with the investigators proposal for compensation directly related to the REIT investment.
The complainants complaint is that they were misinformed about the REIT investment  in 
terms of the disinvestment from the LOB and the associated tax liability; neither was brought 
to their attention before the investment, in the course of the investment or after the 
investment (until the events in 2019).
The complainants say they would not have invested in the REIT if they knew that it required 
the disinvestment from the LOB, which would trigger the CEC and the associated tax liability. 
I agree. As the investigator explained, available evidence shows that their objective for 
capital growth stood alongside their need for tax efficiency. The idea of potentially losing, at 
the outset, around 25% of their investment capital to service a tax liability directly associated 
with the inception of the investment  distinct from any other tax liability that could have been 
associated with the life and/or conclusion of the investment  conflicted strongly with such an objective. As such, it is very plausible that the complainants would not have invested in the 
REIT if they were properly informed about the recommendation.
The above finding  one that naturally emerges from the balance of evidence in the 
complaint and one that implicitly follows from the responsibility for the tax liability that Ascot 
Lloyd has accepted  logically leads to the conclusion that the REIT investment would not 
have happened but for the complainants being misinformed (or insufficiently informed); and 
to the conclusion that their £200,000 capital would instead have remained in the LOB. I have 
not seen evidence that an alternative form of disinvestment from the LOB and reinvestment 
elsewhere would probably have been pursued.
Logic also says that an investment (the REIT) that the complainants would, rightly, not have 
made had they been properly informed about it  because it defeated their capital growth 
and tax efficiency objectives  is an investment that was inherently wrong for them. As such, 
Ascot Lloyd cannot say, with credibility, that its recommendation of the REIT (and the 
complainants investment in the REIT) was not unsuitable or that there were or would have 
been no problems in achieving their objective to increase their capital. As I noted above, the 
investment stood to deplete around 25% of their capital from the outset. 
Remedy for the complainants would be artificial and unfair if it did not include redress for 
what their investment position would be if they did not invest in the REIT. The balance of 
available evidence says their £200,000 would have remained in the LOB, so it is fair that any 
investment performance they have lost by the withdrawal of this amount from the LOB must 
be reflected in the remedy due to them.
The hypothesis suggested by Ascot Lloyd, about funding the investment outside the LOB 
(and therefore doing so without creating the CEC), appears to be irrelevant because this was 
not explored at the time; so evidence does not say the complainants would have done this at 
the time. With regards to its alternative hypothesis, about what would have happened if PFM 
undertook responsibility for any tax liability at the time of advice, I share the investigators 
observation. It is unlikely that PFM would have compromised its advice fee and/or its 
commercial interest in its advice to the complainants to the tune of over £50,000  which 
was possibly (if not probably) more than its advice fee for the £200,000 transaction. 
Furthermore, there is no evidence that this was an alternative explored at the time.
Putting things right
In order to compensate the complainants fairly, Ascot Lloyd must do the following:
Pay them £400 for the trouble and upset the complaint matters have caused them.
Pay them the total tax liability they incurred as a result of the retroactive CEC 
associated with the disinvestment from the LOB. The complainants must provide 
Ascot Lloyd with HMRC evidence of this total tax liability amount, if they have not 
already done so. I understand that the complainants have already settled this tax 
liability with HMRC. If so, they must also provide Ascot Lloyd with evidence of when 
their settlement payment was made and completed. Ascot Lloyd must then also pay 
the complainants interest on the total tax liability amount from the date of the 
complainants settlement payment to HMRC to the date Ascot Lloyd settles the 
compensation ordered in this decision.
Determine the exact date in 2006 on which the complainants £200,000 capital was 
disinvested from the LOB [the start date]; determine the exact date in 2020 on which 
the complainants completed liquidation of the LOB [the end date]; calculate, from 
the start date, what the complainants £200,000 capital would have been worth on the end date if it remained in the LOB [fair value]; calculate what the complainants 
REIT investment was worth at the end date [actual value]; if the fair value is greater 
than the actual value, Ascot Lloyd must pay the complainants the full difference in 
compensation.
compensation limit
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000 or £355,000 (depending on when the 
complaint event occurred and when the complaint was referred to us) plus any interest that I 
consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds the compensation limit the respondent 
firm may be asked to pay the balance. Payment of such balance is not part of my 
determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm and it is unlikely that a 
complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such balance. A complainant 
may therefore want to consider getting independent legal advice in this respect before 
deciding whether to accept the decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold the complaint from Mr G and Mrs G. I order Capital 
Professional Limited (trading as Ascot Lloyd) to pay them compensation as set out above 
and to provide them with a calculation of the compensation in a clear and simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman