DRN-2534022
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H say that when National Westminster Bank Plc sold their commercial property 
in possession it didnt say the purchase price was subject to VAT. They say that the failure to 
do so meant the buyer (who Ill refer to as Mr X) reduced the price he was willing to pay by 
£10,500 when he found out. Mr and Mrs H are also unhappy with the legal fees theyve been 
charged.
They want NatWest to pay them the £10,500 difference in the purchase price and a further 
£10,500 in compensation.
What happened
The property had been on the market since March 2014 with limited interest, and any offers 
that were made were either withdrawn or not progressible.
Mr X made an offer of £63,000 in mid-September 2014 but because higher offers came in 
NatWest accepted one of those instead. At that time Mr X had the chance to increase his 
offer but didnt do so. As the other buyer pulled out of the purchase, NatWest went back to 
Mr X mid-October and accepted his offer of £63,000. The sale was progressing and was 
close to exchange when Mr X discovered the purchase price was subject to VAT. As he was 
only willing to pay £63,000 in total he reduced his offer to £52,500 plus VAT.
NatWest consulted the estate agents and surveyor, and due to the limited interest in the 
property, the fact that offer was over the current advised estimated value and that there were 
no other current offers, NatWest decided to accept it. Contracts were exchanged and the 
sale completed at the end of October 2014.
Mr and Mrs H complained to NatWest in July 2020. NatWest didnt uphold the complaint and 
so Mr and Mrs H referred matters to us.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said, in summary, he thought the buyer 
would still have only paid £52,500 plus VAT if hed been aware of the VAT sooner. He also 
said the legal fees were £7,138 not £11,163, and as this was a commercial property thats 
why the fees were higher than normal.
Mr and Mrs H said our investigators belief that the buyer would have paid the same amount 
was without foundation and not based on fact. They said they spoke to the buyer a year or 
so before the sale, and at that time he was interested in buying it at £90,000. They also said 
it was NatWest that told them the legal fees were £11,163 and questioned why NatWest now 
provided evidence it was only £7,138. They said either way NatWest ignored their complaint 
about the legal fees which was unacceptable. They asked that the matter be passed to an 
ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
Sale price
I understand Mr and Mrs H feel the property was worth more than Mr X paid for it. But by the 
time the sale completed the property had been on the market (with NatWest in possession) 
for seven months, and previously Mr and Mrs H had been marketing it for sale themselves. A 
property is only worth what a person is willing to pay for it, and the evidence simply doesnt 
support Mr and Mrs Hs assertion that Mr X would have paid more if hed known about the 
VAT from the start. It may be Mr X indicated a year earlier that he was interested in buying 
the property for £90,000. But if he really intended to do so it would beg the questions why he 
didnt place such an offer in the six months the property was on the market before his offer of 
£63,000 was accepted, and why when he was outbid he didnt increase his offer to ensure 
he secured the property.
In any event, as Mr and Mrs H are the ones bringing the complaint against NatWest, to 
uphold the complaint Mr and Mrs Hs version needs to be more likely than NatWests 
version; not just as likely. And having considered everything, on balance I cant say that 
Mr and Mrs Hs version  that is, that Mr X would have paid more had he known about the 
VAT from the start  is anything other than just as likely. 
I could only consider awarding Mr and Mrs H the £10,500 difference if Im satisfied it is more 
likely than not that an offer of £63,000 plus VAT would definitely have been obtained if the 
VAT had been made clear from the start. And having considered everything the available 
evidence doesnt support that. For that reason, I cant uphold this part of their complaint.
Legal fees
Mr and Mrs H originally complained that £11,163 was exorbitant for legal fees. After our 
investigator explained the legal fees were actually £7,138 and they were higher due to the 
nature of the property, Mr and Mrs H said:
Turning to the legal fees, it was NatWest, in written correspondence to us, who 
confirmed the cost was £11,163. As we are currently overseas, we cannot access this 
documentary evidence presently. It is, however, no surprise whatsoever, that NatWest 
now produce contradictory evidence of a lower figure at £7138 and this begs the question 
as to why 2 separate figures were provided to you and us?
Mr and Mrs H then provided us a copy of the letter they were referring to. Having looked at 
the letter it seems Mr and Mrs H have misunderstood it. 
In that letter NatWest said The Bank has incurred total costs of £11,163.60 At no point 
does NatWest say that figure is just the legal costs. Im sure Mr and Mrs H will be aware 
there are other costs involved in selling a property, such as estate agent fees. Having 
considered everything Im satisfied that NatWest didnt provide contradictory evidence to 
Mr and Mrs H as it told them the total selling costs involved in that letter, and then the 
invoice it has provided to us shows just the legal costs.Ive looked at the invoice NatWest has provided for the legal costs and having done so Im 
satisfied the costs arent unusual for the sale of a commercial property in possession and so 
I dont uphold this part of their complaint.
Finally, Mr and Mrs H said NatWest didnt acknowledge or address their concerns about the 
legal costs. Ive not looked into this matter  that is, whether Mr and Mrs H did make a 
complaint about the legal costs that wasnt responded to  Ill explain why.
Our rules set out the matters that we can look at as being; regulated activities, payment 
services, lending money, paying money by plastic card, and ancillary banking services. In 
addition, we can consider complaints about ancillary activities carried on in connection with 
the above.
The handling of complaints is not itself a regulated activity. Its something that the regulator - 
the Financial Conduct Authority - requires financial businesses to do. But that isnt enough to 
make it a regulated activity within the meaning of the rule; that is, one from the list of 
activities set out in the legislation from which we derive our powers.
Were able to consider concerns about complaint handling in some limited circumstances, for 
example, if the complaint handling was ancillary to something we have the power to 
consider. So we can, in theory, consider how NatWest handled a complaint about the legal 
costs.
But there is another thing that we need to consider and that is that we can only make an 
award for any poor customer service in handling a complaint if were upholding the 
underlying issue being complained about. As Ive not upheld Mr and Mrs Hs complaint about 
the legal costs, it follows I cant uphold any complaint about how NatWest handled the 
complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs H to accept or reject my decision before 14 June 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman