DRN-4305722
The complaint
Ms M complains that CIGNA Europe Insurance Company SA-NV declined her claim against 
her private medical insurance policy and excluded certain conditions from her cover.   
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Ms M has private medical insurance underwritten by CIGNA 
The period of insurance relevant to this complaint is 30 November 2021 to                     
29 November 2022.
In November 2021, Ms M applied for private medical insurance with CIGNA. On            
15 November 2021, CIGNA sent Ms M a welcome e-mail. On 16 November 2021, Ms M 
saw a psychotherapist/psychologist, Dr L. She subsequently submitted her claim for that 
treatment. CIGNA declined the claim. It said that the treatment was before the policy 
start date. CIGNA also added an exclusion to Ms Ms policy in relation to anxiety, stress, 
depression, any psychiatric or mental health disorder and any complications. I 
understand that Ms M continued to see Dr L and paid for the treatment herself. 
In the complaint form, Ms M said that in the week commencing 15 November 2021, she 
phoned CIGNA and asked about cover to see a psychologist on 16 November 2021, and  
it said that she was covered in full. She says that she didnt have any symptoms before 
16 November 2021. Ms M wants CIGNA to remove the exclusion from her policy and 
settle her claim. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that CIGNA had 
acted unfairly in declining Ms Ms claim. The investigator said that Ms M first consulted 
Dr L on 16 November 2021 about symptoms of worry, anxiety and depression. That was 
before her cover started on 30 November 2021. She didnt think that CIGNA was at fault 
in coming to the conclusion that Ms Ms symptoms were pre-existing and therefore 
excluded from her cover. The investigator said that the policy terms are clear that any 
changes in circumstances between the application and start date must be disclosed to 
CIGNA. 
Ms M didnt agree with the investigator. She said that the chronology the investigator had 
referred to was incorrect. Ms M said that she discussed her application with her 
employer throughout October 2021 and on 3 November 2021, her employer sent her a 
medical questionnaire to complete which asked for information about pre-existing 
conditions. Ms M says that on 9 November 2021, she sent her medical questionnaire to 
CIGNA and that during the week of 15 November 2021, she received welcome e-mails 
from CIGNA. Ms M says that during that week she phoned CIGNA about a claim to see 
a psychologist on 16 November 2021 and it said that she was covered. But when she 
subsequently submitted the claim, CIGNA declined it and added an exclusion to her 
policy. Ms M says that she didnt have any symptoms before 16 November 2021.
The investigator considered what Ms M said but didnt change her view. She said that 
Ms M had referred to 9 November 2021 as the date she applied for the policy, but the 
investigator noted what Ms M said about that. The investigator said that a broker sent  
Ms Ms medical questionnaire to CIGNA, and she accepts that Ms M would have 
completed the questionnaire before that. 
The investigator said that Ms Ms consultation with Dr L took place on                             
16 November 2021, before her policy start date. She said that the medical report from  
Dr L referred to Ms Ms symptoms a few months before the first appointment in 
November 2021. The investigator said that Ms Ms earliest contact with CIGNA was      
19 November 2021 and communication before that would have been with the broker who 
arranged the policy on behalf of Ms Ms employer. So, she didnt think that the available 
evidence supported a conclusion that CIGNA misled Ms M about her cover. 
Ms M said that she received e-mail confirmation of cover from CIGNA on                       
15 November 2021, so it cant be right that her medical questionnaire was sent to 
CIGNA on 19 November 2021.  She said that she consulted Dr L on 16 November 2021, 
the date after she received confirmation from CIGNA that she had cover. Ms M said that 
the psychologists medical report of 30 March 2022 made reference to deterioration in 
her mental health a few months before 30 March 2022, not a few months before the first 
appointment on 16 November 2021. She said that CIGNA asked for a diagnosis from   
Dr L.
Ms M asked that an ombudsman consider her complaint, so it was passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear and quite understandable that Ms M has strong feelings about this matter. Shes 
provided detailed submissions to support the complaint. Ive read through all this carefully 
and taken it all into consideration when making my decision. I trust that Ms M wont take as a 
discourtesy that I concentrate on what I think are the central issues in the case.the relevant terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say  
as follows:
 SECTION 1: GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS
1. Scope of cover and policy eligibility
[]
1.4
If there are any changes that occur between your application and the initial start date of your 
policy and any information that you provided to us in your application changes during this 
period you must let us know. []
1.5
This policy will not cover any costs relating to treatment received before the cover starts []
SECTION 2: GENERAL EXCLUSIONS
[]
2. Treatment for:
a) a pre-existing condition; or
b) any condition or symptom which results from, or are related to, a pre-existing condition.
We will not pay for treatment for a pre-existing condition of which the policyholder was (or 
should reasonably have been) aware at the date cover commenced, and in respect of which 
we have not expressly agreed to provide cover.
Pre-existing condition - any disease, illness or injury, or symptom present before the initial 
start date linked to such disease, illness or injury for which:
> medical advice or treatment has been sought or received; or
> the beneficiary knew about and did not seek medical advice or treatment.
Has CIGNA acted unfairly or unreasonably?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that CIGNA has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I dont uphold Ms Ms  
complaint because I dont think that CIGNA treated her unfairly or unreasonably. I say that 
because:   
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that the 
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. If the event is 
covered in principle but is declined on the basis of an exclusion set out in the policy 
the onus shifts to the insurer to show how that exclusion applies.
Ive set out above the relevant parts of the policy terms. The central question for 
me to decide is whether CIGNA acted fairly and reasonably in declining the claim 
and excluding certain conditions from cover. I think it did and Ill explain why.Ms Ms cover started on 30 November 2021. Ms M says that her symptoms started 
when she first saw Dr L on 16 November 2021. I think it would be unusual to 
arrange to see a psychotherapist/psychologist without having symptoms but, in any 
event, Ms M says that her symptoms and the first treatment were before her cover 
start date. I dont think that CIGNA acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining     
Ms Ms claim as the policy terms provide that it does not cover any costs relating to 
treatment received before the cover starts.
Ms M says that she contacted CIGNA by phone before she saw Dr L and it said 
that she was covered in full. CIGNA says that it had no direct communication with 
Ms M before 19 November 2021. Where things are contradictory I make my 
findings on what I think is most likely to be the case. I take into account the 
evidence available to me and the wider surrounding circumstances. Theres no 
additional evidence to support Ms Ms recollection of events. I think it would be 
unusual for CIGNA to authorise treatment before the start date of the policy. The 
more unusual an event, the more evidence is required to show that it happened. 
On balance, I dont think I can safely conclude that CIGNA authorised Ms Ms 
treatment before the start date of her cover. 
Ive looked at the welcome e-mail CIGNA sent to Ms M on 15 November 2021. I 
dont think that theres anything in that e-mail that obliges CIGNA to settle a claim 
for treatment before the cover start date. 
Following Ms Ms claim, CIGNA added an exclusion to the policy in relation to    
anxiety, stress, depression, any psychiatric or mental health disorder and any 
complications. I think it was entitled to do that and didnt act unfairly or 
unreasonably in doing so. Thats because Ms Ms anxiety, depression and stress 
are pre-existing conditions, as defined by the policy and are therefore excluded 
under the policy.   
Thereve been detailed exchanges about the date on which Ms M completed her 
medical questionnaire and the date it was submitted to CIGNA. I dont comment on 
that further as those dates dont alter the outcome here. The significant dates are 
the date Ms Ms cover began and the dates of symptoms and treatment.  
Ive looked at the two medical reports dated 20 March 2022 from Dr L. I dont think 
that those reports assist Ms M. The reports arent on headed notepaper and arent 
signed. The first of those reports said that Ms M had symptoms for a few months 
before the first appointment and goes on to say that the date of diagnosis/first 
consulting a doctor was 21 September 2022. That date is clearly an error as its 
after the date of the report. Ms M says that Dr L refers to deterioration in her mental 
health a few months before 30 March 2022, not a few months before the first 
appointment on 16 November 2021. I dont agree with Ms Ms interpretation of that 
part of the report. I think that Dr L is referring to Ms Ms symptoms a few months 
before her first appointment on 16 November 2021. So, it confirms that Ms Ms 
symptoms and treatment were before the policy start date. 
The second report of 20 March 2022 from Dr L says that Ms M first reported 
symptoms on her first visit on 30 November 2021 and the date of diagnosis/first 
consultation was 30 November 2021. But Ms M says that her first appointment was 
on 16 November 2021. So, I dont think that reports assists us in this case. 
Im sorry to disappoint Ms M  but there are no grounds on which I can fairly direct 
CIGNA to settle her claim or remove the exclusion.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman