DRN-3086870
The complaint
Mr N complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) didnt apply the preferential 
interest rate on his loan account, it had previously advertised as available.
What happened
Mr N says he applied for a loan in June 2019 which offered an attractive interest rate but 
after the first payment to the loan, the following month, he realised Halifax hadnt given him 
the interest rate he applied for. Mr N says Halifax applied an interest rate on his loan which 
was over three times the interest rate it advertised, and when he queried this he was told it 
was because he was considered a high-risk borrower. Mr N says he felt humiliated and he 
has been discriminated against. Mr N says, given he has a good credit rating and has had 
borrowing previously with Halifax, he shouldnt be classified as a high risk borrower and 
Halifax should have approved the preferential interest rate for his loan account, as it had 
advertised at the time he applied for the loan. Mr N wants Halifax to backdate the 
preferential interest rate to his loan account.
Halifax says Mr N was provided with the terms and conditions of the loan which included 
details of the interest rate applicable, and this was signed by Mr N prior to the loan being 
drawn. Halifax deny any discrimination against Mr N and say it carried out a full financial 
review before the interest rate was approved, based on his financial position at that time. 
Halifax says Mr N was offered the best interest rate at the time he applied for the loan 
account, based on its credit assessment.
Mr N wasnt happy with Halifaxs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the information available but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says Mr N was provided with the details of the interest rate on his loan account, 
which he could have declined if he so wished. The investigator says he could find no 
evidence of discrimination against Mr N or that Halifax ever considered his ethnic origin 
when assessing his loan request, when it came to its decision regarding the interest rate it 
offered him. The investigator pointed out Mr Ns loan was taken over a longer term than the 
advertised interest rate offer, and this amongst other various factors would have been taken 
into account when Halifax decided upon the interest rate it finally approved.
Mr N didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would have been disappointing and upsetting for Mr N to discover he 
hadnt secured the preferential interest rate on the loan he applied for. When looking at this 
complaint I will consider if Halifax acted fairly when it applied the interest rate it did, to Mr Ns 
loan account and if theres any evidence he had been discriminated against during its credit 
assessment process. 
Mr N has provided this service with a screen shot of Halifaxs loan interest rate offer he saw 
and was attracted to. The first thing to say is this was a representative interest rate, and 
while Halifax may agree to this, it doesnt mean they will on every application  I say this as 
interest rates are calculated based on a risk assessment. While Mr N may not agree, banks 
like Halifax will take into account various considerations when making these assessments, 
which may include but are not limited to, the security offered, amount, term of the loan 
alongside various other factors and credit checks they might carry out. Its also worth 
mentioning the loan approved by Halifax was for a six- year term, which was outside the 
interest rate offer Mr N provided to this service. 
Its important to say Halifax provided Mr N with a copy of the loan agreement which was 
emailed to him on the same day he drew the loan. In that loan agreement it clearly states the 
interest rate and term of the loan, so I cant say Mr N wasnt made aware of this before it 
was drawn, as he would have needed to have accepted these terms and conditions before 
the loan was made available. In addition to this in this loan agreement, under section 4 it 
states:
What if you change your mind about your loan?
You have the right to withdraw from this agreement up to 14 days after we give you the 
money. You dont have to give us a reason for withdrawing from the loan.
Its fair to say Mr N has a responsibility to check the terms and conditions of the loan he 
requested, and if he had, I am satisfied he would have seen the interest rate applicable to 
his loan and the option he had to withdraw from the agreement, if he so wished. 
Mr N also feels the fact he is making above the stated monthly repayments needed each 
month, is evidence that he isnt a high-risk borrower and he should have been offered the 
preferential interest rate, whatever term of loan he took. I understand the point Mr N makes 
here, but its fair to say these additional payments have been made post the application of 
the loan and its unreasonable to expect Halifax to have known of Mr Ns intentions here, 
and even if they had, that on its own, isnt necessarily a reason for Halifax to offer a lower 
interest rate. 
What is clear here is Mr N has been given an interest rate somewhere mid-way between the 
indicative preferential rate he saw, and the maximum rate of close to 30% annual 
percentage rate (APR), that Halifax offer. With that in mind, Im not persuaded the interest 
rate Mr N was given, necessarily suggests he has been treated unfairly or is considered an 
unacceptable risk, otherwise the loan could have been refused. From what I have seen, I 
cant say theres any evidence to suggest Halifax have considered Mr Ns ethnicity, when 
determining his credit worthiness, or the rate of interest he was provided with. Here, from 
what I can see, Halifaxs credit assessment process has simply determined an interest rate 
based on the information he provided to them and his previous track record with them. Its 
fair to say Mr N had the option to accept or decline the loan offer, as he saw fit. 
Unfortunately, while Mr N feels APRs should be the same for everyone, these are 
determined by various factors that I have previously mentioned and are a commercial 
decision for banks to take, and its not my role to tell them how it must assess its credit risk, 
or any interest rate applicable to that risk.While Mr N will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Halifax.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman