DRN-1656636
The complaint
Mr Fs complaint is that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) reversed the refund applied 
following a chargeback request for medical charges. He also complains about the service he 
received as he says emails werent sent to him and his case was unfairly closed.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr F received medical treatment while abroad which he paid for using his Halifax 
credit card. On returning home he raised a chargeback for the amount he paid as he 
said the treatment received wasnt of the standard it should have been, and he was 
overcharged for what he received. As has been explained, chargebacks are decided 
based on the card scheme's rules, not the relative merits of a cardholder/merchant 
dispute. So, when considering this complaint, I have considered the actions taken by 
Halifax and any impact these had on Mr Fs complaint.
When Mr F raised his complaint with Halifax, the payment made to the medical 
centre was put into dispute. I find this reasonable. Halifax says that it then sent Mr F 
three emails asking for further information and as a response wasnt received the 
transaction was taken out of dispute. Mr F says he didnt receive these emails. I have 
been provided with copies of emails by Halifax. These dont have the dates but do 
have Mr Fs email address and the complaint details and they request further 
information. Therefore, while noting Mr Fs comments that he didnt receive the 
emails, on balance I accept Halifax did send these.
Mr F provided evidence supporting his complaint. This included an invoice from the 
medical centre listing the medications and services provided. It is not a requirement 
for Halifax to conduct a chargeback, although we would expect it to investigate a 
complaint raised. In this case as evidence was provided to show that Mr F had 
received medications and medical services and this was what he had been charged 
far, I do not find it unreasonable that Halifax didnt consider this would be a 
successful claim and so didnt take it further.
I note Mr Fs comments about the quality of the service he received and challenging 
whether he received all the items listed, but in this case, given Mr F received medical 
treatment and evidence of this was provided, I do not find I can say Halifax did 
anything wrong by not taking further action.
When payment for goods or services has been made using a credit card, as is the 
case here, a consumer may have the right to make a claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Rights Act 1974 (s.75). For a claim to be successful it would need to be 
shown that a misrepresentation of breach of contract had occurred. I note the 
comments about the quality of the treatment provided but without further evidence to 
show that the treatment was misrepresented to Mr F or that a breach of contract 
occurred I do not find I can say anything further about this.
Mr F didnt receive the service he should have, and Halifax has accepted this. Mr F 
had to chase for updates about his dispute. That said, when he raised his concerns 
in April his complaint was reopened and investigated and a final response letter 
provided in June 2019. Based on this I find that the action taken by Halifax to 
address the services issues, that is refunding interest and costs and paying him £100 
compensation, is reasonable. Therefore, I will not be requiring it to do anything 
further in resolution of this complaint.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Bank of Scotland plc (trading as 
Halifax).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman