DRN-2927442
The complaint
Mr A complains Provident Personal Credit Limited (Provident) lent to him irresponsibly 
because he said the agent was paid on commission and so encouraged him to take on 
loans. 
He also says Provident hasnt provided the credit reference agencies with accurate 
information. Mr A says his credit file is showing missed payments when he has an 
agreement between himself and Provident to repay what is owed at a reduced rate. 
What happened
Following Mr As complaint to Provident, it issued a final response letter (FRL). The FRL 
made two points;
Mr As account was in arrears and therefore this information has been shared with 
the credit reference agencies and 
At the point Mr A was given loans the agent wasnt working on commission.
Mr A, unhappy with this response, referred his complaint to our service. But not before 
explaining that hed never missed a payment and so his account wasnt in arrears. And the 
information put down on the loan application form was incorrect especially in relation to him 
being semi-retired, rather than fully retired.
 
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and felt it should be partly upheld. She wasnt able 
to say exactly what was discussed at the time the payment arrangement was put in place. 
But she concluded it was probably not made clear that the consequences of the payment 
arrangement would be continued adverse information being recorded on the credit file.
 
But she thought the information being recorded by Provident was correct but, she felt, 
Providents FRL couldve provided Mr A with more information about the credit file and status 
of the account. 
Finally, she accepted Provident could pass the loan to a third-party collection agency, but 
Mr A wasnt told this was going to happen. So, she recommended Provident pays Mr A £100 
for the trouble and upset Providents poor communication had caused him. 
   
Provident agreed with the adjudicators recommendation and agreed to pay Mr A £100.
Mr A didnt agree with the outcome that was reached because he said the offer was an 
insult given the upheaval Provident has caused. Later on Mr A told us his credit score had 
decreased by 54 points, and he cant make payments to Provident any more.
  
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Irresponsibly Lending
Mr A has agreed that the case could continue without this part of the complaint being 
considered due to the current legal position with the lender. I therefore make no finding on 
whether anything went wrong when the loans were approved. 
Payment arrangement and outstanding balance 
Mr A says he had financial difficulties and so agreed a repayment plan with Provident to be 
able to repay what was owed on a more affordable basis. On top of the problems that Mr A 
has with his credit file, he says the repayment arrangement hasnt been credited to the 
accounts in the manner he was expecting. Which has led to the figures he has recorded in 
the paying in books to show the wrong account balance. 
Mr A has explained that he has three loans outstanding, and below is an outline of this 
outstanding loans based on what he A has told us; 
Loan ending 689 for £1,700 issued on 11 September 2015
Loan ending 945 for £2,00 issued on 22 April 2016 and 
Loan ending 359 for £1,300 issued on 2 September 2016.
The statement of account shows Mr A initially was making payments that were collected by 
an agent, but since the start of the national COVID pandemic in March 2020, I can see 
payments were then switched to be paid on the phone / over the internet. 
However, these repayments (from March 2020) do appear to have been a day late 
(according to the information provided by Provident). This could be due to the time lag that 
there sometimes can be when making electronic payments, as there is a delay in getting the 
account information updated. 
Unfortunately, there is very little information from the time when Mr A and Provident agreed 
the repayment plan. So, I dont know what Provident told Mr A or what was explained to him 
about how the payments would be allocated to each of the above outstanding accounts. 
Given its likely Mr A and Provident had agreed a reduced repayment plan this must have 
been because one was needed. Which is supported by what Mr A has told us. So, the fact, 
that he entered into a payment plan was always going to lead to some adverse information 
being recorded on his credit file, because he wasnt going to be maintaining his contractual 
repayments. But, as I dont have any more information, I cant be sure exactly what Mr A 
was told when his repayment plan was agreed.
 
From the statement of accounts provided, it does seem that initially Mr A was able to service 
the loans in accordance with the terms and conditions. But from February 2017 a repayment 
plan was agreed. And before this date, on some of the loans such as loan ending 689 there 
are the occasionally missed payments (or at least £0 recorded on the due date when 
payments were due), but nothing in my view significant. Ive gone on to consider whether the information that I can see being reported on Mr As 
credit file is correct. When doing so, Ive considered the guidance and rules issued by the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO). 
The ICO is the body created which deals with an individuals data, and it has released a 
document called Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at 
Credit Reference Agencies  this is the guidance that this service uses when determining 
whether the payment arrangement has been set up and recorded correctly. 
The basis of the principles is that;
Lenders that supply data to the CRAs are required to ensure that the data is 
accurate, up to date and meets agreed quality standards.
Secondly as Mr A accepts, that a plan was needed, Provident was entitled to report adverse 
information to the credit reference agencies. Principle two explains this; 
If you do not make your regular expected payment by the agreed time and/or for the 
agreed amount according to your terms and conditions, the account may be reported 
to the CRAs as being in arrears. 
But the key part of the document, relates to principle three  called; 
If you offer or make a reduced payment, how it is reported will depend on whether it 
is agreed with the lender.
Principle 3 outlines two different types of arrangement, a permanent and a temporary 
change. Given, what Ive seen, Mr A appears to be on a temporary arrangement. This is 
because, Ive seen no evidence to suggest the terms and conditions or the credit agreement 
has in anyway been adjusted to take account of the reduced repayments. 
Should a temporary reduction in the payment amount be jointly agreed between you 
and your lender, this arrangement will be recorded at the CRAs.
It then goes on to say; 
The record must show that the account is the subject of special terms. The reporting 
of this fact may be different depending on the product and the CRA. It is important 
that you are made aware, when such an arrangement is made and maintained, that it 
will show on your credit file and that whilst arrears may accrue and increase a default 
will not be recorded.
Ive reviewed the credit file Mr A has provided, as well as the information provided by 
Provident. Having done so, I can see Provident, has reported that these three accounts are 
subject to an arrangement to pay  which is correct and is consistent with the wording in the 
ICOs document. 
It has also reported arrears these started with a 2 (indicating the account was two months in 
arrears), and then increased to the 6  which is where the accounts are now. As principle 
three explains, arrears may be accrued and reported  and based on the reporting data 
Provident has provided this is what has been reported. Mr A is in arrears on these loans 
because he hasnt been making the full contractual repayment.
So, while he has been paying the loans back via a payment arrangement the fact is, that 
unfortunately Mr A hasnt been paying the amount that was stipulated in the original loan agreement. And it is for this reason that the arrears have been reported with the credit 
reference agency. Im satisfied that this is correct, and in line with the ICO guidance. 
Provident has also confirmed that its not defaulted the accounts. 
Shortly after the case came to this service, Provident passed the accounts to a third-party 
debt collection agency. Provident confirmed this was the case it said payments towards the 
account not being maintained at the contractual rate and frequency we have made the 
decision to transfer the account 
Now that Mr As account has been passed to the third party, he will need to agree a suitable 
repayment plan with the company (if he hasnt already done so). Provident will no longer 
collect payments towards the outstanding balances that are due. 
Its also worth noting, from the statement of the account, Mr A hasnt been charged extra 
interest, fees or charges as a result of going onto the repayment plan. The only difference is 
that amount of time it will take him to repay what is owed has increased. But Id remind 
Provident and if the third party is acting on its behalf that it needs to treat Mr A fairly.
 
Finally, the adjudicator recommended a payment of £100 be made to Mr A. Provident 
accepted this finding. Mr A didnt and said it was an insult for what has happened. 
Ive looked at the reasons why the adjudicator recommended this sum and it doesnt seem 
unreasonable. I know Mr A is unhappy with this, but Ive not seen quite enough to suggest 
that Provident should pay him more. 
Ultimately the information Provident is recording on Mr As credit file is an accurate reflection 
of the conduct of how the account has been repaid. So, I dont think Provident needs to 
increase the amount of compensation it pays Mr A. 
Putting things right
So, Im not going to be asking Provident to do any more than what it has already agreed to 
do. It therefore needs to make sure, if it hasnt already done so already that it pays Mr A 
£100 for the trouble and upset caused. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr As complaint in part and direct 
Provident Personal Credit Limited to pay Mr A £100.  
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman