DRN-4438711
The complaint
Mr H complains about Ageas Insurance Limited (AIL) and their decision to decline the 
claim he made on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
On 22 June 2023, Mr H purchased a short-term insurance policy, due to run for 24 hours, 
from a broker, who Ill refer to as T. The policy itself was underwritten by AIL.
Unfortunately, on 23 June, Mr H was involved in a road traffic accident which deemed his car 
a total loss. So, he contacted AIL to make a claim. AIL undertook investigations to validate 
Mr Hs claim, which included asking for his driving license number. Mr H willingly provided 
this information, but a check on his driving license showed he had more than six points at 
the time of the accident. And AIL didnt think these points had been disclosed at the policy 
inception. So, they declined Mr Hs claim and voided his policy, keeping the premiums he 
paid. Mr H was unhappy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr H didnt think AILs decision was a fair one. He explained he hadnt been asked during 
the policy sale process to provide any details of the points he held on his license. So, he 
didnt think it was fair to rely on this as a reason to decline his claim, and he wanted them to 
overturn the claim decision and accept it.
Ageas responded to the complaint via T, and they didnt uphold it. They thought it was made 
reasonably clear to Mr H through the claims process that to take out the policy, he must 
have no more than six points on his license. And as hed continued to accept the policy on 
this basis knowing this information to be false, they felt they had acted within industry rules 
and guidelines when declining the claim. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything 
more. Mr H didnt agree and so, he referred his complaint to our service for a decision.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They explained they had 
considered The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) 
when considering the complaint, as this sets out the actions an insurer can take when they 
feel a customer has misrepresented at the inception of a policy. And having done so, they 
thought AIL had acted fairly when deeming Mr Hs misrepresentation to be deliberate or 
reckless. So, they thought the actions AIL had taken, which included declining the claim, 
were fair and in line with the terms of CIDRA. Because of this, they didnt think AIL needed 
to do anything more.
Mr H didnt agree. He maintained his stance that he hadnt been asked to provide details of 
the points he held during the policy sale process, on Ts website. And he explained he hadnt 
seen the wording referred to in the response to his complaint, believing there may have been 
a technical issue on Ts side. And he explained both his partner and his mother, present at 
the time he took out the policy, were willing to provide witness statements to support his 
testimony.
Our investigator considered Mr Hs comments, but they explained both Mr Hs mother and 
partner couldnt be seen as independent and so, they didnt think witness statements from 
them would change their opinion. So, their outcome remained the same, providing a further 
view to address some errors in the original outcome they sent. Mr H continued to disagree 
and so, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr H. I recognise his car was 
deemed a total loss due to the accident damage. So, I appreciate he was ultimately left 
without a car and, when AIL decided to decline his claim, any form of payment to replace it. 
So, I recognise the distress and inconvenience this wouldve caused him. And as AIL 
declined the claim stating Mr H didnt provide information at the inception of the policy, which 
Mr H doesnt feel he was asked for, I can understand why hed feel unfairly treated and want 
AIL to reverse their decision.
But for me to say AIL should do something differently, such as reverse their claim decision 
and accept it, I first need to be satisfied theyve done something wrong. In this situation, AIL 
have deemed Mr H to have reckless or deliberately misrepresented the information he 
provided at the policy inception. So, for me to say this determination and the actions took AIL 
because of this were wrong, or unfair, Ive considered this against the rules set out in 
CIDRA.
Under the rules of CIDRA, I first need to consider whether a misrepresentation has taken 
place. In this situation, Mr H hasnt disputed he had more than six points on his licence at the 
time the policy was incepted. And, that the policy he took out was based on him having less 
than six. So, I do think the information contained within his policy was incorrect. But hes 
stated he wasnt asked to confirm how many points he had.  And for me to say a 
misrepresentation has taken place, I first need to be satisfied that Mr H was asked for certain 
information clearly, and fairly. 
Ive seen screenshots of the information Mr H wouldve seen, as he purchased the policy 
through Ts website. And from these screenshots, I think its made reasonably clear to Mr H 
that he must have no more than 6 points on your driving license in the last 3 years and have 
no prosecutions, or police enquiries pending. And Ive seen that underneath this 
determination, it states that by clicking the button agree and continue that Mr H was 
confirming that you have read, can meet, and have understood the terms and conditions set 
by Ageas as laid out in the full declaration. And above this were links to Mr Hs contract of 
insurance, policy wording and his insurance product information. And Ive seen in this 
contract of insurance, it states Mr Hs declaration that I have no more than 6 penalty points 
on my driving license, in the last 3 years and have no prosecution of policy enquiry pending.
So, I think AIL made it reasonably clear that there was an expectation of Mr H to ensure that 
he had no more than 6 points on his license. And, that this shouldve been declared if he 
had. And its not disputed that he didnt. So, in this situation, Im satisfied there was a 
misrepresentation. And Im satisfied that it would be deemed to be a qualifying 
misrepresentation under the terms of CIDRA, as from the evidence Ive seen, I think Mr H 
failed to take reasonable care to ensure he provided all the relevant, and necessary, 
information correctly. And the onus is on the customer, in this case Mr H, to ensure the information is correct.
I recognise Mr H will dispute this. And I want to reassure Mr H Ive considered his comments 
about the information he saw on Ts website at the time of purchase. While I understand why 
he wants our service to consider the witness statements of his mother and partner, I dont 
think either of these would be deemed to be independent or impartial, as they would have a 
vested interest in Mr H receiving the outcome he was hoping for. So, Im not able to place 
weight on these statements on this occasion.
And I want to make it clear I wasnt present at the time Mr H purchased the policy. So, I cant 
say for certain what he did, or didnt, see. So, Ive had to make a decision based on the 
balance of probabilities and what I think is most likely to have happened. AIL have shown a 
screenshot of the policy purchase process, and this suggests Mr H had to see certain 
information before selecting boxes to take him to other pages. Ive seen nothing, other than 
Mr Hs testimony, that suggests this process deviated away from what AIL has explained. 
So, on the balance of probability, I think its most likely Mr H was presented with the 
information AIL says he should have. If Mr H is unhappy with the sales process, this would 
be something hed need to raise with T directly, as they were the broker and the party 
responsible for the sale, not AIL.
Ive then thought about what AIL wouldve done, had Mr H provided the correct information. 
And Ive seen AIL have confirmed that they dont offer cover to any customer with more than 
six points on their license. And I think this follows all their policy material, which makes it 
clear they need a customer to confirm they have no more than six points. So, Im satisfied 
that Mr Hs misrepresentation made a material difference on this occasion.
So, Ive then turned to the actions AIL are able to take, where a qualifying misrepresentation 
has been made, that materially impacted AILs decision to offer the policy. And this differs 
slightly on whether an insurer feels a customer has acted carelessly, or recklessly or 
deliberately.
Where an insurer feels the misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, they are entitled to 
avoid the policy, refuse all claims, and not return the premiums. And this is what AIL have 
done here. So, Ive thought about whether this classification is fair. And I think it was.
This is because I think its made reasonably clear on separate occasions, within separate 
documents, that Mr H must have less than six points. And I think Mr H was reasonably 
aware at the time that he had more than this, with him having more than double this amount 
at the policy inception. And due to the number of points Mr H held, I think he wouldve, or 
shouldve, been reasonably aware this would likely be information any insurer would want to 
know, considering the number of points he held was likely to have impacted his ability to 
obtain insurance elsewhere.
So, I think AIL were fair to class Mr Hs misrepresentation as reckless or deliberate. And 
because of this, I cant say they did anything wrong, or acted unfairly, when taking the 
actions they did. And because of this, I dont think they need to do anything more on this 
occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about Ageas Insurance 
Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman