DRN-1957321
The complaint
Miss H complains that Barclays Bank UK plc failed to comply with her instructions when it 
didnt transfer part of the funds from her Cash ISA (Individual Savings Account) to a Lifetime 
ISA shed opened with a different provider.
 
What happened
Miss H had a Cash ISA account with Barclays. She opened a Lifetime ISA (LISA) with a 
different ISA provider (who Ill refer to as S) at the end of November 2019. She says she 
wanted to use £4000 from her Cash ISA to open the LISA. 
Miss H says shed paid a deposit on a new build house which was due to complete in 
December 2020. And she wanted to be able to use the money in the LISA to help fund the 
purchase price. She also says that after one year she wouldve been paid £1000 by way of 
bonus on the moneys in the LISA.
Miss H noticed on 6 December 2019 that all the money in her Cash ISA had gone. She 
contacted Barclays about this. But she says the service she received was very poor. It 
wasnt until 15 January 2020 that the funds were returned to her Cash ISA and no money 
had been transferred to the LISA.
Miss H says that as a result she wont be able to complete the house purchase in December 
2020 as shed hoped, and she wont be able to claim the £1000 bonus she wouldve been 
entitled to. So, she complained to Barclays.
Barclays investigated her complaint. It accepted that it had made a mistake when it received 
her request to transfer £4000 to S. In error it had transferred all the money in the Cash ISA. 
It said it had now corrected this and had re-opened the Cash ISA and credited it with all the 
interest she wouldve received had it not made the error. It offered to pay her £250 by way of 
compensation and £50 for the costs of her telephone calls. But it didnt offer her any further 
compensation.
Miss H didnt accept this. She declined the offer of compensation and referred her complaint 
to our service. Our investigator looked into her complaint. He said that Barclays had 
acknowledged its mistake and had put the Cash ISA back in the position it wouldve been in 
if the error hadnt happened. 
Our investigator also said that Miss H hadnt provided any evidence about the property she 
said shed purchased or that it was due to complete in December 2020. So, he said there 
was no evidence shed lost out on the bonus payment. In these circumstances, he thought 
£300 was fair and reasonable compensation for what happened.
Miss H didnt agree, so the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked firstly at what happened insofar as the Cash ISA was concerned. There is no 
dispute that Barclays didnt do what it was supposed to do. It has acknowledged that it 
shouldnt have closed the Cash ISA and transferred the full balance to S. 
The rules about making transfers from a Cash ISA to a LISA are quite complex. So, although 
it was possible to contribute to both a Cash ISA and a LISA in the same tax year, limits 
applied. The maximum that could be added to a LISA was £4000. But, if more than £4000 
had already been contributed to a Cash ISA in that tax year, those monies couldnt be part 
transferred to a LISA. 
Ive looked at the Transfer Authority Form which Miss H signed on 1 December 2019. The 
Transfer form said:
Do you want to transfer current tax year subscriptions (in question 5 above) as part 
of this transfer. 
Miss H ticked, Yes. But there was a note, in bold print, immediately below this question 
which said
Please note that the amount in your account representing current tax year 
subscriptions can only be transferred in whole and not part and will be subject to the 
£4,000 Lifetime ISA annual subscription limit
So, because Miss H had contributed more than £4000 in the current tax year, she could only 
transfer contributions shed made in any previous tax year. When it received the form, 
Barclays should have contacted her to make this clear. It didnt do that. Instead it tried to 
transfer the whole balance in the account - which was also incorrect.
 
In these circumstances Id expect it to put Miss Hs account back into the position it wouldve 
been in if the error hadnt happened. I can see that it re-opened the Cash ISA and credited 
the account with the interest it wouldve earned if the transfer hadnt happened. So, Im 
satisfied that theres been no loss of interest on the Cash ISA. Barclays has also confirmed 
that the tax status of the account hasnt been impacted because of what happened. So, the 
account has been put back in the position it wouldve been in if the transfer hadnt taken 
place.
Barclays also offered to pay Miss H £300 (in total) by way of compensation for the 
inconvenience shed experienced as a result of what had happened. I think that was fair and 
reasonable.
I can see that Barclays then contacted S to ask it to get Miss H to confirm that the £4000 
should be transferred from previous years subscriptions. But, at this stage it appears Miss H 
had lost faith in the process and she considered doing the transfer herself. Barclays advised 
her that if she did this then she might be at risk of breaching the ISA rules for the current tax 
year. I can see that Miss H did withdraw most of the balance in the account just before the 
end of the tax year. Its unclear what if any further contributions were made to the LISA. But, 
in any case, Barclays didnt complete the transfer.
Having considered the matter, Im satisfied there wouldve been time for the transfer to be 
completed before the end of the tax year if Miss H had confirmed she wanted the transfer to 
be made from previous years contributions. But, for the reasons stated above, I think Miss H 
had decided she no longer wanted Barclays to complete the transfer. That was her choice. I dont think Barclays couldve made the transfer without her clear instruction that she wanted 
previous years subscriptions to be used.
Ive then considered the position of the LISA. Miss H had requested that £4000 was 
transferred to this account. As Ive mentioned above, that was the maximum that could be 
credited to the account in any tax year. The rules for the LISA state that after the money has 
been invested the customer can use the funds to help her purchase a first time home. 
Certain other conditions apply. But if the conditions are satisfied then there is a bonus 
payment of 25% of the money in the account  subject to a maximum of £1000 each year.
Miss H says shed paid a deposit in December 2019 on a new build property. The property 
was due to complete in December 2020. She says her intention was to use the funds in the 
LISA to help purchase the property and because the funds wouldve been invested for 1 
year, she wouldve been entitled to the £1000 bonus. But, because of what happened she 
says she wont be able to collect this bonus in December 2020 and doubts have arisen 
about whether she can proceed with the proposed purchase.
Our service asked Miss H to provide evidence to support what shed told us about the 
intended house purchase. But she hasnt done that. And, in these circumstances I cant be 
satisfied shes lost out on the bonus payment or suffered any financial loss as a result of 
what happened. 
So, having considered everything here, I think Barclays offer to pay Miss H £300 (in total) by 
way of compensation for its error, when it attempted to transfer the whole balance in the 
account, is fair and reasonable. I dont require it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint about Barclays Bank UK plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman