DRN-3014214
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Tesco Personal Finance PLC allowed a fraudulent account to be 
opened in his name.
What happened
In July 2019, a fraudulent loan was applied for in Mr Hs name, for £20,000. It was paid into 
an account that had been recently opened in Mr Hs name  also fraudulently.
In November 2019, Mr H received an arrears notice for the loan and informed Tesco it 
wasnt his. In January 2020, Tesco confirmed it wouldnt hold Mr H liable for the loan.
Mr H complained about the time and stress involved for him, as well as the loan affecting his 
credit file in the meantime. He pointed out that Tesco had not verified the identity of the 
person applying for the loan.
Tesco argued that it wasnt required to take ID for all loan applications. It said it had not 
made any errors, and this was the fraudsters fault. It offered Mr H £25 compensation for the 
time it took to investigate, which he declined. 
Our investigator looked into things independently and upheld the complaint. Mr H had asked 
for Tesco to pay him £100 compensation, and they thought that was fair in this situation. 
Tesco didnt agree. It maintained it was not at fault for what happened. The complaint was 
passed to me to decide.
I sent Tesco and Mr H a provisional decision on 27 July 2021, to explain why I thought the 
complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I agree that Tesco should pay more compensation than 
what it has offered.
Tesco argues it has not made any errors here. But it gave a loan to a fraudster and then 
chased the wrong person for it, which was clearly erroneous.
Tesco points out that it is not required to check an applicants ID for every loan, and its 
checks only need to be proportionate. And I agree  the more significant the loan, the more 
in-depth its checks should be. So given that this loan was for a large amount indeed, it 
seems that Tesco should probably have done more to verify who was really applying for it.
Indeed, Tescos own internal review noted that since the bank account receiving the loan 
had only just been set up, further checks should have been carried out. It also found that this 
loan application matched up with data from the national fraud prevention database. Its not 
clear why it didnt check that at the time, or  if it did  why it didnt do more to act on it.
In any case, between the fraudsters actions and Tescos actions and inactions, its clear this 
matter has caused Mr H a good deal of distress  which is understandable  as well as 
causing him to take time to sort it out. And Tesco did not deal with this matter very quickly at 
all, as it appears to have accepted. It took from November to January for Tesco to deal with 
the issue, which is substantially slower than what I would have expected. And in the 
meantime, Mr H was left waiting, stressed and worried.
When a business gets things wrong, we often tell it to pay compensation, to acknowledge its 
error and the impact it had. In thinking about compensation, I have taken into account that 
the fraudster  rather than Tesco  will have been responsible for a significant part of Mr Hs 
distress and inconvenience. Though Ive also taken into account that Tesco still had a 
responsibility to make sure it was lending to  and pursuing  the correct person. And I dont 
think it dealt with Mr H sufficiently quickly, which only extended his distress.
We have guidelines about what levels of compensation to award, and in being consistent 
with that I have placed this in the moderate bracket. Taking everything into account, I think 
Tesco should pay Mr H £150 compensation to put things right.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
24 August 2021. Mr H let us know he agreed with the provisional decision, whereas Tesco 
didnt reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that Tesco should pay Mr H £150 
compensation in total to put things right.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct Tesco Personal Finance PLC to pay him £150 
compensation in total.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2021. 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman