DRN-4287787
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the assistance he received from U K Insurance Limited and delays in 
settling his claim. 
What happened
Mr M became unwell whilst abroad and sought medical assistance. Hes unhappy with the 
service he received from UKI and with delays in handling his claim. 
Mr M complained to UKI, and they awarded £200 for customer service issues during the time 
that Mr M was abroad. At the time Mr M complained to our service UKI were still considering 
the settlement of Mr Ms claim. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened didnt uphold the complaint. He thought 
UKIs offer was fair. He didnt think UKI had taken an unreasonable amount of time to assess 
the claim at the point Mr M complained. 
Mr M didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review his complaint. He didnt add any 
further detailed comments about why he disagreed with the investigators findings. So, I 
need to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that UKI has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. 
Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint because: 
UKI needed further medical information about Mr Ms condition whilst he was abroad. 
I dont think that was unreasonable given the symptoms he was reporting and the 
medical evidence which was available. 
The policy terms, in summary, give UKI the discretion to ask for more medical 
information and to decide whether theyll authorise costs incurred when a 
policyholder cuts a trip short. Im satisfied they exercised that discretion fairly. When 
UKI was satisfied that the medical evidence supported repatriation, they made 
prompt arrangements to return to Mr M to the UK. I think they acted reasonably in the 
circumstances. 
UKI doesnt dispute that there were some issues with the customer service Mr M 
received. That included the tone of some of their call handlers, Mr M not receiving 
call backs and some delays in asking for information from Mr M or providing him with 
updates. But I think £200 compensation fairly reflects the overall impact on Mr M, 
including the distress and inconvenience caused when he was unwell and very 
worried.  
Mr Ms claim involved repatriation following an illness. At the time this complaint was 
referred to our service, around four weeks after Mr M first became unwell, UKI was 
still considering the claim. Given the circumstances I dont think there were 
unreasonable delays in UKI assessing the claim.
Mr Ms claim included expenses he says that he incurred for additional taxis and 
accommodation. As Ive outlined above UKI was still considering those expenses at 
the time this complaint was made to the Financial Ombudsman Service. So, Im not 
addressing the settlement of those expenses in this decision. If the claim has since 
been settled, and Mr M remains unhappy, hell need to make a further complaint to 
UKI if he hasnt done so already.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman