DRN-3696053
The complaint
Mrs C says Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax are holding money on her savings 
account. 
What happened
Mrs C recently found an old passbook for a savings account she held with Halifax with other 
old, closed passbooks she had. The passbook showed a balance of £3,1551. 
When Mrs C approached Halifax about it, they told her the money had been taken out in two 
transactions. One for £2,000 on 17 June 2002 and a second for £1,551.62 on 5 July 2002 
when the account was closed. But given the time passed there were no further details 
available. Halifax explained that the withdrawals could have been made without the 
passbook being present at the time of the transactions, which is why the passbook had not 
been updated with the transactions or stamped/ hole-punched/ marked as closed. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and did not uphold it. In summary, they said it 
would have been possible for the transactions to have been carried out without the 
passbook, so it was possible the funds had been given to Mrs C. The investigator also noted 
that a significant time had passed, so it was not unreasonable that the business now had 
limited information about what had happened. But Halifax had been able to locate some 
internal records confirming the transactions and that the account was closed. The 
investigator concluded that, on balance, given the time passed, it was likely Mrs C had 
carried out the transactions and could no longer recall doing so. 
Mrs C disagreed as she did not think the investigators conclusions were fair. Mrs C said her 
passbook showed £3,1551 and Halifax had been unable to demonstrate who had taken out 
the money and closed the account. Mrs C didnt believe she had carried out the transactions; 
there was no signature to confirm the withdrawals and no hole stamped in the book to 
confirm it had been closed. Mrs C suggested it would have been easy for a Halifax staff 
member to have misplaced or even stolen the money. 
As the investigator could not reach a resolution, the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same outcome as our investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. That is, I dont think Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld and Ill explain why. 
I understand that Mrs C feels strongly that because the money is showing as a balance in 
her passbook and she does not recall ever withdrawing it, that she is therefore still owed this 
money. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, Ive made my decision on 
the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what I think is 
most likely to have happened given the available evidence and the wider circumstances of 
the case. 
The transactions in question and the closure of the account happened over 20 years ago. In 
the circumstances it would therefore not be unusual or unreasonable for Halifax to have 
limited information available from the time in question. That theyve been able to trace the 
account and locate some information about it has meant the information about the 
transactions and the closure is at least available. This also supports that Halifax does not 
hold the money in question. 
Ive considered what Mrs C has said about the money still showing on her passbook. 
However, transactions could be carried out in branches  usually with appropriate checks  
without the passbook needing to be present. This meant that customers were still able to 
access their accounts and money without needing to have the passbook with them. Because 
of this, the fact the passbook shows a balance does not mean that the balance is still there 
in Mrs Cs account. It seems more likely than not that the passbook may not have been 
updated for some time. 
Ive considered what Mrs C has said about how she typically transacted on this account and 
that she never would have done anything on the account without the passbook. However, it 
is difficult for me to know this was most likely the case given the limited evidence available. 
From the Halifax records submitted, it appears this was a government tax-free savings 
account which Mrs C opened on 7 June 1999. Halifax noted from their records that they 
wrote to customers about the interest rate in May 2002 and speculated that Mrs C may have 
been prompted to move her funds from their account elsewhere because of this. It appears 
that the interest rate had dropped significantly between June 1999 and June 2002, so its not 
unreasonable to think someone may have reviewed other accounts available with better 
interest rates. 
Halifax also confirmed that given the time the account had been open for, it would not have 
been closed as a dormant account. So I think its less likely that Halifax closed the account 
without the authority to do so, or that they did so automatically. Mrs C has suggested a 
member of Halifax staff may had done this without her say so. While I understand Mrs Cs 
frustrations with this, it is a serious accusation to make, and there is nothing Ive seen from 
either party to suggest this may have happened. 
Overall, while I realise this will be disappointing to Mrs C, on balance, I think its more likely 
than not Mrs C  understandably, given the passage of time  may have misremembered 
withdrawing the money and closing the account over 20 years ago. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2023.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman