DRN-3788433
The complaint
In April 2017, Mr H invested £20,000 in a 3 Year Compounding High Income IFISA Bond 
with Basset & Gold Plc (B&G Plc). He complains the bond was mis-sold to him by 
Basset Gold Limited (BG Ltd), an appointed representative of Gallium Fund Solutions 
Limited (Gallium). He says that he was mis-sold this bond as the BG Ltd representative 
assured him that the bond could provide greater returns than a bank, with no more risk.
What happened
The B&G Plc Bond
Mr H invested in a B&G Plc 3 Year Compounding High Yield IFISA Bond. Sales of this 
bond were dealt with by Basset Gold Limited (BG Ltd), a separate business from B&G 
Plc, the issuer of the bond. BG Ltd arranged applications for investments in the bond, 
through a website it operated. And it was responsible for advertising and marketing the 
bond. Potential investors were also able to call BG Ltd, to discuss the bond.
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were both appointed representatives of Gallium from 17 February 
2017 to 28 February 2018.
Mr Hs investment in the bond
Mr H was looking online to find a low risk ISA investment to run alongside his existing 
investments to provide capital growth. 
Mr H visited BG Ltds website in April 2017 to take out the bond.
Mr H confirmed his previous investment experience involved some peer to peer 
lending which continued to provide a good return. He had not invested in similar 
products before and believed the bond to be low risk. 
On 8 January 2019, B&G Finance Limited (which by that point had taken on the role of BG 
Ltd), sent an email to all investors then holding B&G Plc bonds. This referred to the fact that 
nearly all the money invested in B&G Plc bonds had been lent to one short term and pay day 
lender, called Uncle Buck. Following action by the FCA, Uncle Buck went into administration 
in March 2020 - and B&G Plc went into administration shortly afterwards. As a result, Mr H 
has not had his invested capital returned to him.
The application process
Mr H applied online when taking out the bond. He remembers speaking to BG Ltd on 
the phone during the application process.
When Mr H referred his complaint to us, we asked for copies of any call recordings BG 
Ltd held. We were provided with copies of some call recordings between Mr H and BG 
Ltd, but none of these took place prior to, or during, Mr Hs application. Thats not to 
say the call Mr H remembers didnt take place  simply that there isnt a recording of it 
available. I have been supplied with a number of call recordings post sale, these are 
administrative in nature and are not material, so they have not been relied on when 
reaching my findings.
Ive seen screen prints of each stage of the online application process. These show the 
application journey that Mr H underwent. This consisted of two stages, designed to 
meet the rules restricting who the bond could be promoted to and on how to test 
whether the investment was appropriate for the potential investor. The first was 
certification, where Mr H was categorised as a high net worth investor. The second 
was the appropriateness test. 
Galliums response to Mr Hs complaint
Gallium did not uphold Mr Hs complaint. It said Mr H had been given sufficient information 
and risk warnings about the investment. It then made further submissions, once Mr Hs 
complaint was referred to us. Ive considered the submissions in full. Ive also considered 
what Gallium described as its position statement, which sets out general information on the 
background to complaints about B&G Plc bonds.
Our investigators view
One of our investigators considered Mr Hs complaint and concluded it should be upheld. 
They said, in summary:
Mr H met the criteria for a high net worth investor.
The application process in terms of the assessment of the appropriateness of the 
bond for Mr H was inconsistent with the FCAs rules or guidance, and didnt gather 
sufficient information to comply with the FCAs rules.
Overall, BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, didnt comply with its regulatory obligations. 
Had it done so, Mr H wouldnt have decided to invest or BG Ltd should have 
concluded that it shouldnt allow Mr H to invest. For these reasons, both 
cumulatively and individually, it was fair to uphold the complaint and for Gallium to 
compensate Mr H for the loss he has suffered.
Galliums response to the view
Gallium did not accept the investigators view. It said, in summary: 
Our findings went beyond the scope of Mr Hs complaint.
Mr H certified that he met the requirements of a high net worth investor. It was 
reasonable for it to rely on the declaration. The appropriateness test answers and these confirmations were sufficient for Gallium 
to satisfy itself that prospective investors had sufficient knowledge and experience of 
the bonds to understand the risks those bonds involved, as per the relevant rules.
It was reasonable for Gallium to rely on the outcome of this test.
Mr H made the investment on the understanding it had risk associated with it, and did 
not choose to surrender it when receiving the email in 2019 which warned of the 
concentration risk. So he would have proceeded with the investment regardless. 
As a result, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied its appropriate for me to consider all of the acts carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf 
of Gallium, in relation to the sale of the bond. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have 
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 (Customers interests) and 7 (Communications with clients) are 
relevant here. 
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2.1R (1) (A firm must ensure that a communication or a 
financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading), which I also consider to be relevant 
here. 
The bond was non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting who it could 
be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was appropriate for the potential 
investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3. I have 
considered the releavant rules in full. 
I note Gallium has referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/4, and to question and 
answer sessions with the FCAs Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA. I have considered 
these too.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments I have reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for the same reasons. In summary:
Mr H was certified as a high net worth investor. He had sufficient income to meet the 
criteria for this category of investor.
The appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, did not meet 
the requirements of the rules. And, had it done so, it would have been apparent the 
bond was not an appropriate investment for Mr H. In the circumstances Mr H would 
either not have proceeded or, acting fairly and reasonably, BG Ltd should have 
concluded it should not promote the bond to Mr H.My decision is that Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. I am satisfied Mr H would either not 
have proceeded to make the investment or would not have been able to proceed, had 
Gallium acted fairly and reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations. And so I am satisfied it 
is fair to ask Gallium to compensate Mr H for his loss.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr 
H as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not invested in the bond.
I take the view that Mr H would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr H's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Gallium do?
To compensate Mr H fairly, Gallium must:
Compare the performance of Mr H's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Gallium should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Pay to Mr H £200 for the distress caused by the total loss of his investment. I dont 
believe Mr H foresaw such a drastic loss and I recognise the considerable worry he 
will have felt when B&G Plc failed.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
3 Year 
Compounding 
High Income 
IFISA BondStill exists 
but illiquidFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr H agrees to Gallium taking ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Gallium to take 
ownership, then it may request an undertaking from Mr H that he repays to Gallium any 
amount he may receive from the investment in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr H wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr H's circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr H in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Katie Haywood
Ombudsman