DRN-2264876
The complaint
Mr B2 complains, on behalf of the estate of his late father, Mr B1, that The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc cant find an account to match the passbook that has recently been 
rediscovered.
What happened
Mr B1 sadly passed away some years ago. More recently, his son, Mr B2, contacted RBS 
about a bank account which formed part of the estate of his late father. 
Mr B2 had found an old passbook for an account opened by Mr B1 in 1960. The book had 
been in use up until 1985, and it didnt show the account had been closed. Mr B2 wanted the 
money in this account to be paid to himself, as beneficiary of Mr B1s estate. 
RBS said it didnt have any details of the account. It only keeps records for ten years.
When Mr B2 complained, RBS said it was sorry it hadnt given him enough information about 
this. It hadnt explained how it had investigated, to see if it could find any details of the 
account, and it hadnt said what he could do now. So it paid him £30 to say sorry for not 
giving him this additional information right away. But RBS didnt think it had made a mistake 
about the account itself. It hadnt been able to find any records of it.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that he account wasnt 
necessarily still open just because Mr B had the passbook. A business wouldnt deny a 
customer access to his account solely because hed mislaid the passbook. A new one could 
be issued. 
Our investigator knew RBS couldnt show this account had been closed. But he said banks 
arent required to keep records indefinitely. So information on old accounts can be relatively 
limited. He didnt think it would be reasonable to expect RBS to produce a closure slip or 
account statement, considering the time that had passed since this passbook was issued. 
Our investigator said wed expect RBS to attempt to locate the account, and carry out all the 
necessary searches for it. And it had done that. So our investigator thought it was more likely 
this account had been closed. He thought RBS had done all it could, and he wouldnt ask it 
to do any more. 
Mr B said he couldnt understand why banks only kept records for 12 years. He wanted an 
ombudsman to consider his complaint, so it was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
I know that Mr B2 says he still has the passbook, and that it doesnt show any signs that the 
account was closed. But, as our investigator said, accounts can be closed without a 
passbook. Passbooks can get lost or damaged or stolen. The bank or building society 
doesnt get to keep the money when that happens. The money still has to be given to the 
account holder. So its always been possible to take the money out of a passbook account 
without handing over the actual book. 
So, when someone finds a passbook like this, that doesnt necessarily mean the account is 
still open. What we expect banks and building societies to do, is to carry out a thorough 
search of their records, to see if they can find any trace of the account. And I can see RBS 
has done that. I think RBS has done all I would expect in searching for the account.
Mr B2 thinks that RBS should keep records for much longer than it does. He says he cant 
understand why RBS wouldnt still have these records now. But banks and building societies 
arent supposed to keep hold of peoples personal information forever. They arent supposed 
to just hang on to information in case it might be helpful in future. Businesses shouldnt keep 
information indefinitely if they dont have a business need for it. 
The last records we have of this account are from over thirty years ago. So I dont think its 
surprising, if this account was closed some time ago, that RBS doesnt still have a record of 
this now. 
Because RBS cant find any record of this account, and because theres nothing else to 
suggest that the account is still open now, or indeed has been open since the mid-eighties, I 
think it is more likely that the account was closed. 
I know Mr B2 will be disappointed, but I dont think that the complaint he has brought to us 
on behalf of Mr B1 should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr B1 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 December 2020. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman