DRN-3198453
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy U Drive Cover Ltd (U Drive) charged him a cancellation fee when they were 
unable to honour the quote obtained online. Hes also unhappy they took 30 days to refund 
him.
What happened
In July 2021 Mr M purchased motor insurance through U Drive via an online comparison 
website. After he had completed his details and accepted the terms and conditions, he paid 
a deposit of £336.43. 
The same day U Drive called Mr M to verify his details. The adviser made Mr M aware that a 
failure to provide correct information could result in cancellation. He confirmed Mr Ms time 
on license based on the information given online. Mr M confirmed he had held his license for 
six years. The adviser also mentioned a non-fault accident and asked if there are any other 
accidents in last five years regardless of blame. Mr M said there wasnt.
The agent explained he would pass the information for validation and they will come back to 
him. He told Mr M he was fully covered to drive from that point.
Following validation checks a further two non-fault accidents were discovered, and U Drive 
found that Mr M had held his license for four years instead of six. Because of this, the insurer 
declined to cover Mr M and the policy was put on hold. U Drive obtained further quotes from 
their panel of insurers but the cheapest one willing to cover Mr M was a significant amount 
more than the original quote, so he declined to take it.
U Drive told Mr M they would refund the deposit paid within 30 days minus a £75 
cancellation fee. Mr M didnt think this was fair as he was never insured and didnt receive 
any policy documents, he also said terms and conditions didnt say there was a fee for taking 
out insurance. 
Mr M complained to U Drive about this and that they took too long to refund him. He thinks 
they earned profit on holding the money and says he was unable to obtain insurance during 
this time as he needed the refund to do that.
U Drive said the cancellation fee was detailed in the terms and conditions when Mr M 
purchased the policy and the 30-day refund process was also explained. Mr M had accepted 
the terms and conditions when purchasing the policy.
The complaint was referred to our service, our investigator didnt think U Drive needed to 
take any further action. As Mr M remained unhappy it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I'm not upholding Mr M's complaint. The concerns at hand 
happened because Mr M provided incorrect information. Its unfortunate but I cant say it was 
U Drives fault. I know this isn't the outcome he hoped for, but I'll explain my reasoning 
below.
At the time of purchase the terms and conditions presented explained that U Drive act as an 
agent for Mr M and quotations given are consistent with the demands and needs of the 
customer. This would have been based on the information Mr M submitted at the time of the 
application.
Following the purchase, U Drive contacted Mr M to confirm the information he had declared. 
They asked a specific question about accidents  fault or non-fault and Mr M confirmed the 
information they had was correct, only one at fault accident. He also confirmed he had held 
his license for six years.
U Drive then went on to validate this information but found it to be incorrect. I appreciate 
Mr M has said he didnt think he needed to declare the two non-fault accidents found, 
however U Drives original quote was based on the information added to the price 
comparison website and later confirmed by their agent. Mr M had an opportunity to discuss it 
with the agent when he verified the information if he was unsure and I note the agent 
specifically asked about fault or non-fault accidents.
Given the change in information the insurer decided they didnt want to provide cover to 
Mr M so U Drive were left in a position to try and find cover elsewhere which they did. Mr M 
was within his rights not to proceed with the new quote but was subject to a cancellation fee.
Ive seen a screen shot of the process that would have been presented to Mr M at the time 
of the purchase. It has the terms and conditions attached and before being able to proceed 
with the purchase it says:
By ticking the box below I confirm that I have read and agree with the terms & 
conditions
It then has a box that says, I have read and agree to the terms and conditions and this had 
to be ticked before any payment can be made. 
The terms and conditions presented at the time of the purchase explained the validation 
process and U Drives service charges and fees. It says:
Cancellation of a policy within 14 days cooling off period or before the policy starts - £75 
cancellation fee and the insurers will charge you for the time you have been on cover
It also says:
There will be a £75.00 cancellation charge if you ask us to arrange a policy for you   
and then change your mind before it starts.
Once the deposit has been paid Mr M had agreed to purchase the policy, and following the 
validation call the agent confirmed Mr M was covered whilst the checks were being carried 
out. So, whilst Ive considered Mr Ms point that he was never insured and didnt receive any 
documentation, there was a very short time he was covered and I think it was clear that a 
cancellation fee applied from the point of purchase. 
The terms and conditions explained that the reason for the fee is to cover the administration 
of the policy and given the work carried out by U Drive such as follow up calls and validation 
checks I dont think it unreasonable in the circumstances. Mr M says U Drive took too long to refund him, 30 days in total, and he feels they profited 
from holding onto it longer. U Drive explained to Mr M they had to wait for the refund from 
the insurer before being able to return it and pointed out their terms explain it can take up to 
30 days for a refund.
The terms and conditions say:
Refunds will be processed normally within 30 days, and only once we have received 
the refund from your Insurers.
I asked U Drive when they received the money back from the insurer. They advised they 
received it around one week after the cancellation. But as Mr M had some time on cover, 
they generally wait 30 days to ensure no claims have been reported. 
Ive considered Mr Ms point that he was unable to obtain insurance elsewhere as he needed 
the money back first. However, U Drive were clear about the refund process and although 
they received the money back a week after cancellation, as Mr M was on cover for a short 
time and therefore there was a possibility of a claim, I dont think their actions were 
unreasonable here. Although, I think they should have explained this to Mr M.
Overall, Im satisfied U Drive treated Mr M fairly when he decided not to proceed with cover 
through their service. 
My final decision
For reasons I have explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman