DRN-3966295
Complaint
Mrs T has complained that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited (Omni) rejected her claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Background 
Mrs T bought a solar panel system (the system) for her home in 2017. The purchase was 
funded by a loan from Omni, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions 
of the supplier under the relevant legislation. In this case, Mrs T alleges that the supplier 
misled her into believing that the panels would be self-funding.
Mrs Ts complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She thought that the 
documents from the time of sale (which Mrs T signed) made it clear that the benefits of the 
solar panel system would not cover the cost and therefore the system would not be 
immediately self-funding in the way Mrs T says she was led to believe. So, the investigator 
did not think a misrepresentation had taken place.
Mrs T disagreed. She reiterated (through her representatives) that she was told the benefits 
provided by the system would cover her monthly finance payments. Her representative 
added that the benefits set out for her was signed after the sale had already been conducted 
and she was not given these facts and figures at the time of sale. Finally, they added that 
she was not given a 14-day cooling off period.   
As the complaint couldnt be resolved by our investigator, Ive been asked to make a
decision.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mrs T paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Omni agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mrs T could claim against Omni, the creditor, for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way he could have 
claimed against the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mrs T and 
the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by the supplier as an agent of Omni.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained
by the investigator, I do not uphold this complaint.
Ive looked at the documents provided by both parties including the consumer credit 
agreement, the contract for the sale of the system and the estimated returns document 
which sets out the estimated benefit Mrs Ts system will likely produce. 
The estimated returns document submitted by Omni shows the supplier set out that the 
maximum estimated year one benefit was £376.39. The above figures are not hidden away 
in small print, but are, in my view clearly visible. And Mrs T has signed directly beneath this 
section  So, I think she wouldve, at the very least, seen this when she signed the 
document. I understand Mrs T says she doesnt recall discussing these figures. But the 
document contains specific information about her circumstances. For example, the unit rate 
charged by her electricity provider from 2016 is noted on there  Mrs T would have had to 
have provided this information to the supplier. So based on what Ive seen, I think its more 
likely she did discuss the contents of the document and Im satisfied she did see and sign 
this document.
Mrs T had signed her credit agreement agreeing to take out a 7-year loan to fund the 
purchase of the system two days earlier. Her monthly payments were £106.75, and I think 
its clear that 12 payments of £106.75 is significantly more than £376.39 (the maximum 
estimated year one benefit). I would add that given Mrs T had only signed her credit 
agreement two days earlier, I think she likely would have remembered that her monthly 
payments were around £100 a month when she signed the estimated returns. And its 
apparent that the year one benefit would only be sufficient to cover a few monthly payments. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that Mrs T was provided with the sales documents and 
that she wouldve seen these, as she has signed the documents. Mrs Ts representative has 
highlighted that the consumer credit agreement was signed on 14 November 2017, while the 
contract for the sale of the system and the estimated returns document were signed on the 
16 November 2017. Omni says the sale was conducted over a few days, but all the 
information was given to her prior to her agreeing to the purchase. Although the documents 
were signed at different meetings  the information was given to Mrs T before she agreed to 
the purchase. 
 
I appreciate the consumer credit agreement was signed two days before the estimated 
returns and the contract for the sale of the system. However, everything was signed prior to 
the system being installed and her credit agreement didnt go live until after the installation. If 
Mrs T had been led to believe the benefits associated with the system were significantly 
higher than that set out on the estimated documents on the day she signed the credit 
agreement (i.e. sufficient to cover her monthly finance payments), rather than signing the 
estimated returns document and proceeding with the sale and installation  I would have 
expected her to questioned what this document set out. 
I therefore think the documents are still reliable evidence and reflect the nature of the 
discussions she would have had with the supplier overall  even though the documents 
might have been signed over a number of meetings. Given the significant difference 
between the benefits received and the cost of the loan, I think its clear that the system 
would not be immediately self-funding. As explained above, If Mrs T had been told 
something different when she signed the credit agreement, on being asked to sign the 
estimated returns document, I would have expected her to question what shed been told 
and Ive seen no evidence that she did  suggesting that they most likely did not contradict 
her understanding at the time. So, to me, it seems more likely that the information contained 
within the estimated returns was consistent with the information she was given when she 
signed the credit agreement. 
Mrs Ts representative also points out that Mrs Ts system was installed shortly after the 
contract was signed and therefore, she didnt have the benefit of the 14-day cooling off 
period she is entitled to. Omni says she could still have contacted it within the cooling off 
period to exercise her right if she chose to do so  but at no point during her cooling off 
period did she indicate she wanted to cancel the agreement. Omni says shes only been in 
touch with Omni twice (once in 2018 and once in 2020) for administrative purposes. 
I appreciate Mrs Ts representative concerns having had the system installed within the 
cooling off period. However, customers can accept goods and services within this period, 
and it seems Mrs T agreed to install the system shortly after the sale. She also signed the 
satisfaction note to say she was happy with the installation. I understand Mrs Ts 
representative may be concerned with the difficulties she might have experienced, had she 
then tried to cancel once the system was installed. But Ive seen no evidence that she tried 
to exercise her right or wanted to cancel but could not do so. So this doesnt change my view 
of the complaint. 
Ive also looked at the Feed in Tariff statements submitted by Mrs T and it seems the system 
is performing slightly better than expected in terms of power generation. 
Overall, while Ive carefully considered Mrs Ts testimony, I find the documents from the time 
of sale to be more persuasive in terms of what information she was likely given at the time of 
sale. So, on balance, I think the evidence suggests that it is unlikely there was a 
misrepresentation that would enable me to uphold this complaint and Ive seen no other 
reason to uphold the complaint. So I dont think Omni acted unfair or unreasonably by 
declining her claim. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman