DRN-3158728
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about British Gas Services Limited (British Gas) under their home 
emergency policy, which also included an annual service of their boiler. Their complaint is 
that British Gas didnt service the boiler, or resolve a temperature control problem, on a 
timely basis and also the time taken to respond to their concerns and complaints.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S arranged a service of their boiler for August 2020, but this was deferred twice 
by British Gas, citing the need to attend to emergencies from other customers. A service 
was then scheduled for the end of November, and an engineer visited Mr and Mrs Ss 
property in early December and carried out a service of the boiler and heating system. 
However, Mr and Mrs S subsequently found that they couldnt adjust the heating 
temperature above a certain level, which was too low to warm their property adequately. Mr 
and Mrs S tried to contact British Gas to arrange a visit to fix the problem but werent able to 
do this, other than by booking a further boiler service appointment. The appointment was 
also rescheduled (from December 2020 to January 2021) when the temperature issue was 
resolved.
Unhappy at the delay in being able to arrange a boiler service visit and then having to book a 
second boiler service when they considered that the first visit had led to the problem with the 
temperature control, Mr and Mrs S complained to British Gas. They complained initially when 
the boiler service was first re-arranged, and then on two subsequent occasions when the 
issue with the temperature control arose.
 
There were delays in British Gas considering the complaints, which meant that they 
responded after Mr and Mrs S first complained to this service. In their response, covering Mr 
and Mrs Ss concern that they had effectively paid premiums in respect of a year in which a 
boiler service didnt take place, British Gas said there had been a misunderstanding on their 
part, leading to two scheduled boiler service visits being booked in successive months. In 
recognition of this, British Gas awarded Mr and Mrs S £65 compensation (the cost of a boiler 
service within the annual cost of the policy).
 
Unhappy at what happened and what they saw as a lack of response by British Gas 
to their complaints, Mr and Mrs S complained to this service. The main points of their 
complaint were that theyd been unable to heat their property to an adequate level 
and British Gas hadnt responded as they should have done to resolve the problem  
a problem that Mr and Mrs S believed arose from the boiler service visit. Mr and Mrs 
S were also unhappy at not being able to contact British Gas to discuss the issue and 
a lack of response to their concerns. Mr and Mrs S asked for compensation for their 
distress and inconvenience, as well as a donation to charity by way of an apology.
During the course of this services investigation of the complaint, British Gas further 
considered Mr and Mrs Ss complaints. In addition to the £65 refund for the boiler 
service, they offered a further £150 in recognition that the service they had provided 
fell short of the standard that Mr and Mrs S should have received. Mr and Mrs S didnt 
think British Gass revised offer was enough and made further representations about 
their concerns to our investigator. British Gas then increased their offer of additional 
compensation to £200. 
Our investigator thought this offer (being in addition to the £65 already paid for the 
missed service) was in line with that offered in similar cases. She also noted that 
British Gas had apologised to Mr and Mrs S for what happened and that, given the 
impact of restrictions in place due to the Covid pandemic, it was reasonable for British 
Gas to carry out essential work. She concluded British Gass offer was fair and didnt 
need to do anything more. 
Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an 
ombudsman review the complaint. They didnt think that £265 (in total) was enough in 
the circumstances, given the delays arranging their boiler service and then resolving 
the issue with the temperature control. They also werent happy with the way that 
British Gas had dealt with their concerns and their complaints.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether British Gas has acted fairly towards Mr and Mrs S.
Looking at Mr and Mrs Ss complaint, I think there are three main elements. Firstly, the re-
scheduling of their annual boiler service and how that was handled. Secondly, the problem 
with the temperature control that they believe was caused by the boiler service, and the time 
it took for the problem to be fixed. Thirdly, the way that British Gas dealt with those issues 
and the subsequent complaints.
On the first issue, Mr and Mrs S say that the service was delayed for a period of three 
months and then a further two months. British Gas have said that the boiler service was re-
scheduled due to their having to prioritise vulnerable customers as well as the impact of 
restrictions due to the Covid Pandemic. Ive considered both views. Looking at the service 
records, it appears that, prior to the boiler service originally scheduled, the boiler was last 
serviced in March 2019. The terms of Mr and Mrs Ss policy provide for a boiler service in 
each year of cover. But there may be circumstances in which the intervals between services 
may be longer than 12 months. However, due to the Covid pandemic and associated 
government restrictions, British Gas deferred non-essential visits to properties. This also 
meant a backlog of visits when restrictions were eased. I dont think this was unreasonable, 
although it would have affected the scheduling of the boiler service. 
While it was unfortunate that the service scheduled for August 2020 was re-scheduled twice, 
taking place in December 2020, British Gas acknowledged this meant Mr and Mrs S hadnt 
received a boiler service in the year to September 2020. I think refunding that part of the 
overall cost of the policy relating to the boiler service (£65) is reasonable, as Mr and Mrs S 
hadnt received that element of cover theyd paid for. British Gas have also said that while 
the service was delayed, the other elements of policy cover, for example call outs for 
breakdowns, was still provided (had it been necessary). I think thats reasonable, as 
although Mr and Mrs S didnt need to use that part of cover in the period, it doesnt mean 
that they were paying for nothing. 
On the second issue, Mr and Mrs Ss view is that the temperature control issue arose after 
the visit to service the boiler. Mr and Mrs S also told British Gas that, when the second 
engineer attended in January 2021 and fixed the problem, he told them that the issue was 
due to the first engineer not resetting part of the boiler when he carried out the service. Ive seen no evidence to contradict this point, nor that British Gas disagree, so Im persuaded 
that its the case. While the problem was fixed by the second engineer, it meant Mr and Mrs 
S couldnt heat their property to an adequate level between the two visits. Ive also noted 
that the second visit took place after having been re-scheduled (from the end of December). 
While the time of year would be one where there were likely to be a higher number of calls to 
British Gas, that Mr and Mrs S werent able to make an appointment quickly (and then had it 
re-scheduled) added to the inconvenience and the impact on them. So, Ive concluded that 
the service provided by British Gas fell short of the standard Mr and Mrs S could expect.
 
The third issue is how British Gas dealt with the concerns raised by Mr and Mrs S, as well as 
with their complaints. While complaint handling isnt an activity that falls within the remit of 
this service, I do think British Gas didnt act fairly or reasonably towards Mr and Mrs S in how 
they responded to their issues and concerns. Particularly as the temperature control issue 
arose after the boiler service. British Gass response to Mr and Mrs Ss concerns also took 
longer than it should have done and, initially, only considered the issue of the re-scheduled 
boiler service.
Given my conclusions, Ive thought carefully about the question of compensation. Our 
investigator thought that British Gass offer of £150 (subsequently increased to £200) in 
addition to the £65 they paid for the missed boiler service was fair and reasonable. Ive 
thought about the impact of what happened to Mr and Mrs S, particularly the temperature 
control issue, in terms of what would be an appropriate level of compensation for distress 
and inconvenience. While Mr and Mrs S believe that British Gas have continued to profit 
from their policy in the time that this service has investigated their complaint, I dont think this 
should affect the level of compensation for what happened. Taking account of all the 
circumstances, I think that £200 is fair compensation (in addition to the £65 already paid).   
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. I 
require British Gas Services Limited to:
Pay Mr and Mrs S £200 for distress and inconvenience (in addition to the £65 it has 
already paid for the missed boiler service). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman