DRN-2271663
The complaint
Mrs J says PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about one instalment loan Mr Lender provided to Mrs J in April 2018. Mrs J 
borrowed £350 and the highest amount she needed to repay in her monthly instalments was 
around £170. The loan was repaid in November 2019. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Js complaint and thought Mr Lenders checks for the 
loans went far enough. Mrs J disagreed and said she was struggling financially. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs J 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mrs Js complaint. Having done this, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mrs J disagreed with the adjudicators view because she thought Mr Lenders checks didnt 
go far enough and it should have been aware that she was struggling financially. So, it 
shouldnt have lent to her.
Mr Lender has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving any of the 
borrowing. It has said it asked Mrs J about her employment status and she confirmed she 
was employed and had a monthly income of £1,445. Mr Lender also checked Mrs Js normal 
monthly living costs. Mrs J declared these to be £692 per month. And even though she had 
to make monthly repayments, the highest repayment would have appeared affordable based 
on the information she declared to Mr Lender. So, I dont think there was anything that 
should have prompted Mr Lender to do further checks.
Mrs J has provided a copy of her bank statements around the time of the loan, and I can see 
she was borrowing from other short-term lenders after she took out the Mr Lender loan. Its 
also clear from the statements that she was struggling to manage her finances. But this was 
Mrs Js first and only loan with Mr Lender so I wouldnt have expected it to carry out more 
detailed checks at such an early stage in the borrowing relationship. And as such Mr Lender 
wouldnt have been aware of Mrs Js financial difficulties. 
I think the time Mrs J had been indebted to Mr Lender and the information shed provided to 
it had an impact of what level of checks would have been appropriate for Mr Lender to carry 
out. Given these, I think the checks Mr Lender carried out before lending the loan went far 
enough and I wouldnt have expected it at this stage to undertake any more in-depth checks. 
The information Mrs J declared to Mr Lender at the time of the loan may not have been an 
accurate reflection of her financial circumstances, but I think Mr Lender was entitled to rely 
on that information. At this stage of the lending relationship, and what Mr Lender knew about     
Mrs J, I wouldnt have expected Mr Lender to verify the information Mrs J gave it. This 
therefore means, I cant say that its done something wrong in lending Mrs J this loan.
I appreciate that my findings are likely to disappoint Mrs J, and Im very sorry to hear about 
her financial difficulties. However, I hope my explanation will help her understand why Ive 
reached this conclusion.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mrs Js complaint and make no award against PDL Finance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman