DRN-3557527
The complaint
Mr S complains Financial & Legal Insurance Company Ltd [FLI] has unfairly declined a claim 
hes made on a Homebuyers Costs insurance policy. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ive provided a summary 
here.
Mr S took out a Homebuyers Cost insurance policy underwritten by FLI to protect 
against certain risks associated with buying a property.
He found a property but the seller revealed it was affected by Japanese Knotweed 
and because of this, Mr S decided to pull out of the purchase.
He made a claim on the policy for the expenses hed incurred so far but FLI declined 
the claim as it said the cause of the withdrawal from the purchase wasnt an insured 
risk.
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint, agreeing that the risk wasnt covered by 
the policy. Mr S asked an Ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When making a claim, the onus is on the consumer to show the claim is covered by 
the policy. When a business relies on an exclusion to decline a claim, the onus is on 
it to show the exclusion applies.
The terms and conditions define which risks are covered and which arent so the 
parties know what they can expect from the cover. Im unlikely to direct an insurer to 
pay a claim that wasnt covered by the policy terms.
Our Investigator detailed what is covered under the policy so I dont propose to 
repeat that here. 
Mr S says FLI should cover the claim under the Adverse Legal Search insured 
incident as FLI doesnt specify what constitutes an adverse legal search and so the 
policy terms are too broad and open to misinterpretation. Additionally, he says his 
specific circumstances arent excluded under the section showing whats not 
covered.
But I dont agree. Mr Ss withdrawal from the purchase was following a disclosure by 
the vendor about the existence of Japanese Knotweed. I think its self-evident that 
information disclosed by a vendor as part of the property transaction doesnt amount 
to a legal search, even if that information is disclosed on a document that forms part 
of the conveyancing process. 
And Im satisfied that the terms of the policy explain theres no cover for costs and 
expenses when the policyholder withdraws from the purchase for any reason other 
than those insured by the policy. And in this case, as Ive explained above, theres 
simply no cover for these circumstances under the Adverse Legal Search or any 
other insured incident under the policy, based on the available evidence.
So, for the reasons Ive explained I wont be upholding the complaint or directing FLI 
to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman