DRN-2185521
The complaint
Miss A has complained that Society of Lloyds (the business) has declined her claim for 
unemployment that she made on her mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Miss A had taken out a grievance against her employer and this dispute came to a head in 
September 2018 with Miss A and her employer reaching a settlement in which Miss A 
agreed to leave her job in return for three months pay in lieu of notice and a lump sum 
payout.
In January 2019 Miss A contacted the business to make a claim for unemployment. This was 
immediately declined on the basis that Miss A had voluntarily ended her employment and 
therefore was not covered under the terms of the policy.
Miss A complained about this to the business, who accepted that, although the immediate 
declination of the claim was probably correct, there may be extenuating circumstances 
around the signing of the settlement agreement. It therefore agreed to consider the claim 
further and asked Miss A to complete a claim form and to provide any other information that 
she could in support of her claim.
After receiving the completed claim form and supporting documents, including information 
from Miss As ex-employer, the business concluded that its original decision to decline the 
claim should still stand.
Our adjudicator did not uphold Miss As complaint. Miss A disagrees with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so I have taken account of the law, relevant rules and regulations, and good 
industry practice.
The policy terms relating to unemployment are as follows:
Unemployed  you are entirely without work because of one of the following:
If you are employed, your employer has totally and permanently terminated your job 
because of circumstances beyond your control.
Claiming for Unemployment  
The policy will not pay for unemployment if:
You resign or accept voluntary unemployment
Looking at a copy of the settlement agreement that Miss A signed, the reason for the 
termination of her employment is cited as mutual agreement. So, on the surface of it, it 
appears that Miss A voluntarily agreed to leave her job. And voluntarily agreeing to terminate 
your employment is not covered under the policy terms set out above.
Miss A has said that she didnt really have a choice in the matter. She says that she suffered 
years of discrimination and the situation made it impossible for her to continue to work there. 
She says that her employer offered her a settlement as they didnt want to go to tribunal.
Settlement agreements reached between employees and employers are generally preceded 
by a complex set of events that has resulted in the parties seeking to part ways. Such 
agreements usually seek to avoid blame, as is the case here where the reason given is 
mutual agreement. 
My role is to establish whether the business acted fairly and reasonably when assessing Ms 
As claim for unemployment. The main evidence is that Miss A decided to take the 
settlement agreement, having received independent legal advice, rather than continuing to 
pursue her grievance through a tribunal. The business was entitled to take the information in 
the settlement agreement that Miss A left her job by mutual agreement at face value. 
Therefore, it was reasonable for it to conclude that Miss A voluntarily made herself 
unemployed. The business did recognise that there might be extenuating circumstances that 
led up to the Miss A signing the settlement agreement and it therefore asked for more 
information. However, having reviewed that information, it maintained its decision to decline 
the claim.
Ive thought about everything Miss A has said. Its clear that she is having a difficult time and 
I am sorry for that. However, based on the available evidence, I am satisfied that the 
business applied its policy terms and conditions appropriately. I find that it was entitled to 
rely on the evidence of the settlement agreement to conclude that Miss A had voluntarily left 
her employment. As that circumstance is excluded under the policy, it was reasonable for 
the business to decline Miss As claim for unemployment.
It follows that I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint and 
make no award against Society of Lloyds.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 October 2020. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman