DRN-3298081
The complaint
Ms J has complained that Cavendish Online Ltd mis-sold a policy to her.
What happened
Ms J complained to Cavendish and it accepted that it had made a mistake and did the 
following:
Refunded overpaid premiums with interest
Adjusted the policy to reflect Ms Js mortgage payments
Agreed to cover the cost of the policy for the remainder of the year at a cost of 
£263.55
Ms J doesnt think that is enough and so she referred her complaint to this Service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Cavendish needed to do anything 
further. 
Ms J disagreed and in summary, made the following comments:
She was unable to get alternative cover until recently but doesnt have 
unemployment cover. 
She has extended her mortgage to maintain cover.
Cavendish should pay compensation for distress and inconvenience as she had to 
get a new policy and did medicals which wouldnt have been necessary had the 
mistake not occurred.
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Cavendish has done enough to put things right and so I dont think 
this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Cavendish accepts that it mis-sold the policy and so there is no dispute relating to the facts 
of this case. But Ms J doesnt think Cavendish has done enough to compensate her for its 
mistake.  So my decision will focus on the remedy offered by Cavendish and whether I think 
it is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Ms J bought an accident, sickness and unemployment policy in 2015 and selected a benefit 
of £1,500 per month. 
But in 2020, it came to light that Ms J had been over insured by £1,050 per month since 
2015 as her policy was linked to her mortgage payments. This meant the policy would only 
pay a maximum benefit equivalent to Ms Js mortgage payments which were a lot less than 
the £1,500 benefit she had selected. 
As Ms J was over-insured, I would expect Cavendish to calculate the premiums Ms J should 
have paid compared to what she did pay. And refund the difference plus 8% simple interest 
per year for the amount of time Ms J was without the money. The overpayments amounted 
to £1,933.94. With 8% simple interest the total amount payable would have been £2,707. 
Cavendish refunded a total £2,879.42 (£172.42 more than I would expect). And so I am 
satisfied that Cavendish has provided an appropriate refund plus interest.
I would also expect it to compensate Ms J for the distress and inconvenience as a result of 
finding out she was over-insured. Cavendish paid £263.55 to cover the cost of her premiums 
for the remainder of 2020. This is in addition to the extra £172.42 mentioned above, so I 
think this is fair and reasonable as compensation for her distress and inconvenience.
Ms J has said that this doesnt take into account her personal circumstances at the time due 
to the Covid-19 pandemic. She said she was at risk of redundancy, wasnt able to get 
alternative cover immediately and still doesnt have redundancy cover. But I cant hold 
Cavendish responsible for the effects of the pandemic on other insurers or Ms Js 
employment and the lack of available redundancy cover. 
I also dont think its fair or reasonable to ask Cavendish to compensate Ms J for hypothetical 
situations and it isnt possible to work out whether Ms J would have had alternative cover in 
2015 and whether that would have changed over the years. A number of insurers have 
changed their policies in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. I cant be satisfied that Ms J 
would have continued to have the cover she asked for in 2015 or whether the premiums or 
cover would have changed or by how much. So I consider the way Cavendish has remedied 
this complaint is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances and I wont be asking it to do 
anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman