DRN-4071780
The complaint
Mr E complains that National Westminster Bank Plc blocked and closed his accounts without 
providing an explanation or warning. Mr E says this caused him unnecessary inconvenience, 
embarrassment and worry for which he should be compensated.
What happened
Mr E had accounts with NatWest  a personal account and accounts for his children.
In June 2022, NatWest decided to review how Mr E was operating his accounts and asked 
him about some activity on his current account. Whilst it conducted its review the bank 
blocked Mr Es access to his accounts, this meant Mr E couldnt access the funds in the 
accounts. 
Mr E discovered that his personal account was blocked when he tried to use a cash 
machine. Hes explained that he went into a branch to try and find out what was happening 
with his accounts. He said when he did, the cashier loudly told him that his accounts had 
been suspended, and couldnt tell him the reasons, or shed be fired. And that hed need to 
contact the banks fraud department for more information. 
Mr Es accounts were blocked between 6 and 21 June 2022. Following this, NatWest 
decided to close all of Mr Es accounts. The bank wrote to him in July 2022 giving him two 
months notice that hed need to make alternative banking arrangements.
Mr E says he was very embarrassed and upset by what the cashier said to him. He said 
there were other customers in the bank at the time and that everyone in the branch heard 
what the cashier said about his accounts, which he says made him feel like a criminal, so he 
left the bank quickly. Mr E says because of the block he had to go to the trouble of manually 
paying his direct debits and he couldnt access his funds to pay for everyday expenses, 
which made things very hard for him especially as he was the main breadwinner of his 
family. He also said that the closure of his accounts had caused him inconvenience as he 
had to go to the trouble of opening new accounts so that he could receive disability benefit 
payments for his family.
Mr E complained to NatWest. In response, NatWest said it hadnt done anything wrong when 
it blocked and closed Mr Es accounts. And it had done so in line with the account terms and 
its regulatory obligations. Mr E wasnt happy with this response, so he brought his complaint 
to our service where an investigator considered it. 
The investigator asked NatWest to provide more information about why it had blocked and 
closed Mr Es accounts. But NatWest said it couldnt provide anything more than it had 
already provided to us. And maintained that it hadnt treated Mr E unfairly.
The investigator said that NatWest hadnt done anything wrong when it reviewed Mr Es 
accounts but based on the limited information the bank had provided, she couldnt say the 
bank had treated him fairly when it had closed his accounts. So, she said NatWest should 
pay Mr E £150 compensation for any trouble and upset the closure of his accounts had 
caused him. NatWest accepted what the investigator said. Mr E didnt. He said that the 
amount of compensation doesnt adequately reflect the amount of trouble and upset he has 
suffered. He wants more compensation and wants to know why NatWest closed and blocked 
his accounts. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter came to me to review. On 27 March 2023 I 
issued a provisional decision in which I said the following:
NatWest has important legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when providing 
accounts to customers. These obligations are ongoing, so do not only pertain to when an 
account is opened. To comply with its obligations NatWest may need to review an account 
and/or restrict its customers access. And ask a customer to provide information about their 
accounts. The terms and conditions of Mr Es accounts also permit NatWest to review an 
account. 
A bank is also generally entitled to close an account providing its in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. In this instance the terms of Mr Es accounts say that in certain 
instances NatWest can close the accounts with immediate notice and by providing 60 days 
notice. And it doesnt have to provide a reason to customer for doing so.
I understand Mr E wants NatWest to explain the reason it applied the blocks to his accounts. 
But NatWest doesnt disclose to its customers what triggers a review of their accounts. Its 
under no obligation to tell Mr E the reasons behind the account review and block, as much 
as hed like to know. So, I cant say its done anything wrong by not giving Mr E this 
information. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it do so. 
However, NatWest needs to provide information to this service so we can fairly decide a 
complaint. Despite being asked by the investigator, NatWest has failed to provide 
information about why it blocked Mr Es accounts and the reasons why it no longer wanted 
him as a customer. Ive considered what NatWest has said about why it wont provide further 
information to our service about the reasons it blocked and closed Mr Es accounts. This 
service has the power to request evidence of this nature under the dispute resolution rules 
(DISP) and Im not persuaded the reasons given by NatWest exclude it from complying with 
these rules. So, in this particular case, because of the lack of information, I cant be satisfied 
that NatWest has treated Mr E fairly when it blocked and closed his accounts. Taking this 
into account, I agree with the investigator that NatWest should pay Mr E compensation for 
the trouble and upset caused by blocking and closing his accounts.
NatWest agreed to pay £150 as recommended by the investigator. Mr E says he should be 
paid more compensation. Having considered what Mr E has told us about how the block and 
closure of his accounts impacted him Ive no doubt this was a worrying and upsetting time 
for him. He wasnt able to access the money in his account for just over two weeks and had 
to rearrange to pay his direct debits from another account. He also had to go to the trouble of 
finding and opening new bank accounts for him and his children. Having considered the 
impact on Mr E and taking into consideration the available evidence, Im satisfied that the 
block and closure of his accounts has caused Mr E some trouble and upset. Therefore, I 
think he should receive compensation for this. 
Having considered how Mr E has been impacted by NatWest blocking and closing his 
accounts, Im satisfied that £150 compensation is a fair amount of compensation and 
proportionate to the trouble and upset Mr E was caused. I also think NatWest should pay 
Mr E 8% simple interest on the sum of his accounts for loss of use of his funds during the 
time his accounts were blocked.My provisional decision was to uphold this complaint and direct National Westminster Bank 
Plc to put things right by doing the following: 
pay Mr E £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the bank closing 
and blocking his accounts
pay Mr E 8% simple interest on the sum of Mr Es accounts from 6 June 2022 until 21 
June 2022
Mr E accepted my provisional decision. NatWest didnt respond.
Now both sides have had an opportunity to comment I can go ahead and issue my final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided anything new for me to consider, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional findings. I remain of the view that this complaint should be partly upheld 
for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, which are repeated above and form part of 
this decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Es complaint in part. Top put things right National 
Westminster Bank Plc should:
pay Mr E £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the bank closing 
and blocking his accounts
pay Mr E 8% simple interest on the sum of Mr Es accounts from 6 June 2022 until 21 
June 2022
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman