DRN-3144022
The complaint
Mr B complains Acasta European Insurance Company Limited damaged his car wheel when 
repairing it under his complete wheel protection policy.
Other companies have been involved in this complaint, but as Acasta are responsible for it 
Ive just referred to them in this decision.
What happened
Mr B has insurance for the wheels and rims on his car. He made a claim following damage 
to his alloy wheel, which was accepted. But he felt the workmanship was poor when 
repairing the wheel having had the work checked at a local alloy repair shop. He 
understands that wheels can only be repaired three times, and hes concerned that the poor 
workmanship has affected the longevity of his wheels.
Acasta said they were sorry Mr B had experienced issues with the repair carried out, but 
they were satisfied for a cosmetic repair this had been done correctly. They said diamond 
cut alloy wheels can only be cut two or three times at most, as youre cutting into the 
material of the wheel. After this, if the wheel was damaged again, a new alloy wheel would 
be needed. Acasta added theyd not cut into Mr Bs wheel, only polished and painted it. But 
they gave Mr B three options to try and resolve the complaint:
1. Recut the wheel
2. Arrange for their repairer to collect the wheel and recut it
3. Or pay Mr B £100 plus VAT to get this done at a repairer of his choice
Mr B wasnt prepared to accept this, as he felt theyd damaged his wheel, so asked us to 
look into things. One of our Investigators did so, and said hed found no evidence Acasta 
had damaged his wheel, so he didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Initially, Mr B accepted our Investigators opinion, on the understanding his wheel could be 
recut at least a further two times and asked for Acastas repairer to collect his wheel and 
recut it. After some issues, Mr B ultimately took his wheel to his own repairer. On the invoice 
for this repair, the shop said the alloy cant be recut again. Mr B was unhappy with this, but 
our Investigator didnt think this was Acastas fault. Because of that, the complaints been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The claim relates to an alloy wheel Mr B has. The policy terms say, under cover provided:
The repair of Your Alloy Wheel(s) that sustain Accidental or Malicious Damage
If Your Alloy Wheel(s) are not repairable We will pay You a contribution towards the 
replacement of Your Alloy Wheel(s) of up to £150 per Alloy Wheel.
So, under the terms of the policy Mr B is entitled to either a repair, or if that cant be done, a 
contribution towards a new alloy wheel.
Initially, Acasta have arranged for the cosmetic repair of the wheel. Having looked at the 
before and after photos, Im satisfied Acasta did this to a reasonable standard. Ive noted 
Mr B has concerns over poor workmanship, but that isnt something I can agree with based 
on the evidence provided  the repair looks satisfactory to me in the photos.
After Mr B raised some concerns, they offered him three options to try and resolve his 
concerns  of which Mr B ultimately decided to get his wheel recut at a shop of his choosing. 
That shop has said Mr Bs wheel cant be recut again  meaning if the wheel gets further 
damage Mr B would need to replace it. But, in order to hold Acasta responsible for this, Id 
need to be satisfied theyve made some kind of error which has led to this situation.
My understanding of the cosmetic repair process is that the metal is ground down until the 
damage is no longer visible. The damage Mr B had repaired looks like a fairly deep chip  
and Acasta have explained the amount of times a wheel can be repaired / recut like this 
depends on the level of damage. That sounds reasonable, as Id expect a wheel can only be 
ground down so far before itd have to be replaced.
As Ive said, I think Acasta completed the initial repair to a reasonable standard. That means 
I dont think Mr B needed to take any further action. He has though chosen to, getting his 
wheel recut to a standard he was more satisfied with  this too will remove material from the 
wheel. So, I think its likely this has also had an impact on how many times the wheel could 
be recut following this.
Taking all of that into account, I cant fairly say Acasta have made any errors leading to 
Mr Bs wheel not being able to be recut again.
Acasta have said on several occasions if Mr Bs wheel were to suffer further damage, theyd 
be able to consider a new claim against the policy. This would be subject to any relevant 
policy terms which I think is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman