DRN-3041668
The complaint
Santander UK Plc (Santander) accepts it incorrectly told A, a limited business, that it wasnt 
eligible to apply for a corporate Euro account. A isnt happy with the redress that has been 
offered to put things right.
A is represented by Miss B, a director.
What happened
Miss B says she first visited a Santander branch at the start of 2020 to enquire about a 
corporate Euro account. She says she was told A wasnt eligible based on turnover criteria.
On 2 September 2020, another director of A called Santander to enquire again about a 
corporate Euro account. Once more he was told A didnt qualify for the account. 
On 25 September 2020, it came to light that this wasnt correct and A made an application 
for a corporate Euro account. A complained to Santander about this. Ultimately, by late 
October the application had stalled as a form sent to Miss B on 22 October 2020 hadnt been 
completed.
Santander upheld As complaint and acknowledged A was given the wrong information on 2 
September 2020 but said it couldnt find any evidence of this happening earlier. It paid £100 
compensation to recognise the wrong information was given on 2 September 2020 and 
offered to pay A transaction-based redress comparing what it did pay with what it wouldve 
paid had its application been progressed on 2 September 2020. It explained this would be 
for the period 2 September up to 28 October 2020 but only if A successfully progressed its 
application for the corporate Euro account.
A was unhappy with this. It didnt agree the redress should be dependent on whether a 
corporate Euro account was successfully opened and said this isnt what had been agreed 
with Santander. 
Our investigator looked into matters and, although there was initially some confusion about 
the redress being offered by Santander, he didnt recommend the complaint should be 
upheld. He thought Santander had taken a reasonable approach in linking the payment of 
transaction-based redress to whether an account was successfully opened. And he didnt 
consider the processing time of 8 weeks changed his view. This is because the account 
wouldnt have been opened until 2 November at the earliest, even if A had been given the 
right information on 2 September and applied for a new account. So, the charges for 
September and October would always have been payable.
Miss B doesnt agree. She says theyve agreed to compromise to the period 2 September  
28 October 2020 but the issue is whether redress is only payable on making a successful 
application for a corporate Euro account. Miss B doesnt feel it should be and says any 
application for such an account would be destined to fail so that Santander could avoid 
paying the redress. 
Miss B and the investigator communicated about these issues, but the investigator didnt 
change his view. This matter has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of matters and points have been raised, this decision focuses on what I 
think are the main issues. However, Ive given careful consideration to all of the submissions 
made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have to tell Miss B that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. So I dont uphold As complaint in this matter. I also think he set out the position 
clearly, particularly in recent correspondence, so theres little I feel can usefully be added to 
what has already been said. I do, however, make the following comments.
Santander accepts it got things wrong when it gave incorrect information to A on 2 
September. It paid A £100 for this. It also offered to pay A transaction-based redress for the 
period from 2 September to 28 October 2020 but this is only if A was successful in its 
application for the corporate Euro account. Its this caveat Miss B doesnt agree with.
Its normally the role of this service in such a situation to try to put the consumer, A, back into 
the position it wouldve been in had the bank not got things wrong. Here, this means I need 
to consider the position A wouldve been in had Santander not given it the wrong information 
on 2 September which caused a delay in A making an application to open a corporate Euro 
account. However, as the application wasn't progressed at the time, it wasnt clear that a 
financial loss occurred. This is because, if the application had been progressed and 
ultimately declined, the charges incurred by A in September and October 2020 wouldnt 
have been any different to what A had paid and no refund would be due. If A was accepted 
for the corporate Euro account, the transaction-based redress would then be calculated and 
paid to A. This would put A back into the position it wouldve been in had it been able to 
apply for the account sooner than it did.
So, whilst I understand Miss B thinks the transaction-based redress should be paid 
irrespective of A making a successful application for a corporate Euro account, I dont see 
things the same. We can only look at what has happened and the actual impact of that 
event, not at what mightve potentially happened. Until A progressed its application for a 
corporate Euro account, it wasnt possible to know what was more likely to have happened if 
A had been given the correct information on 2 September.
It follows that Santanders offer to make the transaction-based redress conditional on A 
making a successful application for a corporate Euro account is a fair resolution.
I havent seen any evidence to support the allegation made by A that Santander was always 
bound to decline As application for a corporate Euro account and dont consider this is more 
likely in all the circumstances. I dont think it likely a large high street bank, such as 
Santander, would take a coordinated and sustained approach against A for this purpose. I 
say this particularly as the matter has involved many staff members across different areas of 
the business and various processes. I note Miss B has told the investigator the application 
has since been progressed by A and declined by Santander. As the investigator explained, 
any complaint about the application for a corporate Euro account would need to be raised 
separately with Santander. To be clear, Im not making a finding on that issue here. 
However, if its found the application shouldve been approved by Santander, the transaction-based redress would then need to be considered under the offer made by 
Santander to resolve this complaint.
In summary, Santander has paid £100 to A. Whilst I note Miss B feels this is inadequate, Im 
satisfied its fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B, for and 
behalf of A, to accept or reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman