DRN-4295449
Complaint
Mr S is unhappy The One Stop Money Shop (One Stop Money) provided him with a high-
cost short-term credit instalment loan. 
He says the loan was lent irresponsibly lent as if the lender had carried out reasonable 
checks it would have seen that the loan was not affordable for him.
Background
This complaint centres around the provision of a high-cost short-term credit instalment loan
for £500, which One Stop Money provided to Mr S in December 2015. The loan was to be 
paid in nine monthly instalments of £107.64.
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr S complaint and she didnt think that One Stop Money 
had done anything wrong or treated him unfairly. So she didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. 
Mr S disagreed with our adjudicators view of his complaint and asked for an ombudsman to 
look at his case at determine it.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including the
key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive referred to this
when considering Mr S case.
Having carefully considered everything, Im not upholding Mr S complaint. Id like to explain 
the reasons for my decision in a bit more detail.
One Stop Money needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is One Stop Money needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to 
understand whether Mr S could afford to make the repayments he was committing to before 
providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
One Stop Money provided Mr S with a single loan which was due to be repaid in nine 
monthly instalments. From what Ive seen, One Stop Money asked Mr S to confirm his 
monthly income and expenditure. It also carried out a credit search and requested a copy of 
Mr S most recent payslip. The information recorded suggests the loan repayments were
comfortably affordable.
Mr S says the information One Stop Money based its decision on didnt accurately reflect
his actual financial position. He says he was significantly indebted and shouldnt have been 
lent to. He also says that proportionate checks would have shown this loan to be not 
affordable.
Ive considered what the parties have said. Its fair to say that One Stop Money gathered 
quite a bit of information about Mr S and didnt simply rely on what hed said before providing 
this loan. And while One Stop Moneys records from the time do indicate that Mr S had a few 
accounts with significant adverse information. But these were historic and the amount Mr S 
owed didnt appear to be excessive compared to his declared income.
I also have to think about what Mr S has said in the context of this being an application for 
first loan. Mr S says notwithstanding what he entered about his circumstances at the time of 
his application this loan was not affordable and it shouldnt have been provided to him. 
But the information that One Stop Money obtained from and about Mr S was not only 
plausible it was also consistent. And importantly there was nothing obvious within this 
information that ought to have clearly indicated to One Stop Money that its calculation of    
Mr S disposable income (and therefore his ability to afford these payments) might have 
been overoptimistic. 
Furthermore, Ive not seen anything at all to indicate that One Stop Money carried out further 
checks such as obtaining open banking information. And I simply dont think that it would 
have been proportionate for One Stop Money to have carried out this degree of verification, 
or even what Mr S has suggested for its checks to be proportionate in this instance.
 
So, while Im sorry to hear that Mr S has had difficulty repaying this loan, I think that One 
Stop Money was reasonably entitled to rely on the information it had been provided with and 
therefore its decision to lend wasnt unreasonable. 
As this is the case, I dont think that One Stop Money did anything wrong when deciding to 
lend to Mr S - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out 
which suggested the repayments were affordable. And Im therefore not upholding Mr S 
complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr S. But I hope hell understand 
the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding this complaint, Id like remind One Stop Money of its obligation to 
exercise forbearance and due consideration should it intend to collect on the outstanding 
balance on Mr S loan and it be the case that he is experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Jeshen NarayananOmbudsman