DRN-2797543
The complaint
Mr A says Stagemount Limited trading as Quidmarket lent to him irresponsibly. Mr A says 
that as soon as he could repay one loan he took another one out. He says he was in a 
significant amount of debt and he couldnt afford the loan repayments. 
  
What happened
This complaint is about three instalment loans Quidmarket provided to Mr A between 
February and August 2020. Some of the information I have been provided with about the 
loans is in the table below. 
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedinstalments 
(monthly)date repaid
1 14/09/2019 £600 6 28/02/2020
2 08/03/2020 £1,500 6 28/08/2020
3 28/08/2020 £1,500 6 outstanding
In its response to Mr As complaint Quidmarket offered to waive the interest and fees Mr A 
should have paid on loan 3. This would leave the capital only to be repaid. Mr A had already 
paid only three pence less than the capital sum lent. So Quidmarket agreed to disregard this 
amount. Mr A would have no more to pay towards loan 3. Mr A didnt agree to this. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He didnt think Quidmarket was acting 
incorrectly when it approved loans 1 and 2. He thought that Quidmarket shouldnt have 
approved loan 3. So, in addition to the offer it had made he recommended that it remove any 
negative information from Mr As credit file. 
Quidmarket agreed to the compensation the adjudicator recommended. 
Mr A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. He said that he thought the checks that 
Quidmarket did before approving loan 2 werent sufficient. This is because of the increase in 
the loan amounts and the short time between the loans. He also thought that the size of his 
overdraft should be factored in. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Quidmarket needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr A 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Quidmarket should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive decided to partially uphold Mr As complaint and Ive explained why below.
Mr A didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loan 1. So, I dont think there is any 
ongoing disagreement about this loan. And, for the avoidance of doubt, I dont think that 
Quidmarket was acting incorrectly when it approved this loan. This is for the same reasons 
the adjudicator said. 
And the agreed compensation for loan 3 is the same as I would award if I were to uphold the 
complaint. So, again, I wont comment in detail on this loan. Other than to say I agree 
Quidmarket shouldnt have approved it. And the compensation offered is reasonable. Ive 
included this in my putting things right section below. 
And loan 1 was part of the borrowing relationship Mr A had with Quidmarket. So it is 
something I will take into account when considering loan 2. Im only considering loan 2 in 
detail. 
For loan 2 Mr A needed to make six monthly repayments of £471.53. Ive seen a record of 
the information Mr A provided when he completed his loan application. Mr A said he had a 
monthly income of £3,700 and he had regular monthly outgoings of £910. So, it would have 
been reasonable for Quidmarket to think that he could afford the loan repayments.  
The crux of Mr As objection to the lending is that he feels Quidmarket should have made 
more in-depth checks. Had it done this, it wouldve seen he was in financial difficulty. But 
given the amounts borrowed against his income, and that that it was early in the lending 
relationship, I dont think its reasonable to say Quidmarket should have looked into his 
finances in more detail. 
It is a concern that Mr A borrowed more for loan 2, and straight after loan 1. But, as Ive said 
above, this was still very early in the lending relationship and the amounts seemed 
reasonable. So, I dont think this in itself shouldve caused Quidmarket to think it should have made more detailed checks. And it follows that I dont think its reasonable for Quidmarket to 
have considered Mr As overdraft (or anything more than it did do). 
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Quidmarket was made aware of 
any financial problems Mr A mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate his circumstances further. So, I think it was reasonable for Quidmarket to rely on 
the information it obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Quidmarket did for loan 2 were 
proportionate. And I think its decision to lend for loan 2 was reasonable. Im not upholding 
Mr As complaint about loans 1 and 2. 
Im upholding Mr As complaint about loan 3. 
  
Putting things right
Quidmarket should:
Waive the interest and fees Mr A should have paid to loan 3. 
Reduce the outstanding balance on loan 3 to zero. 
Remove any negative information about loan 3 from Mr As credit file. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mr As complaint.
Stagemount Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman