DRN-3778155
The complaint
Ms M is complaining that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) have lost a 
substantial amount of money that she deposited with them around January 2018.
What happened
Ms M says around January 2018 she deposited around £200,000 with Halifax. She says 
these funds were from the following:
£10,000 from a SIPP;
£24,000 health insurance;
£28,000 savings;
£30,000 funeral bonds;
£40,000 backpay from the DWP; and
£65,093 from the sale of a house.
Halifax say that Ms M didnt have an account with them until she switched from another 
business to their basic bank account, in November 2021. They say Ms M has never 
deposited the sum she says shes lost into her account with them.
Our investigator looked into Ms Ms complaint but she didnt think Halifax had done anything 
wrong. She said, in summary:
Ms M didnt hold a bank account with Halifax at the time she says the credit was 
made;
Theres no sign of a credit to her account with Halifax of that level; and
Halifax have completed searches under Ms Ms previous name and addresses but 
havent located any other accounts in her name that the funds could have been paid 
into.
The investigator also explained that some of the funds Ms Ms mentioned, such as the 
proceeds of her house sale, were paid into her account with a different business in 2018 and 
subsequently spent. But Ms M says she hasnt spent any of the money. In response to the 
investigators view, she said she gave £200,000 to a Halifax branch manager who lived near 
to her, for safekeeping. 
Ms M has raised a number of similar complaints with us about different businesses in an 
effort to locate the funds she says have been lost. In this decision I am only considering the 
complaint shes raised about Halifax.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Ms Ms complaint  for much the same reasons as the 
investigator.
Ms M opened an account with Halifax on 8 November 2021, through their account switching 
service. And it looks like the opening balance of the account was just over £1. So, Im 
satisfied that the funds Ms M said she paid into an account in 2018 werent transferred to her 
account with Halifax when she opened it in 2021.
Ive looked at the records Halifax have provided and like the investigator, Im satisfied that 
Ms M didnt have an account with Halifax at the time she said she deposited the funds. 
Halifax have shown us that theyve searched their records (including dormant account 
records) under Ms Ms previous and current names and addresses and have found only the 
account she opened in November 2021. 
Ms M said she gave the funds to the branch manager of her local Halifax branch, who was 
also a neighbour of hers, for safekeeping. Weve asked Halifax about this and theyve told us 
that there were three branch managers over the year Ms Ms referred to, but theyre no 
longer working for Halifax. So I dont think theres anything they, or we, can reasonably do to 
look into this further.
However, in a previous complaint our investigator looked into for Ms M, they found that some 
of the funds Ms Ms listed in her complaint about Halifax were deposited into Ms Ms account 
with another business at around the time Ms Ms referring to, and were subsequently spent. 
So, with this in mind, I dont think its likely Ms Ms recollection that she gave all the funds to 
a Halifax branch manager for safekeeping is accurate. I think its more likely that Ms Ms 
recollection of what happened to the funds is mistaken.
Overall I dont think Halifax have treated Ms M unfairly here. Although Im sorry to disappoint 
Ms M, Im not upholding her complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 January 2023.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman