DRN-4404316
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complained that their claim was unfairly declined, and their home contents 
policy cancelled by esure Insurance Limited (esure).
What happened
Mr and Mrs R made a claim for a lost wedding ring. They said the ring was lost whilst 
carrying out some garden improvements. When esure reviewed and validated the claim, it 
felt there were inconsistencies presented with the circumstances. It asked Mr and Mrs R for 
further information to help alleviate its concerns, but as this wasnt forthcoming it decided to 
decline the claim.
esure said after an investigation by its claims team it was discovered that some of the details 
of the claim were manipulated, so it chose to cancel the policy.
Mr and Mrs R think theyve provided sufficient information to esure. They feel like theyve 
been treated as criminals and say theyve been traumatised. They want their insurance 
reinstated and claim honoured.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She thought esure were fair in 
declining the claim as she didnt think Mr and Mrs R had proven they had a valid claim. She 
thought the information esure requested was reasonable, and as this wasnt provided she 
felt esure had been fair to cancel the policy in line with the policy terms. Mr and Mrs R 
disagreed, so the complaint has been referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive started by considering what the rights of esure are to cancel the policy  this is set out 
on pages 34 and 35 of the policy. The policy states:
We have the right to cancel Your Policy at any time by giving You seven days notice in 
writing where there is a valid reason for doing so.
Valid reasons may include but are not limited to:
Where You are required in accordance with the Terms of this Policy to cooperate 
with Us, or send Us information or documentation and You fail to do so in a way that 
materially affects Our ability to process a claim, or Our ability to defend Our interests. 
In this case We may issue a cancellation letter and We will cancel Your Policy if You 
fail to co-operate with Us or provide the required information or documentation by the 
end of the seven-day cancellation notice period.
Therefore, I think if esure can demonstrate a lack of co-operation from Mr and Mrs R when it 
was validating the claim, then Id say esure was fair in cancelling the policy as the policy sets 
this out as a remedy.
I can see esure were uncomfortable with inconsistencies with the claim  so I think it was 
reasonable to ask for further evidence from Mr and Mrs R. 
I can see esure was particularly concerned as the term engagement ring and wedding band 
were used interchangeably during the claim by Mr and Mrs R. Mrs R explained she only had 
one ring, a wedding band with diamonds embedded into it which is why she sometimes 
referred to the ring differently.
However, I can see as part of esures investigation it has shown Mrs R wearing two rings on 
her wedding finger from a social media post, one of which seems to have raised jewels on it. 
I think esure were reasonable to see this as suspicious, so asked Mrs R to provide 
photographic evidence of her wearing only one ring on her wedding finger which matched 
the description she provided. Mr and Mrs R didnt provide this information to esure.
Whilst there were other inconsistencies esure had issue with, I dont feel I need to consider 
these. By not providing the evidence esure requested above, I think esure has reasonably 
shown that Mr and Mrs R havent co-operated fully with the investigation. Therefore, as 
esure has cancelled the policy in line with the policy terms, I think it has been fair to do this.
Likewise, the failure of Mr and Mrs R in providing this information to esure has meant Mr and 
Mrs R havent been able to prove the loss of the specific ring that Mrs R described. So, I 
dont think esure has done anything wrong by declining the claim. I have no doubt if it was 
provided with this evidence it would re-consider the claim. However, based on the evidence I 
can see, I dont uphold this complaint. I dont think esure has done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint, I dont require esure Insurance 
Limited to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman