DRN-3306956
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with how Hyundai Capital UK Limited dealt with the termination of two car 
finance agreements with them. 
What happened
In February 2014, after his mother has passed away, Mr R contacted Hyundai, asking to 
take over the payments of the car finance agreement his mother had with them. He said he 
was told he wouldnt be liable for the agreement, and the agreement wouldnt be transferred 
into his name. He just thought hed be responsible for maintaining the payments under the 
original agreement.
In March 2016 Mr R spoke to Hyundai about returning his mothers car and terminating the 
agreement. The car was returned, and Hyundai sold it for £5,112. This left an outstanding 
balance of £1,280, which Hyundai wrote off. And Mr R wasnt charged anything.
On 16 March 2016, Mr R entered into another agreement with Hyundai. This agreement said 
it was a Conditional Sale PCP Agreement, but Mr R has said this is misleading  it cant be 
both a Conditional Sale and a PCP agreement. He said he was led to believe it was a PCP 
agreement, but it appears it to be a Conditional Sale agreement.
Mr R decided to voluntarily terminate (VT) this agreement on 1 February 2019. He wasnt 
happy that Hyundai were charging him for damages to the car, and for arrears on the 
agreement. He also wasnt happy that he was being charged a £250 collection fee, as this 
wasnt made clear in the agreement.
Hyundai reduced the damages charge to £40. But Mr R still wasnt happy. And he said that 
Hyundai had charged him a monthly instalment payment of over £2,000. So, he brought his 
complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that, with respect to his mothers agreement, Hyundai didnt make it 
clear to Mr R what was happening. But theyd put the agreement in the care of Mr R, and 
the debt wasnt registered against his name. Whats more, none of the payment information 
was registered against Mr Rs credit file and, when the car was returned, Mr R wasnt 
pursued for any outstanding amount.
So, the investigator said Hyundai didnt transfer the agreement into Mr Rs name. And, while 
Hyundai couldve explained this better, what Mr R thought had happened, had happened, 
and this didnt have any adverse impact on him. So, the investigator didnt think Hyundai 
needed to do anything more about this agreement.
With respect to the agreement Mr R took out in 2016, the investigator explained the 
difference between a PCP and Conditional Sale agreement was that, with a PCP agreement, 
the customer had the option and not the obligation to buy the goods. And the purchase didnt 
happen until the final (lump sum) payment was paid. 
The investigator also said the agreement Mr R signed had all the characteristics of a PCP 
agreement, which Mr P wanted. So, they didnt think Mr R had been disadvantaged by what 
the agreement was called, or how it operated.
The agreement allowed Mr R to VT, with nothing more to pay, if hed paid at least 50% of the 
total amount payable under the agreement, if he wasnt in arrears, and if the car was in a 
reasonable condition. But Mr R hadnt paid 50%, he was in arrears, and there was damage 
to the car that fell outside of normal wear and tear. So, the investigator thought Hyundai had 
acted reasonably by charging Mr R for this.
But the investigator didnt think that the agreement clearly explained the £250 collection fee, 
which Hyundai said was an agency fee, or that this was payable upon VT. So, they didnt 
think Hyundai were fair to charge this.
Finally, the investigator said he hadnt seen anything to show Hyundai had charged Mr R a 
fee of £2,020.67 following VT, or that Mr R paid them this amount. So, they didnt think 
Hyundai needed to refund this. But they said the amount outstanding should be reduced by 
the £250 agency fee for the reasons already given.
Hyundai accepted the investigators view, but Mr R didnt. He said he didnt think his 
mothers agreement was enforceable, as the total amount payable was wrong. And he said 
he was charged an additional £875 for COMM VAT on this agreement on 29 April 2016. 
Because of this, he thinks that all the payments he made to this agreement should be 
refunded to him.
With regards to his own agreement, Mr R said the total amount payable is also wrong, so the 
50% VT figure is incorrect. He also said that he was charged an additional £950 for COMM 
VAT on 25 February 2019. Mr R has also said that he believes that both agreements were 
mis-sold because a commission (COMM VAT) was added after termination.
Because Mr R didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr R was supplied with a car under a regulated consumer 
credit agreement which means were able to investigate complaints about it. 
the first agreement
Ive seen a copy of Mr Rs mothers agreement. This was for £10,850 with a total amount 
payable of £12,482.54. There was an advance payment of £1,175, 42 monthly payments of 
£180.23, and a final payment of £3,737.88. These payments total £12,482.54, the amount 
specified in the agreement. And the VT figure quoted in the agreement was £6,421.27  
50% of the total amount payable. Given this, I disagree with Mr R that the total amount 
payable and the 50% VT figure for this agreement were incorrect.Hyundai have said that, when a customer passes away, they allow the Next of Kin to take 
over the payments if they dont want to VT. And, in a letter dated 6 February 2014, Mr R told 
Hyundai I would like to keep the car on for the family and respect my mothers wishes. I can 
confirm that I would like to take over all the payments on the agreement.
Based on this letter, Mr R continued with the agreement on a in the care of basis. This 
meant the agreement stayed in the name of the estate of his mother, and he continued to 
make the payments. Mr R said he believed this meant the agreement wasnt in his name, 
and he wasnt liable for the agreement. And, from what Ive seen, this was the case.
In March 2016 Mr R opted to VT the agreement. As more than 50% of the total amount 
payable under the agreement had been paid, the estate of his mother (as the legal entity in 
whose name the agreement was) wasnt asked to pay anything more. The car was sold for 
£5,112, which left £1,280.18 remaining under the original terms of the agreement. This 
included a COMM VAT charge of £875 which Hyundai had added on 29 April 2016  after 
the agreement had been terminated  as an internal accounting entry for VAT. The 
£1,280.18 was written off on 10 May 2016 as part of the VT process, and neither the estate 
of Mr Rs mother nor Mr R were charged any part of this (including the £875).
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Hyundai acted fairly and reasonably in respect of 
this agreement, and I wont be asking them to do anything more.
the second agreement
Ive seen a copy of the agreement signed by Mr R in March 2016. This was for £10,820 with 
a total amount payable of £13,041.37. There was an advance payment of £250, 48 monthly 
payments of £197.69, and a final payment of £3,302.25. These payments total £13,041.37, 
the amount specified in the agreement. And the VT figure quoted in the agreement was 
£6,520.69  50% of the total amount payable. Given this, I disagree with Mr R that the total 
amount payable and the 50% VT figure were incorrect.
Hyundai classed this agreement as a Conditional Sale PCP. And Mr R has said that he 
wanted a PCP agreement, not a Conditional Sale agreement. And hes said the agreement 
from Hyundai cant be both.
As explained by the investigator in their view, this agreement had all the characteristics of a 
PCP agreement. Mr P had the option to purchase the car at the end of the agreement, by 
making the final lump sum payment, and he also had the option to VT the agreement, which 
he did on 1 February 2019. Given this, I dont think Mr R has been disadvantaged by what 
the agreement was called as it was both a regulated agreement and was the type of 
agreement he thought he was entering into.
Mr R has said that this agreement included a £1,600 shortfall that was transferred over from 
his mothers agreement. But theres nothing to show that this was the case and, as stated 
above, there was no VT shortfall from his mothers agreement. So, Im satisfied that this 
didnt happen.
Under the heading TERMINATION: YOUR RIGHTS the agreement says you have the right 
to end this agreement  we will then be entitled to the return of the goods and to half the 
total amount payable under this agreement, that is £6,520.69. If you have already paid at 
least this amount plus any overdue instalments and have taken reasonable care of the 
goods, you will not have to pay anything more.Ive seen the Statement of Account for this agreement, and its clear from this that Mr R was 
in arrears when the VT happened. And he hadnt paid 50% of the total amount payable 
under the agreement. Because of this, Im satisfied that Hyundai acted reasonably by 
charging Mr R for the VT shortfall in line with the agreement he signed. Hyundai also 
charged Mr R £99.64 for damage to the car that fell outside of reasonable wear and tear, 
and a £250 agency fee which they referred to as a collection fee in error.
Ive seen that, on review of the damage charges, Hyundai reduced this to £40. They also 
confirmed that all the late payment charges on the account had been waived as part of the 
VT process. And this left £1,035.76 outstanding for Mr R to pay. However, due to an error, 
Hyundai only asked Mr R to pay £1,005.82. And theyve honoured this error by not asking Mr 
R for the higher amount.
Hyundai have said the £250 agency fee falls due when the car is collected. And theyve 
referred to the agreement, which says:
COSTS THAT MAY BE PAYABLE IN ADDITION TO THE TOTAL AMOUNT 
PAYABLE
9.2 The following default charges will apply:
9.2.1 £35 when you payment is made late and for every subsequent month 
that your agreement remains in arrears, limited to 3 in any single 
default period.
9.2.2 £50 when we pass your agreement to our internal Recovery Manager.
9.2.3 £250 when we pass your case to an external agency.
The £250 charge referred to is noted as a default charge and is in a section that also refers 
to the need to recover the car. It doesnt specifically refer to VT, and there is no mention of 
this charge in the VT section of the agreement (referred to above). Because of this, Im 
satisfied that any reasonable person would only expect to have to pay this charge if the car 
was repossessed, and not in any other circumstance i.e. VT or return of the car at the end of 
the agreement.
So, because the agreement isnt clear that this is a charge payable on VT, I dont think its 
fair or reasonable for Hyundai to charge it.
Mr R is also unhappy with two further charges, £950 charged on 25 February 2019, and 
£2,020.67 charged when the car had been sold by Hyundai. The £950 COMM VAT charge 
was applied after the agreement was terminated and, like with the first agreement, is 
Hyundais internal accounting for the VAT. This is not something that Mr R has been 
charged or has been asked to pay. And the £2,020.67 is the difference between the amount 
outstanding under the original terms of the agreement, which includes the £975, and the sale 
value of the car. This was written off when the agreement was terminated, and isnt 
something Mr R has been asked, or is being asked, to pay.
Putting things right
For the reasons stated above, I dont think its fair or reasonable for Hyundai to charge Mr R 
the £250 agency fee. As the £1,005.82 VT shortfall is still outstanding, this should be 
reduced by £250, and a new invoice issued to Mr R.
If Mr R is in financial difficulties, and unable to repay the amount outstanding in one 
payment, Id also expect Hyundai to treat him with consideration and forbearance when 
trying to arrange a suitable payment plan.My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Rs complaint, and Hyundai Capital UK Limited must 
follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman