DRN-4345014
The complaint
Mr D has complained about the service provided by UK Insurance Limited (UKI) trading as 
Privilege, in relation to his home insurance policy. 
For the avoidance of doubt, the term UKI includes reference to its agents, representatives, 
and contractors in this decision.
What happened
Unfortunately, Mr Ds home was damaged by fire in an incident. Mr D was insured by UKI at 
the relevant time. Mr D reported the matter to UKI, and it processed his claim. However, Mr 
D was unhappy about the time its taken for repair works to be completed by UKI. He has 
lived in temporary alternative accommodation for many months, and Mr D had likened the 
stay to being in a prison cell. He says that the process has begun to affect his health, and he 
wants to be back in his home as quickly as possible. In summary, Mr D was unhappy about 
avoidable delays, a lack of communication and poor claims management by UKI.
UKI accepted that it had been responsible for certain service failures, and it offered £475 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by these failures. Mr D didnt 
consider that this adequately recognised what hed been through, and he referred his 
complaint to this service.
The relevant investigator agreed that Mr D had suffered avoidable delays and that there had 
been a lack of communication and updates by UKI during the claim up to the point when Mr 
D made his complaint in July 2023. However, the investigator considered that UKI had 
recognised its service errors and had acted fairly and reasonably in relation to the level of 
compensation it had offered for the distress and inconvenience caused. In the 
circumstances, he didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Mr D remained unhappy with the outcome of his complaint. In the circumstances, the matter 
has been referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered the submissions of the parties as summarised below. Mr D felt that 
£475 didnt in any way compensate him for what hed been through. This included loss of his 
social and family life. He said that this was due to UKIs lack of control and supervision for 
nearly a year. Mr D had been forced to live in temporary alternative accommodation and felt 
they were uncomfortable surroundings. Mr D considered that the delays had started in 
March 2023 and that there had subsequently been no progress. He thought that nobody was 
taking charge to ensure things progressed. Certain delays related to a dispute around the 
extent of the works which were required upstairs to reinstate Mr Ds home. In this respect, he 
said that it had been UKIs loss adjuster who had said that re-decoration was needed.
Mr D wanted information such as the loss adjusters report and the works schedule, as he 
felt hed been kept in the dark about the damage and proposed works. As an example of the 
on-going inconvenience, Mr D said his family were having to come round and pick up his 
laundry as there were no facilities on site.
I now turn to what UKI has said in response. It had issued its final response letter in July 
2023 with regard to Mr Ds concerns up to that date. It confirmed that actions agreed in 
resolution of an initial complaint by Mr D had been met and £100 compensation paid. It 
accepted however that there had then been further communication issues and poor claims 
management that had delayed progress of the claim, which led to extending a stay in 
temporary alternative accommodation. It therefore upheld Mr Ds complaint.
It also made reference to resolution of the issue regarding the scope of the works to be 
completed. It had arranged for its contractor to revisit Mr Ds home to provide a scope of 
works for decoration upstairs as promised. It said this was delayed due to the need for 
asbestos testing and removal of the textured ceilingswhich has in turn been delayed 
because contents in the bedroom have not been moved as needed. It acknowledged that 
there had been a breakdown in communication in this respect. 
As to a replacement kitchen, UKI said it was waiting to receive a suppliers lead-in time for 
supply. It said that it had asked for Mr D to be provided with an up-dated schedule of works 
and start date, which it said would regrettably have to be pushed back to allow for the 
asbestos removal. It also agreed to send a copy of the relevant loss adjusters report to keep 
Mr D informed. UKIs case notes showed that when the property was re-surveyed for 
upstairs decoration, asbestos testing then took place. The results came back in mid-June 
2023 and showed that asbestos removal was required from several areas. Nevertheless, 
UKI acknowledged that it wasnt acceptable for Mr D to have to stay in a hotel for as long as 
he did due to the service failures. It apologised to Mr D and paid compensation of £475.
Having considered all of the above evidence and submissions, I agree that there have been 
avoidable delays by UKI, weak communication and poor case management in this case. In 
response to the complaint, UKI has recognised these failings and has paid £475 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint as 
I consider that UKIs response to the complaint has been fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. However, this decision relates only to the period up to July 2023 when a final 
response letter was sent by UKI regarding failures during the relevant period. Any 
subsequent complaint to this service would be handled separately.
The reasoning for my decision is as follows. Mr D considered that the delays commenced in 
March 2023. I note that during the relevant complaint period, it became clear that asbestos 
removal was required at the property. I recognise that UKI didnt keep Mr D properly 
informed about this additional complication, so hed been led to believe that reinstatement 
could start sooner than was realistic and this demonstrates communication failures by UKI.
Its clear that the damage caused by fire was fairly extensive and meant that Mr D had to 
move into temporary accommodation for a lengthy period. Unfortunately, incidents of this 
type, and a move into temporary accommodation, and liaising with insurers can be extremely 
stressful. When asbestos is discovered at a property and requires removal, this does take 
additional time, resource and co-ordination and further complicates management of a repair 
project. Nevertheless, its expected that insurers will diligently and professionally manage 
such challenges. Its clear that there had been miscommunication between contractors and 
agents here. There had also been miscommunication with Mr D for example about the 
moving of contents to allow work to take place. What I therefore need to consider is the 
extent to which any failures in case management then caused additional avoidable delays, 
distress and inconvenience. I consider that UKIs failures will have caused some significant frustration and inconvenience 
over a period of weeks. Ive considered the services guidance as to the appropriate level of 
compensation in such cases. In all the circumstances, I cant say that UKIs response to the 
case management failures and poor communication for the period in question, was unfair 
and unreasonable. Im therefore satisfied that payment of £475 compensation was a fair and 
reasonable response to Mr Ds complaint for the relevant period. In the circumstances, I 
dont require UKI to do anything else with regard to this specific complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont intend to uphold Mr Ds complaint and I dont require 
UK Insurance Limited to do any more in response to his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman