DRN-3513735
The complaint
Mrs C says J D Williams & Company Limited trading as Simply Be (J D Williams) 
irresponsibly lent to her. She has requested that the interest and late payment charges she 
paid on the account be refunded. 
What happened
This complaint is about a catalogue shopping account provided by J D Williams to Mrs C. It 
seems the account was opened in 2013 with Mrs C being given an initial credit limit of 
£125. This limit was increased ten times reaching, at its height, a credit limit of £3500 in 
September 2019. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mrs Cs complaint and thought that J D Williams ought to 
have realised Mrs C simply wasnt in a position to have her credit limit increased to £2250 
in August 2015. Both parties have disagreed with what they said. J D Williams said that it 
had no reason to think that Mrs C was experiencing financial difficulties. Mrs C said that 
she should not have had her credit limits increased before the date our adjudicator said. 
The complaint was therefore passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 25 May 2022, a section of 
which is included below, and forms part of, this decision. In my provisional decision I set out 
the reasons why I didnt agree with the adjudicators view and that it was my intention to 
partially uphold Mrs Cs complaint but from earlier in the life of the account. I set out an 
extract below:
J D Williams needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs C 
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that J D Williams should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that prolonged 
indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Our adjudicator set out in some detail why she thought J D Williams shouldnt have 
provided Mrs C with any additional credit from July 2016. J D Williams didnt agree with 
what our adjudicator said. It said the credit limits it set were affordable for Mrs C. J D 
Williams told us it obtained credit reference data about Mrs C at the time of the account 
opening and prior to each credit limit increase and that it took into consideration how the 
account was being managed. 
Mrs Cs complaint is that J D Williams made credit available that was unaffordable. Its 
possible that J D Williams failed to make adequate checks before providing Mrs C with both 
the credit and the credit increases. But even if thats true, I dont think better enquiries would 
have caused J D Williams to think the initial credit limit or the early credit increases were 
unaffordable. 
I say that because the initial credit limit and the early credit limits were modest and the 
maximum monthly payments for that credit would have been relatively modest. And 
subsequently through some of the credit increases the account was mostly well managed; 
the payments were not missed or under paid for the most part and Mrs C was not using 
the full credit limit available to her. 
Nonetheless Ive also looked at the overall pattern of J D Williamss lending history with 
Mrs C, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which J D Williams should reasonably 
have seen that further lending was likely unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. If so, that 
would mean J D Williams should have realised that it shouldnt have further increased 
Mrs Cs credit limits. Having done so, I think there was such a point in August 2014 
when J D Williams raised the credit limit to £1500. I think there was a pattern of lending 
that ought to have put J D Williams on notice that putting up the credit limit in August 
2014 was unsustainable as Mrs C would not have been able to afford to repay what she 
was being lent in a sustainable manner, most likely. I explain why I say that.
In October 2013 the credit limit was raised to £225 when the balance was £89.76. The credit 
limit increased each month until by February 2015 the credit limit was £1000 and the 
balance had risen to £471.06. The credit limit had risen fourfold and the balance had 
increased in excess of that rate. The pattern of lending seemed to show that the higher the 
credit limit the higher Mrs C made her balance. And the February 2014 credit increase is 
also notable as its the first payment that Miss C made that was an under payment. And so, 
the pattern of lending could also have suggested to J D Williams that with a lower credit limit 
Mrs C was able to manage her account well. But the higher credit limit led Mrs C to raise her 
balance to a level where she couldnt afford to make the repayments fully on time. J D 
Williams chose to take no action on the account at that time. 
Between April 2014 and 2 August 2014 there were five monthly payments. Mrs C made one 
non-payment followed by four underpayments of the minimum payment. And in the six 
months since the credit limit was raised to £1000 the balance rose from £471.06 to £774.34. 
Again, the pattern of lending could have suggested to J D Williams that with a lower credit 
limit Mrs C was able to manage her account well. But the higher credit limit led Mrs C to 
raise her balance to a level where she couldnt afford to make the repayments fully on time. 
J D Williams chose not to intervene to limit Mrs Cs credit at that time. Instead, on 29 August 
2014 J D Williams chose to raise the credit limit to £1500. Subsequently, the balance grew 
and Mrs C was unable to make much progress in reducing the balance when it had grown. So, it is my view currently that J D Williams should reasonably have seen that further lending 
was likely unsustainable, or otherwise harmful, and it shouldnt have further increased Mrs 
Cs credit limit on 29 August 2014 to £1500. 
Its not easy to accurately determine Mrs Cs circumstances at the time. Mrs C has not 
provided us with copies of all her bank statements from that time. Mrs C has provided 
testimony that her income was modest and the evidence I have seen from statements a 
little after August 2014 seems to confirm that. J D Williams have not been able to provide 
details of Mrs Cs income and expenditure from the time, as it seems that it chose not to 
source either of these things during that time in the life of the account or subsequently. 
So, Ive seen no evidence to call into question Mrs Cs testimony about the nature of her 
income she said she received at that time. 
So, given the particular circumstances of Mrs Cs case, based on the information Mrs C 
and J D Williams have given, I nevertheless think that a point was reached by 29 August 
2014, when J D Williams increased Mrs Cs total credit limit to £1500, which ought to have 
prompted J D Williams to realise further credit would most likely be unaffordable or 
otherwise harmful to Mrs C. I say this because the way Mrs C had managed her account 
until that point would have shown J D Williams that Mrs C would not find it easy to repay a 
balance that rose anywhere near the new credit limit, whilst at the same time having to 
meet her daily living expenses. 
I also think there was a significant risk that further increases to her credit limits could 
have led to her indebtedness increasing unsustainably, such that she had no funds 
available to meet her regular outgoings. 
It follows that I think that Mrs C lost out because J D Williams provided her with further 
credit from 29 August 2014 onwards. In my view, J D Williamss actions unfairly prolonged 
Mrs Cs indebtedness by allowing her to use credit she couldnt afford over an extended 
period of time and the interest being added would only have the effect of putting her into 
further debt. 
It follows that J D Williams should put things right.
Putting things right  what J D Williams needs to do
Rework Mrs Cs account to ensure that from 29 August 2014 onwards interest 
is only charged on balances up to the total credit limit of £1000, including any buy 
now pay later interest, (being the credit limit in place before that date) to reflect the 
fact that no further credit limit increases should have been provided. All late 
payment and over limit fees should also be removed; and
If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments 
have been made J D Williams should contact Mrs C to arrange an affordable 
repayment plan for this account. Once Mrs C has repaid the outstanding balance, 
it should remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Cs credit file from 29 
August 2014 onwards for each account. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mrs C, along with 8% simple interest per year on the 
overpayments from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. J D Williams should also remove any adverse information from Mrs 
Cs credit file from 29 August 2014 onwards.
HM Revenue & Customs requires J D Williams to take off tax from this interest. J D 
Williams must give Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for 
one.
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 8 June 2022. J D Williams has acknowledged receiving the 
decision and has said it agrees the outcome and will make the calculation of redress when it 
receives Mrs Cs acceptance. Mrs C has acknowledged receiving the provisional decision 
and she told us she has accepted the arguments in the provisional decision. Neither party 
has suggested they wish to make any further submissions. So, I am proceeding to my final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
J D Williams will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Given that both parties have accepted my provisional findings and theres no new 
information for me to consider following my provisional decision, I have no reason to depart 
from those findings. And as Ive already set out my full reasons for partially upholding Mrs 
Cs complaint, I have nothing further to add. 
Putting things right
J D Williams & Company Limited trading as Simply Be, should put things right in the way set 
out above 
My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im partially upholding Mrs Cs complaint. J D Williams & Company 
Limited trading as Simply Be, should put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman