DRN-1628448
Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy which Mr R says 
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold to him with a credit card some considerable time 
ago. 
Background
Our adjudicator has assessed this complaint and said that it shouldnt be upheld. Mr R 
disagreed and so its been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint.
We no longer have access to Mr Rs original application for his credit card. But given this 
was back in 1994, thats neither unusual nor unreasonable. And whilst I dont doubt Mr R 
honestly believes now that the PPI was mis-sold to him, Im mindful that his recollections are 
from 26 years ago.
Mr R says he wasnt even aware he had PPI on his credit card account, but Im afraid I think 
thats quite unlikely. Even though we no longer have access to his original form, we do have 
access to library copies of RBS credit card application forms from that time period. These 
show that the application form had a specific section for PPI and Mr R would have needed to 
sign his name or otherwise agree to the PPI being added for it to show up on his account. 
Theres no dispute that the PPI was indeed added, so I think its much more likely he agreed 
to the cover during the card application process.
I also think its very unlikely Mr R would have never known he had the PPI. Ive seen copies 
of his monthly credit card statements, for example, which clearly show not only the PPI being 
included as CARDHOLDER PROTECTION PLAN but I also see he was incurring 
significant costs regularly for this. I therefore think it would have been clear enough that he 
was incurring the charges. If Mr R hadnt wanted the policy he would have been able to 
check with RBS what these charges were for. 
So I think his consent for the PPI was obtained.
I dont think its obvious enough whether RBS recommended the PPI cover with the credit 
card or not as part of an advised sale, but this doesnt affect my decision because I think 
the policy was suitable for Mr Rs circumstances. This is because Mr R appears to have 
been eligible for the PPI and not caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see. We 
also know the cost was around £0.75 per £100 of the outstanding monthly balance on Mr Rs 
card, broadly comparable with other types of credit card PPI. I agree Mr R probably had some protection from sickness with his job, but it would have 
most likely been quite moderate. In the event of a successful claim, Mr R would have been 
able to have the outstanding credit card balance reduced by 10% each month for up to 12 
months. These benefits were accessible in addition to any other means he already had in 
place at the time. Taking all these things into account, I think the policy was suitable for him.
RBS also had to give Mr R clear information. I obviously cant confirm he was told everything 
he should have been told. But I can see he would have been drawn to more information on 
the form about the PPI, directly beside where he would have needed to make his choice 
about it. 
Finally, I note Mr R says hes been paid out on other PPI complaints. I can understand that 
being compensated for some cases and not others might feel odd. However, Ive looked 
carefully into this case and all the evidence does tend to point to Mr R agreeing to the cover. 
On balance, I think he probably agreed to the policy and would have been able to see that 
he had it in place for some time. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Royal Bank of Scotland Plc doesnt have to pay 
anything to Mr R.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2020.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman