DRN-3651820
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D have complained that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies with three loans in 1996, 1999 and 2001.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D were sold the policies at the same time as arranging the loans. Although they 
were joint loans, the policies only provided accident, sickness and unemployment cover for 
Mr D. The 1996 sale was for a regular premium policy and the two later sales were for single 
premium policies.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint in relation to the first sale in 1996 but not for the two 
later sales. Both Nationwide and Mr and Mrs D disagree with the adjudicators opinion and 
so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ill now look at each sale in turn:
1996 sale
It was Nationwides responsibility to draw the main features of the policy to Mr and Mrs Ds 
attention.
The relevant policy terms state that, to be eligible for the policy, someone has to be in good 
health and not suffering from any chronic or continuing disease.
Mr D was diagnosed with a medical condition in 1986. Mr D had told Nationwide that, 
following a number of months off work due to the condition in 1986, he had not thereafter 
been significantly affected by it. Nationwide has therefore argued that Mr D was not suffering 
from the illness at the time of the sale.
Although Mr D had been free of any major symptoms for some time, it is the case that he 
had been previously diagnosed with a condition that is usually considered to be chronic in 
nature. The policy document doesnt provide a definition of chronic or continuing disease so 
it is difficult to know how the insurer would have looked at it had Mr D needed to make a 
claim. Given Mr Ds diagnosis, I consider it most likely that the insurer would have deemed 
him to have had a chronic condition at inception, making him ineligible for the policy. 
Regardless of that, there is a level of uncertainty involving some reliance on the goodwill of 
the insurer. That being the case, I dont think that Mr and Mrs D would have decided to buy 
the policy if they had understood that there was a question mark over Mr Ds eligibility for it. 
It follows that I uphold the complaint about the 1996 sale.
1999 and 2001 sales
Mr and Mrs D have said they had no idea they were signing up for PPI, meaning that it was 
added without their knowledge or consent. I have no doubt that Mr and Mrs D have provided 
their honest recollection of events. However, the sales happened a long time ago and so it 
wouldnt be surprising if their memories have faded.
From what we know of Nationwides sales practices at the time, the PPI was usually 
presented as optional and I havent seen anything that would lead me to conclude that 
something different happened in this case.
There would normally have been a discussion about the loan and PPI. If someone elected to 
have PPI, the loan agreement would be printed out setting out all of the costs, including a 
separate column for PPI, as in this case. We have seen examples of where someone has 
declined PPI and the loan agreement subsequently omits the PPI column.
Mr and Mrs D say they were just asked by the advisor, in a pushy manner, to sign in several 
places to complete the loan. However, Ive seen evidence from Nationwide that the loans 
werent completed in one single meeting in a branch. For example, for the 1999 sale the 
process was begun on 1 April, Mr D was then asked to provide copies of his business 
accounts which were received on 10 April. The loan was approved that day and the loan 
agreement was sent to Mr and Mrs D to sign. They then signed it on 13 April 1999. Mr and 
Mrs D would have seen that the agreement included Optional Credit Insurance and that it 
was covering Mr D only for disability, unemployment and life. So Mr and Mrs D had time to 
review the agreement at home before deciding to sign it and send it back. They could have 
queried the inclusion of the PPI at that time if they had wanted to.
A similar process happened with the 2001 sale, with the forms being sent to Mr and Mrs D 
on 25 May, which they signed on 27 May 2001.
Based on the available evidence, Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs D werent given a 
choice about buying the policies. It seems to me that they decided to buy them, knowing that 
they didnt have to, even if they no longer remember doing so.
The policy wording had changed from the earlier sale and there is nothing to suggest that Mr 
D wasnt eligible for the PPI in these instances.
These werent advised sales, meaning that Nationwide didnt have to ensure that the PPI 
was suitable for Mr and Mrs D. So it didnt need to conduct a fact find to establish Mr and 
Mrs Ds wider circumstances. However, it did need to provide Mr and Mrs D with sufficient 
information for them to be able to make an informed choice about whether or not the policies 
were right for them.
As these were non-advised sales, Mr and Mrs D had to weigh up in their own minds the cost 
of the policies against the benefit of having the loan repayments covered if Mr D was unable 
to work. As I have found above, they chose to take out the PPI. So I consider it is reasonable 
to conclude they had some interest in the benefits offered. 
 
I think that Mr and Mrs D would have known something about the PPI  that it would cover 
their loan repayments if Mr D was unable to work due to accident, sickness or 
unemployment  because I dont think theyd have decided to take the policies out without 
knowing anything at all about them.In relation to cost, Im satisfied that the full costs of the PPI, including interest, were set out 
on the loan agreements. So Mr and Mrs D would have known the cost in advance of signing 
the form. 
Mr and Mrs D have provided information about other insurance policies they held at the time. 
Some of these policies, such as the critical illness and life policies, would have paid out in 
different circumstances than those covered by the PPI and therefore the PPI was not 
duplicating their existing cover. Mr D had an income protection policy which would have 
provided more similar cover to the PPI. Mr and Mrs D had held these policies since 1990 
and appear to have been actively managing them to ensure that they met their needs. This 
demonstrates some general awareness and appreciation of insurance cover. As already 
mentioned, it was up to Mr and Mrs D to weigh up their circumstances to decide if they 
wanted PPI. Based on the available evidence, it seems to me that they did so and decided 
that they still wanted to buy PPI to cover their loan repayments in addition to their existing 
protection.
Its possible that Nationwide didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should 
have, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. However, Im not persuaded that 
further information would have caused them to change their minds about buying the PPI. 
Although Mr D had a pre-existing medical condition, he had not had to take any significant 
time off work due to it in over thirteen years at the time of the 1999 sale. So I doubt that Mr D 
would have thought that his condition would be a reason for him to need to claim on the 
policies. So there was no detriment to Mr and Mrs D if there were any shortcomings in the 
information provided by Nationwide. It follows that I do not uphold the complaint in relation to 
the 1999 and 2001 sales.
Putting things right
In relation to the 1996 sale, Nationwide should put Mr and Mrs D in the financial position 
theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out PPI. So Nationwide should:
Pay Mr and Mrs D the amount they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr D made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide can take off what 
he got for the claim from the amount it owes them. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide 
must give Mr and Mrs D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons stated, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint in relation to the 1996 sale and 
require Nationwide Building Society to pay fair compensation as set out above. I do not 
uphold the complaint in relation to the 1999 and 2001 sales.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman