DRN-4123665
The complaint
D, a limited company, has complained about the settlement offered by Society of Lloyds in 
settlement of its business interruption insurance claim.
Mrs H, a director of D, has brought the complaint on Ds behalf.
What happened
D runs a travel agency. It had a business interruption policy with Lloyds which ran from 15 
April 2019 to 14 April 2020. It made a claim to Lloyds in April 2020 after the business was 
affected by Covid-19. 
Lloyds accepted the claim in 2021 following the Supreme Court judgment in a test case 
brought by the Financial Conduct Authority (the test case). 
Lloyds said Ds business had been affected during each of three lockdowns, that is from 23 
March 2020 to 3 July 2020, 5 November 2020 to 1 December 2020 and 20 December 2020 
to 24 March 2021. Slightly different dates were quoted by Lloyds in some correspondence 
but broadly speaking it indemnified D in respect of the three lockdown periods affecting its 
business and not the periods in between. It said that amounted to 223 days of interruption. It 
calculated Ds loss of revenue over the 12-month indemnity period as £158,053 and then 
apportioned that for the 223 days of interruption which resulted in a figure of £90,827. 
It calculated that D had made pro-rated cost savings of £18,228 and received pro-rated 
benefits from the government towards its employees wages of £19,090. It offered D a 
settlement of £53,510.
D didnt accept the way the settlement had been calculated. D argued that the loss hadnt 
been caused by the government lockdowns but by the occurrence on 5 March 2020 of a 
case of Covid-19 within a 25-mile radius of Ds premises. It thought the indemnity period 
should run for 12 months from 5 March 2020.
D brought its complaint to this service. In summary my provisional findings were as follows:
Ds policy was in force between 15 April 2019 and 14 April 2020. Lloyds paid Ds claim 
under the following clause in the policy which covered D for:
Loss resulting from interruption of or interference with the Business by the following 
incidents

(b) contagious and//or infectious human disease (excluding Acquired Immune Deficiency 
Syndrome (AIDS) or an Aids related condition) an outbreak of which a competent public 
authority has stipulated must be notified to them manifested by any person whilst at the 
Premises or within a 25 mile radius of it.
The policy provides for an indemnity period which is defined as The period beginning with 
the occurrence of the Damage and ending not later than the Maximum Indemnity period 
stated in the Schedule during which the results of the Business are affected by the 
Damage. Ds policy has a maximum indemnity period of 12 months.
The term Damage is defined in the policy as Loss, destruction or damage.
Firstly, I looked at when the indemnity period should start. D thinks its business was affected 
by the Covid-19 pandemic before any government restrictions were introduced. 
By checking the Financial Conduct Authoritys business interruption insurance calculator, I 
saw that there were 7 reported cases of Covid-19 within a 25-mile radius of the insured 
premises on 5 March 2020, being the date upon which Covid-19 became a notifiable disease 
in England. Although lockdown restrictions hadnt been introduced by then, peoples 
behaviour had already started to change. So, provided D could show the results of its 
business was affected on this date, in principle I thought it was reasonable to take 5 March 
2020 as the date when the incident covered by the policy started.
Next I needed to consider whether the losses sustained by D throughout the maximum 
indemnity period of 12 months were a result of that one incident. If I understood it correctly, 
D doesnt accept that its losses only occurred during periods of lockdown and thinks its 
unreasonable to say that its losses within the rest of the 12-month maximum indemnity 
period but outside the lockdown periods were a separate incident.
Ds policy covers business interruption as a result of a manifestation of Covid-19 on or within 
a certain radius of the premises, it doesnt cover Covid-19 in general. It appeared to me that 
Ds losses which commenced in March 2020 were caused principally by cases of Covid-19 
around that time which in turn led to the Governments restrictions and in particular, the first 
lockdown. However, the Government restrictions were reviewed and changed over time and, 
given that the March restrictions had been eased, I didnt think that the Government would 
have introduced new restrictions if it hadnt been for new cases of Covid-19 which had 
caused a new threat. I thought that by November 2020 Ds business had ceased to be 
affected by the cases of Covid-19 which led to the March restrictions and was instead 
affected by new cases of Covid-19. And I didnt think D is covered under the policy being 
considered here for later occurrences after the policy had ended. 
In reaching a decision, amongst other things I have to consider relevant law and I thought 
the judgments in the cases of Stonegate Pub Company Ltd v MS Amlin Corporate Member 
Ltd and others [2022] EWHC 2548 (Comm) (Stonegate), Greggs PLC v Zurich Insurance 
PLC [2022] EWHC 2545 (Comm) (Greggs) and Various Eateries Trading Ltd v Allianz 
Insurance PLC [2022] EWHC 2549 (Comm) (VE) were helpful when considering this 
complaint. Thats because, one of the issues considered by the Court was whether losses 
sustained beyond the expiry date of the policies were caused by occurrences of Covid-19 
when the policy was in force. 
In Stonegate the relevant period of insurance came to an end on 30 April 2020. The court 
said (at paragraph 209):
 responses were not equally caused by the cases before the end of the Period of Insurance, 
but rather were predominantly caused by more recent cases, and the threat of future cases, 
at the time of the adoption of the measure in question. 
In VE the period of insurance came to an end on 28 September 2020. At paragraph 48 the 
court summarised the findings from Stonegate to reject VEs argument that losses 
throughout the maximum indemnity period had been caused concurrently and equally by all 
the cases of Covid-19 which had occurred within the relevant radius. The court said: (1) the decisions in the FCA Test Case do not establish that all cases of Covid-19, 
whenever occurring, were equal concurrent causes of the governmental actions and public 
response at any given time; 
(2) the fact that the cases of the disease occurred in Period of Insurance may have caused 
the later cases of the disease (because cases make cases) is not sufficient to say that the 
cases of the disease in the Period of Insurance were the proximate cause of governmental 
measures and public response after the Period of Insurance; and 
(3) the death blow or grip of the peril principle is inapplicable. 
In Greggs, the court said at paragraph 39: 
it appears highly doubtful that, on any view, there can be said to have been only one 
period of interruption or interference. It seems certain that the degree of interruption or 
interference with Greggs business changed over time between the first cases of Covid-19 
and the end of the Indemnity Period
Therefore, while an incident of Covid-19 within a 25-mile radius of Ds premises caused it to 
suffer a loss in March 2020, this same incident was not a cause of the increase in cases in 
November 2020.
I believed that the judgments referred to above supported my view that Ds losses from 5 
November 2020 werent caused by an incident within the indemnity period of the policy. And 
therefore I didnt think Lloyds should have to pay for the losses D incurred after the 
beginning of the second lockdown in England. 
I recognised that D continued to experience losses throughout a 12-month period from 
March 2020. However, I didnt believe D had shown that such losses were caused by the 
cases of Covid-19 which triggered the claim in the first place but rather by a fresh set of 
cases which were a different incident after the policy being considered here had ended.
For the reasons above I thought there was more than one period of interruption or 
interference with Ds business. Since Lloyds paid for business interruption losses during the 
three periods of lockdown, two of which were after the policy had ended, I didnt think it 
treated D unfairly in this respect.
Lloyds appeared to me to have taken a pragmatic decision to settle the claim on the basis of 
losses incurred during the three periods of lockdown. I could understand that it is likely to be 
more difficult for D to show that it has suffered a loss outside those periods by cases of 
Covid-19 occurring within a 25-mile radius of its premises. Thats because around that time 
people were hesitant about travelling for a number of reasons. I thought it was reasonable of 
Lloyds to say that it would consider losses in those periods if D could show they were at 
least partially caused by domestic Covid-19 cases.
Although I found that the indemnity period should start on 5 March 2020 instead of 23 March 
2020, I said it wouldnt be fair of me to require Lloyds to pay D for any such losses it might 
have incurred from 5 to 22 March 2020 as in all likelihood Lloyds had already paid D more 
than I think it was entitled to. 
As this complaint concerns the indemnity period for the claim which commenced in March 
2020, I only considered whether Lloyds has paid enough in respect of this claim. 
In summary, Ds representative made the following points in response:
Since I agreed that Ds business interruption loss started from 5 March 2020, Lloyds 
should reimburse D for the loss it suffered from 5 to 22 March 2020.Lloyds had originally offered a settlement of £69,805 if D were to accept that in full 
and final settlement of its claim. It would be unfair for D to lose out because it had 
challenged the insurers interpretation the policy wording.
The decisions in the Stonegate, Greggs and Various Eateries cases were based on 
different policy wordings. Ds policy didnt refer to lockdowns but rather the 
occurrence of a notifiable disease within 25 miles of its premises.
D suffered a loss because lockdown restrictions affected the ability of its customers 
to travel and their confidence to do so. The proximate cause of this loss was the 
occurrence of Covid-19 on 5 March 2020.
D continued to suffer losses for a full 12-month period after 5 March 2020.
This final decision will affect the outcome of a second claim D made on the policy 
covering it from 15 April 2020 onwards.
As a minimum Lloyds should be asked to honour the original offer but increase it to 
include the period from 5 to 22 March 2020.
We asked Lloyds whether if the complaint were not upheld, it would still be prepared to pay 
the balance of the settlement offer of £69,805 to D. Lloyds said it had paid a total of £63,510 
to date and would be prepared to pay the balance of £6,295 so long as this would be 
deemed full and final.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I agreed in principle that Lloyds should pay Ds losses from 5 March 2020 (being 
the date on which there was an occurrence of a notifiable disease within 25 miles of Ds 
premises), I also thought that Lloyds had already paid D more than it was entitled to under 
the policy. As a result, I dont think its fair to adjust the start date of the indemnity period in 
Ds favour.
I think Lloyds has acted fairly in saying that it would honour the original settlement offer of 
£69,805 in full and final settlement of the claim. If D wishes to accept this offer, it should 
contact Lloyds direct.
I referred to the Stonegate, Greggs and Various Eateries cases because I thought they were 
relevant to how long the indemnity period under the policy should last. For the reasons 
explained above, I think they support my view that Ds losses from 5 November 2020 
onwards werent caused by an incident within the indemnity period of the policy.
I understand that Ds business relies to a large extent on people being able and willing to 
travel, particularly travelling abroad. In this case the period of insurance ended on 14 April 
2020. So D must show that all the Covid-19 cases occurring before that date were equal or 
approximately equal causes of consumer behaviour after 4 November 2020 (being the date 
up to which Lloyds paid its business interruption losses). 
I dont think D has demonstrated that. Thats because around that time people were hesitant 
about travelling for a number of reasons, including the rate of infection in and travel 
restrictions imposed by other countries and worries around quarantine. I dont think Covid-19 
cases before 14 April 2020 have been shown to be an equal or approximately equal cause 
of that change in behaviour.I accept that D might well have continued to suffer losses for a full 12-month period after 5 
March 2020. However, the key issue for me is that it hasnt been shown that Covid-19 cases 
before 14 April 2020 caused those losses.
I appreciate that this decision might affect the outcome of another claim but in this decision I 
can only look at how Lloyds handled the claim under the policy which ended on 14 April 
2020.
I recognise this isnt the outcome D was hoping for but, having considered matters very 
carefully, I think Lloyds has treated it fairly and reasonably.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman