DRN-2858032
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Birmingham Midshires (which Ill
refer to as BM) redeemed their mortgage on the wrong property.
  
What happened
Mr and Mrs D have a small number of properties. They wanted to move the mortgages, for
two properties which were mortgaged with BM, to a different bank. There was a third
property, which was supposed to remain with BM.
Mr and Mrs D had solicitors engaged by this other bank working for them, to redeem the two
mortgages and transfer them to the new bank.
One of the properties transferred as intended, and we dont need to refer to that one any
further. But a mistake was made, and the other property (mortgage no. 621) wasnt
transferred. Instead, a mortgage for a different property held with BM (no. 751) was
redeemed. This happened in November 2017.
Mr and Mrs D were told that there was some money being returned to them, after the
redemption, which they werent expecting. They asked for that to be split between the two
mortgages they held with the new bank.
The mistake seems to have been discovered in late January, but the wrongly redeemed
mortgage wasnt reinstated until April 2018.
Mr and Mrs D complain about BMs part in this mistake. They say that this has led to
significantly higher lending for them, because of charges incurred. And they have been
asked to pay arrears totalling £3,365.10. They also say that their credit scores have been
damaged, and a recent application for credit was refused, affecting their personal lives and a
business they run through a separate limited company.
BM listed the issues that had led to this mistake. It says it doesnt have time to check both
the address and the mortgage number when its redeeming a mortgage. It only looks at the
account number, and assumes this is correct. BM doesnt think it made any mistakes, but
only did what it was asked to do by solicitors acting for Mr and Mrs D.
BM also said that it was told about the mistake in early March. It said it could close account
621, and reopen account 751, but a charge would need to be replaced on that property by
solicitors acting for Mr and Mrs D, before it could do so. That wasnt done until April.
BM said it had now reinstated mortgage 751, which was wrongly redeemed. Because that
account had been closed for a while, no payments had been made to it since November
2017. BM has said that this account needed to be brought up to date, as it had been
reopened. BM said all these arrears had since been cleared.
BM also said that mortgage 621, which was supposed to move but hadnt, was also in
arrears. Mr and Mrs D said this was because the other bank had cancelled payments, and
clawed back all the payments made. BM said this meant arrears had built up. And it also
said that this mortgage was higher than 751, so there was a shortfall that needed to be paid,
so this mortgage could be redeemed. BM said this shortfall had also since been paid.
BM said those arrears had been reported to the credit reference agencies (CRAs). It
offered to amend the reporting to remove late payment markers for account 621, which
ought to have been closed, so shouldnt have been receiving payments anyway. And it has
since sent evidence to say its now done this. But BM wouldnt amend the reporting for
account 751. It said that this mortgage was supposed to stay open, so Mr and Mrs D
shouldve been paying that mortgage.
Mr and Mrs D queried the redemption figure for mortgage 621, and this was eventually paid
in full in 2019. They also queried the interest statement for mortgage 751, that has now been
corrected and reissued. And they wanted to know why payments hadnt been made to the
remaining BM mortgage between November 2017 and May 2018, when they hadnt asked
BM to cancel payments. They also said that theyd paid £5,513.58 onto the mortgage on 29
January 2019, but that hadnt been taken into account.
BM has now paid £150 in compensation to Mr and Mrs D, but when this complaint first came
to our service, it wouldnt do more than this.
Our investigator said that mistakes had been made, but not by BM. It had supplied the
information it was asked for, and it had then redeemed the mortgage it was asked to
redeem. He didnt think BM had to do anything more.
Mr and Mrs Ds representatives disagreed, they said that the borrowing was much higher
now, and BM hadnt justified that. The representatives said BM had charged sums over and
above the agreed charges. A new investigator had taken over this case, but he still didnt
think BM had done anything wrong. This case then came to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold it 
in part. This is what I said then: 
Before reaching my decision, I asked BM for more details on what it had charged, 
and when. It didnt send those details. It did say that it thought it should pay Mr and 
Mrs D a bit more money back, for things that had gone wrong after the mistake was 
uncovered. But I think that what has gone wrong in this case happened before that, 
so I dont think BMs offer puts things right.
I then asked BM for some different information, about how this mortgage was 
redeemed. And then I reached this provisional decision.
BM has consistently said that the error in this case originated with solicitors acting for 
Mr and Mrs D. The redemption details carry the wrong mortgage number.
BM said that meant that what had gone wrong wasnt its fault. BM says that it only 
checks the mortgage account number. It says it is too busy to do more than that, so it 
has an automated redemption process which relies on the mortgage number.
BM has sent us two redemption statements that it sent to Mr and Mrs Ds solicitors 
on different dates. I can see that both of these were for mortgage 751, although the 
contact notes that BM has sent us, and the final response letter it sent to Mr and Mrs D, both suggest that Mr and Mrs Ds solicitors had actually requested the statement 
for 621 on the date that the first of these statements was issued.
I cant see that BM had actually been asked to supply a redemption statement for the
mortgage 751 on the first of those two occasions. I can only see a request for a 
statement for mortgage 621. And that means I cant be sure that the original mistake 
in this case was entirely the fault of Mr and Mrs Ds solicitors.
I also note that neither one of the two redemption statements that BM sent, carries 
the address of the relevant property. I think this wouldve assisted in avoiding 
mistakes, particularly as Mr and Mrs D did have three separate mortgages with BM.
BMs redemption statement does stress that its very important for any redemption 
request to get the mortgage account number exactly right, because it operates an 
automated closure system. And it warns that Failure to provide correct information 
could result in the wrong account being closed.
BM has also sent us the redemption request, which says that money has been paid 
over for the property Mr and Mrs D wanted to transfer. That letter did include the 
account number for the wrong property, 751.
But that letter also included a form to redeem the charge on the mortgaged property. 
And that form gives authority to redeem the charge on the property Mr and Mrs D 
wanted to transfer. Both the address and the land registry title number were for that 
property, not for the property covered by mortgage 751. Not on the property that BM 
did transfer.
I think that there are a number of points to make on this. The first is that BM also 
says it spotted this error in the mortgage account number on the phone, when Mr and 
Mrs Ds solicitors called with a mismatched account number and address. It does 
seem counterintuitive that BM would carry out fewer checks when its actually 
redeeming the mortgage, than when its only discussing it on the phone.
I know that BM warned Mr and Mrs Ds solicitors very clearly about the importance of 
giving it the right mortgage number. But it appears that it did so in response to a 
redemption request for mortgage 621, and that at the same time as it issued this 
warning, it supplied the amounts and number for mortgage 751. That, I think, raises a 
further question over who is responsible for the mistake that was made.
And the final, and most important, point is that the land registry form which Mr and 
Mrs Ds solicitors supplied clearly identifies a different property. That form says the 
lender is asked to confirm that the property identified in panel 2 is no longer charged 
as security for the payment of sums due under the charge. Panel 2 includes the 
address of the property that Mr and Mrs D wanted to redeem (which is mortgage 
621) and nothing else.
So it does rather look as if the form BM received didnt give BM authority to remove 
the charge it removed. BM, the lender, confirmed to the land registry that the address 
was right, when it removed the charge. And we know the address there didnt match 
the mortgage BM had redeemed, or the charge it removed. The address details, and 
land registry title number, were for mortgage no. 621.
So even if I could be sure that BM hadnt made the original mistake (which I dont 
think is clear, given the redemption statements it issued) I would still say that BM 
shouldve spotted it, so that the wrong mortgage wasnt redeemed. And, as Ive said, I think BM probably acted without authority when it removed the charge on the 
property covered by mortgage 751.
For that reason, I think that BM should rework both mortgage 751 and 621 now, as if
mortgage 621 was redeemed in response to Mr and Mrs Ds first request, and 
mortgage 751 remained in place at that time. That means that the costs of rectifying 
this error will fall to BM, they wont be charged to Mr and Mrs D.
BM has also said that it hadnt had payments for either mortgage until considerably 
later. I cannot reach a final view on why that happened, because I dont have 
information from all the parties involved. But its not been clear to me that Mr and Mrs 
D are solely responsible for that. There seems to have been a considerable amount 
of confusion at that time.
One of the BM mortgages appears to have been paid, and then reclaimed through a 
direct debit indemnity. BM says that this isnt its responsibility, but if it considered that 
funds under this direct debit were still due, then its not at all clear why it didnt 
contest the indemnity rather than simply repay the money.
So I think that, when it is reworking the mortgages, BM should do this on the basis 
that payments were made when they were due, and that this should be the report it 
makes to the credit reference agencies.
I dont anticipate that this reworking will result in any shortfall, but if it did, BM could of 
course ask Mr and Mrs D to pay that. It seems more likely that there may be a 
modest overpayment. If so, then I think its for Mr and Mrs D to decide whether they 
would wish any overpayment they may have made to be paid to them, or to be 
applied against their mortgage.
Ive also considered whether BM should pay compensation for this mistake. Bearing 
in mind that the mistake did originate elsewhere, and that Im asking BM to bear the 
costs of putting it right, I dont think its reasonable to ask BM to pay additional 
compensation as well, for not spotting the mistake, and the trouble that the actions 
taken after that caused for Mr and Mrs D. I think that asking BM to put this right, on 
top of the £150 it has already paid, provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mr and Mrs Ds representatives acknowledged receipt, but didnt reply. BM sent a short 
reply, simply saying it accepted my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I havent changed my mind, Ill now make 
the decision I originally proposed.My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Birmingham Midshires must rework 
Mr and Mrs Ds mortgages, as set out in my provisional decision above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman