DRN-3439383
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained that theyve been overcharged for a number of years by UK 
Insurance Limited (UKI) for their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out their first home insurance policy with UKI in 2009 and their policy was 
automatically renewed each year. They didnt query the cost or shop around until 2021.
In September 2021 Mr and Mrs B started to compare prices and realised that there were 
cheaper policies available. Due to the large difference in price, they felt theyd been treated 
unfairly despite being loyal customers, cancelled their policy, and requested compensation.
UKI disagreed and said the renewal prices offered to Mr and Mrs B were in line with its 
pricing structure and based on the level of cover Mr and Mrs B wanted. However, UKI said 
that as theyd been customers since 2009, it would pay £1,100 in total as a goodwill gesture.
Mr and Mrs B were unhappy with this offer of compensation and complained to this service. 
Our investigator upheld their complaint however she didnt recommend an increase in the 
compensation offered by UKI. She explained that insurance pricing practices and risk 
assessments change over the years, and so the price in 2021 didn't necessarily reflect the 
price in previous years. She also noted that when a customer takes out a new policy, its 
often at a discounted price compared to the true cost of providing the insurance. She said 
that sometimes the premium will increase over time to recoup that discount.
Our investigator nevertheless considered that Mr and Mrs Bs understanding that they were 
receiving competitive rates as loyal customers did provide a barrier to being able to query 
the rise in premiums. The investigator looked in detail at the premiums and percentage 
increase that Mr and Mrs B had paid through the life of the policy. She concluded that what 
the industry refers to as consumer inertia was likely to have happened and that at some 
point, the premium increases became unfair.
In conclusion, our investigator explained why she didnt recommend a further compensation 
payment by UKI. She said that the difference between the price paid at the point of inertia in 
2013 and the price paid each year from then until the policy was cancelled in 2021, (together 
with interest), was less than the compensation already offered by UKI
Mr and Mrs B remain unhappy with the outcome of their complaint and the matter has 
therefore been referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to determine whether UKI treated Mr and Mrs B unfairly or unreasonably in the 
way it increased premiums over several years. Ive concluded that the overall increase was 
unfair and unreasonable, however I consider that UKI have now responded in a fair and 
reasonable manner by offering compensation of £1,100. Ill explain how Ive reached this 
conclusion.
Mr and Mrs B believed that their premium had been increased unfairly and without good 
reason. They said theyd been loyal customers for 12 years and assumed theyd 
automatically be treated fairly and given the best price by UKI. In 2021, they realised that 
their premiums were substantially higher than those paid by new and other customers. They 
provided evidence of the premiums paid over the years and the much lower amount they 
would have been charged as new customers. They said that theyd paid premiums of over 
£6,000 in total and felt that UKI had overcharged them by £4,000 or £5,000. They thought 
that interest should also be payable.
Mr and Mrs B said that although theyd been able to shop around for a cheaper policy, they 
were led to believe this wasnt necessary. They were alerted by family members however in 
2021 that their insurance was significantly less than that of Mr and Mrs B for a much larger 
property. From reading UKI renewal letters, Mr and Mrs B felt theyd been given the 
impression that, although they may find cheaper policies; as valued customers we would 
have better treatment by staying where we were... They now considered that they were 
being ripped off.
Finally, Mr and Mrs B couldnt understand why the premium figure in 2013 of £513.04 was 
used as the baseline to calculate compensation, as it was higher than the premium paid nine 
years later. They said, By that time our insurance premium had more than doubled, and we 
were unaware that we could 'negotiate'. There is no reason given for the increase from 
previous years of such a magnitude and we believe that this particular year premium being 
chosenas acceptable is grossly unfair. They said their premiums had quadrupled and they 
didnt think that UKI had provided adequate compensation.
In summary, Mr and Mrs B felt theyd lost out financially due to underhand behaviour and 
they wished to receive; a full refund of the difference between what has been paid, and the 
discount price charged to new customers for the same deal. They said this should be 
backdated to the second year of the policy (2010), together with interest of 8%. They felt that 
theyd been taken advantage of for loyalty to a reputable institution.
Turning to what UKI say about the matter, it maintains that, except for 2018, the policy was 
renewed automatically. It confirmed that the renewal prices were in line with its pricing 
structure, based on the level of cover Mr and Mrs B had requested previously. It referred to 
claims made on the policy in 2016 and 2017 and a loyalty discount of £71.68 given in 2018. 
It said that this discount was due to home ownership status changing from mortgaged, to 
owned.
UKI stated that due to a very competitive market-place, new policies will invariably be 
cheaper due to introductory offers to attract new customers. These discounts are usually 
removed following renewal of the policy, which then increases the cost of insurance in 
subsequent years. Also; We do update our risk models and thus our view of risk can vary 
for a given customer between policy years and past claims do flow into our view of risk. It 
didnt consider the premiums had changed substantially going back to 2015 or that the policy 
had been priced other than as would be expected during its lifetime.
In summary, UKI didnt consider it had made any errors as regards the premium, however it 
said it had offered £1,000 compensation on a goodwill basis to resolve the complaint. It 
agreed however that it could have done more around the renewal date to speak with Mr and 
Mrs B to ensure they were happy with the product and cost of the service it was providing. 
Had we been able to discuss your policy with you, we may have been able to offer a 
discount It said it had calculated compensation with interest from 2013, when the deemed inertia occurred. It said it also offered £100 compensation for what it acknowledged to have 
been a poor level of service when Mr B had complained. 
The starting point is to for me to explain that this service has a settled approach to inertia 
cases. The service recognises that when an insurer hasnt spoken to its customer at 
insurance renewal, there is potential for customers to lose out on the best available terms 
and prices. Whilst this isnt an exact science, our general approach is that if customers 
havent engaged with the insurer for over four years, the relationship is deemed to be inert. 
This cut-off point may seem arbitrary however the service appreciates the need for a fair and 
consistent approach. So, the inertia point identified by the service is usually deemed to be at 
the fifth renewal. By this point we generally consider that the business should have been 
aware that the customer wasnt likely to engage with the renewal process.
This final decision also takes account of the following factors. Two claims were made on the 
policy and this is likely to have led to an increase in premium. It recognises that UKI 
acknowledged a change in home-ownership status and adjusted the price of premium 
downwards at that point. Also, as a general point, insurers are entitled to charge premiums 
and decide upon risk criteria as they see fit. It is then for customers to choose whether to 
buy a particular policy. The fact that there may be similar policies available at a cheaper 
price doesnt mean that the premium is automatically unfair.
Having noted the above, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs B accepted UKIs auto-renewal 
processes on trust over the years and didnt query the price, albeit there was some limited 
contact made in 2018. I also note that Mr and Mrs B had taken the view that they didnt need 
to shop around, as they assumed theyd be treated fairly and reasonably by UKI due to their 
loyalty. Having been customers for some years, they thought they were receiving 
competitive premiums as valued customers. Ive concluded that this brings the matter within 
our usual approach to inertia. 
Mr and Mrs B were sent renewal notices which set out how much they would need to pay for 
the policy if they continued with it. Its the case however that UKI werent acting as a broker, 
so it didnt have to search the wider market for the best available price. It did however need 
to treat Mr and Mrs B fairly when it came to the premium it was charging. Im satisfied that 
Mr and Mrs Bs loyalty and trust presented a barrier to engagement and that this was likely 
to have led to higher premiums being charged than would otherwise be the case. I note that 
Mr and Mrs B were only alerted to the issue in 2021 by family members.
Our investigator provided both UKI and Mr and Mrs B with a detailed synopsis and table 
which itemised premium payments and percentage increases over the relevant 12-year 
period. I dont intend to reproduce this table in my final decision. In summary however, Ive 
noted that the premium was just £264.60 when the policy started in 2009. In 2013 it was 
£513.04 and by 2020, it had reached £620.48.
Having considered this synopsis, Im satisfied that its reasonable to say that a policy that 
has run for around 12 years will see some increase in price due to inflation and other general 
increases in cost. However, home insurance prices have remained relatively stable between 
2005 and 2018 based on industry wide information and Consumer Price Index (CPI) data. I 
note that the 134.5% cumulative increase as identified by our investigator is a very 
significant rise in premium since policy inception in 2009. I dont consider that UKI has 
provided sufficient evidence to explain this cumulative increase (either before or after the 
inertia point). When this is the case, our general approach is that its likely that we consider 
that the customer has been treated unfairly and wed expect the business to compensate 
them.The point when price increases for an inert consumer become unfair will vary from case to 
case. I agree that in this case, its likely that UKI took advantage of this inertia and that over 
the course of 12 years, the premium increases became unfair. In accordance with our 
services usual approach, Im satisfied that it would be fair and reasonable to treat 2013 as 
the baseline. By that stage, it would have been reasonable for UKI to appreciate that despite 
rises in premiums, Mr and Mrs B hadnt engaged with them to query or negotiate the price. I 
note that UKI recognised the issue and calculated compensation with interest from 2013 
when the deemed inertia occurred.
As for any discount to attract new customers, this concept wouldnt automatically be treated 
as unfair. Our service generally considers that its fair to recoup any new customer discount 
through future premiums. We wouldnt therefore direct a refund based on the difference 
between what has been paid and the discount price charged to new customers. Ive received 
no evidence to suggest that Mr and Mrs B have been treated differently to other customers 
in this respect and cant say that UKI has treated Mr and Mrs B unfairly or unreasonably.
In conclusion, I uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint to the extent that I dont consider that UKI 
treated them fairly and reasonably in continuing to increase premiums by cumulative 
percentage increases after 2013. I therefore agree with our investigator that it would be fair 
for UKI to refund the difference between what Mr and Mrs B paid in 2013 and what they paid 
every year after that, together with interest. 
As UKI have already offered compensation of £1,100 which exceeds the above amount, I 
conclude that it represents an appropriate level of compensation for the failure of UKI to treat 
Mr and Mrs B fairly and reasonably in relation to consumer inertia. I note that this also 
includes a sum of £100 in relation to the quality of service Mr and Mrs B received. I consider 
this to have been a fair and reasonable sum to recognise the inconvenience caused by this.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs B will be disappointed by this decision as they dont consider 
that £1,100 adequately compensates them for what has happened here. Im satisfied 
however that the level of compensation is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances and I 
dont require UKI to do anything else.
My final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint on the substantive issue however I dont require UK 
Insurance Limited to pay further compensation for the reasons given above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman