DRN-4411084
The complaint
Mr S and Miss W complain about Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltds handling of their 
home insurance claim.
Mr S and Miss W are joint policyholders. As most of the communication relating to the 
complaint has been from Miss W, Ill refer mainly to her in my decision.
Accredited is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As Accredited has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the 
agents, in my decision, any reference to Accredited includes the actions of the agents. 
What happened
In December 2022, Mr S and Miss W made a claim under their home insurance policy with 
Accredited after an escape of water caused damage to their home and contents. Accredited 
instructed a claims management agent to deal with the claim. 
Miss W says she was initially told the agent would be in touch within five working days, but 
this changed to seven working days when she was sent a message on the claims portal. 
Mr S and Miss W were concerned about leaving the property with wet furnishings in it for an 
extended length of time over the Christmas period. They say Accredited agreed they could 
remove items and take photographs. 
Miss W says Accredited told them it didnt help with humidifiers, so they had to borrow drying 
equipment. They also had to arrange their own skip and clear the damaged furniture and 
carpets themselves. 
Accrediteds surveyor visited the property around three weeks after Mr S and Miss W made 
their claim. Accredited told Miss W it wasnt able to provide a contractor to carry out the 
repairs. So, Mr S and Miss W had to find their own tradesmen to do the work.
Mr S and Miss W were made a cash settlement offer for the internal damage to the building, 
which was increased significantly after they disputed the amount. 
Mr S and Miss W uploaded a list of damaged contents onto the claims portal in mid-January. 
Around six weeks later, they were offered a cash settlement for their contents which was 
much lower than they were expecting. They were told that this was mostly because there 
was no evidence of damage.
Mr S and Miss W raised a complaint with Accredited about the service theyd received 
throughout the claim. They were particularly concerned that the contents side of the claim 
hadnt been resolved. They said they had uploaded many well labelled photographs to show 
the items they were claiming for. They felt the lack of evidence was the fault of Accredited 
who did not attend the claim site soon enough and they were being penalised for doing their 
best to protect their health and property from further damage. 
Accredited apologised for poor communication and delays in the progress of Mr S and     
Miss Ws claim. It said its surveying team were still in the process of settling the contents 
side of their claim and had been asked to get it sorted as soon as possible. It said it wasnt 
convinced that all the delays were avoidable, but it would like to offer Mr S and Miss W £200 
for distress and inconvenience.
Mr S and Miss W remained unhappy and asked our service to consider their concerns. 
Our investigator thought Accrediteds settlement offer for a number of items was fair. She 
recommended Accredited review some of the other items claimed for. She didnt think 
Accredited needed to compensate Mr S and Miss W for the time and effort theyd spent 
sorting out repairs and making their complaint. But she recommended that Accredited pay 
them a further £200 for distress and inconvenience because its initial scope of works (for the 
building repairs) wasnt correct.
Miss W disagreed with our investigators outcome. She didnt think the amount our 
investigator had recommended was enough to compensate them for the lack of service 
theyd received from Accredited. She said it didnt help them source or provide them with 
dehumidifiers. She also thought she and Mr S should be compensated for the three days 
theyd spent working in the dark, with no heating to clear their contents from the property. 
She said they didnt get a proper service in the first place which had led to debates about 
contents and prices. 
As Miss W disagrees with our investigators outcome, the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why. 
Ive considered everything Miss W has told our service, but Ill be keeping my findings to 
what I believe to be the crux of her complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a 
reflection of the informal nature of our service.
Buildings settlement
The policys terms and conditions set out how Accredited will settle a claim under buildings 
cover. They say:
If we cannot offer rebuilding work, repairs or replacements (as defined by us) through our 
preferred contractor, we will pay you:
a. Fair and reasonable costs to have the work carried out by your chosen supplier; or
b.The amount by which the buildings have gone down in value as a result of the 
damage; whichever is lower.
I understand Miss W and Mr S wanted Accredited to arrange for the repairs to be carried out 
by one of its preferred contractors. But Accredited says it didnt have any available 
contractors in their area, so it had to offer them a cash settlement. I appreciate this was 
disappointing for Miss W and Mr S, who had to arrange for the work themselves and this 
took up a lot of their time. However, the policys terms and conditions allow Accredited to 
settle a claim by cash. So, I cant say its acted unfairly here. Contents settlement
The policys terms and conditions say how Accredited will settle contents claims. They say:
We can choose to settle your claim by:
a. repairing or reinstating the item; or
b. replacing the item as new; or
c. paying you the cash equivalent.
Where possible we will repair your item
They also say:
You must not destroy or get rid of any damaged items without our agreement, as we may 
need to inspect them.
Miss W says that when she logged the claim, she was told they should try to leave things in 
the property. She says she explained this was not possible as five working days took them 
through the Christmas holidays and the house needed urgent attention due to the extent of 
the flood. She says she was told to take pictures of the wet contents.
Accredited says its been unable to locate the call where this was discussed. So, I dont 
know exactly what was said about this at the time.
I understand it was frustrating for Miss W to later be told that shed breached a policy 
condition by getting rid of damaged items without Accrediteds agreement. However, I 
havent seen strong enough evidence to conclude that she was told Accredited would 
replace damaged items if she disposed of them.
Our investigator explained why she thought Accredited had fairly valued a number of items 
and Ive reached the same conclusions on these. As Miss W hasnt disputed our 
investigators findings, I havent found it necessary to provide further comment on these. 
Accredited has said it would be willing to review a settlement for replacing the bookcase, 
ottoman and pine bookcase if Miss W and Mr S are unable to get these restored. I think this 
is fair. 
Accredited has agreed with our recommendation to review its offer for the sofa and matching 
recliner chair with the view to increasing this part of the settlement. Its also agreed to review 
Miss W and Mr Ss claim for the digital box and DVD player with a view to include the costs 
of replacing these in the settlement offer. 
Accredited has also agreed to pay £17 for the standing lamp and pay the amount on the 
quotes Miss W has provided for the carpet replacement. I think this is reasonable. 
Customer service and delays
Miss W and Mr S discovered the leak on 20 December 2022 after returning home from 
abroad. They telephoned Accredited that evening and called back to log their claim the 
following day. Accredited says it wasnt able to get anyone to visit the property until 3 January 2023 and 
the earliest a surveyor could attend was 9 January. This was because of a high influx of 
claims and the bank holidays. 
I appreciate it was frustrating for Miss W and Mr S that Accredited wasnt able to get anyone 
around sooner. However, I think much of this delay was beyond Accrediteds control and I 
dont think the delay was unreasonable, given the time of year. 
By the time Accredited visited the property, Miss W and Mr S had cleared the contents from 
the rooms and stripped the wallpaper, flooring and carpets. Theyd also borrowed 
dehumidifiers as these hadnt been supplied by Accredited. 
I understand that Miss W and Mr S decided to carry out this work themselves because they 
were concerned about further damage to their property. I appreciate this took a lot of their 
time and effort. However, I cant tell Accredited to compensate them for the work that they 
did. Miss W and Mr S have confirmed that Accredited has reimbursed them for the cost of 
hiring a skip and additional energy usage which is what Id expect it to do under the 
circumstances.
Accredited has acknowledged delays in responding to Miss Ws messages on the online 
portal and has apologised for the lack of communication. It offered Miss W £200 for distress 
and inconvenience caused by this and the avoidable delays. 
I think Miss W and Mr S were caused some unnecessary frustration and inconvenience 
because of Accrediteds initial low offer for the buildings settlement. This was increased 
significantly after Accredited arranged for a second surveyor to visit the property. I 
understand Miss W and Mr S spent a lot of time and effort obtaining quotes and writing a 
report to challenge the initial offer. 
It took Accredited around six weeks to offer Miss W and Mr S a settlement after theyd 
submitted their contents list and the amount offered was much lower than they were 
expecting. Miss W feels that this would have been resolved more quickly if theyd been given 
a better service at the beginning of the claim. 
I think there were some avoidable delays in progressing the claim and Accrediteds 
communication with Miss W could have been better. However, I cant tell Accredited to 
compensate Miss W and Mr S for any distress arising from the incident itself or the time and 
effort they put into dealing with their claim. 
Escape of water claims usually take some time to resolve. I can only award compensation 
for distress and inconvenience Accredited has caused which is over and above what we 
would usually expect from this type of claim. 
Accredited has agreed to pay Miss W and Mr S a total of £400 compensation. This is in line 
with what our service would typically award where the businesss actions have caused a 
consumer considerable distress, upset and worry and/or significant inconvenience and 
disruption that needs a lot of extra effort to sort out. So, while I know this will be 
disappointing for Miss W and Mr S, Im not persuaded to increase this.
Putting things right
Accredited should:
Pay Mr S and Miss W £200 for distress and inconvenience, in addition to the £200 it 
had already offered them.Add £17 to the contents settlement for the standing lamp.
Pay the amount quoted for the carpet replacement.
Review the settlements for the DVD player, digital box, sofa and matching recliner.
Review the settlement for the bookcases and ottoman if Mr S and Miss W are unable 
to get these repaired and settle these items in line with the policys terms and 
conditions. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr S and Miss Ws complaint and direct Accredited 
Insurance (Europe) Ltd to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman