DRN-3576213
The complaint
Mr O and Miss S complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) declined to 
renew their home insurance policy at short notice. 
Mr O and Miss S said this didnt give them enough time to find alternative cover, leaving 
them without home insurance for almost two months. They also felt that RSA had unfairly 
accused them of trying to make a fraudulent claim. 
RSA are the underwriters of the home insurance policy, and are handling this complaint. 
What happened
Mr O and Miss S had a home insurance policy with RSA since 1 November 2018. 
Mr O called RSA on 9 August 2021 to make a claim for a broken washing machine. RSA told 
him the claim wouldnt be covered due to wear and tear. RSA recorded this as a claim.
Mr O called again on 9 August 2021 to explain that he may have shut the washing machine 
door incorrectly and that may have led to the damage. He wanted to know if this could be 
covered under the accidental damage part of his policy. RSA recorded this as a second 
claim. 
On 11 August 2021 RSA asked Mr O to provide photographs of his washing machine. RSAs 
representatives also arranged to interview Mr O the following day.
Mr O didnt pick up the calls or emails from RSAs representatives on 12 August 2021. After 
a chaser email from RSAs representatives on 16 August 2021, Mr O agreed to be 
interviewed on 23 August 2021. 
The interview started as planned on 23 August 2021. But after a short time Mr O asked for it 
to be rearranged to the next day. Mr O then called RSA to express his unhappiness about 
the questions he was asked during the interview and a complaint was raised.
On 24 August 2021 RSAs representative appointed a supplier to carry out an inspection of 
the broken washing machine. RSA contacted Mr O to tell him his washing machine needed 
to be inspected. And asked him to contact them by 10 September 2021 about this. 
RSAs notes recorded that Mr O didnt provide the requested photographs or contact their 
supplier to arrange the required inspection.
On 11 October 2021 RSA completed their investigation report on the claim. As they couldnt 
inspect the washing machine, they decided they wouldnt invite renewal of the policy. They 
chose this option over a potential cancellation of the policy. 
On 21 October 2021 RSA wrote to Mr O and Miss S to tell them about their decision to not 
offer renewal of the policy. The letter stated that their policy would end on 1 November 2021. 
And that RSA were no longer able to offer home insurance due to their claims history. It also 
stated that Mr O and Miss S would have to let their new insurer know that theyd had a policy 
renewal declined. 
Mr O and Miss S complained to RSA. They were unhappy with RSAs decision to not invite 
renewal and the length of time theyd been given to find alternative cover. They were also 
unhappy with the information RSA had recorded about the claims theyd made. 
RSA issued their final response to the complaint on 9 November 2021. They partly upheld 
the complaint. RSA said that theyd decided not to offer renewal as Mr O hadnt provided 
them with all the information theyd needed during the recent claim. They said he was 
required to do this under the terms and conditions of the policy. RSA said that theyd decided 
that not renewing the policy was the best option, although they mightve looked at cancelling 
the policy.
RSA said that they made the decision to not offer renewal on 21 October 2021. They said 
that theyd be happy to provide Mr O and Miss S with 14 days grace from 1 November 2021 
to find alternative cover. They acknowledged that their decision to not offer renewal hadnt 
given Mr O and Miss S much time to find alternative insurance. But said that they wrote to 
them as soon as the decision not to renew had been made. 
RSA apologised that some confusion had been caused by taking the final payment for the 
policy later than expected. They also said that although theyd registered two claims on 9 
August 2021, they shouldve only recorded one claim. They said theyd closed one of the 
claims and would ensure that relevant databases got updated to reflect that. RSA 
acknowledged that they couldve handled the situation better and offered £75 to say sorry.
Unhappy with RSAs response, Mr O and Miss S brought their complaint to this service. 
They made the following complaint points:
- RSA couldnt have sent the letter dated 21 October 2021 as soon as possible as they 
hadnt received it until 28 October 2021. This meant there were only four days until 
renewal on 1 November 2021. They shouldve been given more notice. This led to 
them not having insurance in place for a couple of months due to being too busy to 
arrange a replacement.
- They didnt feel that the 21 October 2021 letter had given them a reason for not 
renewing the policy. When they asked RSA, they were told that it was due to Mr O 
attempting to make a fraudulent claim in August 2021. 
- They didnt think it was right that the 21 October 2021 letter stated that they would 
have to let their new insurer know that the policy renewal had been declined. 
- They wanted compensation for the insult of having been accused of fraud. They also 
wanted compensation for the distress and inconvenience of being without insurance 
for almost two months. 
Our investigator didnt think that the complaint should be upheld. She felt that RSA had 
acted fairly when theyd decided not to offer renewal terms. She acknowledged that Mr O 
and Miss S were unhappy with how their claim had been handled, but didnt consider that 
RSA had done anything wrong when theyd requested further information and an inspection 
of the washing machine in order to validate the claim. She also acknowledged that finding a 
new insurance policy wouldve been inconvenient, but felt that RSA were entitled to make 
the decision to not offer renewal. She also felt that the £75 RSA had offered as an apology 
was fair and reasonable under the circumstances. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know how disappointing this will be to Mr O and Miss S, but, having looked at all the 
evidence, Im not going to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
I first considered whether RSA acted fairly when they decided not to renew the policy.
Did RSA act fairly when they declined to renew the policy?
The 21 October 2021 letter stated that the policy wouldnt be renewed due to Mr Os and 
Miss Ss claims history. 
RSA have also said that they decided not to renew the policy due to the circumstances of 
the claim, and Mr Os lack of co-operation during their investigation into it. They said that 
they told Mr O and Miss S at the first available opportunity that they didnt want to renew the 
policy.  But that because their investigation had concluded close to the renewal date, they 
decided to not invite the renewal, rather than invoke the cancellation clause. They said this 
was because cancellation wouldve had a greater impact on Mr O and Miss S. RSA also said 
that when Mr O told them that he didnt have enough time to find alternative cover, they held 
cover for a further 14 days, until 14 November 2021. 
As our investigator said, RSA are free to make commercial decisions about the provision of 
insurance to a consumer and, if so, on what terms. This service isnt usually able to interfere 
with a businesss commercial judgement, as long as that judgement has been exercised 
legitimately. 
From what Ive seen, RSA did exercise their judgement reasonably when they declined to 
renew the policy due to the circumstances of the recent claim and the lack of co-operation in 
their subsequent investigation. Looking at the terms of the policy, I can see that Mr O was 
required to provide the requested information, and take part in the investigation. The fact that 
he didnt allowed RSA to make the decision to cancel the policy, or to decline renewal under 
the terms of the policy. I consider that cancelling the policy wouldve put Mr O and Miss S in 
a worse position than declining to renew it. Therefore Im satisfied that RSA acted fairly 
when they declined to renew the policy.
I next considered the amount of notice RSA gave Mr O and Miss S about their decision not 
to renew.
Did RSA notify Mr O and Miss S as soon as they could have?
From the evidence Ive seen, RSA concluded their investigation into the claim on 11 October 
2021. I say this because thats the date of the investigation report. The investigation report 
concluded that the policy could be cancelled with 14 days notice. But noted that as renewal 
was imminent on 1 November 2021, it may be preferable to decide to decline the renewal 
instead. 
On 21 October 2021, eight working days later, RSA sent notification to Mr O and Miss S that 
theyd decided not to renew their policy. This letter stated that the reason for this decision 
was the claims history.
Mr O said he didnt receive RSAs notification of their decision to decline renewal until 28 
October 2021. He said this didnt give him enough time to find alternative cover. And that he was left without cover for almost two months. 
RSA offered, in their final response dated 9 November 2021, to extend the cover until 14 
November 2021.
I acknowledge that Mr O feels that RSA cant have sent the 21 October 2021 letter as soon 
as possible. But Ive no evidence that theyre responsible for the delay in him receiving it. 
Therefore, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to conclude that RSA didnt send the letter 
at the time it was dated.
I also acknowledge that Mr O and Miss S couldnt have received the final response letter, 
dated 9 November 2021, letting them know that they had until 14 November 2021 to find 
replacement insurance, until 10 or 11 November 2021 at the earliest. Mr O told this service 
there was no use in being made aware of the extension two or three days before the 
extended cover ended. And that he was frustrated that he didn't have enough time to shop 
around for insurance before his policy cover ended. He felt that RSA wouldve known from 
the time of his claim in August 2021 that they wouldnt be renewing the policy. And therefore 
that they shouldve told him much earlier.  
I understand why Mr O is frustrated about the amount of notice he was given. But, from what 
Ive seen, RSA acted fairly when they carried out the investigation into his claim. If Mr O had 
participated in that investigation in August 2021 it wouldve concluded much earlier. Even if 
Mr Os participation had led to the same outcome, RSA wouldve been able to notify him 
earlier if hed participated in the process. The investigation concluded with the report dated 
11 October 2021, which recommended that the policy shouldnt be renewed. RSA wrote to 
Mr O and Miss S eight working days later  after having reviewed the report and made their 
decision. 
Having considered what happened, Im satisfied that RSA acted in a timely fashion to notify 
Mr O and Miss S about their decision to decline the renewal. I appreciate that their offer to 
extend cover didnt really help Mr O and Miss S given when they received it, but I dont 
consider that RSA couldve acted any differently under the circumstances. And Im satisfied 
they did nothing wrong here.
I next considered Mr O and Miss Ss complaint that they shouldnt be required to tell their 
new insurer about the renewal declination.
Should Mr O and Miss S have to tell new insurers about RSAs decision?
The 21 October 2021 letter stated that they would have to let their new insurer know that the 
policy renewal had been declined. It explained why this would be necessary. It said:
They need this information to help them decide whether to provide cover and to make a 
decision on the price of the policy. If you dont, it could make your future policy invalid and 
may affect any claims that you make. 
Mr O and Miss S didnt think this was right. They said that RSA hadnt cancelled their policy 
in August 2021 at the time of the claim. But that theyd let the policy run and then declined 
renewal. They said theyd never requested renewal. And they hadnt been declined 
insurance as theyd never asked for it. They felt that telling them to inform new insurers was 
incorrect. 
RSA said that the policy was on automatic renewal. And had been since 2018 when the it 
was first purchased. They said theyd found no records to show that Mr O and Miss S had 
requested cancellation before their review of the renewal.While I understand Mr Os position on this point, Ive no evidence that he tried to stop the 
renewal before it was declined. And as it was on automatic renewal, Im satisfied that RSA 
did decline to renew it. Insurers need information about potential policyholders past 
insurance experience to fairly assess the risk theyre taking on. Therefore I consider that 
RSAs statements were correct, even though Mr O doesnt consider that he asked to renew 
his policy. And Im satisfied that Mr O and Miss S should have to tell new insurers about 
RSAs decision. 
I finally considered the compensation RSA offered Mr O and Miss S.
Compensation
Mr O and Miss S wanted compensation for the insult of having been accused of fraud. They 
also wanted compensation for the distress and inconvenience of being without insurance for 
almost two months. 
From what Ive seen, RSA followed their normal process for investigating the August 2021 
claim. Ive found no evidence that they did anything wrong here. Insurers must be allowed to 
investigate claims that might be fraudulent. But if an investigation is carried out, it doesnt 
mean that the policyholder is guilty of fraud, just that the insurer needs further information to 
validate the claim. 
Ive seen no evidence that RSA unfairly accused Mr O of fraud. And Ive seen that they 
followed a reasonable process to investigate the claim. As I dont consider that RSA did 
anything wrong during their investigation, I cant award any compensation for this part of the 
complaint. 
Im sorry that Mr O and Miss S had the stress of being without insurance cover for almost 
two months, but I cant reasonably hold RSA responsible for that. 
As Ive noted earlier, RSA were entitled to decline the renewal. And if Mr O had co-operated 
with the investigation into his claim they wouldve made their decision earlier. Therefore Mr 
O wouldve had longer to find replacement insurance. So I cant award compensation for this 
part of the complaint. 
RSA have paid £75 as an apology for the things they couldve handled better. I consider that 
these were the late final payment for the policy and the recording of the claim as two claims 
instead of one. 
Mr O doesnt consider that £75 goes far enough to compensate him for getting notice of the 
declined renewal so close to the renewal date. But Ive already concluded earlier in my 
decision that RSA informed Mr O and Miss S about their decision as soon as they could 
have.
Overall, Im satisfied that the £75 compensation RSA have already paid is appropriate under 
the circumstances. Therefore I dont uphold this complaint. And I dont require RSA to take 
any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Miss S 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman