DRN-3040829
The complaint
Mr M has complained about Amtrust International Underwriters DACs (Amtrusts) decision 
to decline a claim he made on his Guaranteed Asset Protection (GAP) insurance policy.
 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 7 September 2021, explaining why I was 
not intending to uphold this complaint. 
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
What happened
In August 2020, Mr M made a claim under his GAP policy, underwritten by Amtrust, 
following the theft of his vehicle. Mr Ms Motor Insurer, who Ill call M, paid out on the 
theft claim, leaving a shortfall which Mr M claimed from Amtrust under his GAP 
insurance.
In the claim form he completed for Amtrust, on 9 August 2020, Mr M said: Vehicle 
stolen from driveway. CCTV showing 2 Guys approach House. 1 going towards front 
door of house with a computer/tablet. He then plays with it, which opens the car. 
Other guy pulls open driver door and jumps in. They both get in vehicle on[e] after 
another then Drive off with car. CCTV given to insurer/policy. They say they have 
relay-theft the vehicle via the computer.
Amtrust obtained expert opinion on the CCTV footage which explained the steps that 
needed to be followed for such a relay theft to be completed. The expert said what 
was captured by the CCTV didnt correlate with those steps and he concluded: 
whilst this appears to be a relay attack, we can state in complete confidence that it 
would not have been possible to unlock or start the vehicle using this method given 
the sequence of actions depicted in the video.  
In the amended statement Mr M provided to Amtrust in support of his claim, he said 
that his wife had lost her house key on a weekend away. He explained that the key 
was in a purse with a card inside showing the address of the property. Mr M also said 
his wife had provided the following explanation of what may have happened to the 
vehicle if it wasnt stolen without the key: My wife had explained that it seemed too 
easy for them to steal a car with a computer. She said that a car key fob may have 
been used to steal the car. This she believes could have been done when she lost 
her house key in the weekend away. She said that the thieves could have accessed 
the car key from the house using the lost door key, prior to actually stealing the car, 
staged it to look like a relay theft, disposed of the car in the .. area and returned 
the.key fob back through the front door, that being the explanation as to why the 
key fob was on the floor. 
In addition, Mr M suggested that:
the key could have been cloned; or
before the car was sold to him, the car dealer could have had a third key 
made without anyone knowing; or
the car could have been entered without any key using an app on a mobile 
phone.
Mr M concluded that These are three ways the car could have been stolen if it is 
impossible to steal my car in the way that was displayed on the CCTV footage.
Amtrust declined the claim as they said there were inconsistences in Mr Ms 
recollections, and they werent satisfied that the theft took place as Mr M had said it 
had. They believed that the following exclusion in the policy applied:
Any claim which is the subject of fraud or dishonesty.
Mr M asked our service to look into his complaint, and one of our investigators 
recommended that the claim be paid, and Mr M be paid £250 in compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused. She didnt feel that Amtrust had proven beyond 
reasonable doubt that the vehicle wasnt stolen in the way Mr M said it was. 
Amtrust didnt accept our investigators recommendations and so the matter has 
been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The GAP policy terms and conditions say: In the event of Your Vehicle being 
declared a Total Loss, This Insurance will pay the difference between the Motor 
Insurers Settlement at the Point of Total Loss and the original Purchase Price paid 
for Your Vehicle.
Mr Ms Motor Insurer accepted his claim for the theft of the vehicle and paid 
approximately £20,000 in settlement of that claim. 
Mr M then looked to his GAP insurance policy to pay the difference.
However, the GAP policy terms and conditions also say that the GAP Insurance does 
not cover: 
Any claim which is the subject of fraud or dishonesty.
In relying on the exclusion quoted above, the onus falls to Amtrust to show that it 
applies. In support of their decision to decline the claim, Amtrust have provided 
expert evidence to show that the vehicle couldnt have been stolen in the way Mr M 
suggested in his original claim form. In response, Mr M has suggested a number of 
other ways in which the vehicle could have been stolen.
Where the evidence is incomplete, or inconsistent, as it is here, I make my decision 
based on the balance of probabilities, that is, what I think, more likely than not, 
happened. Taking account of the CCTV footage, the expert evidence provided by 
Amtrust, and Mr Ms recollection of events, I think, more likely than not, the vehicle 
wasnt stolen in the way Mr M first suggested and set out on his GAP claim form.
Also, having thought about Mr Ms other suggested scenarios, while I accept they 
provide possible explanations for the disappearance of the vehicle, I dont consider 
any of them to be more probable than the other. I concluded that as Mr Ms vehicle was likely stolen using one of his two keys, and as none 
of Mr Ms explanations met the test of being more likely than not, to have occurred, Amtrust 
had acted reasonably in declining his claim.
Amtrust responded to say they had no further comments to make.
Mr M responded in some detail to the provisional decision, explaining why he didnt agree 
with the conclusions Id reached. Ive summarised the points Mr M has made, in relation to 
the merits of his complaint, below:
while his wife has her theories, he still believes the car was stolen as shown in the 
CCTV footage, because technology can be cracked;
he believes that Amtrust should have got Mercedes to analyse the key fob that was 
working and read any data on it. He said the key was capable of memorising the 
driver and fuel level through App, and the key fob read by the manufacturer should 
be able to confirm when the key was last used and exonerate him;
I cant conclude that the expert review provided by Amtrust is reliable and Ive made 
a gross misjudgement in the validity of the expert report. He believes the expert 
report is not consistent with technology advances today; and
hes requested that I obtain the call recording of the interview with the claims handler 
and get Mercedes to scan the keys for data.
Ive taken Mr Ms further submissions into account when making my final decision on this 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to say at the outset that its not my role to determine exactly what happened when 
Mr Ms car was stolen. Nor is it for me to make any kind of ruling about whether or not a 
fraud has been committed. Ultimately thats a matter for the courts and the relevant 
enforcement agencies to decide. 
Mr M brought a complaint to this service about Amtrusts decision to decline a claim he 
made on his GAP insurance policy. My role is to look at how Amtrust made that decision and 
decide whether Amtrust has treated Mr M fairly and reasonably. So, my decision is about 
whether Amtrust has done something wrong here. 
Id also like to clarify that when I referred to the second version of the statement of Mr Ms 
recollection of events, as amended, I was just seeking to distinguish it from the first version 
of the statement that had been provided. The call recording Mr M has requested I listen to 
isnt available. However, Im satisfied it wouldnt make a difference to the decision Im 
making, because the original statement and the revised statement provide comprehensive 
detail of what was likely discussed during the call.
Mr M has asked that I obtain further evidence from Mercedes to support his complaint. 
However, that is not the role of this service; we dont act as a complaint handler for one 
party. In deciding whether or not to uphold a complaint, I impartially consider the evidence 
provided by both parties. Im satisfied that Mr M has had sufficient opportunities to provide evidence that he feels is relevant to his complaint, so if he wanted to provide any further 
evidence regarding the data held in the keys, hes had ample time to do so. 
Ive considered Mr Ms views about the report that Amtrust has provided, and his question 
about whether the report is accurate or reliable. And while I appreciate his concerns, I 
remain of the view that the evidence provided by Amtrust supports their conclusion that 
Mr Ms car wasnt stolen in the way he first suggested, by relay attack. The report goes into a 
lot of detail about why the car couldnt have been entered and driven off as a result of a relay 
attack. It analyses the CCTV footage step by step, describing what is happening and 
explaining how that differs from what would have needed to happen, for a successful relay 
attack to be completed. I cant go into the details of that, for security reasons, however, I can 
say that the explanation is persuasive and the credentials of the expert who provided the 
explanation give further strength to the evidence. 
So, for the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that 
Amtrust havent acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining Mr Ms claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman