DRN-3620412
The complaint
Mrs I complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund a payment made from her credit card 
account, which she says was taken without her agreement.
What happened
The payment in question relates to replacement flights Mrs I arranged with an airline R, 
following Rs cancellation of the original flights due to the Covid-19 pandemic. R told Mrs I 
she was entitled to a refund or to change her cancelled flights free of charge. She adds that 
when she used Rs rebooking portal she had to provide card details but was told she 
wouldnt be charged. But R then did take payment of £1,107.48.
Mrs I sought to claim the money back from R but it told her that because the cancellation 
was due to extraordinary circumstances it was not obliged to compensate her. Mrs I 
explained the situation to HSBC, but hasnt been able to secure a refund. The bank says it 
considered whether it could raise a chargeback for the transaction, but that it didnt do so 
because it felt a claim was unlikely to be successful. It offered Mrs I £100 in respect of poor 
service it had provided to her. Mrs I was unhappy with HSBCs stance, and ultimately 
referred matters to us for review.
Our investigator recommended that HSBC refund the payment in light of Mrs Is evidence 
and her email exchanges with R. She wasnt satisfied that Mrs I had agreed to the payment, 
or that R had any authority to charge as it appeared to have misinterpreted the EU 
passenger rights on re-routing, set out in Article 8 of EC261/2004. The investigator also 
thought the way HSBC had approached the claim had added to Mrs Is distress, such that it 
should increase its compensation payment to £200.
HSBC disagreed with the investigators conclusions, and has asked for an ombudsman to 
review matters.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBCs approach to this complaint  and its response to the investigators assessment  
has focused on whether it was likely that a chargeback claim would have been successful. 
But Mrs Is position has been consistent throughout; she says R told her it would provide 
replacement flights without charge, and that R changed its position after she rebooked. 
Whether the money could be reclaimed via chargeback then, is somewhat secondary to the 
rather more fundamental issue of whether HSBC has suitable authority to debit Mrs Is 
account at all.
In this respect, I find the banks evidence insufficient to support its position. I accept that Mrs 
I provided her card details to R. She says that was part of the rebooking process. She also 
provided details of the cancellation options R gave her, which explicitly state she was 
entitled to be rebooked on an alternative flight without charge. As previously explained, that 
position is consistent with EC261/2004 Article 8 rights, which are unaffected by the 
extraordinary circumstances provisions relating to compensation in Article 7.
In such circumstances I would expect HSBC to have approached R to test what Mrs I said 
and obtain some evidence that might support that she agreed that it could charge her for the 
replacement flights. Ive seen nothing to suggest that it did so. In the absence of 
submissions from the bank that might challenge Mrs Is compelling testimony, I find HSBC 
acted unfairly towards her both in debiting her account with the disputed sum, and in the way 
it dealt with her concerns when she sought a refund.
Putting things right
Overall, Im satisfied that the fair way to resolve this complaint would be for HSBC to 
reimburse Mrs Is payment of £1,107.48. As Im satisfied the money should not have been 
debited at all, it follows that Mrs I has been unfairly deprived of the use of her funds. HSBC 
should therefore pay interest on this sum, calculated annually at 8% simple from the date it 
debited Mrs Is account to the date it pays this settlement.
I also think the bank might have done rather a better job of making suitable enquiries. Had it 
done so, it would most likely have avoided unnecessary trouble and upset for Mrs I. I think 
its right HSBC also recognises this by paying her £200 compensation, as our investigator 
proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
To settle it, HSBC UK Bank Plc must, within 28 days of receiving Mrs Is acceptance, take 
the steps Ive set out here. If HSBC UK Bank Plc deducts tax from the interest element of my 
award, it should provide Mrs I with an appropriate tax deduction certificate if she asks for it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman