DRN-3737032
The complaint
J complains that Lloyds Bank did not compensate it for consequential losses it says were 
caused by the mis-sale of PPI. 
What happened
On 29 August 2019, Lloyds upheld Js complaint that it had mis-sold PPI to it alongside two 
loans and an overdraft. It offered to pay £109,068.44 to compensate J for that mis-sale.
J did not accept Lloyds decision. It said it had made PPI enquiries in a Lloyds branch in 
2015. J said the person in the branch said that Lloyds was squeaky clean and there was 
no trace of PPI on any accounts. J said Lloyds should have been able to trace PPI in 2015 
and uphold the complaint at that point. It said Lloyds failure to do so led to a number of 
significant financial consequences for J, including (but not limited to):
One of Js partners having to cash in personal pensions with a value of around
£30,000;
Significant bank charges;
Sale of machinery, which would be significantly more expensive and difficult 
to replace, and consequential losses arising from the sale of that machinery; 
and
A mortgage and credit card default.
Lloyds said it couldnt say Js financial circumstances would have been any different if it 
had paid PPI compensation earlier.
J then complained to this service. It said that if the PPI complaint been upheld earlier, 
its business performance would have been better, and Lloyds would not have 
removed the business support package in November 2020.
Our adjudicator made a number of further enquiries of Lloyds, but he ultimately didnt think 
the complaint should be upheld. J did not agree with our adjudicator and so the matter
was passed to me for an ombudsmans decision
My provisional decision 
I issued a provisional decision in this matter in which I said I intended to arrive at the same 
outcome as our adjudicator. However, I wanted to expand upon our adjudicators reasoning. 
I said: 
I am very sorry to hear that Js partners have experienced some very difficult times over the
past few years. I have considered all of the issues they raised at some length. I am sorry to
disappoint them, but Im afraid I dont intend to uphold their complaint. Ill explain why below.
The parties agree that PPI was mis-sold, so I dont need to look at what happened at the
point of sale. Im looking at whether J was fairly compensated for that mis-sale. In making
my decision, I must apply the balance of probabilities. In other words, I have to decide whats
most likely to have happened based on the evidence that is before me.
Was there a complaint in 2015?
As I said above, J told us that in-person enquiries were made of Lloyds in one of its
branches in 2015 as to whether it held any PPI policies. Js argument appears to be that this
amounts to a complaint and so Lloyds should have upheld the dispute four years before it
did.
The first thing Ive considered is whether J made a complaint in 2015. In doing so, I must
apply the rules that apply to this service. Those rules are known as the DISP rules and they
are set by the Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA). The DISP rules can be found online in
the FCAs handbook.
In 2015 and in so far as it is relevant to the complaint, DISP defined a complaint as an oral
or written expression of dissatisfaction about the provision of, or failure to provide a financial
service in which J alleged a financial loss, material distress or material inconvenience.
In applying DISP, I am satisfied that J didnt have to make a complaint in writing. But without
a written document it is difficult to establish precisely what was said, when and to whom. It is
even more difficult to establish what happened when many years have passed, as is the
case here. I think it would be difficult to recall precisely what was said in a conversation
seven years ago.
In respect of what happened in 2015, J said in its letter to Lloyds of 25 August 2020:
At this time I first enquired about a PPI claim as I was desperate to find additional sources
of income. I asked [a Lloyds manager] to look into a potential PPI claim. [The manager] said
he would contact the Lloyds PPI department on my behalf. After a period with no feedback, I
contacted Lloyds[the manager] informed me Lloyds were squeaky clean and we had no
PPI on any of our accounts.
I accept that what J told us is the honest recollection of its partners. But looking at that
recollection, it seems they were making enquiries about whether they had a PPI policy. It
doesnt look as though theyd said they were unhappy with the policy or alleged a loss at that
stage. Instead, it seems they were asking whether PPI had been sold. On that basis, I dont
think the conversation they had with Lloyds amounts to a complaint for the purposes of the
DISP rules.
That distinction is important because if a complaint was not made, it means Lloyds was not
obliged to issue a written response within a specified timeframe. Accordingly, whilst the
losses J alleges were occurring between 2015 and 2020, I cant reasonably say Lloyds had
received a complaint and took four years to deal with it substantively.
Having said that, I do accept that Js partners made a PPI enquiry to Lloyds and asked it to
check whether there was a PPI policy. The difficulty with that enquiry is that as it was not
made in writing, it is more difficult to establish exactly what Js partners asked Lloyds to do. It
looks as though the enquiry may have been made in a different Lloyds branch to where J
usually banked. It is not clear what the person they spoke to was asked to check  for 
example whether it was made clear there were business accounts to check, as well as
personal accounts.
With that in mind, I cant realistically link Js alleged losses to a Lloyds mistake or find it is 
most likely Lloyds should have done more in 2015.
The compensation Lloyds paid
Even if I am wrong on that point and Lloyds should have done more in 2015, it seems to 
me that the compensation Lloyds paid to J was considerably more generous than I would usually expect. So, I dont think it would be fair for me to tell Lloyds to pay more to J to 
compensate them for their alleged consequential losses.
DISP App 3 of the FCAs handbook tells businesses how they need to put things right if PPI 
has been mis-sold. DISP App 3.7.3 E says that a business needs to refund everything a 
consumer paid for PPI, and to pay simple interest. The rate of simple interest is usually 8% 
and is paid to compensate a consumer for the time they were kept out of money they would 
have had if they hadnt been mis-sold PPI.
Ive looked firstly at the compensation paid for the two loans. It looks as though the first 
loan was taken out in or around 1997 and repaid in or around November 1998. It is not 
entirely clear, but it seems this may have been a regular premium policy, which means J 
would have paid PPI premiums every month. Lloyds calculated that J paid £2,591.08 in 
total for the PPI. And it also calculated 8% simple interest from the date J paid those 
premiums until the date it got that money back in 2019 to be £1,619.31. All in all for this 
loan, Lloyds offered to pay £4,210.39 for this mis-sold policy. Lloyds calculation is 
consistent with what I would expect and is in line with the FCAs rules.
It seems the second loan was taken out in or around August 2000 and repaid early in June 
2001. This time, J was sold a single premium PPI policy. That means J had to borrow extra 
to pay for the cost of the PPI and pay interest on that additional cost. In such 
circumstances, I would expect Lloyds to work out and pay the difference between what J 
actually paid each month with PPI and what it would have paid without PPI. And Id also 
expect it to pay 8% simple interest on the difference up until the date J got that money 
back. As the borrowing was repaid early, Id expect Lloyds to pay the difference in what it 
cost J to repay the loan with PPI and what it would have cost them to pay it off without PPI. 
8% simple interest would also need to be added.
Im satisfied the calculations Lloyds undertook in this regard are in line with what I would 
expect and fit with the FCAs rules. If Lloyds had paid compensation for the loans in 2015, J 
wouldnt have been paid as much simple interest because Lloyds offer was calculated up to 
the end of September 2019.
Ive next looked at what happened in respect of the overdraft. Effectively when PPI is 
charged to an overdraft, the PPI premiums are added to the outstanding debt. So for as 
long as an account remains overdrawn, Id expect the account holder to incur interest on 
the PPI premiums at the same rate as interest is charged to their account. In this case 
Lloyds calculated that J would have been charged 16% on the cost of the PPI whilst their 
account was overdrawn.
However, when an account is brought back into credit, that means the account holder would 
have paid for all of the PPI premiums. And from the point the account was in credit, I would 
expect Lloyds to pay 8% simple interest on the premiums paid up until the date the account 
holder gets that money back, rather than the account rate or compounded interest.
So in applying that to this case, it looks as though the PPI on the overdraft was sold in 
January 1996 and the last premium was paid in May 2007. Lloyds calculated that the 
cumulative cost of PPI in May 2007 was £8,340.1, which included the cost of the PPI
premiums and the interest J paid up to that point.
However, at this stage, the account was in credit. If this matter had come to me afresh, I
would have required Lloyds to refund the £8,340.16 to J, along with 8% simple interest u 
until the date J got that money back. Lloyds calculated the compensation up to 26 
September 2019. So at a very rough estimation, I would expect the 8% interest to have 
been in the region of £8,200. In total, I would have expected Lloyds to compensate J for 
mis-sold PPI alongside its overdraft by around £16,500.If Lloyds had paid J in line with what I would expect in 2015, a rough estimate of the 
compensation at that time would have been approximately £5,720. That would have brought 
the total compensation for the overdraft to roughly £14,000.
Instead, Lloyds embarked on a way more generous calculation than I would expect to see. 
It offered to pay £104,408.85 to compensate J for the mis-sold overdraft PPI. It arrived at 
this figure by calculating and compounding interest at the overdraft rate of at least 16% up 
to the date J got the money back. It continued to do this even though the PPI premiums 
were no longer sitting on the account and had effectively been repaid in full by J when the 
account had a credit balance in May 2007.
With that in mind, Lloyds decision to pay £104,408.85 in compensation in respect of the 
overdraft is very significantly more generous than I would have expected and so I cant 
reasonably say it would be fair for me to tell it to pay J more for the alleged consequential 
losses it told us about.
I know Js partners feel strongly that Lloyds caused it significant losses by not taking 
further action in 2015. To establish what those losses were, I would effectively have to 
embark upon a speculative and open-ended inquiry into their financial position  looking at 
what they actually did or otherwise would have done with the money if Lloyds had paid 
them in 2015.
In doing so, I would have to consider what impact the compensation would have had if it 
had been paid correctly. It seems to me that if Lloyds had paid J in line with what I would 
expect in 2015, it would have received less than £20,000, rather than the £109,068.44 
Lloyds actually paid in 2019. In undertaking that speculative inquiry, Id also have to strip 
out any compensatory 8% simple interest. So Id essentially have to consider what impact 
an approximate amount of £17,000 to £18,000 would have had on Js business.
I accept its possible that J could have invested that money in the business and mitigated 
some losses. But the compensation could also have been spent, saved or invested 
elsewhere. It seems to me that undertaking such a speculative inquiry about what may 
have happened would be unrealistic and unlikely to result in a definitive answer. I dont 
think it would be appropriate in these circumstances in light of what I said above about 
Lloyds very generous calculation in respect of the overdraft.
With all of this in mind, I am provisionally satisfied that Lloyds fairly compensated J for mis- 
selling PPI and I dont intend to tell it to pay anything further to J.
I know Js partners feel strongly about their complaint. I can see they genuinely believe 
failures by Lloyds caused immense difficulties to their business. Im sorry to disappoint 
them, but for the reasons set out above, I dont intend to uphold the complaint.  
The parties response to my provisional decision
No reply was received from Lloyds. J provided a thorough response to my provisional 
decision. I am grateful to J for the time taken to draft the reply. 
In its response, J said it was satisfied with the calculation Lloyds had undertaken in respect 
of the PPI compensation. It said I should not have referred to whether they had been fairly 
compensated for the PPI mis-sale because the complaint was about consequential losses 
from 2015 to 2019 because Lloyds did not deal with the complaint when it should have done 
in 2015. 
J said that a complaint was made in 2015 and the complaint from that time did comply with 
the DISP rules. J provided some detail about what happened in 2015. It said it was in 
difficulties in 2015 after trying to follow a plan set by a consultant instructed by Lloyds in 
2011. J said businesses were actively encouraged to check whether PPI had been mis-sold. J told us that in 2015, a Lloyds manager informed it that PPI had always been an optional 
payment, which was contrary to its understanding. J said it contacted Lloyds to enquire 
about PPI. Its business account had been transferred to another Lloyds branch and various 
staff members were aware of its intention to check for PPI. 
J said I could definitively link their consequential losses to Lloyds not paying even the lower 
amount of compensation. J said it had no bank charges from October 2019 when the PPI 
compensation was paid. It said the defaulted credit card was actually a business card and 
provided two statements bearing the name of the business. It said if Lloyds had paid 
compensation in 2015, the default could have been avoided. It provided further information 
about machinery and cancelled contract work, along with additional hire charges. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have given very careful thought to the additional points raised by J, and the further 
documentary evidence it provided. Having done so, I am sorry to disappoint its partners, but 
Im afraid I havent upheld the complaint. 
I want to make clear why, in my provisional decision, I said I was looking at whether J had 
been fairly compensated for the PPI mis-sale. This service can only consider complaints 
about activities that are regulated by the FCA. Complaint handling is not a regulated activity 
in its own right and so I wouldnt be able to consider a dispute that was only about the way 
Lloyds dealt with Js complaint. 
However, I can consider administrative matters if they are ancillary to a regulated activity. Js 
complaint is effectively that Lloyds did not deal with its complaint in 2015 when it should 
have done and caused consequential losses. So, it seems to me that the regulated activity in 
this case was the sale of PPI. The consequential losses J told us about were linked the 
compensation J was owed after PPI was mis-sold. I have to be able to link the consequential 
losses to the mis-sale of PPI. If I cannot do that, it means this service wouldnt have 
jurisdiction to consider the complaint at all. 
To be clear, I am satisfied that the consequential losses alleged by J are ancillary to the sale 
of PPI and that I can consider the complaint on that basis.  
Ive considered what J said about its communication with Lloyds in 2015 and its belief that it 
amounted to a complaint in line with the aforementioned DISP rules. From what J said in the 
additional information, it still appears most likely to me that their communication with Lloyds 
was in respect of a PPI enquiry. An enquiry would not amount to a complaint in accordance 
with the DISP rules. I can see they referred to enquiring about PPI. I havent seen anything 
to suggest that they explicitly alleged a financial loss, material distress or inconvenience in 
2015. 
As I said in my provisional decision, in the absence of a written complaint, it is difficult to 
establish precisely what was said, when and to whom. In applying the balance of 
probabilities and in considering the information before me, I cant realistically say that its 
more likely than not that the discussions J had with Lloyds amounted to a complaint as 
required by the DISP rules. 
Ive next looked at the further information about the alleged consequential losses J told us 
about. J told us that if funds (albeit less than the compensation they were paid in 2019) had 
been received in 2015, it would have been able to avoid a default on its credit card. J also 
referred me to what it said would have been done differently in its business if much reduced 
funds had been received in 2015 and the further costs they incurred. 
Having considered this matter at some length, my view hasnt changed from the position I 
set out in my provisional decision. As I said in that provisional decision, Lloyds calculation of compensation is considerably 
more generous that I would expect. Looking at the issue of the default, if I accept this was a 
business card, I cant say it is most likely that any funds paid by Lloyds would have been 
available to deal with the default or meet the minimum repayments to the card. That would 
be the case in respect of the further information J provided about how things would have 
been different in respect of the other matters. 
I say this because in its complaint to Lloyds and to this service, J set out considerable 
difficulties that its business was facing at the relevant time. With that being so, I cant say its 
most likely that J would have been able to ringfence the money from Lloyds and would have 
spent it solely on the things it set out in the response to my provisional decision. 
My view remains that to undertake establish what Js losses were, I would have to undertake 
a completely speculative and open-ended inquiry into their financial position  looking at 
what they actually did or otherwise would have done with the money if Lloyds had paid them 
in 2015. I remain of the view that this would be unrealistic and unlikely to give a definitive 
answer. 
I cannot say its most likely J made a complaint in 2015. But even if it did, I cant link the 
alleged consequential losses to Lloyds alleged mistake. The overarching question for me in 
this case is whether J has been fairly compensated. As Lloyds offer of compensation is so 
very significantly more generous than I would expect, I am satisfied J has been fairly 
compensated. 
As I said above, I am sorry to disappoint J and its partners. But for the reasons set out 
above, and particularly in my provisional decision, I havent upheld the complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman