DRN-4429276
The complaint
Mr C complains that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
In October 2017, Mr C successfully applied for a loan of £20,000 with Mitsubishi HC Capital 
UK Plc (Mitsubishi). He was required to make 60 monthly payments of £414.47 and pay a 
total amount of £24,868.20.
Mr C complained to Mitsubishi in 2023 saying they lent to him irresponsibly as they didnt 
properly consider his credit history or his circumstances at that time and didnt check 
whether he could afford the loan.
Mitsubishi didnt agree. They said their affordability checks were reasonable and verified the 
details Mr C had put on his application, which included details of his income. Mitsubishi also 
said they carried out a credit check and, from that, were satisfied there were no signs of 
financial stress or any indicators that meant they should have carried out further checks.
Mr C then referred his complaint to us. Our investigator recommended it should be upheld. 
She thought Mitsubishi ought to have realised that it would have been irresponsible to give 
Mr C the loan. Our investigator said they should have verified Mr Cs income and, had they 
done so, likely would have seen that giving him more credit would put him at risk of 
increased financial harm by funding his gambling behaviour.
Mitsubishi didnt agree and said they validated Mr Cs income and that carrying out further 
checks wouldnt have been proportionate as there was no adverse information shown on the 
credit check. They also said they werent made aware of any gambling problem and 
mentioned that Mr C was a high earner, had a good credit score and repaid the loan without 
any difficulty.
I issued my provisional decision on 9 October 2023, in which I said the following and which 
forms part of my final decision:
Ive considered  amongst other things  the rules and guidance for lenders set out in the 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) within the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. 
These were the rules and guidelines set in place when Mitsubishi granted Mr C the loan.
Before granting credit, Mitsubishi were required to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of Mr Cs ability to sustainably repay the debt. This is often referred to as an 
affordability check. This check had to be borrower-focussed. This means it needed to be 
concerned with whether Mr C could sustainably afford the borrowing (considering his specific 
circumstances), rather than how statistically likely he was to repay. The latter is the risk 
posed to Mitsubishi as the lender, or its credit or lending risk but this is not necessarily the 
same as an assessment of affordability.
Whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on a number of factors 
such as, but not limited to:
The type and amount of credit; 
The total repayable and the size of the regular repayments; 
The duration of the agreement; 
The cost of the credit; and 
The consumers individual circumstances.
What this means is that there isnt a one-size-fits-all approach to what is considered 
proportionate, as any of these factors (or others) might influence what a reasonable and 
proportionate check ought to be.
Ive looked at the checks Mitsubishi carried out. They asked Mr C to provide his income on 
his application which he said was £100,000. From that, Mitsubishi estimated that Mr C had 
net monthly income of around £5,500.
Mitsubishi carried out a credit check which showed them that Mr C had existing total credit 
commitments of £48,500 and that he was paying around £1,900 to these each month. They 
also saw that Mr C had a mortgage with payments of £1,143 and attributed £571 of this to 
him directly. Mitsubishi estimated that Mr C had around £2,660 for other monthly costs once 
the above commitments and the proposed monthly payment for the loan had been factored 
in.
I think Mitsubishi gathered a reasonable amount of evidence and information from Mr C 
about his ability to repay the proposed loan, although I do have some slight concerns with 
how they interpreted some of this. However, I dont think this makes a difference to the 
outcome of the case.
The credit commitments I set out above were shown in the credit check Mitsubishi carried 
out. They also took account of the mortgage payments shown on the credit check, as well as 
considering typical figures for outgoings. These checks showed a figure for disposable 
income well in excess of the repayments on the loan they were considering. I dont consider 
there was anything therefore to suggest that Mr C was having difficulties with repaying his 
existing credit commitments or showing a potential difficulty in maintaining payments on the 
new loan.
Im not convinced that Mitsubishi should have just attributed half of the monthly mortgage 
payment to Mr C, rather than the whole payment. That does seem a little assumptive in that 
it was possible that Mr C was responsible for the whole amount each month. However, even 
allowing for the full amount, this still left Mr C with a potentially significant amount of 
disposable income to cover other costs. I say this noting that two of the loans Mr C was 
paying at the time, which were for £761 and £256 each month, were settled in the following 
month. So, even if I felt that Mitsubishi should have asked Mr C for further details of his 
monthly expenditure, its likely he would have disclosed he intended to settle these loans 
and so wouldnt have been included in his monthly expenditure from then on.
Overall, I dont think Mitsubishi should have had concerns about the information theyd 
gathered, or even should have gathered, that would have warranted verification of Mr Cs 
income and expenditure as our investigator suggested. As such, Mitsubishi wouldnt have 
seen the extent of Mr Cs gambling as, realistically, the only way they would have done so 
was by asking for and scrutinising Mr Cs bank account statements. I dont though think that 
would have been proportionate.
I note also that our investigator felt Mitsubishi should have verified Mr Cs income using 
other means rather than just from a credit check. Even if I felt that they should have done 
this, it doesnt follow that Mr C would have provided his bank statements as proof of this. In fact, its entirely possible that he would have provided his P60 to them as proof as he has 
done to us, or from other means, bearing in mind he was self-employed and paying himself a 
salary from his business accounts. The bank statements Mr C has sent to us for the three 
months prior to the lending shows several thousand pounds going in and out of his primary 
bank account from other different accounts and that these werent at similar, regular 
intervals. The total amount coming in for August 2017 was around £4,700 (if I disregard the 
payment of £20,000 also credited as a likely anomaly), whereas in September and October 
2017 this was around £9,800 and £8,000 respectively.
Seeing as these amounts were fairly irregular, its possible that upon further questioning 
about his income by Mitsubishi, Mr C would have been able to satisfy them that he was 
earning £100,000. I cant be certain that this wasnt a possibility anyway bearing in mind 
what Ive noted about Mr Cs income in the preceding paragraph.
For the reasons Ive set out above, I currently find that Mitsubishi didnt act unfairly in 
approving this loan.
I asked Mr C and Mitsubishi to send me any further evidence or comments for me to 
consider. Mitsubishi replied saying they had nothing further to add. Mr C didnt reply. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given me anything further to consider, I see no reason to depart from 
my provisional decision. So, for the reasons Ive given in my provisional decision which I 
have set out above, I wont be upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman