DRN-2802658
The complaint
Mr M complained that Capital One (Europe) plc didnt act responsibly when they increased 
his credit card limit twice, despite his poor credit history.
What happened
Mr M applied to Capital One for a credit card in March 2015. Capital One assessed his 
application and agreed to open an account with a credit limit of £200.
In October 2015, Capital One wrote to Mr M and offered to increase his credit limit to £450. 
They said he could opt out of the increase. His limit was increased in November 2015.
In December 2016, Capital One wrote to Mr M again offering to increase his limit, this time to 
£700. They said he could opt out of this increase. Mr Ms limit was increased in February 
2017.
In January 2019, Capital One wrote to Mr M to confirm theyd agreed a repayment plan for 
his outstanding debt. However, the repayments agreed were for less than the minimum 
required under the credit agreement. So, they also enclosed a default notice. They said that 
the default would be registered with the credit reference agencies.
Mr M complained to Capital One in August 2020. He said that his limit should not have been 
increased due to his poor credit history. He said that this had led him into a financial down 
spiral leading to a default on his credit file. He asked Capital One to refund the interest and 
amounts paid since the limit increases. He also asked them to remove the default from his 
credit file.
Capital One replied to Mr M in September 2020. They didnt think that theyd done anything 
wrong. They said that all relevant checks were completed before offering the credit limit 
increases.
Mr M wasnt happy with Capital Ones reply. So, he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint. He didnt think that Capital One 
needed to take any action here. 
Mr M didnt accept our investigators view. So, he asked for his complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
Having reviewed Mr Ms complaint, I reached a different outcome to that of our investigator. 
Because of that, I issued a provisional decision on 15 April 2021 giving both Mr M and 
Capital One the opportunity to respond to my findings before I issued a final decision.
In my provisional decision I said:
Mr M hasnt complained about Capital Ones original decision to give him a credit card 
account. So, for the purpose of this complaint, I havent looked at the original credit 
assessment. My focus has been on Capital Ones decisions to increase Mr Ms credit limit.
Before increasing a credit limit, Capital One needed to complete an assessment of Mr Ms 
credit worthiness. The guidelines for this are set out in CONC 5.2A of the FCA Handbook. In 
particular, they needed to consider information they already had about Mr M. Also, his ability 
to make repayments and any information available from the credit reference agencies. They 
shouldve also considered either:
the customers income and financial commitments,
how theyve handled their finances in the past or
use internal credit scoring techniques.
The guidelines also say that there are circumstances when a limit increase shouldnt be 
offered. These include:
evidence of arrears, 
excesses of the credit limit, 
involvement of a debt advice agency, 
refusal of an increase by the customer and 
where the customer is at risk of financial difficulties.
Mr M told Capital One that his annual income was £10,000. This figure didnt change in each 
of the limit increase assessments made by Capital One. Mr M also confirmed to us that his 
income was unchanged. 
At the time of the first increase, Capital Ones records show that Mr M had exceeded the 
agreed limit in five of the previous eight months. Each time, Mr M adjusted the excess 
promptly. One over limit fee was charged during the period. Mr M paid more than the 
minimum payment needed each month. 
The credit reference agency information obtained by Capital One showed that Mr M had total 
(non-mortgage) credit of £2,000. No obviously adverse information was reported. So, while 
Mr M may have exceeded his limit a few times, he also made his contractual payments and 
the information Capital One would have seen about his overall financial position didnt 
indicate that he may be experiencing any obvious financial difficulties. So, I think that Capital 
Ones decision here was a reasonable one.
At the time of the second increase, Capital Ones records show that Mr M had exceeded his 
limit on three occasions. Two of these were for small amounts. He was charged one over 
limit fee and one late payment fee. Mr M continued to make monthly payments of more than 
the minimum. That, of itself, might not have been enough for Capital One to have had 
second thoughts about increasing Mr Ms limit here.
But I think that should have been considered alongside the credit reference agency 
information Capital One obtained at the time of their assessment. No adverse data was 
reported - but Mr Ms total (non-mortgage) credit had increased to £12,900. This is a 
significant increase in the period. Particularly when considered against Mr Ms income of 
£10,000.  So, I believe that it would have been appropriate for Capital One to complete 
further reasonable and proportionate checks here. 
No evidence has been provided to suggest that further checks were completed before 
increasing Mr Ms limit. So, Ive considered whether proportionate checks would have shown 
that the limit increase was sustainably affordable for Mr M. This means, would Mr M have 
been able to repay the amount he owed within a reasonable period of time without difficulty?
To understand this, it would be necessary to obtain a clearer picture of Mr Ms financial 
circumstances at the time. This may include his available income and the terms of the other 
credit amounts he owed. Although, the debt owed to Capital One is a proportionately small 
amount, they shouldve considered Mr Ms ability to sustainably repay this within the context 
of his other financial commitments. 
Mr M said that his income was unchanged at the time. He also said that he was under 
financial pressure, which is suggested by the overall amount he owed at this time and with 
no other reason to doubt what Mr M has said  Im persuaded thats the case. So, had proportionate checks been completed, I think its unlikely that a responsible lender, acting 
reasonably, wouldve agreed to increase the limit to £700 here. 
I think that Capital One should put things right by calculating the interest and charges 
specifically applied to the increase in the limit on and after 2 February 2017. They should 
then refund this amount to Mr Ms account. If after refunding this amount, this results in a 
credit balance being due to Mr M, then 8% would be payable on that amount.
Mr M has received benefit from the money borrowed so, he will remain liable for any 
outstanding amount left over. And I think its fair to say that the position with this account on 
his credit file is accurate. It represents that Mr M couldnt make payments and eventually 
defaulted on the account. Given the information weve been provided, I cant see that he 
would have been likely to avoid this, even if the limit hadnt been approved. So, for this 
reason, I shall only be asking Capital One to amend Mr Ms credit file to reflect the interest 
and charges refunded. Any remaining outstanding amounts should be reported correctly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was pleased to hear that both Mr M and Capital One have accepted my findings and 
proposals for putting things right. They have not chosen to provide any additional information 
or evidence. So, as a result, the findings within my provisional decision will remain 
unchanged.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint.
In order to put things right, I require Capital One (Europe) plc to:
calculate and refund all interest and charges, other than those that wouldve been 
incurred, had the limit not been increased on and after 2 February 2017,
pay 8% interest on any credit balance that may end up being due to Mr M as a result 
of this,
amend any credit file records recorded by Capital One (Europe) plc to reflect the debt 
balance reduction from the interest and charges refunded.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman