DRN-4114328
The complaint
Miss R has complained that Monzo Bank Ltd didnt do enough to protect her from fraud and 
hasnt provided her with an acceptable level of compensation.    
What happened
Both sides are familiar with the case, so Ill summarise things in brief. 
On 15 May 2022 Miss R opened a current account with Monzo. On 20 May 2022 she noticed 
some fraudulent activity on her account whereby money was paid in and taken out by an 
unauthorised third party. Miss R was refunded the lost funds by 23 May 2022.  
Monzo partially upheld Miss Rs complaint. It didnt accept that a failure in its systems had 
allowed the initial fraud to happen. Nor did it agree that its internal systems had failed by not 
detecting the fraud until Miss R reported it. 
But Monzo agreed with Miss R that it hadnt acted as promptly as it shouldve done once the 
fraud was reported, allowing further fraudulent payments to take place. And that it had taken 
until July 2022 to remove the money fraudulently paid into her account, during which time 
Miss R needed to chase for an update. Monzo said that it had been responsible for other 
delays, provided Miss R with inaccurate information and wrongly charged her an overdraft 
fee (which it has since refunded). 
Monzo also agreed with Miss R that its published information on whether accounts can be 
accessed by more than one device at the same time and which merchants it blocks 
payments to was outdated and incorrect.  
Monzo said its online chat with Miss R hadnt been of a good standard. It said some of her 
questions were left unanswered and the tone and empathy displayed by Monzo staff was not 
of an appropriate level. It also accepted it hadnt fully addressed all Miss Rs complaint 
points in its first response. 
Monzo apologised for all its shortcomings and paid Miss R a total of £240.
Miss R brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. She didnt think the level of 
compensation Monzo had paid was a fair reflection of its failings. Miss R said Monzo 
shouldve done more to prevent the fraud from happening. She said shed been caused 
substantial emotional distress and much inconvenience, exacerbated by Monzos handling 
of matters once the fraud was reported and in dealing with her complaint. 
Our Investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. She 
thought the £240 paid by Monzo was fair. Miss R didnt agree, so the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide. 
Miss R maintained the £240 wasnt enough. She said Monzo had, in part, facilitated the 
fraud by allowing more than one device to be logged in to her account at the same time. She 
also didnt think Monzo had fully addressed all her points of complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator  and for largely the 
same reasons. I realise this will be very disappointing for Miss R and Id like to assure her I 
havent taken this decision lightly. 
In doing so, Ive very carefully considered all the evidence provided and Id like to assure 
Miss R that if I dont mention a particular point, its not because I havent considered it, but 
Ive focussed instead on what I believe to be important to the outcome of this complaint. 
I appreciate Miss Rs strength of feeling  and I dont underestimate the impact the fraud has 
had on her. She had the worry of her account being hacked just as she was about to go on 
holiday, and the situation was then made worse because of Monzos accepted poor handling 
of both the fraud claim and Miss Rs complaint. These failings by Monzo undoubtedly added 
to Miss Rs distress and caused her a level of inconvenience. So, my review has focused on 
whether Monzo has done enough to rectify this. 
Miss R thinks Monzo shouldve done more to prevent and identify the fraud. Monzo accepts 
the transactions were not authorised by Miss R but has explained that it doesnt know 
exactly how her account details came to be compromised. Ive no reason to question 
Monzos position here nor do I have any basis to say it did anything wrong. 
Miss R was concerned that the fraud was facilitated by Monzo not following its own 
published fraud prevention measures. Specifically, not being able to log into an account from 
more than one device at a time and blocking payments to a specific merchant. And if Monzo 
had followed those measures, Miss R says the fraud couldve been prevented. 
As Monzo has explained, those published fraud prevention measures were out of date and 
didnt apply at the time Miss Rs account was hacked  and shouldve been updated on its 
website. So, Monzos mistake here was in not updating its published fraud prevention 
measures  not that it allowed fraud to take place on Miss Rs account because it didnt 
follow them.
Monzo has also said its internal systems didnt flag the transactions as suspicious. There is 
an expectation Monzo will have fraud prevention measures in place which must balance the 
needs of its customers whilst protecting them from financial harm. But its inevitable that 
those measures wont prevent all fraud. Again, I have no basis on which to conclude Monzo 
did anything wrong here. 
Miss R doesnt think Monzo has answered all her points of complaint. Ive looked carefully at 
what she raised and the two complaint responses Monzo provided, and I do think Monzo 
engaged with Miss Rs complaint and has, overall, addressed her points and concerns. 
Miss R is entitled not to agree or accept the responses Monzo has given, but that doesnt 
mean Monzo has provided an unreasonable response to her complaint.
Miss Rs main disagreement is with the level of financial compensation Monzo has paid. 
When considering what a business should do to put things right, I look at the direct impact its 
shortcomings have had on a customer. In Miss Rs case, the initial distress and upset was 
caused by the fraudsters, not Monzo. I accept Monzos handling once alerted to the fraud 
exacerbated this, but being the victim of fraud is, in itself, an upsetting experience.As Ive outlined above, Im not persuaded Monzo facilitated the fraud or couldve prevented 
it. It accepts things went wrong after that point and has explained why. The disputed 
transactions have been refunded and/or returned, Monzo has apologised for its 
shortcomings, and paid Miss R £240 for the distress and inconvenience its poor service 
caused her.
In taking all of this into account, I consider the £240 Monzo has paid to Miss R to be a fair 
and reasonable level of compensation and in line with what Id have awarded had Monzo not 
made an offer.
So, Im not going to tell Monzo to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Rs complaint in this case. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman