DRN-2332968
The complaint
Miss W complains that Currencies Direct Ltd is unfairly asking her to settle close out costs 
for a currency exchange that didnt go ahead. Miss W says she wasnt able to complete the 
currency trade by bank transfer. 
What happened
On 28 November 2019 Miss W instructed a currency exchange via Currencies Directs 
website. Miss W wanted convert 27,000 Polish zloty (PLN) and Currencies Direct agreed a 
rate that would give her £5,251.50. 
After Miss W accepted Currencies Directs terms and instructed the exchange, she found 
that the funds were required to be paid into a bank account in the UK by transfer. Miss W 
has explained that she needed to get funds to Currency Direct by 29 November 2019 but 
that wasnt possible if she couldnt pay by debit or credit card. Miss W has explained that her 
bank in Poland doesnt offer same day international transfers and that she hadnt taken the 
0.5% fee she would be charged into account when deciding whether to proceed. 
On 6 December 2019 Currencies Direct wrote to Miss W and asked her to settle the close 
out costs as her currency exchange didnt complete. Currencies Direct said Miss W owed 
713.62 PLN (around £145). 
Miss W didnt pay and complained about the way Currencies Direct had processed her 
trade. Currencies Direct responded on 10 December 2019 and said Miss W had accepted 
the terms of its service when she set up her account. Currencies Direct also said Miss W 
could have paid via debit card but instructed the trade to complete via bank transfer instead. 
Currencies Direct advised that the close out cost of 713.62 PLN represented the difference 
between the it buys currency and the rate it sells it. 
Miss W referred her complaint to this service and an investigator looked at what had 
happened. They thought Currencies Direct had handled Miss Ws complaint fairly and didnt 
ask it to do anything else. Miss W asked to appeal so her complaint has been passed to me 
to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss W complains that she didnt want to pay Currencies Direct via a bank transfer as the 
money she had intended to use was held in her account in Poland. As a result, she was 
unable to get the funds to Currencies Direct in time for the trade to complete on 29 
November 2019. Currencies Direct has sent us a copy of the process customers follow when 
instructing a trade both online and via a mobile phone application. Ive reviewed both 
processes to see what options Currencies Direct gave Miss W. 
Currencies Direct does allow customers to pay by debit card. The process of setting up the 
trade, both online and via a mobile phone, means customers have to select whether they 
want to pay via debit card or bank transfer. Miss W selected bank transfer when completing 
the instruction. Miss W also confirmed she had accepted the terms and was bound to 
proceed. Im sorry to disappoint Miss W but Im satisfied the information given by Currencies 
Direct during the process of setting up a trade is clear and that customers are given the 
option of either paying via debit card or bank transfer. 
Miss W told Currencies Direct she couldnt meet its deadline for completing the trade 
because it takes more than 24 hours to arrange an international transfer. But, I note that 
even as late as 5 December 2019 Currencies Direct was still willing to proceed with the 
exchange on the terms it had agreed with Miss W. I appreciate that arranging an 
international transfer may have come with a cost for Miss W, but I havent found evidence to 
support that she wasnt given time to complete the trade before being asked to pay the close 
out costs. 
Miss W has asked how the close out cost was calculated and Currencies Direct has 
confirmed the 713.62 PLN cost represents the difference between the buy and sell rate at 
the time of her transaction. I understand Miss W has concerns that the close out cost isnt 
fair but that didnt form part of her original complaint to Currencies Direct. Our service cant 
consider a complaint that a business hasnt previously had the chance to comment on. If 
Miss W remains of the view that the close out costs she has been asked to pay havent been 
calculated correctly thats something shell have to ask Currencies Direct to comment on 
before we can consider a complaint. 
Im sorry to disappoint Miss W but Im satisfied Currencies Directs request that she pay 
713.62 PLN close out costs is fair and in line with the agreement she made to purchase 
sterling on 28 November 2019. As Miss W didnt complete the trade, Currencies Direct can 
ask her to settle the close out costs. As Im satisfied Currencies Direct has dealt with 
Miss Ws complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 January 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman