DRN-3770145
The complaint
Mr G complains on behalf of his business, a dentists practice and a limited company, that 
Aviva Insurance Limited hasnt offered a fair settlement for a claim made under his business 
protection insurance policy. 
Where I refer to Aviva, this includes its agents and claims handlers. 
What happened
Mr G made a claim to Aviva after his dentist chair was broken. He purchased the chair for 
approximately £75,000 and it had built in equipment required for procedures such as 
implants. Without the chair, he was unable to conduct his business. 
Once Aviva had inspected the chair and was considering the claim, Mr G purchased a 
cheaper chair for £24,000 under a finance agreement. Whilst he wasnt able to perform all 
procedures that his previous chair enabled him to, it allowed him to continue to see patients 
and mitigate his losses.
Mr G wants Aviva to pay him the cost of his original chair and his lost income as a result of 
not having the chair. Aviva made an offer which Mr G wasnt happy with, so he contacted our 
service. And since that time, theres been further negotiations between the parties. Avivas 
current position is that it will do the following:
Reimburse the cost of a like for like chair to the original, on receipt of an invoice for 
payment. As Mr G had concerns about how hed pay for the £75,000 chair up front, 
Aviva has said it will pay the supplier of the chair directly once Mr G submits an 
order.
Pay the cash value of the temporary chair, provided that it can keep the chair as 
salvage.
Consider the business interruption claim provided that Mr G can evidence his losses. 
As Mr G has expressed concern about providing patient details to Aviva which would 
breach GDPR and client confidentially, Aviva has said it will accept redacted 
information. 
Our investigator felt this offer was in line with the policys terms and fair in the circumstances 
of the complaint. So he didnt think Aviva needed to do anything more here. But Mr G didnt 
agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure Mr G that whilst Im aware I may have condensed some of the complaint 
points in far less detail and in my own words, Ive read and considered everything hes told 
us. Im satisfied Ive captured the essence of the complaint and I dont need to comment on 
every point individually, or possibly in the level of detail he would like, in order to reach what 
I think is a fair outcome. This isnt meant as a discourtesy, but it simply reflects the informal 
nature of our service.
Damaged chair
From the information provided, it appears Aviva accept that the claim for the damaged chair 
falls within the policys cover. Whats in dispute is the proposed claims settlement, as Mr G 
wants a cash settlement. So Ive looked at what the policy terms and conditions say it will 
cover. 
Under the property damage section, which covers both buildings and contents, it says:
Basis of Claim Settlement
(a) If Property Insuredis destroyed We will pay for its rebuilding or replacement by 
similar property in a condition as good as, but not better than or more extensive than, 
its condition when new.
(e) We will not pay under this clause
(i) until You have incurred the cost of replacing or repairing the property.
Aviva has offered to reimburse the cost of a like for like replacement chair once Mr G has 
purchased one. Im satisfied this is in line with what the policy says it will cover. Given the 
substantial cost of the chair, I can understand Mr Gs concern about paying for it himself 
initially. So Im pleased to see that Aviva has made a fair suggestion of paying the supplier 
directly once Mr G has ordered it. 
But theres nothing in the policy to say that Aviva will make a cash settlement of the claim 
and I think the offer Aviva has made is fair. So whilst I appreciate this is Mr Gs preference, I 
cant fairly ask Aviva to do something that the policy doesnt provide for.
Business interruption
The terms and conditions of Mr Gs policy say that it will cover business interruption as a 
resulting of property damage, defined as:
Option A  Loss of Income
The amount payable will be:
(1) the amount by which the Income falls short of the Income which would have been 
received during the Indemnity Period due to the Damage
(2) any additional expense You incur to prevent or limit the reduction in Income 
during the Indemnity Period due to the Damage. We will not pay more than We would 
pay under (1) above.
(3) auditors or accountants charges reasonably incurred for producing and certifying 
details of a claim under this Section less any savings during the Indemnity Period in 
respect of business charges or expenses payable out of Income which reduce or 
stop due to the Damage.
The section of cover has the following conditions:Claims Procedures
It is a Condition Precedent to Our liability that You will
(a) take any action reasonably practicable to minimise any interruption of or 
interference with The Practice or to avoid or diminish the loss.
(b) at Your expense, provide Us with
(iii) books, records and documents We require to assess Your claim.
Mr G has put together a list of treatments and procedures he was unable to carry out during 
the period that he had no chair, as well as the procedures hes been unable to carry out 
without the functions of his original chair. But Aviva says this isnt sufficient to evidence his 
claim and Im inclined to agree. 
In the first instance, its for a policyholder to prove their claim and the policy terms reflect 
this. So the responsibility lies with Mr G to evidence his claim and he needs to provide, at his 
own expense, his books and records showing the appointments he had lined up that he had 
to cancel. I appreciate he doesnt want to breach any data protection and confidentiality 
requirements, but Aviva has said it will accept redacted copies. And Im satisfied this is fair.
Ive asked Mr G to provide proof of his earnings over the six months leading to his claim. 
This would enable Aviva to see what his turnover was before and after the damage to his 
chair. But Mr G hasnt provided this on the basis that it wouldnt reflect what he couldve 
been earning at the time of the loss; as he says he was due to take on more clients as a 
result of Covid restrictions placed on non-private practices. 
Whilst I sympathise with Mr G, he needs to provide some evidence to substantiate his loss  
not just a list hes put together himself. As he hasnt done so, its not unreasonable that 
Aviva hasnt been able to make an offer for this part of his loss. As quoted above in point 3 
of the loss of income cover, there is potentially funding under the policy to incur reasonable 
costs of an accountant to certify his claim and he may want to discuss this possibility with 
Aviva. 
Aviva has offered to pay for the temporary chair, under point 2 of the loss of income cover. 
This is on the basis that Mr G replaces the original chair with a like for like version and 
releases the temporary chair to Aviva as salvage. Im satisfied this offer is in line with the 
policy cover and fair in the circumstances of the complaint.
Delays
And finally, whilst I appreciate Mr G is unhappy with the length of time his claim has taken, I 
cant fairly hold Aviva responsible for these delays when Mr G is yet to provide the 
information it needs to settle the claim. Once the information set out above is provided, Id 
expect Aviva to settle the claim in line with its offer in a timely manner.
My final decision
Overall, Im satisfied Aviva has made a fair offer. 
So my decision is that, subject to Mr G providing the information required from him, Aviva 
Insurance Limited should settle the claim in accordance with its offer.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman