DRN-2982508
The complaint
Miss B complains about the quality of two used cars she acquired though two separate hire 
purchase agreements, with Honda Finance Europe Plc.
What happened
In July 2017, Miss B took out a hire purchase agreement with Honda to acquire a used car, 
which Ill call car one. Around five months later, Miss B says she noticed that car one was 
misfiring, so took it back to the dealer. 
Initially, the dealer couldnt replicate the fault Miss B had told them about. However, after 
Miss B said she had experienced further misfiring with car one, the dealer agreed that further 
testing was needed. The dealer eventually managed to replicate the fault and organised a 
repair. 
Car one was repaired in February 2018. But, when Miss B collected it from the dealer, she 
says that although the car was misfiring less, the fault was still there. She also says that new 
problems had developed with the brake pedal and with the cars fuel consumption. 
Shortly after, Miss B asked the dealer if she could reject car one and have a full refund, or 
have a replacement car with the same specification. The dealer couldnt replicate the further 
faults Miss B had found, but offered to help find a different car. 
In May 2018, Miss B and the dealer agreed to exchange car one for a different car, which Ill 
call car two. This meant the dealer bought car one from Miss B and the proceeds were put 
towards car two. Miss B then used a new hire purchase agreement to pay for the additional 
cost towards car two. The dealer also told Miss B that they would make some minor repairs 
to car two and extend the warranty.
Within the first two months of getting car two, Miss B had returned it to the dealer to have 
some paintwork repaired and for the door seals to be fixed. Miss B also said that car two 
juddered when reversed and complained that the car needed valeting when she had first 
collected it. 
As well as some of the repairs which Miss B had spotted, the dealer agreed to investigate 
the juddering she had told them about. The dealer replaced the gearbox mount to address 
the juddering and the car was made available for Miss B to collect. 
But, Miss B says due to her experiences with car one, she asked the dealer for a refund. The 
dealer allowed Miss B to end her hire purchase agreement with nothing further to owe, for 
car two. The refund Miss B was given for car two, was slightly more than she paid as a 
deposit. 
Once Miss B had received the remaining balance, she complained to Honda and said she 
was owed more, in light of the repayments, the deposits and part exchange costs she had 
paid for both cars. In their final response, Honda said that the juddering Miss B had reported 
couldnt be replicated after the repair, and that as the hire purchase agreement had been 
settled, they couldnt investigate further. 
Miss B didnt accept this and brought her complaint to us. One of our investigators looked 
into Miss Bs case and found that Honda had treated Miss B fairly. They said the faults on 
both cars were repaired by the dealer and they werent persuaded that the faults continued 
afterwards. And the investigator found that a reasonable person would say that each car was 
of satisfactory quality, given its age, mileage and history. 
The investigator also concluded it was fair that the dealer found a replacement for car one 
and allowed Miss B to end her agreement for car two. Miss B didnt agree and said the 
dealer had noted the faults on both cars and had offered her a refund. She also doubted the 
validity of the repair records kept by the dealer and that she thought she was given a 
replacement for car one, instead of a refund. 
The investigator didnt change their opinion, so the case has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
I sent Miss B and Honda my provisional decision on this case, on 28 July 2021. I explained 
why I didnt think the complaint could be upheld. A copy of my provisional findings is 
included below:
Both cars were supplied to Miss B under a regulated hire purchase agreement. Our service 
is able to consider complaints about these sorts of agreements. Honda is the supplier of the 
goods under the agreement and is responsible for dealing with a complaint about their 
quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) covers agreements like the contracts Miss B entered 
into. The CRA implies terms into the agreement that the goods supplied will be of 
satisfactory quality, fit for their intended purpose, and as described. 
The CRA says that goods will be considered of satisfactory quality where they meet the 
standard a reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account the 
description of the goods, the price paid and other relevant circumstances. In a case involving 
a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might include things 
like the age and mileage at the time of supply and the cars history. 
In Miss Bs case, car one was a used car and had covered around 8,500 miles when she 
acquired it. Car two was also a used car when Miss B acquired it and had covered around 
19,700 miles. Also, both cars were around two years old when the hire purchase 
agreements were signed. So, thered be different expectations than if either car was brand 
new. In other words, I think a reasonable person would expect each car to show signs of 
wear and tear. 
Car One 
Miss B acquired car one in July 2017 and says the car misfired from the start of her hire 
purchase agreement. Both the dealer and Miss B say that she reported the problem in 
December 2017 and the car was inspected. While the dealer could not replicate the misfiring 
Miss B had experienced at first, their records show it was replicated later, in January 2018. 
So, I think its clear there was an issue within the first six months of Miss B having car one. 
Looking at the repair that was carried out, I think the time taken was due to the dealer having 
to wait for the parts to be delivered, rather than the complexity of the work needed. Ive also 
considered the costs involved, which are itemised on the dealers repair records. Having done so, I think the fault was something that was straight forward to correct, rather than 
having to replace the whole engine. 
The dealers records show that after some diagnostic work, they replaced the cars injectors 
and repaired the misfiring fault. The dealers records also show that the car was tested for 
two hours to make sure the repair had worked. 
It took the dealer until early February 2018 to diagnose the problem, then order and fit the 
replacement injectors and to complete the test. This meant it was just under a month until 
Miss B was able to have her car back. Throughout this time, Miss B was offered a hire car to 
use. 
Ive also considered that theres no record of Miss B reporting the fault to Honda or the 
dealer before December 2017. And that Miss B was able to drive car one for just over 2,500 
miles, before it was repaired by the dealer. 
Having considered the age and mileage of car one and the extent of the fault, on balance, I 
think the fault was likely present at the point of supply. So, I dont think a reasonable person 
would say that the car was of satisfactory quality. However, the CRA says that after the first 
30 days of a customer having the goods, the dealer has one chance to repair a faulty 
vehicle, before a customer can ask to reject it. In this case, the dealer agreed to repair car 
one after they managed to replicate the fault Miss B had experienced. 
Miss B says that even after the repair, the fault continued, albeit less obvious than before. 
Other than Miss Bs comments, there isnt any other evidence to show that the fault 
continued for car one after the repair. The dealers engineers notes suggest that the fault 
was rectified, and I dont have a report of further faults after the car was returned by Miss B. 
In all the circumstances, I think Honda treated Miss B fairly when car one needed to be 
repaired. I think Honda had the right to attempt a repair on the car under the CRA. And on 
balance, I think the dealer repaired the fault they had found with the injectors. This meant 
that Miss B had the choice to sell the car back to the dealer, and then look elsewhere for a 
replacement. Or, to take up the dealer on their offer to enter a new hire purchase agreement 
for car two. 
Car Two 
After around two months, the dealer found Miss B a different car, which she agreed to take 
under a new hire purchase agreement. I can see from Miss Bs correspondence, that she 
was supplied with car two on 18 May 2018. Miss B says that very shortly after acquiring car 
two, she noticed some problems. She says the car wasnt cleaned properly, the door and 
wheels needed repairing and some stone chips had caused paint damage. Miss B says she 
also told the dealer about a more significant problem, with the juddering shed experienced. 
I have considered the emails between Miss B and the dealer and I can see that all her 
concerns were discussed and repairs agreed. Ive also thought about the age of car two, the 
mileage it had covered before it was supplied and the extent of the faults the dealer agreed 
to repair. 
Having done so, I think a reasonable person would expect car two to show signs of wear and 
tear. So, I think Miss Bs concerns about the cleanliness of some of the interior, the 
paintwork, the door seal and the wheels are issues a reasonable person may expect. 
But, looking at the job cards provided by the dealer for car two, I can see that a repair was 
also needed to the gearbox mount. And as this was shortly after the car was supplied to Miss B, I think the fault was there when she got it. Considering the extent of this repair and 
the parts replaced, I dont think a reasonable person would consider car two to be of 
satisfactory quality. Because of this, Ive thought about the timescales involved and the 
options the dealer made available to Miss B, together with their obligations under the CRA. 
I think Miss Bs emails to the dealer show that she asked to reject car two on 24 June 2018, 
which was more than 30 days after she got it. So, I think Miss B told the dealer she no longer 
wanted car two after the 30 day period where she had a right to reject it had passed. 
Under the CRA, I think the dealer had a right to repair car two. I can see form the repair 
records that car two needed a replacement gearbox mount and a successful repair took 
place on 20 July 2021. Also, the dealer has explained that they dont have any records of 
further faults with car two, after Miss Bs hire purchase agreement was ended. 
Miss B didnt take back car two after it was given to the dealer for repair. Instead, Miss B 
ended her agreement and was given a refund for slightly more than was used as a deposit. 
Having considered everything, on balance, I dont think Miss B used the car, after it was 
repaired by the dealer. Miss Bs records suggest that she just wanted to end her agreement, 
rather than take the car back. So, I think it follows that the agreement was ended on the 
same day as car was repaired. Given the information from the dealer, I also think that their 
repair successfully resolved the fault with the gearbox mount. 
In all the circumstances, I think Honda treated Miss B fairly when they allowed to exit the hire 
purchase agreement for car two at no extra cost to her. I also think the dealer treated Miss B 
fairly, when she was given a refund for a larger amount than she paid as a deposit. So, I 
think Honda treated Miss B fairly when she decided she didnt want to keep car two, after the 
repairs were made by the dealer. 
The repayments under both hire purchase agreements 
Ive thought carefully about the repayments Miss B made throughout her hire purchase 
agreements with Honda. Under the agreement for car one, Miss B made all the payments 
due, until the contract was ended and a different car found. Miss B had use of car one for the 
majority of that time, although I accept she had lost confidence in it. When car one was with 
the dealer for investigation and repair, Miss B says she was given a different car to use. 
Hondas contact records show that Miss B told them she says she was reluctant to use a car 
she didnt own. And the records show that Miss B told Honda she would be on holiday for 
some of the time, when the dealer had the car for repair. 
Having considered everything, I think Miss B had the use of her car or a hire car, throughout 
the period she was making repayments for car one. So, I think its fair that Miss B is 
responsible for the monthly repayments made under the hire purchase agreement for car 
one. 
Ive also considered the repayments due under the hire purchase agreement for car two. I 
can see that the agreement started on 15 May 2018 and was ended on 20 July 2018, when 
Miss B was given a refund. Both Miss B and Honda say that car two was back with the 
dealer for repair by early July 2018, which means Miss B had this car just under two months. 
I can also see that the refund Miss B received from the dealer, was around £150 more than 
the deposit she paid of £13,784.26 for car two. 
In all the circumstances, I think it is fair and reasonable for Miss B to pay for the use she had 
of car two, for the time she had possession of it. Im aware Miss B didnt quite have the car to use for the full seven weeks, but she also received a refund which was more than she had 
paid as a deposit. So, I dont think it would be fair for Honda to refund any further payments 
to her for the hire purchase agreement, for car two. 
The dealers repair records 
Ive looked more into the repair records kept by the dealer. Miss B says that the records 
show that repairs were completed after she gave car two back to the dealer. The dealer has 
explained that the work on car two was completed on 20 July 2018, which was the same day 
as Miss B received her refund. Miss B has told us that she had already made her mind up 
about asking for a refund, before this date. 
But, I can see that the repair record for car two was dated 23 July 2018. I accept this was 
after Miss Bs hire purchase agreement had ended. But, on balance, I think this is when the 
dealer finalised their records of work carried out over a period of time. I say this because the 
repair records show work done on 16 June 2018 and further work scheduled on 27 June 
2018. 
I think this matches the times where Miss B says she needed to take the car back to Honda, 
in the first weeks of having car two. Having looked at all the evidence, I dont think the 
dealers repair records have been fabricated. I think on balance, the dealer carried out 
repairs to the gearbox mount, on the understanding that it was Miss Bs wish to end the 
agreement for car two.
Miss B responded to the provisional decision and didnt accept it. In summary, Miss B said: 
- She didnt have a private registration plate and was worried Honda had given us the 
incorrect information.
- The dealer didnt offer a straight exchange for car one, instead she had to pay an 
additional £600.
- She made an overall loss across both cars and sent us her calculations.
- That the dates on the job cards and the information they hold are unreliable and 
shouldnt be used to base the outcome of her complaint on.
Clydesdale responded and agreed with the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In her response, Miss B says that shes never had a private registration plate for her cars. 
Ive thought carefully about this and looked at the dealers letter to Miss B of 13 April 2018. 
In this letter, the dealer offered to replace car one with another vehicle, that Miss B had been 
shown.
I think the wording of the letter may have caused the confusion here, and I accept that the 
dealer wasnt offering to transfer a private registration plate for Miss B. I understand how this 
has led Miss B to question the information given to us by Honda. But, having carefully looked 
again at the hire purchase agreement for both cars, the job cards and the communication 
between the dealer and Miss B, I think the information given to us by Honda is correct. So, I 
dont think my findings have been based on information about another customer.Miss B says that she had to pay an additional £600 to enter the hire purchase agreement for 
car two. I acknowledge that Miss B may have agreed to contribute more as a cash payment, 
when the dealer arranged the finance for car two. But, I dont think that changes my finding 
about the satisfactory quality of car one after the repair by the dealer.
Ive concluded that the dealer was able to attempt a repair on car one, when Miss B told 
them about the fault with the engine misfiring. Ive considered what Miss B says about the 
fault still being present, albeit it to a lesser extent, after the repair. 
But, I find it more persuasive that the fault was fixed by the dealer, because there arent any 
repair or diagnostic records to show the fault remained, after the dealer took it back from 
Miss B.
It then follows that the dealer was able to offer Miss B two options. Either to exit the hire 
purchase agreement, or to enter another for a different car, which may have involved a 
higher deposit amount. Having considered everything, I think Honda treated Miss B fairly, 
when they offered Miss B a new hire purchase agreement for car two.
In July 2018, Miss B received a cheque for car two, for £13,935.74. This is slightly more than 
the deposit of £13,784.26 paid when the hire purchase agreement was signed. I still 
consider that Honda have treated Miss B fairly here, as they allowed her to exit the 
agreement and to hand the car back at no extra cost to her.
I accept Miss B considers she has lost out financially, given the repayments she made 
towards the hire purchase agreement for car one. And Ive considered the calculations she 
has sent to us. 
Ive concluded that its fair that Miss B should pay for the usage of car one and the hire car, 
for the time the first hire purchase agreement was in place. Although I understand why 
Miss B would like a refund, I still think its fair for her to pay for the months she used car one. 
So, I dont think it would be fair to ask Honda to refund the repayments Miss B has told us 
about.
Miss B has explained that the dealers job cards show that work was completed when the 
car was in her possession and they cannot be fully relied upon. I accept that the dates on the 
dealers job cards may overlap with times when Miss B was driving the car. 
I also acknowledge that on occasion, the dealers work involved Miss B being asked to test 
the car for a period herself. And where the dealer may have left a job open, as the repair 
was still outstanding.
Overall, I think the dealers job cards are persuasive, because they detail the work carried 
out, around the times Miss B says the work was done. I think this is supported by the 
correspondence between Miss B and the dealer, about the steps being taken to repair or 
replace both vehicles. 
I have found the dealers repair records useful in my investigation, to think about the repairs 
to both cars. But, Ive also thought about the other information available with Miss Bs hire 
purchase agreements and that there isnt a record of other faults, after the dealer had their 
opportunity to conduct a repair. 
So, I think the other evidence, added to the dealers records has helped to reach the 
conclusion, that Honda have already taken the necessary action.I do acknowledge Miss Bs strength of feeling about her complaint with Honda, But, having 
considered everything, I think Honda treated Miss B fairly when reviewing what happened 
with both hire purchase agreements.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint  in the sense that I dont require 
Honda Finance Europe Plc to take any further action to settle this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman