DRN-3229668
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain because AWP P&C SA (AWP) hasnt paid a claim under their travel 
insurance policy. 
All references to AWP include the agents it has appointed to handle claims on its behalf. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs P held an annual travel insurance policy, taken out in May 2019. The policy was 
provided by AWP. 
Mr and Mrs P were due to travel abroad in April 2020. Unfortunately, their trip was cancelled 
because the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  formerly the 
Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) was advising against all but essential international 
travel due to the circumstances surrounding Covid-19. 
Mr and Mrs P made a claim under their policy with AWP for non-refundable, unused onward 
return flights from their first destination, but AWP said Mr and Mrs Ps policy didnt cover the 
reasons why their holiday had been cancelled. 
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs P complained to AWP before bringing the matter to the attention of 
our service. One of our investigators looked into what had happened and said she thought it 
would be fair and reasonable for AWP to treat Mr and Mr Ps claim as being covered under 
their policy. AWP didnt respond to our investigators opinion, so the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that our investigator identified, and set out, the relevant industry rules and
guidance which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. Ive considered these, 
alongside the key documents which I think are relevant to this complaint.
The policy documentation
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ps contract with AWP are outlined in a policy 
document referenced 7268TVL 01/19.
At page 18, under the heading Cancellation or Curtailment, these term and conditions say 
AWP will pay for certain costs if a policyholder has to cancel a journey for one of the 
following reasons:
1. The death, accidental bodily injury, illness, compulsory quarantine on the orders of 
a treating doctor, redundancy that qualifies for payment under current redundancy 
legislation, cancellation of leave for British Forces, police or government security 
staff, summoning to jury service or witness attendance in a court of you or your 
travelling companion.
2. The death, serious injury or illness of,
a a close relative, or
b the person with whom you intend to reside at the holiday or journey destination, or
c a dependent business partner;
of you or your travelling companion which necessitates the presence of the person 
concerned.
3 Hijack.
4 Adverse weather conditions making it impossible for you to travel to initial point of 
departure at commencement of outward journey.
5 Major damage or burglary at your home or place of business which at the request 
of an emergency service requires your presence.
I dont think Mr and Mrs Ps trip was cancelled for one of these listed, insured reasons. 
I understand Mr and Mrs P feel they were under compulsory quarantine. However, while the 
UK may have been subject to lockdown measures at the time Mr and Mrs Ps trip was 
cancelled and on their intended departure date, theres no evidence to suggest that Mr and 
Mrs P themselves were required to self-isolate at their home in a manner which I think the 
policy wording Ive quoted above would provide cover for. 
Instead, I think Mr and Mrs Ps trip was cancelled because the FCDO was advising against 
all but essential international travel and this, together with restrictions imposed by the 
government at their intended destination, meant they couldnt go abroad. 
These arent specific or listed insured reasons which are covered under the terms and 
conditions of the Cancellation or curtailment section of Mr and Mrs Ps policy. Ive also 
reviewed the remaining sections of Mr and Mrs Ps insurance policy, but I dont think they 
held any cover which would pay a benefit in the circumstances they found themselves in.
 
Whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances
However, I have an overriding remit to make a decision based on what I think is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. Having taken into account the relevant law 
and industry guidelines, I dont think a strict interpretation of the policy terms and conditions 
leads to a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this case.
The policy terms and conditions referenced 7268TVL 01/19, at page 13 and 14, say:
General exclusions 
The insurer shall not pay (unless agreed in writing by or on behalf of the insurer) for 
any claim directly or indirectly caused by, arising or resulting from, or in connection 
with: 
9.  where you have travelled and/or you remain contrary to Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office travel advice.
Rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) require an insurer to give 
customers appropriate information about a policy in good time and in a way that is easy to understand. This is so the customer can make an informed decision about the arrangements 
proposed. Appropriate information includes the information which must be set out in an 
Insurance Product Information Document (IPID), which gives customers an at a glance 
summary of their cover. This includes a summary of the insurance cover including the main 
risks insured, the insured sum and, where applicable, the geographical scope and summary 
of excluded risks. 
AWP didnt send us a copy of any IPID that was provided in connection with Mr and Mrs Ps 
insurance policy, and Mr and Mrs P have said they didnt receive one. Ive accessed a copy 
of an IPID with the reference 7268TVL 01/19 (which is the same reference as Mr and Mrs 
Ps terms and conditions). This IPID says, at page 2:
Where am I covered? 
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region where the Travel Advice 
Unit of the British Foreign and Commonwealth Office or the World Health 
Organisation has advised against travel, unless agreed otherwise with the insurer.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say Im satisfied that an IPID was provided to Mr 
and Mrs P. But, even if I accept that the IPID referenced above was provided to them, Id still 
be upholding this complaint on a fair and reasonable basis. 
This is because, when Mr and Mrs Ps holiday was cancelled  and on their intended 
departure date - the FCDO was advising against all but essential travel to their intended 
destination. Policy exclusion 9, which Ive outlined above, says the insurer wont pay any 
claims if a policyholder is travelling against FCDO advice. This means, if Mr and Mrs P had 
travelled abroad as planned (if it was possible to do so), they wouldnt have been covered by 
the policy terms and conditions at all. 
But, under the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ps policy, cancellation of a trip due to 
changes in FCDO guidance also isnt covered. This means Mr and Mrs P were left in a 
situation where they had no cover if they travelled, but they also had no cover if they 
cancelled their trip. I dont think this was made sufficiently clear to Mr and Mrs P in the policy 
documentation.
The Cancellation or curtailment section of cover doesnt list changes in FCDO advice as an 
exclusion, so Mr and Mrs P would need to have read the full policy terms and conditions in 
order to understand that this set of circumstances wasnt covered. And, I dont think this 
information was brought to their attention in a prominent and transparent way. So, I dont 
think the combined effect of the policy terms was made sufficiently clear to them.
I think this created a significant imbalance in the rights and interests of Mr and Mrs P and 
AWP. I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs P would have purchased this policy if theyd realised 
there was no cover if FCDO guidance changed after they bought the policy. And, Im 
satisfied that travel insurance policies which did cover cancellation claims arising from 
changes to FCDO advice were available on the market at the time Mr and Mrs P took out 
this policy. So, I think its likely Mr and Mrs P would have been able to buy alternative 
insurance which did cover the circumstances they ultimately found themselves in.
Overall, for these reasons, I think it would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances for 
AWP to treat Mr and Mrs Ps claim as covered under the cancellation section of their policy. 
Putting things right
I direct AWP P&C SA to treat Mr and Mrs Ps claim as covered under the cancellation section of their policy. AWP P&C SA should therefore assess the claim under the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy. 
My final decision
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ps complaint against AWP P&C SA and I direct it to put things 
right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman