DRN-2518294
The complaint
Company A has complained about Allianz Insurance Plc. It isnt happy about the delay in 
repairing its vehicle under their commercial insurance policy and the costs incurred in having 
to hire a replacement vehicle.
What happened
A made a claim under its commercial insurance policy. But the claim was delayed for a 
number of reasons and the vehicle was eventually returned after about six months. But A 
wasnt happy about the delay and the costs incurred in hiring a replacement vehicle so 
complained to Allianz. 
Allianz acknowledged that the repairs took too long and agreed to pay some of the costs 
incurred by A for the hire of another vehicle. But Allianz thought that some of the delays in 
repair couldnt be avoided so they offered to pay for the hire incurred for the periods of delay 
that could have been avoided. As A and its representative remained unhappy and wanted all 
of the hire vehicle costs incurred it complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for A but didnt uphold its complaint. He was of the view 
that some of the delays were clearly avoidable. But he felt that Allianz had acted reasonably 
in paying for the hire costs incurred because of the delays they were responsible for. 
However, some of the delays were acceptable and in line with how long these repairs can 
ordinarily take so he didnt think Allianz should have to pay for all of As hire costs.
As A didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont propose to go over all the details about this complaint as they are well known to both 
sides. But the key issue to consider is whether Allianz should pay for all the vehicle hire 
costs that A incurred or whether Allianzs offer to pay a portion of the hire costs, for delays 
caused in repairing the vehicle, is fair.
I can understand why A and its representative feel that Allianz should pay all of the 
replacement vehicle hire costs incurred. But I dont think that would be fair in the particular 
circumstances of this case. Ill explain why.
Whenever there is a claim following damage to a vehicle there is always going to be a delay 
and subsequently a cost to a business, such as Company A, while repairs are undertaken. 
Some policies, or add-on policies, may provide cover while a vehicle is in for repair, but As 
policy didnt provide this, so it was always going to be without the vehicle while the claim was 
being dealt with. And I dont think that Allianz is responsible for this. But I agree that they are 
responsible for any delays they caused that are over and above how long a repair like this 
should take or did take.
Ive looked at the time line provided, and it isnt disputed that there were delays in getting the 
vehicle to the right garage for repair. And that there were delays even when the vehicle was 
in the correct place for repair. But I dont feel that Allianz are responsible for all the delays, 
so I agree that Allianzs offer to pay for As hire for the delays that were preventable seems 
fair.
I know As representative feels that the repair was straightforward and that all the hire 
vehicle costs Company A incurred should be paid for. But as Ive outlined I dont think this 
would be fair to Allianz and although I think they should pay for any avoidable delays it 
wouldnt be fair to ask Allianz to pay for delays that were part and parcel of the repair 
process.
So, although I know A will be disappointed, I feel that Aliianzs offer to pay most of the 
additional hire costs incurred by Company A, but not all, seems fair.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont think this complaint should be upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman