DRN-2096924
The complaint
Mrs B complains that BUPA Insurance Limited refused to cover a claim she made on a 
group medical insurance scheme. Mr B is assisting Mrs B in bringing her complaint.  
What happened
Mrs B is a member of a group private medical insurance scheme with BUPA. On            
23 August 2019, Mrs B saw Mr P, a consultant ophthalmic surgeon. Mr P said he 
understood that Mrs B had developed blurred vision in her left eye and that shed been 
diagnosed with central retinal vein occlusion (CRVO). Mr P told Mrs B that she had 
developed macular oedema which was complicating her CRVO. Mr P recommended a 
course of injections. Ill refer to Mr Ps report of his consultation with Mrs B in more detail 
below. 
Mr B, on Mrs Bs behalf, asked BUPA to authorise the course of injections. BUPA declined to 
do so. It said that macular oedema is a symptom of CRVO, which is a chronic condition and 
not covered under the policy. It also said that the course of injections wouldnt improve the 
underlying condition.
Mr B is concerned about the service he received when he spoke with BUPA on                   
10 September 2019. He says that BUPA told him, incorrectly, that he couldnt escalate his 
concerns or appeal against its decision to decline Mrs Bs claim.
In response to Mrs Bs complaint, BUPA maintained its position in relation to the claim. 
BUPA explained in its final response letter, with reference to information from a specialist 
eye hospital, that CRVO occurs when the central retinal vein becomes blocked and causes 
fluid to leak into the retina, forming macular oedema. It said that macular oedema is a 
symptom of Mrs Bs underlying CRVO, which is a chronic condition and not covered under 
the policy. BUPA said that the injection treatment recommended by Mrs Bs consultant was 
authorised for treatment of visual impairment due to macular oedema, secondary to CRVO. 
But it said that theres no cover under the policy for preventative treatment or the ongoing 
management of a condition. 
BUPA upheld part of Mrs Bs complaint about the service shed received. It apologised that 
Mr B was told that it wouldnt be able to put its decision in writing. It said that it had given 
relevant feedback about that and about the incorrect information Mr B was given about 
appealing BUPAs decision.  
Mrs B wasnt satisfied with BUPAs response. She said that the course of injections was for 
the treatment of the acute condition of macular oedema. Mrs B said that macular oedema 
isnt a chronic condition. Mr B pursued the complaint on Mrs Bs behalf. In the complaint 
form, Mrs B said that she wants BUPA to cover the cost of the injection treatment. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that BUPA had 
treated Mrs B unfairly in declining the claim. She said that CRVO is a chronic condition, as 
defined by the membership guide and that macular oedema is a symptom of the underlying 
condition. The investigator didnt think that the injection treatment should be covered as an 
acute symptom of a chronic condition, as the policy only provides for treatment likely to lead 
to a complete recovery or restoration to previous health, without having to receive prolonged 
treatment. She said that theres no evidence that the injection treatment has a curative effect 
on CRVO. The investigator said that treatment for the temporary relief of symptoms or for 
the ongoing management of a condition isnt covered by the policy.                   
The investigator said that Mr B had received poor service during the 10 September 2019 
phone call, but she thought that the steps BUPA had already taken in relation to that were 
fair. 
Mrs B didnt agree with the investigator. Mr B said, in summary:
Macular oedema isnt a symptom of CRVO: its a condition in its own right and is an 
acute condition.
BUPA should reimburse the cost of three injections under the provision that it will pay 
for eligible treatment for eyesight if it is needed as a result of an acute condition. 
BUPA hasnt apologised directly to him or offered any compensation for the poor 
service. 
The key document is Mr Ps report of the consultation with Mrs B on 23 August 2019, 
which says that Mrs Bs macular oedema is an acute result of her CRVO.
He understood from Mr Ps report that the injection treatment might restore Mrs Bs 
sight. Sadly, that wasnt the case, but BUPA is using the benefit of hindsight to say 
that an exception cant apply, as Mrs Bs sight wasnt in fact restored. 
BUPA should retrospectively cover the cost of Mrs Bs first three injections based on 
the exceptions in its exclusions. 
Mrs B asked that an ombudsman consider the complaint, so it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs submissions on Mrs Bs behalf are detailed and comprehensive. Ive summarised the 
basic facts of the case and presented them in a lot less detail. No discourtesy is intended by 
that. Were an informal alternative to the courts; were impartial and were not here to answer 
specific questions put to us by the parties. 
Our role is to consider all the evidence we receive, decide whats relevant to reaching a fair 
and reasonable outcome, and to decide how we think the dispute should be settled. So, I 
wont be addressing all the points Mr B has made. That doesnt mean Ive ignored whats 
been said. Ive considered everything Mr and Mrs B and BUPA have said and provided but I 
confine my findings to the issues on which the outcome of the complaint turns. the membership guide 
Subject to certain terms, Mrs B has cover for eligible treatment of an acute condition. The 
policy defines an acute condition as:
a disease, illness or injury that is likely to respond quickly to treatment which aims to return 
you to the state of health you were in immediately before suffering the disease, illness or 
injury, or which leads to your full recovery
The relevant exclusions relied on by BUPA relate to chronic conditions, screening, 
monitoring and preventative treatment and temporary relief of symptoms. The membership 
guide provides as follows:
Exclusion 6 Chronic conditions
We do not pay for treatment of chronic conditions. By this, we mean a disease, illness or 
injury which has at least one of the following characteristics:
it needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations, check-
ups and/or tests
it needs ongoing or long-term control or relief of symptoms
it requires rehabilitation or for you to be specially trained to cope with it
it continues indefinitely
it has no known cure
it comes back or is likely to come back.
Exception: We pay for eligible treatment arising out of a chronic condition, or for 
treatment of acute symptoms of a chronic condition that flare up. However, we only pay if 
the treatment is likely to lead quickly to a complete recovery or to you being restored fully to 
your previous state of health, without you having to received prolonged treatment. For 
example, we pay for treatment following a heart attack arising out of chronic heart disease.
[]
Exclusion 25 Screening, monitoring and preventative treatment
We do not pay for:
[]
Preventative treatment, procedures or medical services
[]
Exclusion 30 Temporary relief of symptoms
We do not pay for treatment, the main purpose or effect of which is to provide temporary 
relief of symptoms or which is for the ongoing management of a condition.
[]
Mr B has referred to the exception in exclusion 17, which says as follows:
Exclusion 17 Eyesight
We do not pay for treatment to correct your eyesight, for example for long or short sight or 
failing eyesight due to ageing, including spectacle or contact lenses.
[]Exception1: We pay for eligible treatment for your eyesight if it is needed as a result of an 
injury or an acute condition, such as a detached retina.
[]
Issues in this complaint
Its not in dispute that Mrs B has a chronic condition  CRVO. I need to decide whether:
Mrs B has demonstrated that she had an acute condition or an acute symptom of a 
chronic condition;
its fair for BUPA to rely on the exclusions relating to chronic conditions, temporary 
relief of symptoms and preventative treatment; and
whether BUPA has done enough to put matters right in relation to the phone call on 
10 September 2019.  
When a member makes a claim on their insurance its for the member to prove that theres a 
valid claim. So, its for Mrs B to demonstrate, on the balance of probabilities, that she has an 
acute condition or acute symptoms of CRVO. Once a valid claim has been established, its 
for an insurer to show than any exclusion it seeks to rely on applies in the particular 
circumstances of the claim.
The medical evidence
I have reviewed Mr Ps report of his consultation with Mrs B on 23 August 2019. BUPA has 
provided evidence of the information relied on which has been peer reviewed by medical 
directors at BUPA and clinicians in the field of ophthalmology. Its provided links to websites 
in support of its position. 
Has Mrs B shown that she had an acute condition or an acute symptom of a chronic 
condition?
I dont think its unfair or unreasonable for BUPA to conclude that Mrs Bs macular 
oedema is a symptom of her CRVO. Theres no medical evidence that Mrs Bs 
macular oedema stands alone and is unrelated to her diagnosis of CRVO. 
BUPA has relied on information provided by a recognised leading specialist eye 
hospital which explains that CRVO occurs when the central retinal vein becomes 
blocked and that the vein block causes the leak of fluid into the retina, forming 
macular oedema. I dont think that BUPA was unreasonable to conclude that Mrs Bs 
macular oedema was a symptom of her CRVO. 
The membership guide defines an acute condition as one thats likely to respond 
quickly to treatment aimed to restore health to the same as it was before the 
condition or which leads to full recovery. The evidence Ive seen doesnt suggest 
macular oedema is likely to respond quickly to treatment or that the treatment is 
aimed at restoring Mrs Bs eyesight to what it was before. In his report of his consultation with Mrs B on 23 August 2019, Mr P said that Mrs B 
has developed macular oedema acutely. But I dont think that means that     
Mrs Bs macular oedema is an acute condition, as defined by the policy. Theres 
nothing in Mr Ps report which suggests that Mrs Bs macular oedema would respond 
quickly to the injection treatment, that the aim of the treatment was to restore Mrs Bs 
vision or that it would lead to a full recovery. Mr P said that Mrs B would need three 
consecutive monthly treatments before he could assess whether she is responding to 
the treatment. He says that the injections are required to treat the macular oedema 
and prevent further loss of vision. Mr P doesnt say that the injections would restore 
Mrs Bs sight to the same as it was before or that they would lead to a full recovery.  
Based on the available evidence, Im not satisfied that Mrs B has demonstrated that 
she had macular oedema as an acute condition, as defined by the membership 
guide.
BUPAs position is that Mrs Bs macular oedema is a symptom of her chronic 
condition of CRVO. I accept what Mr P says about Mrs B developing macular 
oedema acutely. So, I think that Mrs Bs macular oedema is an acute symptom of her 
CRVO. But thats not the end of the matter as I need to decide whether its fair for 
BUPA to rely on certain exclusions in the membership guide. 
Is it fair for BUPA to rely on the exclusions to which it refers?
I dont think that BUPA acted unfairly in relying on the exclusions to which its 
referred. Ill explain why.
The membership guide provides that BUPA will only pay for treatment of acute 
symptoms of a chronic condition if the treatment is likely to lead quickly to a complete 
recovery or to fully restore Mrs B to her previous state of health without prolonged 
treatment.   
As Ive outlined above, I dont think that theres evidence that the recommended 
treatment is likely to lead quickly to a complete recovery or to Mrs B being restored to 
her previous state of health without prolonged treatment. So, I dont think that the 
treatment in this case comes within the exception in exclusion 6 which relates to 
chronic conditions.
In addition, the evidence indicates that the injection treatment is preventative. In     
Mr Ps report of his consultation with Mrs B on 23 August 2019, he says that the 
treatment would help prevent further loss of vision. Preventative treatment is 
excluded in the membership guide. 
BUPA has relied on information from the specialist eye hospital which says that 
injection treatments like the one recommended for Mrs B need to be repeated as the 
effect wears off. So, it appears that the injections are for the temporary relief of 
symptoms, which is excluded in the membership guide. 
 the phone call on 10 September 2019
The phone call which is complained about was between Mr B and BUPA. This is    
Mrs Bs complaint and she hasnt alleged that she suffered distress and 
inconvenience as a result of BUPAs treatment of Mr B in that phone call. But Ive 
listened to the phone call in any event and agree with BUPA that it wasnt handled 
well. BUPA wasnt clear about whether it could provide Mr B with written confirmation 
of its decision and said that there was no appeal from its decision. 
I think that if Mrs B alleged that she suffered distress and inconvenience as a result 
of how BUPA dealt with Mr B in that call, the steps BUPA has already taken in 
relation to this matter would be sufficient and I wouldnt direct it to do anymore. BUPA 
apologised for the incorrect information Mr B was given about a written decision and 
provided feedback about both that and the route of appeal so that appropriate 
training can be put in place. I think that would be a fair and reasonable outcome to 
this part of the complaint.  
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman