DRN-3042691
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays 
Partner Finance (BPF) unfairly rejected their claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA). Mr and Mrs M are represented by a claims management company (CMC).
What happened
Mr and Mrs M bought a timeshare product from a business I will call C in December 2010. 
The total cost was £11,554 and was paid for way of a loan from BPF. They say they were 
cold called and told they had won a holiday during which they were required to attend a 
presentation. They signed up a for a trial membership at that presentation. 
In February 2018 the CMC made a claim on behalf of Mr and Mrs M against BPF for 
problems they said they had with the timeshare. In summary, Mr and Mrs M said that:
The nature of the timeshare had been misrepresented to them and they had been 
pressured into buying it.
They were promised high availability.
They were not told the contract was taken out in perpetuity.
The resort was not exclusive
There was an unfair relationship as evidenced by the high rate of interest charged.
They were told they could sell it at any time. 
BPF rejected the claim. It said that it had been made out of time and it also disputed the 
merits of the claim. The CMC brought a complaint on behalf of Mr and Mrs M to this service. 
It was considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld.
He thought that BPF had acted fairly in turning down the claim. BPF also submitted its view 
and said that Mr and Mrs M first joined C in 2009 and had made a number of bookings. They 
had decided to upgrade their membership several years later. 
Our investigator said the potential claim Mr and Mrs M could have made under s.75 had 
been brought too late under the provisions in the Limitation Act 1980 (LA). However, he 
believed the claim under s 140A was made in time. However, he did not consider this claim 
succeeded as he did not consider there had been an unfair relationship..
The CMC asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman and submitted a statement 
of events from Mr and Mrs M.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I get on to the substance of my findings, I want to set out my role as an ombudsman. 
It isnt to address every single point thats been made to date. Instead, its to decide whats 
fair and reasonable given the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, Im only 
going to refer to what I think are the most salient points when I set out my conclusions and 
my reasons for reaching them. But, having read all of the submissions from both sides in full, 
I will continue to keep in mind all of the points that have been made, insofar as they relate to 
this complaint, when doing that.
Under s.75 CCA, BPF is required to consider claims for misrepresentation and/or breach of 
contract. And clearly allegations of misrepresentation are to do with information provided by 
the supplier of a product or service at the point of sale.
Having considered everything, I think there are several claims that Mr and Mrs M are making 
to BPF. I will consider each in turn.
The claim under s.75 CCA
Mr and Mrs M say that the timeshare supplier misrepresented the nature of the membership 
to them when they bought it. However, under both s.2 and 9 LA, Mr and Mrs M had to make 
that claim within six years of when they entered into the timeshare and credit agreements  
which was in December 2010  because that is when they say they lost out having relied on 
false statements of fact.
As Mr and Mrs M first made a claim to BPF in February 2018, that fell outside of the time 
limit set out in the LA.
The claim under s.140A CCA
While only a court has the power to make a determination under s.140A CCA, as it is 
relevant law, I have to consider it when deciding what is a fair and reasonable outcome. 
Much like a claim under s.75 CCA, the LA also applies to claims under s.140A CCA. Under 
s.9 LA, Mr and Mrs M had to make their claim within six years of when the loan ended - 
which I gather was in was in early 2012. That means the claim under S140A was made in 
time.
Unfair Relationship
S.140A CCA looks at the fairness of the relationship between a debtor and creditor arising 
out of the credit agreement (taken together with any related agreement). 
When considering if there was an unfair relationship I have taken due note of the sale and 
the process used by C. I do not consider it likely that court would conclude that Cs actions 
as an agent of HF generated an unfair debtor  creditor relationship.
I appreciate that according to the CMC Mr and Mrs M were pressurised into taking out the 
agreement. I can understand why they have taken that view. My understanding is that these 
sales meetings ran on for many hours and the representatives of C would highlight the 
benefits of the product.
However, this service has learned that if a consumer said they did not want to purchase on 
the day, that representatives staff were instructed to take them back to their accommodation 
and the sales meeting would end. I have no doubt that the techniques used would have 
made saying no more difficult, but this does not mean that it was impossible to decline the offer.
In summary I do not have sufficient evidence to show Mr and Mrs M were unreasonably 
pressurised to sign the agreement. 
It is possible that the disclosure of information about the product couldve been clearer. So, 
Ive looked at whether this led to such an imbalance of information between the parties, that 
it gave rise to an unfair relationship.
I believe Mr and Mrs M were aware they were buying a timeshare product with C. The 
paperwork set out the length of the contract term, how annual fees would be calculated, that 
it was subject to availability and should not be viewed as a financial investment.
I believe C supplied brochures that covered this information. So, while the sales meeting 
mayve been overly weighted towards the aspirational lifestyle owning a timeshare could 
provide, I dont think the gap in knowledge between what Mr and Mrs M thought they were 
acquiring and what they  actually got was so significant so as to suggest it could give rise to 
an unfair relationship.
I have also considered the matter of commission in relation to this transaction. My 
understanding that commission would have been paid, but based on the typical rates I have 
seen, I think its unlikely a court would find that the failure to disclose commission in this 
case created an unfair relationship under s.140A.
On balance I am not presided there is sufficient evidence to show that it would be likely a 
court would find there was an unfair relationship as set out in s 140A.
The CMC has referred to the EU Directive on timeshares has been enacted into English law 
in the Timeshare Regulations 1997, which amended the Timeshare Act 2010. None of those 
provisions prohibited the sale of timeshares like the one Mr and Mrs M bought.
In the recent House of Commons Library Briefing Paper, Timeshares: common problems 
faced by UK owners, it was said that a floating week or points-based timeshare were 
basic timeshare models that were not described as being a problem in and of itself.
Further, these types of agreements fall within the definition of a timeshare contained within 
the Timeshare Regulations 2010. So I am satisfied that these types of timeshares have 
never been prohibited to be sold under English law, either at the time of Mr and Mrs Ms sale 
or after. Based on the evidence I have seen; I do not think either the timeshare agreement or 
the related credit agreement is voidable for the reasons said. Nor do I consider the other 
case law referred to by the CMC gives grounds for upholding this complaint
Conclusion
For the reasons set out above, I currently think BPF acted fairly in turning down Mr and Mrs 
Ms claim under s.75 CCA as it was brought too late and they did not meet the criteria to 
satisfy S140A.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman