DRN-2639668
The complaint
Ms G says PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender lent to her irresponsibly. She says that 
she already had a large amount of other payday lending when she took these loans from Mr 
Lender. She says she needed to borrow more to make the repayments and so it shouldnt 
have lent to her. 
What happened
This complaint is about four payday loans Mr Lender provided to Ms G between September 
2012 and November 2019. Some of the information I have been provided about the lending 
is in the table below. 
loan 
numbersdate 
startedamount 
borrowedinstalments date ended
1 06/09/2012 £200 2 20/03/2013
break in lending
2 28/06/2019 £250 3 20/08/2019
3 10/09/2019 £200 3 02/11/2019
4 02/11/2019 £450 3 20/02/2020
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He thought that Mr Lender shouldnt have 
allowed Ms G to roll over loan 1 six times. He thought it should have stopped after the 
fourth time of doing this (rollover 5). 
Mr Lender disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. Briefly, it said that Ms G was aware that 
the loan was extended in this way. And whilst a trade body did introduce guidance about 
extending loans at this time it wasnt a member of this trade body and so didnt need to 
adhere to its guidance. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms G 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive decided to uphold Ms Gs complaint in part and have explained why below.
Ms G didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion not to uphold Mr Lenders decisions to 
approve loan 1 (at the start) and loans 2 to 4. Because of this I dont think there is any 
ongoing disagreement about this lending. So, I wont comment on this further.  
When Ms G extended loan 1 past the first few times Mr Lender shouldve realised that this 
could be a sign she was in financial difficulty. I agree that this should be from the fifth 
extension here. I can see that Ms G was due to only repay the interest in the first month.  
This was agreed as part of the contract. And given the size of the loan repayments, against 
her income, extending this loan a number of times may have caused her significant financial 
difficulty. 
The Finance & Leasing Associate (FLA) and the Consumer Finance Association (CFA) 
produced guidance in February and July 2012 respectively. These said that payday loans 
shouldnt be extended repeatedly. The CFA said this shouldnt be done more than three 
times. Mr Lender says it wasnt a member of these bodies so it didnt need to adhere to this 
guidance. 
But I dont think this is reasonable. It seems unlikely that Mr Lender wasnt aware of this 
guidance at the time. And in any event the guidance came about because it isnt right to 
continually extend a payday loans. This is because it isnt treating a customer fairly to do 
this, and it could cause them financial difficulty. This isnt limited to one trade body or 
association. So, I dont think its unreasonable to think about this complaint bearing this in 
mind. 
So, overall, having taken everything into account, I think this complaint should be partly 
upheld. Mr Lender shouldnt have approved extensions five and six on loan 1. 
Putting things right
Mr Lender shouldnt have allowed Ms G to extend loan 1 for the fifth and sixth times. 
A) Mr Lender should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms G towards 
interest, fees and charges on loan 1 for these extensions, including payments made to a 
third party where applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.B) Mr Lender should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms G 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms G originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Mr Lender should pay Ms G the total of A plus B.
D) Mr Lender should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Ms Gs credit file in 
relation to extensions five and six. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to deduct tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
should give Ms G a certificate showing how much tax Mr Lender has deducted, if she ask for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Ms Gs complaint.
PDL Finance Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman