DRN-2685028
The complaint
Mr A complains that Santander UK plc wouldnt extend the expiry date of his mortgage offer.
What happened
Mr A wanted to buy his first property and applied for a mortgage with Santander. Santander 
issued a mortgage offer on 26 September 2019. An amended offer with new solicitors 
details was issued on 9 October 2019. The offers were valid until 28 February 2020. 
In January 2020, Mr A asked Santander if it would extend the mortgage offer, because there 
was going to be a delay of two to three months in completion. Santander said it couldnt do 
that, and it would need to look again at Mr As income and its product range if the mortgage 
didnt complete by the 28 February deadline. 
Mr A contacted Santander again in February 2020, asking for a shorter extension of a week 
or two. He said the tenant had moved out of the property he was buying but the solicitors 
involved had caused delays. Santander again said it couldnt extend the offer. 
Santander said it didnt hear back from Mr A, so it sent him a text message on 16 March 
2020 saying he would need to book an appointment to go through a new application if he 
wanted to go ahead with a mortgage. 
Mr A got back in touch with Santander in June 2020. He said his property purchase had 
been delayed because of Covid-19, and he still wanted to proceed. Santander said it had 
automatically extended mortgage offers by two months, to allow for delays arising from the 
pandemic  but that didnt help Mr A as his offer would have expired on 28 April 2020 even 
with a two-month extension. It said his only option would be to re-apply. 
Mr A complained. He was unhappy that Santander hadnt told him about the automatic 
extension when it knew from his contact with it that he had wanted more time to complete. 
Santander said it had decided at the end of March 2020 to give customers a further two 
months on mortgage offers. It said the mortgage advisor would have told Mr A about this had 
he got back in touch with her following her text to him in mid-March 2020 asking him to make 
an appointment  but he hadnt contacted her again until June. It also said it had looked 
again at Mr As application, but the mortgage would no longer be affordable as Mr As 
income had reduced.
Our investigator didnt think Santander had treated Mr A unfairly. Mr A didnt accept that. He 
said all he had needed was a week extra to complete on the mortgage, and it wasnt fair for 
Santander to have refused. He also wasnt aware of a second application having been 
made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its neither unreasonable nor unusual for mortgage offers to have fixed expiry dates. 
Borrowers circumstances change, as does the wider economic climate, including the 
property market. The rates lenders are prepared to offer change over time, and there was 
nothing wrong in Santander setting an expiry date for Mr As mortgage offer. 
Mr A knew about the expiry date and made a number of enquiries, starting in January 2020, 
about extending it. Santander wouldnt extend the deadline, and I think it was entitled to 
make that decision at the time in line with its policy.
However, at the end of March 2020, following the first national lockdown in response to the 
Covid-19 pandemic, Santander decided automatically to extend offer expiry dates by two 
months. It recognised that the pandemic meant many people were unable to complete on 
their purchases, and of course for a time very few people were able to move house at all.
Mr A is upset that Santander didnt tell him about this extension. He says that, had he known 
about it, he could have completed on his purchase  and he has lost out on solicitors fees, 
as well as time, because he was unable to do so. 
Importantly, though, Mr As offer had expired in February 2020  before any lockdown 
measures were put in place in late March 2020 and the property market effectively stopped 
for a time. This was also well before Santander introduced its policy of giving extensions. 
And, as Santander has pointed out, the last contact it had had with Mr A had been on 16 
March 2020, when it had asked him to get back in touch if he wanted to go through a new 
application. It didnt then hear from him until June 2020.
So, as far as Santander was concerned in late March 2020, Mr A wasnt proceeding with the 
purchase and the mortgage, and the offer it had made to him had expired. Had he wanted to 
go ahead, I think its reasonable for Santander to have expected Mr A to get back in touch  
but he didnt do so until months later. I dont think it would have been appropriate for 
Santander to have reinstated its offer at that point, when both Mr As own circumstances and 
wider market conditions had changed significantly.
Mr A has said it wasnt his fault that he couldnt complete on the property purchase: he has 
mentioned problems with the tenant in the property moving out and delays with solicitors. I 
do understand his point  but property purchases dont always work out. My key 
consideration in this complaint must be whether Santander has done anything wrong which 
has caused Mr A to lose out, and I dont find that it has. In any event, it wouldnt be 
appropriate for me now to require Santander to grant Mr A a mortgage without a re-
assessment of his circumstances and the suitability of its current range of mortgages.
Finally, Mr A has queried Santanders and our investigators references to a second 
application having been made. Ive seen no evidence of such an application; rather, I think 
Santander considered whether Mr A would be able to afford the same mortgage based on 
the reduced income he told it about in June 2020 when he was furloughed. I think that was a 
pragmatic approach for it to have taken, and it doesnt prevent Mr A from applying again fully 
now or in the future.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman