DRN-2936338
The complaint
Mr L complains through his representative about the service he received from Retirement 
Planning Partnership Limited trading as TRPP wealth management (TRPP). For ease of 
reading Ive only referred to Mr L.
What happened
Mr L was an advisory client of TRPP. In 2018 he attended a review where they made several 
recommendations. Unfortunately, he was subsequently diagnosed as having Parkinsons 
disease, so he wrote to TRPP and made them aware of the change in his circumstances. He 
explained that he didnt wish to implement any of the recommendations due to the diagnosis. 
TRPP acknowledged Mr Ls letter and said they wouldnt put any of the recommendations in 
place and would await his further instruction. They then wrote to him in 2019 as a review of 
his finances was due. They advised that they could arrange the meeting with his sons 
present if he wished. A meeting was then arranged for July 2019 with Mr L and his two sons, 
Mr L1 and Mr L2.
During the meeting Mr L1 and Mr L2 complained on Mr Ls behalf to TRPP about the 
following points, in summary:
TRPP did not deal with Mr L as a vulnerable client when they became aware of his 
illness.
Mr Ls M&G investment was incorrectly shown on the valuation summary theyd 
provided.
TRPP proposed using more than the full ISA allowances in their September 2018 
report.
The risk profile of the funds suggested in the 2018 report was not appropriate in 
relation to Mr Ls stated attitude to risk.
TRPP didnt uphold the complaint. Theyd invited Mr L to involve his sons in meetings since 
becoming aware of his diagnosis. And as such felt theyd dealt with him in an appropriate 
manner when they felt that his illness may make his ability to accept their advice 
questionable. They accepted that the M&G investment was shown incorrectly and 
apologised for their error. They confirmed that the error has been corrected and the value of 
the plan hadnt been affected. 
They also accepted that there was an error in the report regarding Mr Ls ISA allowance. 
They said theyd never intended to sell the bond, take the proceeds out and reinvest them 
into an ISA. What they had wanted to do was switch the underlying fund in Mr Ls bond. 
They thought that if hed decided to go ahead with the recommendation, the error would 
have been picked up as a switch form would have been required to change the funds. 
However, they acknowledged that they should have picked up the error earlier.
They disagreed that the risk profile of the funds suggested in the 2018 report was 
inappropriate. They said that when theyd conducted a review of Mr Ls funds, they took the 
view that the fund was no longer appropriate, as the charges were higher and the returns 
negative. And while the risk profile of the Zurich bond would have increased, changes were 
proposed to the other funds being used which would have reduced the overall risk level. 
Their intention was to marginally reduce the risk of the overall portfolio, while putting the 
Zurich bond back into a position where it was more likely to maintain the value it had been 
gained.
Mr L didnt agree with their findings and brought the complaint to this service where it was 
considered by one of our investigators. The investigator looked into his concerns but didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. She said, in summary:
TRPP had taken all the necessary steps shed have expected them to take after 
learning of Mr Ls diagnosis.
She appreciated Mr Ls unhappiness at the error with his M&G investment and 
agreed it shouldnt have been made. However, she was satisfied that he hadnt been 
adversely affected by the error as it had remained untouched and no changes had 
been made to Mr Ls portfolio based on the incorrect information.
She understood Mr Ls strength of feeling regarding the ISA allowance error. 
However, having taken everything into account she wouldnt ask TRPP to offer 
compensation. This was because she believed the error would have been picked up 
if Mr L had accepted the recommendation. And as the recommendation had not been 
applied, there was no change to Mr Ls overall position and therefore nothing to fix.
She was unable to say the recommendation to switch the funds in the Zurich bond 
was unreasonable in principle. She noted that it was invested in a Fixed Deposit fund 
which was less risky but was losing value on an ongoing basis. And the annual 
charge had almost doubled since it was originally recommended, and it was being 
impacted by the low interest rates available. Because of this, she didnt think it was 
unreasonable to switch, even if it meant an increase in the risk profile. But she went 
on to say that she hadnt considered the suitability of this advice in detail as the 
recommendation was never applied, therefore there had been no impact on Mr Ls 
portfolio.
She noted that Mr L felt the total platform charges were excessive and that hed 
questioned why TRPP had recommended that particular platform. However, the 
original recommendation to switch to that platform was made in 2012. She hadnt 
considered the advice to use the platform, as Mr L had confirmed that he didnt want 
this service to consider any historic recommendations, only reviews and 
recommendations that had taken place after the new adviser had taken over in 2018. 
But she explained that following the implementation of the Retail Distribution Review, 
platform providers were required to make their fees and charges clearer. And due to 
this change in how fees and charges are presented to customers, it often seemed 
that there had been an increase when that wasnt necessarily the case. 
Mr L didnt agree with her findings. He didnt think the investigator should have taken the 
word of TRPP. He said, in summary:
At no time in the meeting, or in the subsequent exchanges, did TRPP suggest that 
they would be even considering changing their recommendations in light of Mr Ls 
diminishing health and consequent reduced capacity for risk. Theyd stood behind 
their recommendations for churning a low risk bond into a higher risk investment 
and defended the increase in risk profile.
It simply couldnt be good financial advice to recommend that somebody in a low risk 
investment should move to a higher risk product when they are nearly 80 with 
Parkinsons and heart failure without clear evidence that this was in line with their 
objectives.It was not Mr Ls wish to encash this investment, it was not in line with his capacity 
for risk or objectives and yet neither in the meeting, nor subsequently, did they seek 
to withdraw or update the recommendation.
He pointed to errors TRPP had made and thought they had failed to provide the 
service they were being paid for and had dismissed him as a client after he 
complained. 
The investigator wasnt minded to change her opinion so the complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to say that Im sorry to hear of M Ls poor health and the difficulties this has
created for him and his family. I think it would help to explain that my role here is to consider 
whether TRPP have acted reasonably, and if they havent, to put Mr L back into the position 
he would have been in had TRPP not made mistakes. 
With this in mind, Ive considered the suitability of the recommendations that TRPP made to 
Mr L in 2018. The documentation from the time shows that they assessed him as having a 
low-medium attitude to risk (ATR). Ive reviewed the questions Mr L was asked and the 
answers he provided which were broadly in line with the rating TRPP gave him. And Ive also 
taken into account his investment experience - hed been a client of TRPP since 1990 and 
appears to have held investments since 1992. Having considered everything, Im not 
persuaded that TRPPs assessment of Mr Ls ATR was inaccurate. I think he was willing to 
take some risk in order to gain higher potential returns. 
Mr L has questioned the recommendation that was given to surrender the Zurich Bond  
which was a low risk investment  and reinvest the proceeds in investments which were 
rated as being higher in risk. I take his point, but this part of the recommendation mustnt be 
looked at in isolation, I note there were other aspects of the recommendation which reduced 
the risk level of other investments he held. 
So, when looked at in its entirety, Im not persuaded that the recommendation was 
unsuitable for Mr L, despite what hes said about his age and health at the time. I cant see 
that TRPP were made aware of any issues with Mr Ls health prior to making the 
recommendation, so I cant fairly say that they didnt take these issues into consideration. I 
think the recommendation was in line with his stated objective of investing his capital for the 
medium to long term with a view to achieving capital growth. 
I think it may be helpful to point out our approach if I did think the recommendation was 
unsuitable. Our approach in that scenario would be to compare the performance of the 
unsuitable recommendation with a suitable benchmark, and award redress if it was found 
that a consumer had lost out. In Mr Ls circumstances, the advice was never implemented, 
so there was no change to his portfolio and therefore no comparison can be made.
Ive then considered if TRPP took appropriate steps once they became aware of Mr Ls 
diagnosis. I can see that they acknowledged the change in circumstances, accepted that Mr 
L didnt want to implement their recommendations and then took steps to involve both of his 
sons in any future meetings. Taking all this into account, Im not persuaded that TRPP acted 
inappropriately. I appreciate that Mr L thinks that TRPP should have provided new advice in the 2019 
meeting, so Ive considered the available evidence from the time. I cant see that TRPP got 
to the stage of establishing what Mr Ls revised needs and objectives were, and therefore 
there was no revised recommendation given. It looks like the meeting was mostly spent 
addressing concerns and queries Mr L had raised. The notes from the meeting in 2019 show 
that TRPP:
addressed some queries Mr L had raised prior to the meeting
discussed the 2018 recommendation and concerns Mr L had about the advice
acknowledged a complaint Mr L raised 
But given TRPPs previous correspondence with Mr L after hed made them aware of his 
diagnosis  in one email they said . once things are a little clearer for you perhaps you 
could get back in touch to let us know what your revised needs and objectives are for the 
investments which you hold with us  I think its more likely than not that their intention 
wasnt to go ahead with the 2018 advice. I think its more likely that they wanted to review his 
situation and make a revised recommendation. So, despite Mr Ls concerns, I cant fairly say 
that TRPP were looking to proceed with the 2018 advice.
Ive also considered the errors that TRPP made. Theyve accepted that the M&G investment 
was shown incorrectly and that there was an error in the report regarding Mr Ls ISA 
allowance. But I can see that Mr L hasnt suffered financially as a result of the errors and 
TRPP have apologised for the mistakes. 
I appreciate Mr Ls concerns given that he was paying TRPP for an ongoing service. But 
despite the errors that were made, I have also taken into account that Mr L received other 
features of the ongoing service - such as ongoing monitoring and servicing of his portfolio 
and the opportunity to have annual reviews. I also note that TRPP were charging Mr L a 
discounted rate. So, while they made errors, Mr L wasnt impacted financially and still 
received the service hed signed up to, therefore Im not persuaded that I should ask TRPP 
to refund any fees to Mr L.
Mr L is also unhappy that following his complaint, TRPP chose to end their relationship. The 
evidence Ive seen shows that following the 2019 meeting, Mr L had said that the most likely 
course of action for him was to leave TRPP due to the advice hed received and the errors 
theyd made. TRPP subsequently wrote to Mr L and said As 3 months have elapsed since 
the meeting I feel it only fair that we should cease our ongoing adviser fees for managing 
your plans and write to each of the providers to ask them to disengage us from these 
arrangements.
While I appreciate Mr L doesnt think it was right for TRPP to take this course of action, I 
dont agree they did so either unreasonably or unfairly. I say this because its for TRPP to 
choose who they do business with, just as its for Mr L to choose which businesses he wants 
to have accounts with. Our service wouldnt look to force TRPP to transact with Mr L, in the 
same way we wouldnt force Mr L to use their services.
Although TRPP were entitled to end their relationship with Mr L, they needed to do so fairly. 
The terms of their agreement with Mr L said You or we may terminate our authority to act on 
your behalf at any time without penalty. Notice of this termination must be given in writing 
and will take effect from the date of receipt. The termination will be without prejudice to the 
completion of transactions already initiated, if this is the case.
TRPP wrote to Mr L and explained the course of action they were taking and then clarified 
their rationale in subsequent correspondence. Taking everything into account, I dont think 
its unreasonable that TRPP were entitled to reconsider whether they wanted to continue servicing Mr L, given his dissatisfaction with the level of service hed received and his stated 
intention to end their relationship. Im satisfied the terms and conditions of Mr Ls service 
agreement allowed TRPP to terminate their relationship by writing to him  which they did. 
For these reasons, Im satisfied TRPP havent acted unfairly in ending their relationship with 
Mr L and wont be asking them to reinstate their relationship or offer compensation.  
In summary, I acknowledge Mr Ls concerns with TRPP. But for the reasons Ive given 
above, I dont think theyve acted unfairly or need to compensate Mr L for any errors theyve 
made. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman