DRN-4520357
The complaint
Mr H complains Assurant General Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim under his 
mobile phone insurance policy. 
Any reference to Assurant includes the actions of its agents.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
events. 
Mr H has a mobile insurance policy which is underwritten by Assurant. The policy 
covers the mobile phone device for loss, theft, damage, and breakdown. And it is 
designed for consumers who have a mobile device which is connected to the specific 
network provider. 
In September 2023, Mr H made a claim on his policy saying hed lost his phone 
whilst out shopping. He said he had a jumper on which had a pocket  in which hed 
put his phone. But he later noticed the phone was missing from his pocket when he 
went to make a telephone call. 
Assurants fraud team investigated the claim and declined it on the basis Mr H had 
provided misleading information. It said Mr H had told it when logging the claim the 
device had his networks contract SIM in it at the time of loss, but the information it 
had, showed the SIM hadnt been used in the handset at all. 
Unhappy, Mr H brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator considered it but 
didnt uphold it. Because Mr H disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for 
an Ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our investigator reached  and Ill explain why. 
As the policy holder Mr H must show that on the face of it, something happened 
which might be covered under the policy. Here, Mr H has reported his phone as lost 
to Assurant. Having done so, the onus switches to Assurant who are then 
responsible for validating the claim and explaining  if applicable  why its not liable 
for covering it.
Here, Assurant has told Mr H it has invoked the fraud condition to decline the claim 
saying the loss of Mr Hs phone didnt happen as hes alleged. 
The policy terms and conditions say: if false or inaccurate information is provided 
and fraud is identified then we may  reject the claim and we may cancel your 
policy. 
Its important to explain that Im not determining whether Mr H has acted fraudulently 
 rather I need to consider whether Assurant has acted fairly by relying on the fraud 
condition to decline his claim. For Assurant to do so, it needs to show it is more likely 
than not that the condition was breached. So, Ive looked at the evidence provided to 
decide this. 
Assurant has said Mr H provided misleading information when answering questions 
about the claim. Ive listened to the call Mr H had with Assurant in which he was 
asked a number of questions about the circumstances relating to the loss of his 
phone. I note Mr H was specifically asked With the [lost device], was there a SIM 
card in the phone? to which Mr H responded yes. Assurant followed up with Was 
it your [network] SIM? to which Mr H answered yes. So, I dont think theres any 
doubt Mr H told Assurant his network SIM was in the lost device.  
Mr H was subsequently asked when he last made a telephone call or sent a text 
using the lost device. Mr H told Assurant: He didnt think hed made any calls today 
 and that he didnt remember using it. But he said, his friends call him and that his 
friend called him in the morning between 7 to 8am. Assurant also asked Mr H if the 
lost device was his main phone which he used for text, calls and data usage  which 
Mr H replied yes to. So, the information provided by Mr H indicated the lost device 
was his main phone and that he was using it regularly. 
However, the evidence Assurant has shared with this Service - from Mr Hs SIM card 
provider - shows the SIM card Mr H alleges was in his handset, had never been used 
in the claimed for device. And instead, had been used in other devices between 20 
March 2023 to 5 November 2023. So, the available information  which I consider to 
be persuasive - doesnt support Mr Hs position that the network SIM card was in the 
lost device. 
Based on this, I consider it more likely than not Mr H provided misleading and 
inaccurate information when reporting his claim. And so, Im satisfied Assurants 
decision to invoke the fraud condition, decline the claim and void the policy with 
immediate effect to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr H has said there may have been a language barrier between him and Assurant 
when he initially discussed the claim with it. Having listened to that call, Im satisfied 
Assurant asked clear questions and that Mr H understood these  as he provided 
answers which corresponded to the questions asked. 
He was also given opportunities to ask for clarification. Its only following the 
declinature of the claim that Mr H has said he misunderstood the questions or that 
the adviser misunderstood his answers, but from what Ive heard, Im not persuaded 
theres sufficient evidence to show this, and I remain satisfied that Assurants 
decision to decline the claim and cancel the policy was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman