DRN-4506330
The complaint
Miss R complains that she was mis-sold a mortgage with an early repayment charge (ERC) 
by Clydesdale Bank Plc (Clydesdale). 
What happened
Miss R took out a fixed rate mortgage with Clydesdale in April 2021. The fixed rate was due 
to end on 31 January 2023. Shortly before this, Miss R received a letter about the term 
ending and contacted Clydesdale on 11 November 2022 to ask about her options. Miss R 
says that she then asked for a variable rate mortgage as she intended to re-mortgage a few 
months later, so didnt want to be tied into another fixed rate mortgage. 
Miss R has said in her submissions to this service that Clydesdale sold her a two-year fixed 
rate which she didnt sign up for and says that, as the mortgage is called offset variable, she 
made a human error and did not identify this as being a fixed rate due to the wording on the 
website not being clear. 
Miss R has also said there was a clause in her new mortgage contract which permitted her 
to change her mind and cancel before the first payment date. However, she says that 
Clydesdale hasnt allowed her to do this and is falsely claiming that she didnt cancel the 
product when she did, as she cancelled it immediately as soon as she was told that the 
product was fixed. 
In fact, the new mortgage Miss R took out was a two-year discounted variable rate deal with 
an ERC (and not a fixed rate as Miss R suggests). It appears that Miss R was under a 
misapprehension that only fixed rate mortgages come with an ERC. Clydesdale is now 
asking for an ERC of £7,000 for her to get out of the deal early. 
Miss R says this issue has had a huge mental and financial strain on her as her mortgage 
has gone from £850 to £1,550 a month, which she cannot afford. Miss R says that she 
should have been allowed to cancel the product in line with the terms and conditions. She 
would like Clydesdale to waive the ERC and allow her to re-mortgage to a fixed rate product 
where she doesnt have to worry about interest rates moving every month. She would also 
like Clydesdale to compensate her for the interest rate rises which have increased her 
mortgage payment since January 2023.
Clydesdale says that it did not advise Miss R on an appropriate mortgage and that she 
applied for the mortgage herself online without advice. It says it provided information about 
the features of certain products but did not advise whether these would be suitable for her. 
Clydesdale says that Miss R is tied into the new product and is liable to pay the ERC if she 
breaks the deal.
Our Investigator looked into Miss Rs complaint and didnt think Clydesdale had treated her 
unfairly. She was satisfied that Miss R had applied for the product online in November 2022 
and that Clydesdale hadnt provided any advice or recommended that it was suitable for her. 
She was also satisfied that the documents provided to Miss R made it clear that an ERC 
would apply from 1 February 2023 if Miss R was to cancel. 
Miss R disagrees with this so the case has come to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Miss Rs fixed rate deal ended on 31 January 2023 and that she applied for a 
discounted offset variable mortgage to start as of 1 February 2023. 
The first issue which I need to determine is whether Clydesdale advised Miss R to take the 
mortgage or whether this was an execution-only sale. 
The documentation provided by Clydesdale shows that the mortgage was applied for and 
self-selected online by Miss R on 11 November 2022. However, Miss R says that she was 
advised about which mortgage to take over the phone. 
Clydesdale has provided a list of all calls between it and Miss R. Ive listened to a call from 
Miss R to Clydesdale on 11 November 2022 and Miss R mentions that she has received the 
letter about her deal coming to an end in January and asks about her options. So Im 
satisfied that the first call of relevance to this application is the call from Miss R on 11 
November 2022. 
The agent confirmed that if Miss R didnt re-mortgage then she would go onto the standard 
variable rate (SVR) after January, which was 6.49% at the time. Miss R swore at this point.
Miss R told the agent that she didnt want to be stuck on a fixed rate as she wanted to buy 
another property and she couldnt do that if she went on a fixed rate as she wanted to be 
able to re-mortgage to get the deposit for the other property. There was a discussion about 
borrowing more and the agent told her that she could still borrow more on a two or five-year 
fixed rate as long as it fit the income criteria, but that this would mean having a separate part 
to the mortgage. Miss R was told that if she wanted to break the deal then there would be an 
ERC payable but that if she was OK with having two separate parts to the mortgage then 
she could avoid the ERC. Miss R confirmed her understanding of this and that she would be 
fine with having two parts to her mortgage. She said that she wished she had got a five-year 
fixed rate on her current mortgage now she knew that she could have got a further advance 
without breaking the deal and paying an ERC. 
Miss R also asked about the offset rate and she was told by the agent that this was a 
variable rate and given some information about the product. She was also told that if she 
wasnt changing anything then she could apply online on a self-select service. The agent 
made Miss R aware that if she needed advice then she would need to go through a full 
application but that if she was happy to pick her own rate it would take a few minutes for her 
to do online. 
Miss R told the agent that she was online at the time and the agent provided her with some 
assistance in using the website. She asked if she had to do the application now as she was 
hopeful rates might go down, or whether she could do it in January. The agent told Miss R 
that rates could change so she could do the application now and then if rates went down 
then as long as the new rate was not in place she could cancel. Miss R said that she would 
apply online. 
As set out above, Miss R has said in her submissions to this service that Clydesdale sold her 
a two-year fixed rate which she didnt sign up for and says that, as the mortgage is called 
offset variable, she made a human error and did not identify this as being a fixed rate due to 
the wording on the website not being clear. It appears that Miss R was under a 
misapprehension that only fixed rate mortgages come with an ERC. However, Im satisfied 
that the mortgage she applied for was a variable rate mortgage which came with an ERC. 
The agent also made it clear during the call that the offset mortgage was a variable rate.
I have seen screenshots from Clydesdales internal systems which show that Miss R made 
her product switch application online on 11 November 2022. Whilst I appreciate that Miss R spoke to Clydesdale on the phone that day, Ive listened to the calls and I am satisfied that 
the agent only provided information and didnt provide any advice or recommend any 
product to Miss R. In fact, the agent specifically told Miss R that if she wanted advice then 
she would need to go through the full application. 
So Im satisfied that Miss R applied for the product online without any recommendation from 
Clydesdale. 
An offer letter and mortgage illustration was sent to Miss R dated 17 November 2022. Under 
the heading Your Right To Withdraw in the offer letter it states Should you decide not to 
proceed with this offer you will lose any fees that you have paid to us. Once the mortgage 
has completed, you cannot withdraw but you can repay it at any time in accordance with the 
terms and conditions of your mortgage (please refer to the Early Repayment section within 
the mortgage illustration provided with this offer for any early repayment charges which may 
apply).
Ive also looked at the mortgage illustration and this sets out that the product was a two-year 
discounted offset mortgage, with a variable rate discounted by 2.31%. The Early Repayment 
section sets out that Miss R had the right to repay the loan early, either partially or fully. It 
states If you repay all or part of your loan or switch to another Clydesdale Bank product 
within your Concessionary Rate Period you will have to pay an early repayment charge. 
There is then a table illustrating that there would be an ERC of 3% until 31 January 2024 
and then of 2% until 31 January 2025. 
So Im satisfied that the offer documents (and the agent) made it clear that Miss R could 
cancel her application until the mortgage had completed (on 1 February 2023). Im also 
satisfied that the documentation made it clear that an ERC would be applied if she did so 
after this.
The next time Miss R called Clydesdale after 11 November 2022 was on 23 December 
2022. She asked about her options if she wanted to buy another property as she wanted to 
sell a buy to let property and put down money as a deposit on a property upstairs from her 
residential property. She asked the agent if rates were likely to go up or down and he said he 
couldnt say.  
Around 20 minutes into the call, the agent pointed out to Miss R that her current rate expired 
in January so, as long as she was re-mortgaging from February, there wouldnt be any 
charge to apply for additional funds under her current deal. Miss R said that she was aware 
her rate was coming to an end and that she had just signed up to Clydesdales discounted 
rate. The agent said that if she wanted to release additional funds then the loan to value 
(LTV) would be too high to get the discounted rate.
Miss R asked about an exit fee and the agent said that she had mentioned that she had 
applied for a discounted rate. Miss R confirmed that she had but that it wasnt a fixed rate. 
The agent confirmed that, if it was the discounted rate Miss R had applied for then that was 
not fixed but there was still a penalty if she exited the deal. He said that it will show her on 
the documents. The agent said that Miss R could cancel the deal at any time before it went 
into place but that, if she went into the discounted deal, rather than charge an ERC 
Clydesdale would just open up a separate part of the mortgage so that she would have two 
payments. Miss R said that was not what she wanted ideally but confirmed that this made 
sense and she understood. 
Im satisfied from listening to the call on 23 December 2022 that Miss R was told that there 
would be an ERC on the discounted rate mortgage which she had applied for and she was 
directed to the offer documents. She was also told again that she could cancel this before it 
went into place. I am satisfied that she wasnt given any advice about which product to take 
on this call. In any event, she had already applied for the discounted rate online prior to this.On 3 January 2023, Miss R called Clydesdale again saying that she had the paperwork for 
the product switch and wanted to know if she needed to do anything. She was told by the 
agent that she didnt have to do anything if she was happy but that if she were to change her 
mind then she could let Clydesdale know that she didnt want to go ahead. She was told that 
if she was happy the rate would go into place on 1 February 2023. 
Miss R asked whether the discounted rate was the lowest rate that could be offered and the 
agent confirmed that it was currently the lowest rate but that it was a discounted rate and not 
fixed so it could fluctuate. Miss R then asked about the fixed rate and whether there would 
be a fee if she wanted to change from the variable rate and move onto the five-year fixed 
rate. The agent told Miss R that the rate wouldnt be in place until she had paid the fee. The 
agent said that if Miss R wanted to cancel then she (the agent) could cancel it for Miss R if 
she wanted to apply for the fixed rate. Miss R asked for the monthly payment and the agent 
explained that she couldnt provide these but that Miss R would have to go back online and it 
would bring up all the rates. Miss R said this was fine and she might do something else 
anyway.
Again, I am satisfied that no advice was provided on this call of 3 January 2023. Miss R was 
again told by the agent that she could cancel the discounted rate if she didnt want to go 
ahead but that the rate would go into place on 1 February 2023. The agent offered to cancel 
the product for Miss R but she didnt want to do this.
There were some further calls on 3 and 4 January 2023 but these related to Miss R trying to 
get an agreement in principle (AIP) for the further borrowing. When Miss R made a 
complaint on 4 January 2023 about the AIP being declined for the additional borrowing and 
what she had been told about this, she was asked when she had spoken to someone. Miss 
R checked and said that she spoke to someone at 14:30, 14:53 and 15:15 the previous day 
and that she had also spoken with someone on 23 December 2022. So Im satisfied that 
these are all of the calls. Ive listened to all of these calls and at no point does Miss R 
mention cancelling the product switch. 
The next call shown on Clydesdales internal system is on 20 February 2023, when Miss R 
complained about the fact that the variable rate has increased. But this was after the product 
had already started, so I dont find this to be relevant to the issues I need to consider. 
In light of the above, Im satisfied that Clydesdale provided Miss R with the correct 
information about the ERC which was applicable to the product she had chosen and her 
right to cancel the product before it was put in place on 1 February 2023. Im also satisfied 
that Miss R didnt indicate before 1 February 2023 that she no longer wanted the discounted 
rate to be applied.   
I do understand that Miss R is unhappy that her monthly repayments have increased and I 
understand her frustration at the impact of having to pay an ERC during a difficult time. But I 
dont think that means Clydesdale should waive the ERC if Miss R wants to leave the deal 
early. Miss R applied for the product herself online and was aware of the ERC when she 
decided to go ahead with the product switch. She was also made aware that she could only 
cancel the deal until it was put in place on 1 February 2023. So I dont consider it would be 
unfair for Clydesdale to apply the ERC in line with the agreement that Miss R entered into 
and, ultimately, Clydesdale is entitled to charge the ERC if Miss R wants to leave the deal 
early. 
I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Miss R, but I can't say that Clydesdale 
has acted unfairly and therefore I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint and dont require 
Clydesdale Bank Plc to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept or reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Rachel Ellis
Ombudsman