DRN-3470769
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited didnt set up her home insurance 
claim correctly, resulting in a delay in it being progressed.
References to Admiral include its agents.
Mrs Bs son, Mr R is acting as her representative for this complaint.
 
What happened
In mid-2021, Mr R phoned Admirals out of hours team to register a home insurance claim on 
Mrs Bs behalf, following a burst pipe under her bathroom floor. He told Admiral there was 
damage to the floor and the kitchen ceiling below. He said there was also damage to the 
electrics. 
Mr R says he didnt hear back from Admiral. When he phoned it a few days later, he was told 
that the claims hadnt been logged and had been noted on its systems with no further action 
necessary.
Mr R raised a complaint with Admiral. After sending a further email, an Admiral advisor 
contacted him and said they werent able to discuss the claim until approval was given by 
the policyholder (Mrs B).
Admiral acknowledged that it had made a mistake when Mr R had first phoned to notify it of 
the claim. It paid Mrs B £100 for poor service plus an additional £25 for a delay in issuing the 
compensation cheque.
Mr R asked our service to consider Mrs Bs complaint. He also raised concerns about how 
Admiral had dealt with the settlement of the claim.
Our investigator thought the compensation Admiral had already paid Mrs B for the initial 
error in setting up the claim properly and the delay at the start of the claim was fair. He 
explained that Mrs Bs concerns about the settlement of the claim would need to be 
considered separately.
Mrs B disagreed with our investigators view. So, her complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision, I have only considered Mrs Bs complaint about issues relating to setting up 
her claim. If Mrs B would like our service to consider her concerns about the settlement of 
her claim, these will need to be considered as a separate complaint.
Admiral has acknowledged that it didnt set up the claim correctly when Mr R originally 
notified it of it. From what I can see, this was corrected a few days later. It looks like there 
were also some communication issues. But I can see that Admiral discussed the claim with 
Mr R around a week after it was first notified of the incident, after obtaining authorisation 
from Mrs B to do so, and took steps to progress it. 
As the policyholder, Mrs B is the only person eligible to bring this complaint to our service. 
This means that Im only able to consider the impact of Admirals actions on her. It was no 
doubt frustrating for Mrs B to find that Admiral hadnt set up her claim correctly. There was a 
short delay in moving it forward. However, I think the amount Admiral has already paid her is 
fair and reasonable compensation for this. So, I dont require Admiral to do anything further 
in respect of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman