DRN-3584095
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wont reimburse money he lost as 
part of a cryptocurrency investment scam.
What happened
Mr L was looking to invest in cryptocurrency and came across the website for a company 
called Crypto-Com (which subsequently turned out to be operating fraudulently). Mr Ls told 
us that the website had a secure padlock sign and looked professional, and his friends 
thought it seemed legitimate. He says that he reviewed the websites terms and conditions 
as well as the privacy policy. He also researched the companys registered address. 
Mr L completed an enquiry form and was contacted by a representative from Crypto-Com 
who he says encouraged him to check customer reviews. Mr L also received a Blockchain 
Council certificate in the name of his account manager. He was told he could make a profit 
of around 8% a day and agreed to start with an initial investment of £250.
To facilitate trading on his account, Mr L first sent money from his Barclays bank account to 
another company called Coinbase. It converted his funds into cryptocurrency, which Mr L 
then sent on to his trading account with Crypto-Com.
After making an initial deposit, Mr L saw his trades making gains of between £0 and £15 
over the next few weeks. Seeing the gains that were supposedly being made, he was 
convinced by his account manager to invest more money. He says the individual gained his 
trust by regularly discussing shared interests. Mr L was also able to make a withdrawal 
which he says gave him the confidence that the everything was above board.
Mr Ls account manager then told him about an opportunity to make higher profits if he 
executed trades in a certain stock. This led him to invest higher sums over the coming days. 
Mr L says he saw his trading account had made a profit of 20-25% following the trades. 
The transactions relevant to this complaint are set out in the table below.
Transaction Date Type Merchant/Payee Amount
22 September 2020 Faster payment CB Payments Ltd £2.00
22 September 2020 Faster payment CB PAYMENTS £5,000.00
1 October 2020 Credit Coinbase £272.05 (credit)
5 October 2020 Faster payment CB PAYMENTS £10,000.00
6 October 2020 Faster payment CB PAYMENTS £10,000.00
7 October 2020 Faster payment CB PAYMENTS £10,000.00
8 October 2020 Faster payment CB PAYMENTS £10,000.00
9 October 2020 Faster payment CB PAYMENTS £10,000.00
10 October 2020 Faster payment CB PAYMENTS £10,000.00
12 October 2020 Faster payment CB PAYMENTS £24,747.00
Total payments £89,749.00
Less credits £272.05
Total loss £89,476.95
Mr L decided that he didnt want to invest any more funds and enquired about making a 
withdrawal. He was told that he needed to pay £22,746.04 in Bitcoin conversion fees and 
Capital Gains Tax before funds could be released (representing 22% of the withdrawal 
amount). Mr L made the payment at one of Barclays branches. The payment was flagged 
and later released after Mr L confirmed it was genuine. 
It was only when Mr L was asked to pay more tax that he became suspicious and realised 
that hed been scammed. He contacted Barclays immediately who investigated the matter 
and ultimately refused to refund the payments Mr L had made. It said that Mr L had 
authorised the payments and sent money from his Barclays account to his account with 
Coinbase, so this was a buyer/seller dispute. Barclays accepted there were delays in its 
investigation and paid £200 compensation in recognition of this.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He thought that Barclays ought to have intervened 
when Mr L attempted to make the payment of £5,000 on 22 September 2020. Had it done 
so, he thought it likely the bank would have uncovered the scam, thereby limiting Mr Ls loss. 
So, the investigator recommended that all payments Mr L made from that point onwards be 
refunded less the credit already received. 
Barclays disagreed with the investigators findings. It said the payment of £5,000 wasnt out 
of character for Mr Ls usual spending but accepted the £10,000 on 5 October 2020 was. 
Barclays acknowledged that it didnt appear to have provided any effective warnings prior to 
the payment requests and so accepted it was liable for Mr Ls losses. But it also considered 
Mr L equally liable and said that he didnt meet the Requisite Level of Care. So, it proposed 
to refund 50% of his losses from the first £10,000 payment onwards.   
Our investigator put the banks offer to Mr L, but it wasnt accepted. As an agreement 
couldnt be reached, the matter has been escalated to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under regulations, and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, banks 
should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay. The starting position 
is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even if they were duped into 
doing so, for example as part of an investment scam. 
The payments Mr L made to the fraudulent company werent sent directly from his bank 
account to the companys. All payments were made via another account in Mr Ls name 
which he had control over. Under these circumstances, the Lending Standards Boards 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code), which requires signatories such as 
Barclays to reimburse customers who are victims of scams like this one in all but a limited 
number of circumstances, doesnt apply.
While I find the CRM Code doesnt apply here, that code is not the full extent of the relevant 
obligations that could apply in cases such as this. In accordance with the law, regulations 
and good industry practice, a bank has a duty to protect its customers against the risk of 
fraud and scams so far as is reasonably possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought reasonably to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or 
financial crime, it might be liable for the losses incurred by its customers as a result. 
So, even though Mr L was transferring funds to a cryptocurrency account in his name, 
Barclays ought to have been on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions. 
While the transfers were made to his own wallet, scams involving transfers to cryptocurrency 
accounts were well known to banks by this time and I therefore think that where payments 
were also out of character, potential losses were foreseeable to the originating bank.
Ive considered the operation of Mr Ls account in the year leading up to the disputed 
payments. I dont consider the initial payment of £2 to be unusual or suspicious such that I 
think Barclays ought to have intervened at that point. 
Our investigators view was that the next payment, for £5,000, was unusual for Mr Ls 
account activity and ought to have triggered the banks systems. But Barclays disagrees and 
says that two months earlier, in July 2020, Mr L made a payment of £3,860.17 to a new 
payee. It acknowledges that this payment was made from Mr Ls business account but 
argues that it was made using the same membership and the banks systems monitor any 
payment using that membership.
Ive carefully considered the comments Barclays has put forward. But Im not persuaded by 
its explanation. While its not for our service to dictate how a bank should configure its 
systems for flagging unusual transactions, I think its important to note that a personal 
account is used for an entirely different purpose to a business account. The nature, value, 
and volume of transactions on a business account tend to be very different to an account 
intended for personal use. This is evident from looking at statements for Mr Ls personal and 
business accounts. 
It is my view that it isnt reasonable to say that payments made by an individual on behalf of 
a limited company can be compared like for like to payments made on their personal 
account for the purposes of what constitutes as unusual and uncharacteristic spending on 
the personal account. 
The payment in question was made from Mr Ls personal account. Like the investigator, Im 
satisfied that it was not in keeping with the general spending activity on Mr Ls personal 
account. I consider that it was so unusual that Barclays systems ought to have triggered an 
alert and the payment paused, pending further investigation. Given the amount involved, and 
the fact that the payment was to a cryptocurrency exchange, I consider it would have been 
reasonable for Barclays to have properly questioned Mr L before executing his authorised 
instruction.
Had Barclays carried out its due diligence and duties and asked Mr L about the payment, 
Ive no reason to doubt that he would have explained what he was doing and the true 
purpose of his payment to Coinbase. He had been given no reason to think he had to hide 
this information from his bank, and neither had he been coached to tell them something 
different (which we know was the case at the time of the last payment). 
Had Barclays done more and warned Mr L about cryptocurrency scams, Im satisfied that he 
would have looked further into the investment opportunity in general, including whether 
Crypto-Com was regulated here in the UK or abroad. He could have discovered that it 
wasnt. Indeed, its likely that Mr L would have come across the various warnings about 
cryptocurrency exchange scams. 
Im therefore persuaded that a meaningful intervention from Barclays at that time would likely 
have exposed the scam. And I think its more likely than not that intervention would have caused Mr L to stop from going ahead with the payment, thereby preventing further losses. 
Barclays has acknowledged that no such warning was given to Mr L, even when it did 
intervene subsequently. I find that Barclays can be held liable for these losses and that it 
needs to reimburse Mr L.
Ive also carefully thought about whether Mr L is partly to blame for what happened as 
Barclays has argued. Im not persuaded that he is. I havent seen any evidence to suggest 
that he had investment experience such that he ought to have realised he had been given 
inaccurate information, or that what he was told was too good to be true. Investing in such 
areas as crypto and forex can produce good returns and in my view a return of up to 8% 
doesnt sound that unrealistic, particularly when it was a likely return and not guaranteed. 
I do accept that such investments do come with a lot of volatility. But this might not be known 
to the layperson.  
Barclays has argued that its been unable to locate the good Trustpilot reviews that Mr L 
says he saw before deciding to invest. It also submits that historic reviews still show on the 
website. A cursory search on Trustpilots Help Center website page suggests that it is 
possible to have reviews removed  by the reviewer, other users, as well as Trustpilot itself. 
I would also add that in my experience reviews posted about such companies can and are 
deleted. 
Ive seen an email chain from Mr L to the scammer from October 2020 where he says that 
hes decided not to invest more money and wants make a withdrawal due to concerns about 
seeing a few concerning reviews on Trust pilot. I think its unlikely that Mr L would have 
given negative reviews as a reason for not wanting to invest further unless hed actually 
come across them. Given this contemporaneous evidence, Im persuaded by what Mr L has 
told us about checking reviews before deciding to invest with Crypto-Com. 
Ive thought about this carefully, given the imbalance of knowledge between the parties. 
While acknowledging that Mr L could have done more research  as can most customers  
overall, Im not persuaded that it would be fair to make a deduction for contributory 
negligence in this case.
As Ive decided that Barclays needs to reimburse Mr L most of the payments, its only fair 
that it adds interest to the reimbursed amount. The funds Mr L sent to the scammer were 
transferred from his business accounts and would likely have stayed there but for the scam. 
Under the circumstances, I consider that Barclays should add simple interest at the rate 
payable on Mr Ls business account instead of 8% that the investigator recommended. 
I know Mr L has said that a fraction of the amount he sent to the scammers came from his 
personal funds. But Ive also looked at the account statements and they show that funds 
were transferred from his business accounts. So, I have to consider whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances and make a decision. Having done so, I think a fair 
outcome overall would be for interest to be paid at the business account rate.  
    
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr L, Barclays Bank UK PLC needs to:
reimburse all but the first disputed payment, less £272.05 that has already been 
recovered; and
add simple interest on the reimbursed payments (less any tax properly deductible) at 
the interest rate payable on Mr Ls business account, calculated from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Barclays 
Bank UK PLC to put matters right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman