DRN-3698514
The complaint
Mr B complains that Standard Life Assurance Limited has failed to treat him fairly when it 
accepted his instruction to cancel a transfer of his pension savings to another provider. 
What happened
Mr B holds pension savings with Standard Life. Those pension savings were invested into a 
single managed fund. On 7 February 2022 Standard Life received a request for the transfer 
of Mr Bs pension savings to another provider.
Standard Life accepted that request and sold Mr Bs pension investments. In line with its 
normal approach it valued that sale as at the date it received the transfer request. 
Standard Life completed the transfer and sent the proceeds to the new provider on 
15 February.
But, on the same day, Mr B asked Standard Life to cancel the transfer request. Standard Life 
accepted that cancellation and asked the new provider to return Mr Bs funds. Standard Life 
received the returned funds on 11 March. But when Mr B checked the value of his pension 
savings on that day he saw they were around £1,000 lower than the amount that had been 
transferred. So he complained to Standard Life about that missing money.
Standard Life told Mr B that it had applied its normal process of valuing his transfer as at the 
date it received the valid instruction. And it said that meant that, when the transfer was 
cancelled, it used the same date to recredit Mr Bs pension investments. That meant that, 
effectively, his pension investments continued without any break, and were not affected by 
the transfer. Unhappy with that response Mr B brought his complaint to us.
Mr Bs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She thought that 
Standard Life had acted fairly, and in line with its normal process. So she didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld.
Mr B didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr B and by Standard Life. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
The instruction that Standard Life received was for the transfer of the cash value of Mr Bs 
pension savings. So in order to comply with that instruction Standard Life needed to first sell 
Mr Bs pension investments. Ive thought carefully about whether I should treat those as two 
separate instructions  the sale of the investments, and the transfer of the money. But on 
balance I think it right that I should consider it to be a single act.
When it first made the transfer, Standard Life valued the sale of Mr Bs pension investments 
as at the date it received the completed instruction. That meant that any consumers who had 
provided transfer instructions on that day would be treated equally regardless of any 
processing delays that Standard Life might have caused. At that time Standard Life sold 
15,474.475 units of Mr Bs investment, valued at £26,641.83. It was that amount that it 
transferred to the new provider.
Mr B got in touch with Standard Life after it had transferred his funds, and asked for the 
transfer to be cancelled. That was something that he was entitled to request under the 
relevant regulations. So Standard Life asked the new provider to return the funds that it had 
sent. Standard Life received the returned funds on 11 March. It received the full amount that 
it had sent - £26,641.83.
Given what I have said above about it being reasonable for Standard Life to treat the sale of 
the investments and the cash transfer as a single instruction, I think it is right that when Mr B 
cancelled the instruction, Standard Life repurchased the investments that he held. And 
I think it is appropriate that the cancellation should take place on the same terms as the 
original sale. So I think Standard Life acted correctly by recrediting Mr Bs pension plan with 
the exact holding that he previously held - 15,474.475 units of the investment fund.
But, by the time that corrective action was completed on 11 March, the price of the 
investment fund had changed. So that meant that Mr Bs holding of 15,474.475 units was 
now only valued at £25,637.25. That led Mr B to an understandable conclusion that 
Standard Life had benefited from the cancellation.
I dont think that conclusion is unreasonable. But I dont think it means that Mr B has been 
treated unfairly. Standard Life has set out its standard processes, that it will value any 
transfer instruction as at the date it is received, and that any cancellation will be treated as 
happening at that date too. Both those activities leave Standard Life open to a degree of 
market risk  changes in the price of investments between an instruction being received, and 
any market transaction taking place will potentially generate a gain or a loss. But it does 
have the fair outcome that all consumers will be treated equally. It is just as possible that 
when Standard Life recredited Mr Bs pension savings the investment price might have risen, 
and so he would have seen a higher value for his pension investments at that time.So, on balance, and acknowledging that this decision will be disappointing for Mr B, I dont 
think that Standard Life has done anything wrong here. It reversed Mr Bs transfer instruction 
and ensured that his pension investments were returned to the same state as before the 
transfer processing commenced. I think that the reduction in value that Mr B has seen is a 
reflection of the change in the market price rather than any profit being generated, or taken, 
by Standard Life.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Standard Life Assurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman