DRN-3748589
The complaint
Mrs A says EUI Limited (trading as Admiral) shouldnt have charged her the full premium for 
her motor insurance policy after she cancelled it within 14 days of its purchase. 
What happened
In May 2022 Mrs As car came into contact with a car that was parked and unattended. She 
says although there was damage to her car, there was no damage to the other partys car. 
She left her details at the scene and reported the accident to EUI. She asked it to give her 
some information about her options - but she then decided not to make a claim. Mrs A 
expected the incident to be recorded as notification only. But when she decided to cancel the 
policy shortly afterwards, she was told she owed EUI the full premium. EUI said that was 
because it would be keeping the file open for six months in case the other party made a 
claim. As Mrs A didnt pay the full premium, EUI started the debt collection process.
One of our investigators considered Mrs As complaint. She thought EUI had acted 
reasonably, as it would have been obliged to deal with any claim made by the other party. 
And she noted that an advisor had told Mrs A on the day of the cancellation that the full 
premium would be payable should she cancel. The investigator said if there was no claim 
from the other party after six months, Mrs A should contact EUI about the situation. 
Mrs A said the suggestion that EUI would deal with a claim made by the other party was 
false. She said it had written to her recently to say it wouldnt honour any claim, as she 
hadnt provided all the details it had asked her for - and it thought she was driving on a 
provisional licence at the time of the incident, in breach of a policy exclusion. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.       
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
An insurer is entitled to retain the full premium for a policy (or to chase a consumer to pay it) 
if a claim has been made on a policy  or if theres a chance that a claim will be made. In this 
case, although Mrs A decided not to make a claim, the other party had the right to do so, and 
Mrs A had said the accident was her fault. So I think it was reasonable for EUI to keep the 
file open, retain the premium payment Mrs A had paid and chase her for the rest of it. 
EUI said the file would be left open for six months. So if a claim hasnt been made by the 
end of that period, wed expect EUI to stop chasing Mrs A for the full premium. Wed also 
usually expect it to return the initial payment she made (minus the administration charge) as 
she cancelled the policy within the 14-day cooling-off period. EUI has told Mrs A that the 
incident should be recorded as notification only if a claim isnt made on the policy - and her 
no claims discount shouldnt be affected. 
When EUI told Mrs A that it would have to consider any claim made on the policy by the 
other party, that statement was made based on the facts known to it at the time. So I dont 
think Mrs A was misled. Subsequently, EUI noted that she hadnt provided all the information 
it had asked for (details of her international driving licence). And it thought she was driving 
alone on a provisional UK licence at the time of the incident. 
EUI said because of these issues, it had no obligation under the policy to cover any claim 
made on it. But should the other party make a claim, EUI would be obliged to deal with it 
under the provisions of The Road Traffic Act. In those circumstances its usual for an insurer 
to try to recover any financial outlay on its part from the former policy holder (in this case, 
Mrs A). But there may well not be a claim from the other party  and as more than five 
months has now elapsed since the accident, it seems unlikely. Mrs A says she doesnt 
accept what EUI has said about her driving licence, but as far as I can see, she hasnt yet 
provided any evidence to EUI in support of her case for it to consider. 
In this decision I can only review the way EUI acted in relation to the original issues Mrs A 
asked us to look at. I can see why Mrs A thought she was being treated unfairly, as the 
situation she had to deal with wasnt straightforward, from a consumers point of view. And I 
think it must be very stressful for a consumer to be chased for a large amount of money they 
cant afford and that they dont think is owed anyway. But as I think EUI acted reasonably, in 
line with the policys terms and conditions, I cant uphold Mrs As complaint.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or reject my decision before 
25 November 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman