DRN-4508614
The complaint
Ms T complains about the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) handled a 
claim against his Motability car insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here in 
any detail. Instead, Ill focus on the reasons for my decision.
Ms T has a Motability vehicle insurance policy. This means she hires her car from Motability 
and RSA provides a policy for each hirer to cover those who are named as permitted drivers 
on the policy. This is similar to a comprehensive motor insurance policy and RSA handles 
claims by customers like Ms T. 
A claim was made on the policy for an accident in September 2019. At the time, it was being 
driven by a family member who is named as a permitted driver on the policy. 
Another family member was a passenger at the time of the accident. Ms T explained to our 
service she acts for the passenger as he lacks the capacity to do this himself. And she says 
he was treated poorly by the legal firm acting in this matter. This includes:
- Implying theyve been dishonest;
- Poor communications; and
- A general failure to consider his disabilities when handling this matter.
When Ms T raised her concerns with RSA, it explained it isnt responsible for and doesnt 
control the actions of the legal firm. However, it didnt feel Ms T received good service and 
offered £100 for this. Ms T says this isnt enough and brought her compliant to this service.
While the matter been with this service, RSA explained instructions were sent to the legal 
firm the day after the claim was notified to it. And, after Ms T raised a complaint with it in 
August 2022, it referred the matter to the legal firm to investigate as well as offering Ms T 
compensation itself. Finally, RSA confirmed it was willing to increase the compensation 
offered to Ms T to £250.
The matter was then passed to me and I issued a provisional decision on 8 November 2023. 
An extract of my findings is set out below.
Where theres a dispute about what has happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks 
more likely to have happened in light of the evidence.
Firstly, I think its important to explain the legal firm was instructed to defend the liability of 
Ms T (and the permitted driver) on behalf of RSA. It wasnt instructed to advance the 
passengers claims for his uninsured losses, although I appreciate resolving this may be a 
part of satisfying the legal firms instructions. 
Whether the firm was instructed through the legal expenses insurance section of the motor 
insurance policy or in defending Ms Ts (and the permitted drivers) position, the actions of 
RSA which can be considered by this service are limited. We dont usually hold insurers 
responsible for how a legal firm has handled the claim. Thats because, once the insurer  
here RSA - appoints a legal firm, its role is primarily limited to funding the costs. 
So, Ive thought about the matters I can consider in this complaint against RSA. From the 
little information Ive seen and limited contact I can see RSA had with Ms T and the legal 
firm, Im satisfied RSA instructed it promptly and responded to its questions. That said, I 
noted a delay in RSA responding to one of the queries raised by the legal firm. 
Taking everything into account, I consider the offer of £250 is a fair and reasonable way to 
resolve the parts of the complaint which may be considered in this matter against RSA. 
Indeed, its likely more than I wouldve awarded given RSAs limited responsibility here.
As the Investigator explained, we dont have a free hand to investigate all complaints 
referred to us. We must act within the powers which are set out by the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 along with the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Dispute Resolution 
(DISP) Rules. These can be found on the FCAs website. 
So, whilst I understand the focus of Ms Ts complaint is the handling of the passengers 
personal injury claim, Ive explained why thats not something I can consider in this complaint 
against RSA. Further, the passenger isnt an eligible complainant under this insurance 
policy, nor is the legal firm within our jurisdiction. 
I recognise Ms T is unhappy and wants our service to consider the full extent of her 
complaint. But, when considering the jurisdiction of this service, Ombudsmen are required to 
work within the confines of the rules; they cant simply be disregarded no matter how 
strongly a customer feels we should.
Any concerns Ms T has with the service provided by the legal firm may be taken to the Legal 
Ombudsman (for and on behalf of the passenger, as appropriate) as it has specific 
jurisdiction over legal service providers.
Both parties responded to the provisional decision. RSA accepted the outcome. Ms T didnt. 
She made further points for consideration which are summarised below:
- RSA didnt make contact with her to put forward the offer of £250, she was told about 
it by a colleague at this service. And she doesnt agree its sufficient for what RSA 
continues to put them all through.
- RSA still fails to consider the passengers disabilities when handling this matter and 
shared evidence with this Service in support of this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the parties replies and theyve not persuaded me to change my provisional 
decision. Our jurisdiction in this matter is limited. 
On the part of the complaint which may be considered by this service in this complaint 
against RSA, Im satisfied the offer of £250 is a fair and reasonable way to resolve it. Whilst 
Ms T has explained the amount isnt sufficient, its likely more than I wouldve awarded given RSAs limited responsibility here.
It follows my final decision reflects my provisional decision. I uphold the part of Ms Ts 
complaint against RSA I can consider.
Putting things right
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited should pay £250 to Ms T, as it has offered to do.
My final decision
I uphold the part of the complaint I can consider. To put things right on this, I require Royal & 
Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to pay £250 to Ms T, as it has offered to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject this part of my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman