DRN-3700953
The complaint
Ms C complains that Ageas Insurance Limited declined her claim on her property insurance 
policy
What happened
Ms C had a property insurance policy with Ageas for a house she owns and rents out. In July 
2021 the roof was damaged following a period of bad weather and this led to water ingress 
into the property,
Ms C made a claim on the policy but it was subsequently declined. Ageas said that there 
hadnt been a storm at the time of the damage, so it didnt consider there to have been an 
event that is covered under the policy. It also said that from the report from its expert that 
inspected the damage, the water ingress appeared to be gradually operating and there were 
signs of previous repairs that had taken place. So the damage was excluded from policy 
cover.
Ms C didnt think this was fair and made a complaint. She said there had been torrential rain 
during the week leading up to the damage so didnt agree there hadnt been a storm. And 
she said there had not been any previous problems with water ingress at the property. She 
also said that Ageas had provided a poor service and had taken too long to conclude the 
claim.
Ageas didnt change its position on the claim. However it apologised for the poor service. 
Unhappy with this, Ms C brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld in part. 
She said that she agreed there had been a rain storm shortly before the property was 
damaged however she didnt think the damage was consistent with a storm so thought 
Ageas acted fairly by declining the claim on this basis. However she said as Ms C had 
accidental damage cover on the policy, the damage to the inside of the property should be 
considered under this cover instead. She also thought Ageas should pay £100 
compensation to make up for the poor service.
Neither Ms C or Ageas agreed with our investigators outcome. Ms C didnt agree the 
compensation was enough to make up for the impact of the poor handling of the claim. 
Ageas said the damage on the inside of the property had happened gradually and there 
were signs of a previous repair. So thought it would be excluded from cover on this basis. 
As agreement hasnt been reached, the case has come to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When deciding if an insurer has fairly declined a storm damage claim, this service considers 
three questions. And if we think the answer to each is yes, wed say the claim should be 
accepted. 
The questions are: 
1. Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened? 
2. Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes? 
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage.
Here, Im satisfied that the weather on the day of the damage did amount to a rain storm. 
However the damage to the exterior of the building is reported as the roof lead coming away 
from the roof. And I agree this isnt consistent with damage due to torrential rain. So its most 
likely the damage was due to the roof having deteriorated and the rain merely highlighting 
the problem. For this reason I think Ageas acted fairly by declining the claim under the storm 
peril as its done enough to show a storm wasnt the main cause of the damage.
However, as our investigator identified, Ms Cs policy includes cover for accidental damage 
which is defined in the policy as: Damage caused suddenly and unexpectedly by an outside 
force. 
Ageas has said that it considers the damage to the interior of the property to have occurred 
gradually and therefore is not the result of a sudden, one off event so not covered under the 
accidental damage cover. However I dont think its done enough to show this.
Ive looked at the photos of the water ingress to the bedroom ceiling. And it appears 
consistent with a one off event following torrential rain. There are patches showing where the 
water has leaked through from the roof. 
Ageas has provided a copy of the notes from its expert that attended the property who 
commented: There appears to have possibly been previous repairs to the bedroom ceiling. 
However from the photos I dont agree there are any visible signs of repairs. And the notes 
provide no detail about what repairs have taken place. So I dont consider this account to be 
persuasive.
Further, Ageas has also said that the tenants told its contractor that water had ingressed 
numerous times and no action had been taken by Ms C. However Ageas hasnt provided a 
report to show these conclusions. And not only does this account directly contradict Ageas 
statement that there had been previous repairs, I also dont agree there are any signs from 
the photos that the damage has been occurring over a long period of time. If that were the 
case, Id expect to see mould and damp developing across the ceiling and wall of the 
bedroom. However the photos just show a few patches of water damage with no visible 
mould. I am therefore not persuaded that the water ingress has developed over a long 
period of time. 
For these reasons I agree with our investigator that Ageas should consider Ms Cs claim for 
the damage to the interior of the property under the accidental damage cover. 
Finally, I can see that Ageas hasnt provided good service when dealing with this claim. Its 
been difficult to get hold off and taken a long time to respond to her requests. I appreciate 
this would have been inconvenient for Ms C, especially as she was living in another country, 
which made scheduling calls more difficult. Based on this I agree with our investigator that 
Ageas should pay her £100 compensation to apologise for the poor service.  I note Ms Cs request for additional compensation due to the distress the matter has caused 
her tenants, which in turn has been distressing for Ms C to deal with. While I understand the 
matter would have been distressing for Ms C, I think £100 is fair compensation in the 
circumstances and in line with our approach to awards for similar cases.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I require Ageas Insurance Limited to:
Consider Ms Cs claim for the damage to the interior of the property under the 
accidental damage cover.
Pay Ms C £100 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman