DRN-4086558
The complaint
Mrs A complained because Santander UK plc didnt refund her for a dispute about services 
shed paid for, but didnt receive.
What happened
On 16 October 2020, Mrs A paid £494 to a beauty treatment firm. 
On 31 March 2022, Mrs A rang Santander. She said shed been trying to get through for 
three or four days, but the waiting times had been more than an hour.  She said that shed 
paid for 12 beauty treatments, and shed only had one. Shed had another booked but on 18 
March the business had emailed her, saying:
We are sorry to inform you that all appointments at [location] have been cancelled due to 
the clinic closing permanently There has been misinformation spread online which has 
caused mass refunds. We will not give up on our vision but for now we unfortunately have 
to take a step back to get back on track. If you do have remaining treatments, we advise you 
to claim a refund through your bank by letting them know that you did not receive the service 
that you paid for. Please use this email to claim your refund.
Mrs A had tried to contact the beauty treatment business but hadnt been able to get 
through. She gave Santander the details and asked it to help. Santander said it would send 
her a form through the post, which shed need to complete and return with supporting 
evidence.
On 7 April, Mrs M contacted Santander again, because she hadnt had any paperwork. She 
said shed also been promised an email link, which she hadnt had. The call handler said that 
the dispute was going to be out of time by the following day, so Santander wouldnt be able 
to raise it with the card scheme for a refund. Mrs A said that she hadnt been told that when 
shed phoned on 31 March. The call handler said that in any case Santander would have 
had to wait for Mrs As paperwork to arrive and upload it, so this would have been too late. 
Mrs A complained, because she hadnt been told any of this when she first rang.
On 14 April Santander replied to Mrs As complaint. It said it hadnt made a mistake. It said 
that the chargeback card scheme allowed 120 days from the date a company ceased 
trading, as long as the payment had been made no more than 540 days before. Santander 
said this meant it would have had to have had the signed form and evidence by 10 April, and 
as the form took 7 to 10 days to reach a customer, there wasnt enough time for Mrs A to 
have returned the form, and for Santander to have had 48 hours to check it. Santander told 
Mrs A that as the company had ceased trading, she should be able to claim through the 
administrators.
Mrs A didnt agree. She was unhappy with the outcome, and felt Santander should have 
pursued a refund. She felt that Santander had handled her claim poorly, as the short 
timeframe had never been explained. had been a lack of clear communication, meaning 
shed had to call constantly, waiting in long queues, for updates, and Santander also hadnt 
called her back to discuss the outcome. 
Santander sent Mrs A its final response on 23 April. It said that when Mrs A had contacted 
Santander on 31 March, there hadnt been enough time to process her refund claim and sent 
it to the chargeback card scheme. It said Santander didnt have any discretion on the 
scheme, and had no other way to pursue the refund for her. Santander agreed, however, 
that its service hadnt been to the level expected. It said its call handlers should have been 
clear from the start that the claim was extremely close to the card scheme deadline, and 
there was a possibility it couldnt be pursued. Santander apologised for the fact that Mrs A 
had had to make several phone calls for a better understanding of the process and to chase 
an update, and paid her £50 compensation for this.
Santander also said that even if Mrs A had contacted it in time, it believed the chargeback 
criteria hadnt been met. That was because there was nothing to show the merchant was in 
liquidation  and Companies House showed it as an active business. The company website 
was operational and that indicated that some branches were still open for treatment. So it 
said Mrs A should take legal advie and contact the business.
Mrs A wasnt satisfied and contacted this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs As complaint. She said the email which the business had 
sent Mrs A didnt show the company had gone into liquidation, just that the branch Mrs A 
used was permanently closing. She explained that chargeback is a voluntary process run by 
the card schemes not by the banks. It has strict rules which arent set by banks. The 
investigator thought Santander should have sent the forms to Mrs A more quickly, but from 
the information shed seen, she didnt think the chargeback would have been successful 
anyway. So she thought Santanders £50 compensation was reasonable.
Mrs A didnt agree. She said that the email from the business meant that all clinics were 
closing, even though it only specifically mentioned her local one.  She mentioned other 
locations including large cities and the head office, which were also closed  she said shed 
phoned all of the branches and they were all closed. And she pointed out that the email had 
specifically told her to claim a refund from her bank. Mrs A clarified that shed also made an 
earlier payment of £315 on 3 September 2020, but she hadnt complained to Santander 
about this.
Mrs A asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. This was because Id come to a different 
conclusion to the investigator. Issuing a provisional decision gave both sides the opportunity 
to comment on it, by the date set, before I issued a final decision.  
Before issuing the provisional decision, I considered all the available evidence and 
arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
First, I clarified the situation with regard to a scam which Mrs A mentioned in her complaint 
form to this service. She had referred to the merchant running a scam company and said 
that shed informed my bank straight away about the situation and that most likely I have 
been the victim of a scam. A scam involves a trick or an element of deception, and there 
was no indication Mrs A had been tricked into paying the merchant. Shed paid it £315 
before, which she hadnt disputed, presumably because shed had the services for that 
payment. And shed said shed had two of the 12 treatments for the £494 payment. This 
history of receiving services for money paid didnt indicate that Mrs A was tricked. I also 
listened to the available call recordings, and looked at the notes. Neither on the call recording nor in the notes did Mrs A ever say to Santander that shed been scammed. It was 
first raised in her complaint form to this service. I didnt consider there was a scam here. 
Instead, I considered this  as a complaint about not receiving all the services the customer 
had paid for, when a merchant stopped trading. 
Mrs A used her Santander debit card for the transaction.  This means that the relevant way 
she could make a claim for services which hadnt been provided, was through the 
chargeback process.  Theres another way of making a claim against the supplier of goods 
and services, called a Section 75 claim, but that only applies if the customer has paid using 
a credit card. So Section 75 isnt applicable for Mrs As claim.
A chargeback is a process by which disputes are resolved between card issuers (here, 
Santander) and merchants (here, the beauty treatment business).  Chargeback schemes are 
run by the card schemes (the business which runs the payment network). Theyre intended 
to resolve settlement disputes, but sometimes, as here, things have gone wrong between 
the card holder (here, Mrs A) and the merchant (the beauty treatment business). 
Chargeback schemes have strict deadlines and thats the key point at issue in Mrs As 
complaint. 
Time limits
The relevant card scheme rules say that, where a chargeback claim is made because goods 
or services havent been delivered, the claim must be submitted by the bank to the card 
scheme:
- within 120 days from the last date when the customer became aware that the service 
had ceased; and also 
- within 540 days of the payment being made.
Looking at these two elements:
The date when Mrs A became aware that she wouldnt get the services for which shed paid, 
was 18 March 2022, when she received the merchants email saying that all appointments 
had been cancelled and she should contact her bank for a refund. So there was enough of 
the 120 days remaining on this part of the timescale by the time of the discussions with 
Santander during March and April 2022.
Mrs A made the payment on 16 October 2020.  The limit of 540 days from the payment 
being made meant that the claim with all supporting documents had to be submitted by 
Santander to the chargeback card scheme within this timescale. A number of different dates 
had been calculated for this, but in Santanders first response to Mrs A it said the deadline 
was 10 April 2022. By my calculations the 540th day after 16 October 2020 was 9 April 2022 
so Santander would have had to have submitted the claim and all supporting documents by 
the end of that day and before 10 April 2022. 
Santander suggested that the merchant wasnt in liquidation. But for the purposes of the 
scheme rules, the exact status of the merchant doesnt matter. The point is whether or not 
the service was going to be provided. Its clear from the merchants email to Mrs A that it 
wasnt going to provide Mrs A with the services shed paid for as all appointments at the 
[location]  clinic have been cancelled due to the clinic closing permanently.  An internet 
search shows that other branches too had closed, including those in large cities  and that 
there was also a lot of bad press at the relevant time. Its reasonable to think that if the 
merchant could have provided Mrs A with her services at another branch, it would have said 
so.I also checked on Companies House. Theres no longer a company trading under that name, 
although a different company appears to have taken over the name. But what happened to 
the trading name or company is irrelevant  what matters is that the merchant wasnt going 
to provide Mrs A with the services. 
I went on to consider whether it would have been feasible for Santander to have submitted 
the claim in time.
Could Mrs As claim have been submitted in time?
Mrs A didnt contact Santander until 31 March.  So it was always going to be very tight to 
meet the deadline to submit the full claim with supporting documents before 10 April. 
But I considered it should have been possible. The call recording for 31 March showed that 
Santanders internal expert told the call handler of the imminent deadline, and she recorded 
on the banks system that the transaction is within the 540 daysplease provide customer 
link to uphold docs online and advise to do it as soon as possible.  This is what we need: 
But Santander didnt do this. It told us that in line with the existing process, it wouldnt let the 
customer know any outcome from the call handlers request to the internal expert. It said it 
would have advised the customer to ring back after two working days. But this was the 
section of the call recording which Santander said was missing. So there was nothing to 
show that Santander told Mrs A to ring back within two working days. And as it was urgent, 
as Santanders internal expert had realised, I considered Santander didnt treat Mrs A fairly 
when it failed to act on the internal experts instructions. It wasnt fair to follow a practice 
never to let customers know the outcome from an internal expert in these circumstances.
Instead, Santanders first written reply to Mrs As complaint said it wouldnt have been 
possible because the disclaimer takes 7-10 days to reach you. I couldnt see why 
Santander didnt email the disclaimer form to Mrs A, which wouldnt have taken 7  10 days. 
Santander told Mrs A in its 14 April letter that it needed 48 hours to check the evidence in a 
chargeback claim. So if Santander had emailed Mrs A with the forms immediately after she 
rang on 31 March, and shed returned them within a day or two for Santander to do 48 hours 
of checking and submission, it would have been possible for the claim to have been 
submitted to the card scheme before it became out of time at the end of 9 April.
As Mrs A did chase Santander regularly, despite the waiting times of over an hour, I found 
that it was more likely than not that she would have submitted the form and supporting 
evidence promptly, if shed been emailed the forms and told how urgent it was.  So I found 
that it was because of Santanders omissions that Mrs As claim didnt get submitted to the 
card scheme.
Would it have made a difference to the outcome if Mrs As claim had been submitted to the 
card scheme in time?
The outcome of a chargeback is decided by the card scheme, not by the bank. So I cant say 
for certain whether or not Mrs As claim would have been successful, if Santander had sent 
her the necessary forms and submitted her claim on time. But I needed to decide whether 
Mrs A suffered a financial loss as a result of Santanders failings  in other words, whether it 
was more likely than not that the claim would have succeeded if it had been submitted on 
time.
On balance, I thought it was more likely than not that Mrs As chargeback would have 
succeeded if it had been made in time. There is a well established chargeback reason code that applies to goods or services that 
have not been provided by the merchant. The criteria under that reason code seem likely to 
cover Mrs As circumstances, and none of the exceptions that are outlined in the card 
scheme rules would be applicable here. 
The email from the merchant said that all appointments had been cancelled, and if you do 
have remaining treatments, we advise you to claim a refund through your bank by letting 
them know that you did not receive the service that you paid for. Please use this email to 
claim your refund. I considered this was sound evidence that the merchant wasnt going to 
provide Mrs A with what shed paid for. 
Conclusions
Taking all these factors into account, I considered it was more likely than not that Mrs As 
chargeback claim would have succeeded if Santander had provided her with the forms 
promptly, notified her of the deadline, and submitted the claim promptly. So I looked at 
compensation for this.
Mrs A paid the merchant £494. In her complaint form she said shed received two of 12 
treatments. So her financial loss was 10/12 of £494 which is £411.67. I said that I also 
intended to award interest on that figure at 8% simple per annum from 16 October 2020 to 
the date of payment.
I also considered compensation for distress and inconvenience. Mrs A had to chase 
repeatedly, and said phone waiting times were over an hour. She had the inconvenience and 
worry of having to do this, which wouldnt have been necessary if Santander had acted as 
Ive set out above. While it would always be stressful when a merchant stops providing 
services which had been paid for, I considered it was more likely than not that it could have 
been relatively quickly and easily resolved if Santander had acted as it should. I considered 
that Santander should pay Mrs A £100 for distress and inconvenience. It had already paid 
her £50, which leaves a further £50 still to pay.
So my provisional decision was that I intended to uphold this complaint and to order 
Santander UK Plc to pay Mrs A:
- £411.67  financial loss for the payment which I think was more likely than not to have 
been refunded under the chargeback process; and 
- Interest on this amount at 8% simple per annum from 16 October 2020 to the date 
the settlement is paid; and 
- £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience.  Santander has already paid Mrs 
A £50, which would leave £50 still to pay.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs A said she was pleased with the provisional decision, but it hadnt taken into account the 
total amount she had paid to the beauty treatment business, which was £809. She said she 
had paid £315 on 5 September 2020 and £494 on 17 October 2020.  She noted that Id said 
in the provisional decision that she hadnt disputed the £315 payment, but she could recall 
disputing the total of £809 on the phone. She said she hadnt received any treatments for the 
earlier payment. She said there had been delays because of Covid, and asked me to include 
both amounts in my final decision.
Santander said it agreed some of my provisional decision. It agreed £411.67 representing 
Mrs As financial loss. But it said that interest on this should be paid from the date when Mrs 
A first contacted Santander about the problem, which was 31 March 2022, not from 16 October 2020 when the payment had been made. Santander also said it accepted paying 
£50 to Mrs A for distress and inconvenience.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered the points made by both Mrs A and Santander in their responses to 
the provisional decision.
Mrs As points
I have gone back to the Mrs As original complaint to Santander on 31 March 2022, and I 
have listened again to the call recording. Ive heard nothing to indicate that she reported the 
earlier £315 payment as well as the £494 payment. It is clear on the recording that what she 
told the adviser was that she made the payment on 17 (sic) October 2020 and it was for 
£494. 
As there is no evidence that Mrs A reported the £315 payment to Santander, I cant consider 
it. This service can only look at matters about which a complaint has clearly been made to 
the financial organisation, so they have an opportunity to respond. 
But in any case, even if Mrs A had reported the 5 September 2020 £315 payment, by 31 
March 2022 it would already have been outside the timescales for submitting a chargeback.  
As Ive set out above, the timescale was very tight even for the 16 October 2020 payment, 
and the earlier 5 September payment was already out of time. So even if Mrs A had raised 
the 5 September payment with Santander on 31 March 2022, shed have done so too late for 
Santander to have been able to raise a chargeback.
For the avoidance of confusion, I would also clarify the position about the number of 
treatments received and claimed. There is different evidence about this at different stages of 
the complaint. But I have relied on the complaint form which Mrs A submitted to this service. 
She wrote The deal was supposed to consist of 12 treatments. I only had two treatments 
with the most recent treatment in February 2022.  This is the basis on which I have 
calculated her financial loss as being 10/12 of £494 which is £411.67. 
Santanders points
I can understand why Santander says that interest should only be paid on the £411.67 from 
the date when Mrs A reported the dispute, which was 31 March 2022. Sometimes, the date 
when the loss occurred is the date of payment. But here, Mrs A was still expecting to have 
the remaining 10 treatments when she received the beauty treatment firms email in March 
2022. There had been a delay, but that had been because of covid. 
Interest is generally intended to compensate a customer for the loss of use of the money. 
But here, Mrs A didnt lose the use of her money until it was unfairly not refunded. I find that 
31 March 2022 was the date Santander should have put the money back into Mrs As 
account as part of the chargeback process. So the date when she was deprived of the 
money, and from which interest should be calculated, was 31 March 2022.
Finally, Santander said that it agreed to pay £50 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. To clarify, this is in addition to the £50 it has already paid her, making £100 
total in all.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Santander UK plc to pay Mrs A:
- £411.67  financial loss, for the payment which I think was more likely than not to have 
been refunded under the chargeback process; and 
- Interest on this amount at 8% simple per annum from 31 March 2022 to the date the 
settlement is paid. If Santander deducts tax, it should tell Mrs A how much it has 
deducted, and if Mrs A requests one, it should provide a tax deduction certificate. 
This would enable her to reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate for her personal 
tax circumstances; and
- £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience.  Santander has already paid Mrs 
A £50, which leaves £50 still to pay.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman