DRN-4055815
The complaint
Mr S complains about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds handling of a motor claim on 
his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S complains about the poor communication hes had from Admiral including lack of 
updates, unnecessary delays in dealing with the claim, having to chase both Admiral and the 
third-party insurer to progress his claim, general complaint handling. He also complained 
that Admiral hadnt considered the impact this has had on his mental health. 
In their final response letter, Admiral say they accepted all the complaint points Mr S had 
raised except for his point about his mental health. They say they had considered this. In 
recognition of their failings, Admiral offered Mr S £400 compensation. Mr S didnt accept the 
offer and asked for £1,200 to resolve his complaint. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and said that complaint handling in itself was not a 
regulated activity that could be considered by this service. He added that the delays in 
progressing the claim was unfair to Mr S and that Admiral could have communicated with 
him better. He concluded that £400 was a fair amount to compensate him for these issues. 
Mr S didnt agree with this outcome, so this has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will not be upholding this complaint. I will explain why.
DISP rule 2.5.1 R of the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook says that complaint handling 
itself is not considered a regulated activity. Mr S complained that Admiral hadnt considered 
his mental health issues when dealing with his complaint. He wasnt complaining about the 
provision of, or failure to provide financial service, or the manner in which Admiral 
administered the financial service, he is complaining about his complaint and not the original 
claim Admiral was dealing with. As such, I am unable to look at Admirals handling of his 
complaint. 
In relation to the other complaint points to do with their handling of his claim, lack of claim 
progression, lack of communication from Admiral, mis-communications, and general delays 
in the claim handling are all issues that can be considered. I can see that in their final 
response letter on 28 February 2023, Admiral had already accepted responsibility for these 
complaint points, so I see no merit in going over these again. What remains in dispute is the 
amount of compensation Admiral offered him, so I will concentrate on this point.
It is clear that Mr S has suffered unnecessary distress and inconvenience. The lack of 
progress made and mis-communications about the claim handling were only compounded 
by the lack of communication from Admiral. This meant Mr S was having to continually 
chase them to get updates. Mr Ss request for £1,200 to resolve this complaint is 
considerably more than the award we would make in this kind of situation. I dont say this to 
undermine the strength of feeling he has in this case or the level of distress and 
inconvenience he has suffered, but awards of this scale by this service are generally made 
in exceptional circumstances where considerable distress has been caused. 
Awards made by this service in these types of complaints are in general quite modest. Im 
aware Mr S has previously been paid £250 for the cost of phone calls and inconvenience. 
Taking into account the circumstances of this complaint, I consider Admirals offer of £400 
compensation to be reasonable and in line with the amounts we would offer at this service. 
As such, I will not be asking them to do more. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman