DRN-2770751
The complaint
Mr M and Miss S complain Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV), trading as 
Britannia Rescue, didnt provide proper advice under their roadside assistance policy when 
Miss S broke down.
Other companies have been involved in this complaint, but as LV are responsible for it, Ive 
just referred to them in this decision.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint setting out whatd happened, what I 
thought about that, and how I thought it best to resolve matters. Ive copied the relevant 
elements below, and they form part of this final decision.
In March 2020 Miss S was on her way to an important wedding event, when her car broke 
down. She pulled into the services, called LV and was told if they cant get her going then 
her only option was to be towed home. The technician who attended Miss Ss car didnt find 
any issues and said she could carry on her journey.
She did so but broke down again. Miss S understood from her first call with LV that her only 
option at this stage was to be towed home  and she was. But, after speaking to various 
parties later on, she felt she should have been offered onward travel. Miss S had 
accommodation booked which she received a partial refund of £270 for, but shes still been 
charged £428.66 which shed like refunded.
LV said depending on the policy features Miss S had she could have asked for a contribution 
towards alternative travel, a hotel or a hire car. But Miss S would have needed to ask for this 
as they said its not possible for their claims team to go through every eventuality. LV added 
all customers receive policy documents and are asked to read them so theyre aware of what 
they can claim for.
Unhappy with this Mr M and Miss S asked us to look into things. One of our investigators did 
so, and thought it was appropriate to uphold the complaint. He said it wasnt reasonable to 
expect Miss S to remember all of the options on the policy, and really LVs adviser should 
have told her. So, he recommended the costs of £428.66 be refunded, together with £200 
compensation.
After this the original investigator left, and a new investigator picked up the case. Miss S had 
agreed with the outcome, but LV didnt. They said Miss S didnt make them aware of her 
plans, and if shed done so then theyd have discussed options with her. But the time she 
broke down was a Friday afternoon. Because of that they thought it unlikely a hire car would 
be available, and with the taxi option that has a £100 benefit limit it probably wouldnt have 
got her to her destination. LV said if they offer their standard options of roadside repair, and 
then recovery if unsuccessful and the customer accepts without hesitation, theyve taken 
appropriate action with the information theyve been given. LV added they cant go through 
every option. And having listened to the calls Miss S never told them she was on her way to 
an important wedding event or would lose money if she didnt carry on her journey. LV 
provided further information to our service in support of their comments  including the two 
times Miss S called LV about her car breaking down.
Our investigator considered the complaint, and discussed matters with Mr M and Miss S. 
Having done so, ultimately, he felt the first call with LV meant Miss S didnt know about the 
other options  but the policy didnt cover the cost of the accommodation, so he didnt think 
itd be appropriate to ask LV to pay this. He also felt the hire car wasnt guaranteed  so 
overall, he felt £100 compensation was appropriate. He said this felt like a fair outcome 
because both parties had made mistakes.
LV said although they didnt necessarily agree with the outcome, they decided to accept the 
decision to bring the issue to a close  and would pay the £100 if Mr M and Miss S accepted 
it.
They didnt though and Im summarised their comments below:
If were now saying LV had made mistakes, then surely they should get the 
accommodation costs back because they only lost out on them due to the omissions 
by LV
They didnt agree no fault can be placed on either party
It wasnt reasonable to think Miss S needed to memorise every aspect of her policy  
and LV should have given her the options
Overall, they felt the accommodation costs should be refunded and wouldnt accept anything 
less than that. Because they didnt agree with our investigator, the complaints been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want both parties to know Ive read in detail all of their submissions. I may not have 
reflected everything theyve said and that isnt intended as a discourtesy. Its part of my role 
in deciding things informally and on a fair and reasonable basis.
Theres no dispute that the policy covers more scenarios than LVs adviser offered Miss S 
when she called up on two occasions to discuss her breakdowns. So, what I need to decide 
is whether LV are solely responsible for Mr M and Miss Ss situation and if they should 
refund the full costs incurred.Ive listened to the phone calls Miss S had with LV. In the first call LV say normally theyd 
take the car to a local garage  but with the time of day itll probably be back to the home 
address on that day, and then into a local garage the next day or on the Monday. Miss S 
says OK in response to that and asks questions about a battery pack to see if the issue 
could be sorted. 
In the second call Miss S is asked where shed like the car taken to. She replies by saying 
that in the previous conversation she was told shed have to have it towed back to her 
house. LVs adviser then asks if shes quite far from home, and Miss S says yes, a few hours 
from home. After this LV explain Miss S may need to be taken home by two different 
recovery companies  but theyd confirm that. Miss S accepts that and then the call is 
ended.
I think on both calls LV could have asked Miss S about her travel plans. Its clear she was far 
from home and they knew this. I wouldnt expect any of LVs advisers to read out all the 
policy terms as theyve said. But I dont think its unreasonable to have offered more options 
than just recovering Miss S to her home address given they knew she was quite far away  
or, at least, asking why she was so far from home.
But, bearing in mind my remit is to decide things on a fair and reasonable basis taking into 
account all of the circumstances of the case  I think Miss S could have done more too. I 
realise Mr M and Miss S dont agree they should have had to say anything  but I think it 
wouldnt have been unreasonable for her to have said she was on her way to an important 
wedding event. There were opportunities for her to do so during the phone calls.
So, Im finding both parties could have done more. I note LV have said the policy terms 
wouldnt cover Miss S loss of accommodation  but I think itd be fair and reasonable for 
them to cover a proportion of it. Had LV handled things properly, then I may have said they 
werent required to refund any costs. Had Miss S told LV about her plans LV didnt handle 
things very well at all, then I may have required LV to refund all the costs. As Im finding both 
parties could have done more, I think 50% of the accommodation costs is a fair way to 
resolve this matter. I also think 8% simple interest should be added to this figure to 
compensate Mr M and Miss S for not having the funds for around a year now.
Im also satisfied its appropriate to pay £100 compensation. I can imagine her finding out 
that LV could have offered her onward travel was a shock for Miss S  again, the 
compensation perhaps would have been higher if LV had all the information and didnt 
handle things well.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr M and Miss S said they had some points to make regarding my provisional decision but 
were keen to bring things to a conclusion. So, they said if LV accepted my provisional 
decision, and paid the compensation promptly, then theyd accept it too.
LV did accept the decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my decision, Ive seen no reason to change the outcome Ive 
explained above in my provisional decision.Putting things right
I order LV to:
Refund to Mr M and Miss S £214.33
Pay 8% simple interest on this from the date of the claim, to the date of the 
settlement*
Pay Mr M and Miss S £100 compensation.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires LV to deduct tax from the interest payment referred to 
above. LV must give Mr M and Miss S a certificate showing how much tax theyve deducted 
if asked for one.
My final decision
It follows I partially uphold this complaint, and order Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company 
Limited to carry out the actions in the putting things right section. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Miss S 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman