DRN-2853376
The complaint
Miss B and Mr C complain that the National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited (NFU) has refused to provide further assistance with a claim on their legal 
expenses insurance policy.
Where I refer to the National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited, this includes 
its agents and claims handlers acting on its behalf.
What happened
Miss B and Mr C are joint policyholders of an insurance policy that includes cover for certain 
types of legal expenses and the complaint has been brought by both of them. However, 
Mr C has generally pursued this matter and for ease I will refer to him throughout.
The background to this complaint goes back many years. Mr C has raised various concerns 
about his land being contaminated. He made a claim on the policy and solicitors were 
appointed to look into the matter. 
The solicitors instructed a barrister who advised in 2017 on the possibility of pursuing 
various claims. He said some of the claims couldnt be pursued, partly due to the amount of 
time that had passed, but there was a possible claim in respect of pollution on Mr Cs land. 
He advised that further expert evidence was needed in relation to this.
Around March 2020 the solicitors advised that the indemnity limit of £50,000 had almost 
been used up. They said it would be necessary to instruct a specialist QC and wanted 
confirmation of Mr Cs instructions about how to proceed. Mr C was unhappy with the way 
the claim had been managed and raised the possibility of a negligence claim against the 
solicitors but NFU said there wasnt cover under the policy for this.
Mr C then complained to NFU. In its final response to the complaint, NFU said 
it had provided assistance under the policy and any concerns about the legal claim 
needed to be taken up with the solicitors;
it hadnt declined the current claim but needed further information from the solicitors, 
including advice on the prospects of the claim being successful;
while it wasnt at fault in relation to handling the claim overall, there had been some 
delay responding to Mr C following his complaint and it paid compensation of £100 in 
respect of this.
When Mr C then brought the complaint to this service, our investigator didnt think it should 
be upheld. She said NFU was wiling to continue with the claim but was waiting for 
information from the solicitors, and it was reasonable to wait for that. She understood Mr C 
was cautious about continuing with the case given the likely costs and the fact he was close 
to the indemnity limit, but that was something hed need to discuss with the solicitors. And 
she couldnt comment on how the solicitors had managed the legal case.
Mr C disagreed and made some further comments, but the investigator said these didnt 
change her view, and many of the points he raised concerned the solicitors actions, which 
she couldnt comment on.
Mr C remains unhappy and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy provides cover for certain types of legal action. But as with all insurance, there 
are terms and conditions that apply limits to the cover. In particular, cover will only be 
provided for a claim where it is likely to succeed. And there is an indemnity limit of £50,000 
on the amount of legal costs that will be covered. Terms like these are common in legal 
expenses policies and I dont think they are unreasonable. 
NFU hasnt rejected the claim cover has been provided and solicitors were appointed to 
act. The solicitors are responsible for managing the legal case and I cant comment on their 
actions. The solicitors have advised on which claims might be pursued and what further 
evidence is needed in relation to this. They also said that in view of the complex nature of 
the claim, which appears to have changed as things have progressed, a specialist QC 
should be instructed to advise on further action. And they explained that the costs incurred 
so far are almost up to the indemnity limit of £50,000, which means if the case continues 
Mr C will need to consider how to fund it.
I appreciate this is a complex situation which has been going on for many years and has 
caused Mr C a lot of distress. But as Ive explained, Im only looking at how NFU has dealt 
with this claim. I cant review the points Mr C has raised about previous claims or consider 
how the solicitors have managed the legal case. 
NFU has provided cover under the policy and authorised costs as the case has progressed. 
It has confirmed its still willing to proceed, but needs the solicitors to provide further 
information, in particular on whether the claim still has prospects of success. And costs will 
only be covered up to the indemnity limit. Thats in line with the policy terms and standard 
insurance practice. It wouldnt be reasonable to expect an insurer to provide cover for a 
claim that isnt likely to succeed, or to pay for costs over and above the indemnity limit. So 
its reasonable for NFU to wait for the solicitors to confirm whether the claim still has 
prospects of success and whether Mr C wishes to continue with it, taking into account the 
limited amount of cover left until the indemnity limit is reached.
I understand the solicitors may be waiting for Mr C to confirm his instructions, while he has 
some concerns about how the case has been dealt with. Its for Mr C to consider how he 
wishes to proceed and these are points he may need to discuss with the solicitors. As far as 
the insurance claim is concerned, NFU accepted there was some delay but paid £100 
compensation for that. I think that was fair and other than this, Im satisfied NFU has dealt 
with this claim fairly and in line with the policy terms. So Im not directing NFU to do anything 
else.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr C 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman