DRN-2391853
The complaint
Miss T has complained about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limiteds decision to 
decline a claim she made under her home insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss Ts property was damaged by damp and she had to move out while building repairs 
were carried out. Miss Ts items were put into storage from February 2020 to August 2020. 
In August 2020 Miss T found that her items had been damaged by the damp. After speaking 
to the building insurer of the property, she contacted her insurer, LV to make a claim under 
the contents section of her policy. She did this in August 2020.
LV told Miss T that her claim would be covered under the Accidental Damage section of her 
policy and to get prices for the damaged items and call LV back. 
However, Miss T purchased items in August and September 2020. When she called LV in 
September 2020 it said it had given Miss T incorrect information when shed called in 
August. It said that the cause of the damage wasnt covered as damp occurs gradually over 
time. LV paid Miss T £150 compensation for providing her with incorrect information. 
Miss T asked us to look at her complaint. She told us that she has a condition which means 
she relies on information told over the phone rather than in writing. She said she double 
checked with LV when she called to make sure her claim was covered. So she wants LV to 
meet her claim. 
Our investigator thought LV had done enough to resolve Miss Ts complaint. Notes of the 
key call in August 2020 show Miss T was advised to get prices and call LV back  so 
although there was no dispute LV had made an error, she thought the compensation it paid 
was fair and reasonable given the advice LV gave Miss T. 
Miss T didnt agree. She says LV misled her. Due to her health condition she couldnt risk 
bringing contaminated furniture back into her home. She said she might not have purchased 
the items all at once of shed been given the correct information in August 2020. Due to LVs 
advice, she has been left with a large bill and has to appeal to family for help.
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
LV accepts that it incorrectly told Miss T in August 2020 that her claim for damaged items 
would be covered under the Accidental Damage section of her policy. However, Miss Ts 
items werent damaged accidentally. They were damaged due to damp which occurs 
gradually over time. 
Miss Ts policy with LV excludes damage caused in this way. This isnt an unusual term as it 
can be found in most  if not all insurance policies. 
When things go wrong, we look at what an insurer did to put things right. LVs notes show 
that the agent told Miss T to get prices and call LV back. So LV didnt advise Miss T she 
could purchase replacement items without approval from it. 
When Miss T called back in September 2020, she had purchased replacement items in 
August and September 2020. This is confirmed by the receipts Miss T has provided. It was 
in September 2020 when LV advised Miss T that it had given incorrect information to her the 
month before. 
The key issue is that Miss T was advised to call back with prices before purchasing the 
items. Had LV approved the costs of Miss Ts claim and then declined it  this would have 
been different. But in this case, I think LV should compensate Miss T for the incorrect 
information, not for the costs of items purchased before it approved the costs of the claim. 
So I think the compensation it paid of £150 is fair and reasonable. 
I understand how disappointed Miss T is with LVs decision. But as Miss Ts claim wasnt 
covered under her policy  and as LV advised her to call back with prices before purchasing 
the items  I think LV has done enough to put things right for its error. So this means I dont 
think it should cover the costs of the replacement items Miss T bought. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman