DRN-2223727
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC were unable to recover money Mr R paid to a third 
party to purchase a vehicle which, when delivered, was not in the condition that the seller 
had promised it would be.
What happened
In September 2019 Mr R purchased a vehicle via an online sales site. Mr R initially 
transferred the seller £250 to secure the vehicle, and later transferred the remaining balance 
of £1,600. However, when the vehicle arrived it was in a poor condition and wasnt to the 
standard that Mr R expected, and so Mr R refused to take the vehicle and sought a refund 
from the seller.
In October 2019, after his attempts to obtain a refund from the seller had failed, Mr R 
contacted Lloyds and asked them to recover his money as he felt that he had been 
scammed. Lloyds tried to recover the money but were unable to do so. Mr R was unhappy 
with this and so he complained to Lloyds.
Lloyds looked at the circumstances here and didnt agree that what had happened was a 
scam. Instead, Lloyds said that it was a private dispute which would need to be settled in 
court. Lloyds also felt that they hadnt done anything wrong in how they had handled this 
matter, and so they didnt uphold the complaint. Mr R remained unhappy and so referred his 
complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at this case. They agreed with Lloyds position and didnt 
think that it would be fair to ask Lloyds to do anything further beyond what they had already 
done, and so they didnt uphold the complaint either.
Mr R disagreed with the view put forward by our investigator and so asked that the complaint 
be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr R feels strongly about this matter and I can understand his frustration at not 
being able to recover the money from the seller and how he might feel that he has been 
scammed.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive thought about the Lending 
Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM), which Lloyds has 
signed up to and which was in force at the time Mr R made the complaint.
Under the CRM code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who is 
the victim of an Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam, such as the one which Mr R is 
alleging here. Ive thought about if the CRM code applies in the circumstances of the 
payment Mr R made and in particular whether Lloyds ought to reimburse Mr R under the 
provisions of the Code. But the Code is quite explicit that it doesnt apply to all push 
payments. It says:
DS2(2) This code does not apply to:
(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for
goods, services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in some
way, or the Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier
Subsections (a) and (c) have been omitted as they are not relevant to this complaint.
Both the bank and the investigator felt the payment Mr R made formed part of a civil dispute 
and, as such, is not covered by the Code.
In order for me to conclude that the transfer made was part of a scam Id need to be 
reasonably satisfied from the evidence that the seller intended to deceive and had no 
intentions of providing the goods or services paid for, from the start.
Ive thought about the intentions of the seller, with the benefit of hindsight, to determine 
whether or not I think they were attempting to scam Mr R. However, in this instance Ive 
seen that the seller demonstrated several behaviours which I believe illustrate that the seller 
didnt intend to scam Mr R. These include offering to sell the vehicle on Mr Rs behalf, 
staying in contact with Mr R and responding to his messages, and advising Mr R to seek 
legal advice. These dont seem like that actions that a seller who was attempting to scam 
someone would take. 
Also, because the seller provided the goods, albeit perhaps not in the condition that Mr R 
was expecting, this also leads me to believe that the seller didnt intend to deceive Mr R from 
the start. So, based on this evidence, I believe that Mr R did pay for goods from a legitimate 
seller, which means that this would fall under the exclusion clause DSN(2)(b) of the Code as 
detailed above. Therefore, Im not satisfied that the Code applies in this case.
I understand that Mr R wasnt happy with the vehicle supplied by the seller but given that I 
consider the seller to be a legitimate seller, I cant fairly say that Lloyds did anything wrong in 
allowing Mr R to make the payment to that seller. Hed intended to make the payment and 
there wasnt anything particularly unusual about it so that, if the payment had been flagged 
for a check by Lloyds, Mr R wouldnt have approved it. It follows that I cant fairly hold Lloyds 
accountable for any financial loss that Mr R has suffered as a result of making the payment. 
I note that Lloyds did initially attempt to recover the money for Mr R but that they werent 
able to do so. Its difficult to see what else Lloyds could have done here, other than point Mr 
R in the right direction so that he might pursue the matter via more appropriate channels, 
which Lloyds have done.
I also note that our investigator considered the possibility of whether Mr R would be entitled 
to raise a chargeback claim, but correctly concluded that this would not be possible because 
chargeback claims can only be made when a payment has been made directly using a card, 
and the payment Mr R made to the seller was via a bank transfer.
I know that this wont be the result that Mr R wanted, but I cant see that Lloyds have done 
anything wrong or improper in how theyve handled this matter. I hope that Mr R can 
understand why I wont be upholding this complaint and why I dont think that it would be fair 
to ask Lloyds to do anything further at this time.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman