DRN-3752148
The complaint
Mrs R complains Santander UK Plc caused significant distress and inconvenience when it 
stopped her online shopping for no good reason, made worse by how it handled the issue.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R had a joint account with Santander, and a credit card issued by Santander too. 
Mr R was the primary credit cardholder and Mrs R was an authorised user. And Mr R has 
appointed Mrs R as his representative for the purposes of this complaint.
Mrs R is elderly, has a disability and is hard of hearing. Shes responsible, amongst other 
things, for organising household food purchases. Shes relied on online food deliveries ever 
since the lockdowns  and didnt have any problems until September 2021.
In September 2021, Mrs S says she placed an order as normal, but the credit card payment 
wouldnt go through when she used her card. She says her husband couldnt understand 
why the payment wouldnt go through  his card worked. She says this was really worrying, 
so she called Santander but had to give up after having spent two hours on the phone on 
hold. She called again the following day and waited over half an hour before speaking to 
someone who she says was dismissive and rude and essentially told her that shed need a 
mobile phone in order to carry on using her card online. Mrs S complained about this, and 
says she was subsequently given inconsistent information, with one member of staff saying 
that shed need to provide a mobile number or an email address going forwards.
Santander investigated Mrs Rs complaint and said that it had made changes to its 
processes in order to implement strong customer authentication, and that this was an 
important measure designed to prevent fraud. Santander also said that sometimes its 
customers had to wait longer on its phones than it would want when there was unexpected 
call demand. Mrs R was unhappy with Santanders response and complained to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Rs complaint and said that Santander hadnt acted 
in a fair and reasonable way because it hadnt offered Mrs R the alternatives to be expected. 
Our investigator, however, thought that a £250 offer of compensation Santander had made 
after Mrs R had complained to us was fair and reasonable. So thats the compensation they 
recommended Santander pay given that Mr and Mrs R had closed their accounts in the 
meantime and moved their banking elsewhere. Mrs R didnt think £250 would act as a 
deterrent to Santander especially as she felt our investigator had confirmed that Santander 
had not only failed to implement strong customer authentication legislation but had also 
breached the Equality Act 2010. In the circumstances, she asked an ombudsman to look into 
her complaint and said that an award of £25,000 might make Santander think again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander is right that it had to make changes to its processes in order to implement strong 
customer authentication legislation. Santander would have had to take other legislation into 
account too  for example, the Equality Act 2010  as well as guidance issued by the FCA 
when doing so. Santander  along with the rest of the industry  was given until March 2020 
to implement strong customer authentication for online banking and until March 2022 to 
implement strong customer authentication for online payments. There was, of course, 
nothing to stop Santander bringing in strong customer authentication sooner than that, if it 
wanted to do so.
In this case, having taken the relevant legislation and guidance into account  including the 
Equality Act 2010  I agree with Mrs R that Santander didnt act fairly or reasonably in her 
case. That doesnt mean I agree with her that Santander breached the Equality Act 2010, 
not least because only a Court can say whether or not Santander has done so. But thats 
because we resolve complaints based on whats fair and reasonable. That means the main 
issue I have to decide is what would be a fair way to put things right in this case. And 
because Mr and Mrs R have closed their Santander accounts and moved their business 
elsewhere, I agree with our investigator that this means  in effect  deciding what 
compensation I should award. And that, in turn, means considering the impact Santanders 
failings in this case had, and assessing that impact against our approach to compensation  
an approach that is published on our website.
Putting things right
Ive read everything Mrs R has sent us and its clear that the initial problem she had getting 
her online shopping order to go through and all of the subsequent problems that this caused 
 from the time she had to spend on the phone which, given her vulnerabilities, would not 
have been at all easy to the subsequent worry she went through  have led to substantial 
distress and inconvenience. Im satisfied, having done so, that an award of £500 is 
appropriate in the circumstances. I know that Mrs R would like me to make an award that 
would act as a deterrent to Santander and that she has suggested an award of £25,000. 
That isnt, however, the purpose of our awards. Theyre meant to compensate and are 
meant to be based on impact. So, thats the basis on which Ive made this award.
My final decision
My final decision is that I require Santander UK Plc to pay Mrs R £500 in compensation in 
full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman