DRN-3826392
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that TSB Bank plc has miscalculated their mortgage balance and, as 
a result, the mortgage wont be repaid by the end of the agreed term.
What happened
Mr and Mrs O took out this mortgage in 1994 with Cheltenham & Gloucester Building 
Society, now TSB. They originally borrowed £53,000 on an interest-only basis, over a term 
of 19 years. This is sub-account one. 
Mr and Mrs O took further advances in 2004, 2012 and 2017, all on a capital and interest 
repayment basis and with terms ending in 2024. These are sub-accounts two, three and four 
respectively.
In July 2013, TSB received a payment of just under £9,000 from the proceeds of Mr and 
Mrs Os endowment policy. It applied the payment to sub-account one. Soon afterwards, 
sub-account one was changed so it was paid on a capital and interest repayment basis, and 
its term appears also to have been extended.
In October 2020, TSB reviewed Mr and Mrs Os mortgage account. It found that sub-
accounts two, three and four had all been in and out of arrears over the years, but sub-
account one had been overpaid. It made various transfers between sub-accounts to try to 
sort things out. But, as a result, it said Mr and Mrs Os monthly payments would need to 
increase by £200 in order for the mortgage to be repaid by term end.
TSB said it hadnt told Mr and Mrs O about the arrears because of the overpayment on sub-
account one and because the arrears had never amounted to more than one months 
payment. It also said it had calculated their monthly payments wrongly since 2016. It went on 
to say that it recognised these underpayments werent Mr and Mrs Os fault  but their 
monthly payments would nevertheless have to increase in future. It apologised and offered 
Mr and Mrs O £500 by way of compensation.
Mr and Mrs O referred the matter to the Financial Ombudsman Service. They didnt think 
they had ever been in arrears on their mortgage, and said they had understood that any 
occasional shortfall in payments was taken from overpayments they had made.  
Our Investigator thought TSB had made a fair offer to put things right. Mr and Mrs O didnt 
accept that and asked for a review. They said TSB was at fault for what had happened and it 
had credited payments to the wrong sub-accounts. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I said:
This is essentially a case of underfunding: Mr and Mrs O havent been paying enough over 
the years for their mortgage balance to be repaid by the end of the term. TSB has accepted 
that this is because it calculated their monthly mortgage payments wrongly between 2016 
and October 2020, when it spotted the problem and tidied up the mortgage.
TSB has explained that its mistake arose following a change which the regulator made in 
2016 to the way in which lenders must treat mortgage arrears. It has said receipt of Mr and 
Mrs Os endowment policy proceeds left an overpayment on sub-account one, and that 
overpayment exceeded the value of arrears which accrued in subsequent years  and so the 
mortgage as a whole didnt appear to be in arrears, even though Mr and Mrs O werent 
paying enough.
So, theres no dispute that TSB made a mistake in the administration of Mr and Mrs Os 
mortgage, and as a result the mortgage has been underfunded  resulting in Mr and Mrs O 
being asked to pay more now to get their mortgage back on track. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service has a long-established approach to cases of mortgage 
underfunding, and theres guidance about this on our website1. Our usual approach where 
mortgage payments are arranged on the wrong basis and this results in a shortfall (which is 
what has happened here) is to put the borrower in the position they would have been in had 
the mortgage been arranged correctly. 
We generally disregard any past savings the borrower has made because theyve made 
lower monthly payments. We adjust that approach if we consider that the borrower knew  or 
should reasonably have known  about the problem.
TSB didnt tell Mr and Mrs O that their payments were wrong and they needed to pay more, 
didnt tell them when arrears arose on some of their sub-accounts, and didnt tell them that 
there was a problem with the way they were paying their mortgage. As a result, Mr and Mrs 
O have been paying less than they should have been since 2016, and the mortgage isnt on 
track to be repaid in 2024 as they had intended.
I can see that there were arrears on the mortgage from time to time. Mr and Mrs O say that 
whenever there were arrears, they were cleared through overpayments they had made 
previously. They say they always made the monthly payment TSB asked them for within the 
calendar month in which the payment was due  although not necessarily consistently on the 
exact due date. 
I think its clear that Mr and Mrs O understood  based on the information TSB gave them 
and the absence of any communication from TSB about any arrears  that everything was in 
order with their mortgage and it was on track to be repaid by the end of the term.
So I accept that Mr and Mrs O didnt know anything was wrong with the way their mortgage 
was operating. And, in the circumstances, I dont consider that they should reasonably have 
known there was a problem either. TSB didnt alert them to an issue, it has said the arrears 
never amounted to more than a months payment, the statements Ive seen dont show 
arrears and do show that the mortgage balance was reducing each year. Mr and Mrs O had 
no reason to question things.
Had Mr and Mrs O realised there was a problem with their payments, I think it most likely 
that they would have altered those payments as necessary. While Mr and Mrs O havent 
paid enough in some months, they have overpaid in others. I find nothing to indicate that 
they were struggling financially such that they wouldnt have been in a position to make up 
small amounts of arrears over the years.
1 For businesses here, and for consumers here.In all the circumstances, I consider that the fair outcome is for TSB to take responsibility for 
the capital shortfall arising on Mr and Mrs Os mortgage because they werent paying 
enough. 
This means TSB should re-work the mortgage as though Mr and Mrs O had made the right 
payments each month. The mortgage should be re-worked on that basis from 2016, when 
the mistake first happened, until 2021, when TSB let Mr and Mrs O know about the problem 
and explained why they would need to increase their payments.
TSB says it has already re-worked Mr and Mrs Os mortgage. But that seems to be on the 
basis that Mr and Mrs O didnt make the right monthly payments and they now need to make 
up the shortfall. Thats not the approach I find TSB should fairly be taking, and its not in line 
with the Financial Ombudsman Services approach. TSB should re-work the mortgage on 
the basis that any capital shortfall arising from Mr and Mrs O having paid less than they 
should have done is written off. 
I note that TSB has offered to pay Mr and Mrs O £500 by way of compensation. However, I 
dont propose to require it to make that payment on top of refunding the capital shortfall, 
since I would expect the capital refund or write-off to exceed £500.
For these reasons, I went on to say that I provisionally concluded that TSB should put things 
right by meeting the full underfunding on Mr and Mrs Os mortgage from the date the 
underfunding began in 2016 to the date it explained to Mr and Mrs O what had happened in 
January 2021. 
I explained that this would mean TSB re-works Mr and Mrs Os mortgage on the basis that 
the correct monthly payments were made to each sub-account between the relevant dates in 
2016 and 2021 as set out above, and on the basis that any arrears were repaid the month 
after they arose, and write off any resulting capital shortfall. TSB should then tell Mr and 
Mrs O what their new monthly mortgage payment is, in order for them to repay the mortgage 
by the end of the term. 
Responses to my provisional decision
TSB asked me to reconsider. It said Mr and Mrs O had underpaid on a lower amount more 
than they have overpaid, paying less than was due in some years but more in others, and it 
was their underpayments which had resulted in a shortfall. It attached a spreadsheet with Mr 
and Mrs Os payments on.
Mr and Mrs O didnt reply to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered TSBs further submissions. Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion I reached in my provisional decision, for the same reasons.
As I explained in my provisional decision, the point here is that TSB didnt tell Mr and Mrs O 
when they werent paying enough. The statements Ive seen dont show arrears and do 
show that the mortgage balance was reducing each year. Mr and Mrs O had no reason to 
question things, and the available evidence doesnt indicate that they were in financial 
difficulty such that they wouldnt have been in a position to make the right monthly payments 
had TSB told them what those payments were.Putting things right
TSB Bank plc should meet the full underfunding on Mr and Mrs Os mortgage from the date 
the underfunding began in 2016 to the date it explained to Mr and Mrs O what had happened 
in January 2021. 
This means it should re-work Mr and Mrs Os mortgage on the basis that the correct monthly 
payments were made to each sub-account between the relevant dates in 2016 and 2021 as 
set out above, and on the basis that any arrears were repaid the month after they arose, and 
write off any resulting capital shortfall.
TSB should then tell Mr and Mrs O what their new monthly mortgage payment is, in order for 
them to repay the mortgage by the end of the term. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require TSB Bank plc to put things right 
as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman