DRN-1819063
The complaint 
Miss F complains that Santander UK Plc blocked a payment  and didn't let her know. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
My findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Im satisfied it was reasonable and in line with Santanders general terms and 
conditions to carry out checks on the payment, which was flagged by their automated 
security system. Ultimately, these measures help keep Miss F's money protected.
Santanders records persuade me their security system attempted to contact Miss F 
about the payment  but couldn't because of a SIM device error. I consider it 
prudent that Santander then placed a block on the account, to ensure it wasn't left at 
risk and to prompt Miss F to get in touch. 
I agree Miss F suffered distress and inconvenience because of the SIM error  and 
because, after she called Santander to verify the payment, they didn't clear this 
within their usual timescales. In all the circumstances, Im satisfied the £50 
compensation Santander have already paid is fair and reasonable. I say this because 
Miss F verified the payment one day later  and it took three days overall. The staff 
she spoke to warned her about the potential backlog, and were generally politely and 
helpful. It was her choice to clear the payment in branch rather than wait. 
Miss F says she needed the money to purchase a funeral plan and had to rearrange 
the appointment. I'm not persuaded this was a result of Santander's errors. Even if 
the initial contact had worked, the payment may not have cleared in time. And, if she 
rebooked after calling to verify, she wouldve known the turnaround wasn't 
guaranteed.
Although Miss F says she didn't receive Santanders letters responding to her 
complaint, I cant hold them at fault for this. The correctly-addressed letters theyve 
provided suggest, on balance of probabilities, these were sent. In any event, from 
what shes told us, she was aware of the letters. I therefore wouldn't expect 
Santander to compensate her for any additional distress and inconvenience she 
experienced attempting to pursue things further with them directly. 
 
And so, for these reasons, Im not upholding Miss Fs complaint. 
 
 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2020.
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman