DRN-2827049
The complaint
A charity, which Ill refer to as S, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund the money 
it lost when it fell victim to a scam.
Mrs D, who is a trustee of S, brings the complaint on Ss behalf.
Background
Some repair work was completed on a property belonging to S. In April 2019 an invoice was 
sent by Ss builder to one of the trustees. Sadly, this email was intercepted by a fraudster 
and the account details changed to their own. Unaware of what had happened, the trustee 
passed these fraudulent account details on to Mrs D to arrange the payment.
Mrs D called HSBCs telephone banking on 2 April 2019 and made a payment transfer to the 
fraudster for £1,974.
The following day, Mrs D spoke to the builder and it came to light that he hadnt received any 
payment. When shown the payment details, the builder identified the account details had 
been amended and that S had been the victim of a scam.
Mrs D immediately contacted HSBC to report the scam who, in turn, contacted the receiving 
bank to try to recover funds. Over the following weeks Mrs D has explained she chased 
HSBC a number of times for updates, but was advised HSBC was still awaiting the outcome 
of the beneficiary banks investigation. Mrs D says when contacting the beneficiary account 
and HSBC, she was receiving contradicting information about whether funds remained.
Unhappy with the investigation, Mrs D complained to HSBC. She said she felt HSBC should 
be doing more in attempting to recover the lost funds and was frustrated by the amount of 
time the investigation was taking.
HSBC provided its final response on 20 May 2019. It said it had reported the scam to the 
beneficiary bank on the same day it was notified, but that it hadnt received confirmation of 
whether or not funds were available and couldnt provide timescales or chase the beneficiary 
bank further. 
Unhappy with HSBCs response, Mrs D brought the complaint to our service and one of our 
investigators looked into things. Our investigator didnt think HSBC could have done 
anything more to prevent the scam  she didnt consider the payment Mrs D made was 
particularly out of the ordinary, or so unusual it shouldve raised HSBCs suspicions. And she 
was satisfied that HSBC did what it could to recover the money once it was made aware of 
the scam.
Mrs D didnt accept our investigators view and so the complaint has been passed to me for 
a decision.
After the view was issued, the beneficiary bank responded to our investigator confirming that 
£984 had been secured and returned to HSBC. HSBC has confirmed these funds were 
returned in June 2020 and passed on to Ss account.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to S, and I can understand entirely why it feels
so strongly that this money should be returned to the charity. But having thought very 
carefully about HSBCs actions, I think it did act fairly and reasonably in allowing the transfer 
to leave Ss account. I also dont think it could have done any more than it did to try and
recover the money.
So, having considered everything, Im not going to uphold Ss complaint. I do appreciate
how disappointing this will be, but I dont think I can fairly say HSBC should
reimburse the remaining £990 S has sadly lost to the fraudster. Ill explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when deciding what
is fair and reasonable in this case.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider
HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
 Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism,
and preventing fraud and scams.
 Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years,
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
 In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
In this case, I need to decide whether HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings
with Mrs D, when Mrs D made a transfer to the fraudster and when she reported the fraud,
or whether it should have done more than it did.
Mrs D has accepted that she authorised the transfer of £1,974 herself. Because of this,
HSBC had an obligation to follow her instruction. But there are some situations in which it
should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the transfer - as
Ive explained, I consider that as a matter of good practice HSBC shouldve been on the
lookout for unusual and out of character transactions.
Having reviewed the account activity on Ss account statements from which the payment 
was made, for the 5-month period leading up to the scam, I dont think the payment Mrs D 
made to the fraudster was remarkable in comparison to the normal account activity. I can 
see the account was in regular use and there were four other payments in that 5-month 
period for over £700. The payment also didnt clear the account balance. Ive considered that this payment was made by telephone and HSBC therefore had the 
opportunity to ask additional questions before processing the payment. As Ive
already explained why I dont think this payment was suspicious, I need to bear in mind that
banks have a balance to strike between protecting their customers  but also processing
genuine payment requests efficiently. HSBC hasnt been able to obtain a copy of the call
recording from when Mrs D made this payment  but its provided a process document 
setting out what sort of questions its telephone staff should ask when processing payments. 
These include confirming that the payment was expected and that the request was made 
using contact details known to the customer, or from their public website.
In this case Mrs D was expecting to receive an invoice  so this payment wasnt out of the 
blue. I think HSBC could have been clearer when questioning how Mrs D obtained the 
account details in question. However, Ive considered that it wasnt Mrs D who had obtained 
the fraudulent account details, it was another of Ss trustees. So, even if HSBC had asked 
Mrs D how shed obtained the payment details, I think she would have more likely than not 
spoken confidently and explained she had received them from a reliable source (another 
trustee). With this, and considering the payment wasnt remarkable in comparison to how the 
account was typically run, I dont think it would reasonably have alerted HSBC that S may be 
at risk of financial harm, or have given it cause for concern for what would eventually unfold. 
So, on balance I think its more likely than not that Mrs D wouldve made the transfer, even if 
HSBC had asked clearer questions and I dont think HSBC acted unreasonably by 
processing the payment.
Ive gone on to think about whether HSBC did what it shouldve done once Mrs D had 
reported the scam. For me to be able to fairly ask HSBC to refund the money to S, Id need 
to be satisfied that HSBC shouldve acted sooner to try and recover the money. And if I dont 
think it acted soon enough, I need to decide whether it made any difference.
In this case I can see that HSBC raised a claim against the receiving bank within around ten 
minutes of Mrs D reporting the scam. Unfortunately, by the time Mrs D was even aware of 
the scam, the fraudster had removed all but £984 (which has since been returned to S) from 
the beneficiary account. I understand Mrs D has been frustrated by the lack of contact, but 
unfortunately, other than report the scam in a timely manner, theres a limited amount more 
HSBC can do. 
I appreciate it mustve been frustrating for Mrs D not knowing whether HSBC would 
ultimately recover any funds  but I dont think this is due to any failing by HSBC. From what 
Ive seen, Im persuaded HSBC did what it should have done in an attempt to recover the 
funds.
Its very unfortunate that S has lost this money to what is a cruel and sophisticated
scam, and I understand the experience has been very upsetting for the trustees involved. 
But in the circumstances dont think I can fairly say HSBC should have done more to prevent 
S losing this money. So I dont think it would be fair to ask HSBC to refund the loss.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman