DRN-1579385
 
The complaint 
Mr W has complained that Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) has declined a claim he made 
under his legal expenses insurance policy.
For the sake of clarity when I refer to Amtrust I mean both the underwriter and any agents 
working on its behalf.
What happened
Mr W bought a home insurance policy underwritten by Amtrust which included legal 
expenses insurance. In 2018 after purchasing a new house Mr W contacted Amtrust as he 
wanted to make a claim under his legal expenses insurance as he believed the vendor he 
had bought his house from was in breach of contract. 
Amtrust referred the claim to its legal agents who appointed panel solicitors to review it and 
confirm whether it had reasonable prospects of success. The solicitors confirmed the claim 
had reasonable prospects of success but raised concerns it may not be proportionate to 
pursue the claim any further. It estimated that the total costs of running the case to 
conclusion in the Small Claims Court would exceed the overall value of the claim. After 
receiving this advice Amtrust declined to progress Mr Ws claim any further as the policy 
terms and conditions state that claims will not be accepted where the cost of the claim is 
greater than the likely settlement amount. However, it did offer to cover the costs of the 
Small Claims Court issue fee and hearing fee if needed. Mr W declined this offer as he 
wanted Amtrust to provide him with full legal representation in the matter. 
Mr W has said he believes Amtrust has mis calculated the overall cost of running his claim to 
completion. He believes it is extremely unlikely the respondent would allow the matter to go 
to court and is much more likely to settle which would reduce the overall estimated costs. He 
also believes the solicitors Amtrusts legal agents appointed are charging inflated rates and 
that it is unfair for the solicitors to add VAT onto their fee costs when this is recoverable by 
the legal agent and insurer as they are both VAT registered companies. He has said his 
policy provides him with cover up £25,000 and his claim, which enjoys reasonable prospects 
of success, is for less than £3,300. As such he feels it is extremely unfair for Amtrust to 
refuse to provide him with cover when he has a legitimate claim that he feels should be 
covered under his policy. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ws complaint already. He found that Amtrust were 
entitled to rely on the advice of the solicitors regarding the overall cost of running the case to 
completion. He felt the policy clearly set out the rules around proportionality and so didnt 
think Amtrust needed to do any more in relation to the complaint. 
Mr W disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint and so it has been passed to me for consideration. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Im not going to uphold 
Mr Ws complaint and Id like to explain why. 
Mr W has argued that he has a legitimate claim, which the appointed solicitors have 
confirmed would likely be successful in court, and so it is both unfair and unreasonable for 
Amtrust to refuse to provide him cover under his legal expenses insurance policy. 
In order to establish whether Amtrust have been unfair in this regard it is necessary to 
consider what is set out in the terms and conditions of the policy. Having done so I note it 
states clearly that:
There is no cover where
c) An estimate of advisers costs of acting for you is more than the amount in dispute.
Looking at the wording above I find that it is reasonable for Amtrust to refuse the claim on 
the basis of proportionality. This is because it would be unfair to ask the insurers to bear the 
cost of running a case where the legal expenses attached to that case exceed the overall 
value of the claim. This is a standard term in legal expenses insurance policies and one that 
is generally deemed to be reasonable in nature. 
Mr W has raised concerns over how the panel solicitors calculated the cost of running his 
claim. In the first instance he has repeatedly said that it is unfair for the solicitors and legal 
agents to include VAT in its cost calculations. Mr W believes that the removal of this element 
of the costs alone would lower the cost of his case to a point where he would be able to 
pursue it under the policy terms and conditions as the costs would drop below £3,300 which 
is approximate value of his claim. 
Mr W has said that Amtrust, its legal agents and appointed solicitors are all VAT registered 
which means that it is possible for them to reclaim the VAT they pay at the end of the tax 
year. I understand this may be the case. However, the rules set out by HMRC state that 
businesses are legally obliged to charge VAT on the services they provide as these would 
be known as taxable sales for VAT purposes. The businesses are not allowed to waive this 
charge. And, while I can understand why Mr W is so frustrated by this matter, and believes it 
has disadvantaged him, I cant say that there is any obligation on the business even if they 
able to reclaim VAT at a later date to deduct its value from the estimated costs of running his 
case. So I cant uphold his complaint on this point. 
Mr W has also said at no point has the panel solicitors appointed provided a detailed cost 
estimate or breakdown to the legal agents and so his claim has been declined without 
substantive evidence being provided. However, Amtrust and its agents are entitled to rely on 
the information provided by the panel solicitors regarding the legal advice it gives them. And 
this includes advice around estimated costs. I cant see that Mr W has provided either 
Amtrust or its agents with an alterative cost estimate from independent solicitors. I do know 
he has attempted to work out a rough estimate of costs himself based on some quotes he 
received from local non-panel solicitors, but this is not the same thing as a providing Amtrust 
with a formal estimate set out by an alternative solicitor. 
In any event, under the terms and conditions of the policy Mr W isnt entitled to appoint non-
panel solicitors to represent him in this matter until it has reached the point of litigation. And 
that hasnt happened yet. I do note that the legal agents involved have confirmed that they 
are open to considering an appointment of a non-panel solicitor should the matter go to 
litigation and the independent solicitor be able to run the case within the remaining 
proportionate funding available to Mr W. For this to happen the independent solicitors would have to prove the case still had 51% or higher prospects of success and that costs could be 
met without breaching the overall value of the claim (bearing in mind some costs have 
already been incurred and these would be deducted in the first instance) and would have to 
agree to the agents terms of business. 
Finally Mr W has said that the rates charged by the panel solicitors were inflated and much 
higher than the guidelines set by the Law Society. However, in this instance I can see that a 
flat rate was agreed between the solicitors and the legal agents regarding how the former 
would charge to progress his case. And so I cant see that Amtrust or itss agents have 
behaved unreasonably here. 
Mr W has said that it is unfair he is left in a position where he will be disadvantaged by not 
having access to justice. However, the Small Claims Court, where this matter would be 
heard if it were to go litigation, is set up explicitly to resolve disputes over relatively small 
amounts of money. As a result of this its not unusual for people to represent themselves and 
thus avoid having to pay legal fees, so I dont agree Mr W is being denied access to justice 
in this way. Amtrust has offered to help Mr W by paying the issue fee and hearing fee, so I 
dont think it has unfairly disadvantaged him by declining his claim under the policys terms 
and conditions.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint against Amtrust Europe 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2020.
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman