DRN-4460248
The complaint
Mr A complains about how Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) handled a change of vehicle 
and rejected a claim on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A had a motor insurance policy with Ageas which started in January 2023. 
In March he decided to change his car. He accessed his policy online and started to make 
the change. He was told that there was an additional premium of about £119 to pay which he 
could do by a one-off payment or by increasing his monthly payments.
But instead of making payment, Mr A clicked on another option and changed the start date 
for the new car to the following day. He didnt finalise the procedure.
Because he hadnt completed the change, Ageas system showed hed simply requested a 
quotation. Cover didnt transfer from his old car.
He was involved in a collision in June, for which he was held at some level of fault. He 
accessed his online account and updated his car details. He then reported the collision and 
made a claim.
Ageas said it couldnt backdate his cover and it wouldnt pay his claim as there was no cover 
in force on his new car at the time of the collision. 
Another party was involved in the collision and their insurer has asked for Mr A to pay its 
costs. 
Mr A brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into his complaint and 
thought it would be upheld. He thought Ageas refusal to handle Mr As claim was very harsh 
given that hed proven hed sold his old car and bought the new one when he said he had, 
and Ageas system showed hed started the process of changing the cars over.
He thought Ageas should consider the claim in accordance with the terms of its policy, 
deducting the additional premium Mr A should have paid from any payment Ageas make.
Mr A agreed with the view, but Ageas didnt. It showed that Mr A had actually changed his 
car details minutes before hed reported the claim. 
So Mr As complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having read the file of evidence Ive been provided, Im upholding Mr As complaint. 
Ive thought about Mr As position in March when he changed his car. Its apparent that he 
arranged to buy it on one particular day, then it emerged that the new car needed an MOT 
test, which could be done on the following day. This would mean he needed cover to start on 
that second day.
At some point during this process, Mr A was accessing Ageas online system with the new 
car details. Ultimately he didnt actually swap the cars over on his policy.
I can see from the evidence Mr A has supplied that he did purchase the new car on the 
second day and sold his old car at the same time. So that means he continued to pay his 
premiums for the old car, while driving the new one. 
So from the evidence I have I think Mr A made a careless mistake in failing to swap over the 
cars. I think he should have taken more care, and possibly should have realised he hadnt 
paid the extra premium asked of him.
But the position he then found himself in at the end of June, following a collision with a third 
party, and with some fault attaching to him, means that the mistake he made has had a 
serious impact. Ageas said it wouldnt cover his, or the third-party loss, because Mr As 
cover wasnt valid. 
Its important that I say Ageas would have covered the new car as a straightforward change 
of vehicle under Mr As policy, albeit with an increase in premium.
Although Ageas has made no error in what it has done, I dont find the outcome of this case 
fair and reasonable. Mr A has continued to pay his premium for a car he no longer owns. He 
made a mistake in the switchover and has been placed in a very harsh position. I think his 
intent was clear, and Ageas was clearly going to accept his new car on cover as a 
replacement for the old one.
Taking this into account, I think the fair result would be that Ageas consider Mr As claim 
under the remaining terms and conditions of his policy. 
I also think its fair that Mr A pays the outstanding premium from the time he swapped cars.
Im aware Ageas has made further comments about the way Mr A reported the claim. Ageas 
repudiated Mr As claim on the basis that cover wasnt in place for the claim and Ive said 
above that I think that led to an unfair outcome for Mr A. Thats the matter I am dealing with 
in this decision and Im not going to comment further about Ageas concerns here.
Ive also considered the impact of legislation on Mr As mistake and his current position, and 
I think it would lead to the same outcome.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct 
Ageas Insurance Limited to consider Mr As claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of his policy. The additional premium owed by Mr A can be deducted from any 
claim payment made by Ageas, or paid by him in accordance with the terms of his 
agreement with Ageas.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 Richard Sowden
Ombudsman