DRN-2815551
The complaint
Mrs R and Mr R complain that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) wont refund a number 
of payments made from their account, which they say they didnt make.
What happened
Mrs R and Mr R say they have been the victims of identity fraud and that a number of 
payments were made out of several of their accounts between January and December 2019.
The payments out of their RBS account started in January 2019 and were initially going to a 
credit card in Mr Rs name. In March 2019, the payments from the RBS account started 
going directly to an international money transfer company. And in July 2019, payments also 
started going to a joint account in Mrs R and Mr Rs names with another bank. There were 
also loans taken out in Mr Rs name and payments made from the credit card and joint 
account with the other bank that Mrs R and Mr R say they didnt make.
Mrs R and Mr R say they realised what was happening in June 2019 and that Mr R 
contacted RBS a number of times over the following months to report it. But RBS says Mrs R 
and Mr R only raised the fraud with it in December 2019.
RBS investigated but said it was satisfied all the payments had been made by Mrs R and 
Mr R. It said Mr Rs card had been used for the payments but wasnt reported lost or 
cancelled until December 2019. And it said there was no obvious point of compromise for 
the information a fraudster would have needed to make the payments. So it didnt agree to 
refund any of the payments. Mrs R and Mr R werent happy with RBSs response, so 
referred their complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They said there was no clear point of 
compromise for Mr Rs security details and password, the payment activity wasnt the sort of 
thing theyd expect to see from a fraudster and theyd have expected Mrs R and Mr R to 
notice the fraud sooner. So they didnt think it would be fair to require RBS to refund the 
payments. Mrs R and Mr R disagreed with our investigator, so the complaint has been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs R and Mr R have mentioned a number of payments both into and out of a number of 
different accounts, as well as loans they say they didnt take out. But as this complaint is 
against RBS, I can only comment on whether I think RBS has acted reasonably in holding 
them responsible for the payments made out of their RBS account.
Generally, a business can hold a consumer liable for disputed transactions made on their 
account if the evidence suggests its more likely than not that they made the transactions 
themselves or told someone else they could make them.
RBS has sent us technical evidence showing that the payments to Mr Rs credit card and to 
the joint account with another bank were all made through Mr Rs online banking. And that 
the payments to the money transfer company were made online using Mr Rs card details 
and confirmed with his security password. So Im satisfied the payments were all made using 
Mr Rs genuine card and online banking details.
But this, on its own, isnt enough to allow RBS to hold Mrs R and Mr R responsible. So I also 
need to think about whether the evidence suggests its more likely than not that Mrs R and 
Mr R consented to the payments. Ive thought very carefully about this and I think its a finely 
balanced matter in this case. But where the evidence available is unclear or inconclusive, I 
must make my decision on what I think is likely to have happened, based on the evidence I 
do have.
Mrs R and Mr R say they didnt answer any calls, emails or text messages around the time 
asking for their online banking details. And that their online banking details arent written 
down anywhere and arent obvious memorable information, like their date of birth. But, if this 
is the case, I cant see how someone other than Mr R would have been able to log-in to his 
online banking in order to make the payments to the credit card and the joint account.
Mrs R and Mr R have also said Mr Rs card never went missing and they had it in their 
possession during the times it was used fraudulently. But this would mean a fraudster would 
had to have taken and replaced the card without either Mrs R or Mr R noticing, possibly on 
multiple occasions as the fraud took place over many months, which I think is unlikely.
Mrs R and Mr R say Mr Rs card was kept in his wallet in a cupboard. And while they had 
tenants who also had access to this cupboard, they had multiple different tenants over the 
period the disputed transactions were made and no single tenant was staying with them the 
entire time. So I think its unlikely one of Mrs R and Mr Rs tenants took the card to make the 
payments.
Mrs R and Mr R also suggested the card may have been cloned. But the disputed 
transactions stop after the payments were reported to RBS and the card was blocked in 
December 2019, with no further attempts to use the card after this. And I cant see how a 
fraudster would know the card had been blocked and they would no longer be able to use it. 
So I think its unlikely a cloned card was being used.
In any event, the fraudster would also need to have known Mr Rs online security password 
to confirm the payments to the money transfer company and, as I explained above, I cant 
see how they would have known this.
The general nature of the payments Mrs R and Mr R are disputing is also not the sort of 
thing wed usually expect to see from a fraudster. Generally, the way fraudsters operate is to 
get as much money as quickly as possible in order to avoid the source of the money being 
cut-off or them being detected. But here the amounts of the payments vary significantly, with 
some payments for relatively small amounts. And the payments are spread out, with several 
weeks or even months between some of them. So I think its unlikely the payments were 
made by an unknown fraudster.
Mrs R and Mr R have also told us theyd been living to a strict budget for a number of years 
before the disputed payments started, and so would check any money they spent against 
their statements. But if this is the case, Id expect Mrs R and Mr R to have noticed the 
disputed payments before they did as all the payments appeared on their statements. Mrs R 
and Mr R say they first noticed the disputed payments in April 2019, but there had already 
been a number of them by this time and some were for relatively large amounts. Mrs R and Mr R have also been unable to provide any evidence that they contacted RBS about the 
payments at that point, and RBSs records show the first contact it received about the 
payments was in December 2019  by which point even more payments had been made.
The money transfer company has also sent us evidence that the account the payments were 
sent to was set up in Mr Rs name, with his correct date of birth.
Mrs R and Mr R have sent us receipts they say show they were in Exeter on the day one of 
the disputed payments was made. But, as I explained above, the payments were all made 
online, so this doesnt prove Mrs R and Mr R didnt make the payment on that day.
I appreciate how Mrs R and Mr R feel about this case, but Im afraid the evidence isnt in 
their favour. And based on the evidence I have, I think its likely Mrs R and Mr R either made 
the payments themselves or authorised someone else to do so.
It therefore follows that I dont need to look into whether the transactions were unusual in 
comparison to their usual activity on the account or whether RBS should have identified the 
payments as potentially fraudulent as, even if it had done so, I think its likely Mrs R and 
Mr R would have confirmed they had authorised them.
So I think RBS has acted reasonably in holding Mrs R and Mr R responsible for the 
payments and I dont think it would be fair to require it to refund the payments to them.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 February 2022. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman