DRN-2377339
The complaint
Miss N is unhappy that Metro Bank PLC (Metro) wont refund her for transactions that were 
debited from her account, which she says she didnt make.
What happened
Miss N says she received a call on 16 April 2020 from someone claiming to be an employee 
of Metro. The caller explained to Miss N that her account was subject to fraudulent 
transactions. Miss N was advised that her card would be cancelled and a new one issued to 
her in the coming days.
Later the same day, Miss N says she received a text message from Metro asking for her to 
confirm whether she had authorised a payment of £128. Miss N replied to the text message 
confirming that she hadnt made this payment. She says she also called Metro to make them 
aware of the situation and was told they would begin an investigation, though Metro say they 
have no record of this call.
On 21 April 2020 Miss N called Metro to report five payments made on her account on       
16 April 2020, totalling just under £90  with a further payment made on 17 April 2020 for 
just over £110 which she didnt recognise and says she hadnt made. Miss N explained she 
had been called by someone she believed to be from Metro. It became apparent that the 
person she had spoken to wasnt a genuine Metro member of staff.  Metro raised a fraud 
claim to look into the six transactions she didnt recognise.
 
On 24 April 2020 Miss N called Metro to get an update on their investigation. Metro said they 
wouldnt be upholding her fraud claim, as the disputed payments were made using an in-
phone payment app (Ill refer to as A). They confirmed that the account with A was set up 
using an authorisation code that had been sent to Miss Ns registered mobile phone number. 
Miss N checked her phone and found the text message containing the authorisation code 
from A, but said the message showed as unread and unopened on her phone.
Miss N was unhappy with the outcome of Metros fraud investigation and asked for a 
complaint to be raised.
Metro sent Miss N their final response in May 2020. They told Miss N they couldnt identify 
how a third party couldve obtained her debit card information which was needed to set up 
the account with A, or how they couldve accessed the authorisation code sent to her phone 
by A. Because of that, they didnt uphold her complaint.
Miss N subsequently referred her complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Miss Ns complaint and didnt uphold it. Ultimately, they felt that 
it was most likely that Miss N had authorised the transactions as they couldnt identify a point 
of compromise for someone accessing her mobile phone and debit card details. They also 
felt that it was unusual that there were no further attempts made to use Miss Ns account 
after the disputed transactions, which they wouldve expected if an unauthorised third party 
had gained access to her account.
Miss N disagreed with the investigators findings, saying:
- She didnt conduct the transactions.
- Its possible that someone gained access to her information following genuine online 
transactions she made.
- Metro shouldve alerted her to the unusual activity on her account as she hasnt used 
a company like A before.
As Miss N disagreed with the investigators findings, the complaint has been passed to me to 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, I reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on what 
I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons.
Generally, Metro can hold Miss N liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that she made or authorised them herself.
 
Metro has provided evidence that Miss Ns genuine card information was used to make the 
transactions via an app with company A. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is 
not, on its own, enough to enable Metro to hold her liable. So, I also need to think about 
whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Miss N consented to the 
transactions being made.
Metros evidence shows that the account with A was used to conduct the transactions and 
was set up following an authorisation code being sent to Miss Ns registered mobile phone 
number. This code was then entered into the same mobile device which was used to make 
the transactions that have been disputed. 
Miss N has provided evidence of a text message she received on the day of the transactions 
which details a potentially suspicious transaction on her account. Miss N says that this 
message appeared to be from Metro, though Metro has confirmed that this wasnt a genuine 
message.
Further to that, Miss N says she received a call from someone claiming to be working on 
behalf of Metro regarding the suspicious transaction that had been attempted. During this 
call, Miss N says that at no point did she complete any caller verification or give over any 
personal or sensitive information.
 
Based on what Miss N has said, I cant see that she gave this person enough information for 
them to be able to set up the account with A. Also, she wouldve needed to have given them 
the authorisation code she received in the text message from Metro or remote access to her 
mobile phone in order for them to obtain the authorisation code. As Miss N has confirmed 
she did neither of those things, I dont think its likely they wouldve been able to conduct the 
transactions shes disputed.The time between the account with A being set up and the transactions taking place also 
suggests that an unauthorised third party didnt conduct the transactions. Had an 
unauthorised third party set up the account using Miss Ns information, Id have expected 
them to have attempted to utilise the funds in her account in as short a space of time as 
possible. Instead, there is a delay of almost five hours between the account being set up and 
the first disputed transaction. Further to that, the full amount of available funds in Miss Ns 
account werent utilised until the next day. So, a fraudster would run the risk of the disputed 
transactions being seen and Miss N reporting it to Metro, which would result in them losing 
access to Miss Ns funds.
Miss N has confirmed that she had possession of her debit card and mobile phone 
throughout the day the disputed transactions occurred. Therefore, I cant see how a third 
party wouldve been in a position to obtain her debit card information and the authorisation 
code from her mobile phone.
Finally, Miss N confirmed that her mobile phone is passcode protected and that no one else 
knows this. She also confirmed to Metro that the content of any messages she receives 
does not show while the phone is locked. This means that only Miss N wouldve been able to 
review the message which contained the authorisation code which was needed to set up the 
account with A.
Miss N raised a point about the transactions being unusual, saying she felt they shouldve 
been flagged with her by Metro. But the payments are quite small, and considering Miss Ns
previous account use, I wouldnt have expected them to have been flagged by Metro as 
particularly unusual or out of character, whether they were authorised using an app like A or 
not. 
Miss N also raised a point that its possible that an online retailer may have obtained her 
information and used this to conduct the disputed transactions, following previous purchases 
shed made. Given that the transactions were authorised using an account with A, which had 
been set up following an authorisation code being sent to Miss Ns registered mobile phone 
number, I dont believe this to be a plausible explanation.
So overall, based on Miss Ns testimony and her version of events, I cant see how an 
unauthorised third party couldve obtained enough information in order to conduct the 
transactions that are in dispute.
I realise that Miss N is going to be very disappointed, but I think its more likely than not that 
she authorised the payments. Therefore, I cant fairly ask Metro to refund her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Metro Bank PLC
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman