DRN-4018337
The complaint and what happened
Mr B complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wont reimburse just over £47,000 
that he lost when he fell victim to an investment scam. This happened in early 2021, when 
Mr B was persuaded to invest into crypto currency. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, as although the bank intervened in some of the 
payments, Mr B hadnt been honest when discussing those with it. The investigator therefore 
wasnt persuaded the bank could have done anything further. 
Mr Bs representative disagrees and has argued that the bank should have asked open 
ended questions and realised that payments were being made using remote access 
software. Had it done so, it considers Mr Bs losses would have been prevented. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only summarised the background and arguments above, I have read and 
considered whats been provided. Having done so, I broadly agree with the outcome 
reached by the investigator, and I wont be upholding the complaint for the following reasons:
There doesnt appear to be any dispute Mr B has been scammed. There are 
numerous instances of the broker Mr B was dealing with being mentioned by other 
people who have been scammed. And contrary to his representatives assertions, 
this includes on the website he says he reviewed, which included negative scam 
reviews during the period the payments in dispute were sent. 
There is also no dispute that Mr B authorised the payments in question. Whilst he 
didnt intend to get scammed, he is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
The bank is aware of our approach of expecting it to fairly and reasonably have been 
monitoring accounts to counter various risks, have systems in place to identify 
unusual transactions or other indicators that its customers were at risk of fraud, and 
in some situations, make additional checks before processing payments, to protect 
customers from possible financial harm from fraud or scams. 
Mr B made an initial payment of around £200 to the scam which hasnt been 
complained about. And Mr Bs representative accepts the next payment of £2,000 
also didnt look so suspicious in nature that the bank ought to have paused the 
payment. But the representative thinks the next transaction of £5,000 to a crypto 
currency exchange ought to have done. 
I agree and so does the bank, as it did pause the payment to question Mr B about 
what was happening. And having seen a transcript of the call, whilst the examples 
given by the bank didnt necessarily match the scam Mr B was falling victim to, it did 
ask open questions, which werent responded to honestly. After being reassured by 
Mr B that he wasnt making his investment at the behest of anyone else  when he 
was - the payment was processed as per his instructions.  
The bank also stopped a later, much higher payment, as it looked suspicious. And 
despite being told of the need to be honest with the bank, Mr B again didnt answer 
the questions it posed truthfully, including whether anyone had called him up and 
advised him how to use his crypto account. 
On each occasion, Mr B was told by the bank that the payment it had paused had a 
high risk of being fraudulent and that it wouldnt be able to refund money if it turned 
out to be a scam, particularly if he wasnt truthful with it. Even though Mr B was 
warned of potential consequences, he nevertheless didnt answer honestly. Had he 
been truthful about how events had unfolded, that he was at the very least being 
instructed on what to do, with the scammers also making the investments, Im 
satisfied the bank would likely have recognised the hallmarks of a scam and could 
potentially have unravelled it and prevented further loss. 
But Mr B presented himself as someone who was investing of his own volition 
without the help of anyone else. Despite the bank being clear it was trying to prevent 
a fraud or scam Mr B didnt help it to help him. So even had the bank asked better or 
more probing questions, Im not persuaded Mr B would have been any more 
forthcoming such that the bank could have prevented the loss. 
I recognise Mr B has lost a lot of money and I do have sympathy for the situation in 
which he finds himself. But as Im not persuaded any additional questioning from the 
bank would have resulted in Mr B acting differently, I dont fairly find it should 
reimburse any of his losses.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman