DRN-2336858
The complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (previously when it was trading 
as Leeds Permanent Building Society) mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI) 
with his mortgage.
Leeds Permanent Building Society actually sold the mortgage and PPI to Mr H. But Halifax is 
now responsible for dealing with this complaint. So, to keep things simpler, in my decision Ill 
just refer to Halifax as the business that sold the PPI. 
What happened
Mr H took out a mortgage in 1991 and he was sold PPI around the same time.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold his mis-selling complaint. Mr H didnt agree with this view. He 
says he was told to take out PPI as part of the mortgage and he didnt know the PPI was 
optional. And he told us he wouldnt have needed PPI as he couldve relied on other means 
to cover his mortgage payments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Generally Id expect the paperwork to show whats likely to have happened at the time and 
how the PPI was likely to have been presented. Neither Halifax nor Mr H could provide any 
signed paperwork that shows how the PPI was sold. But this isnt surprising given how long 
ago this sale happened. The fact that Halifax cant now produce the sale documents isnt a 
reason for me to uphold this complaint. 
I cant know exactly what was discussed when Mr H took out PPI. It wouldnt be reasonable 
to expect him to recall in detail precisely what was said at the time. So what Mr H says now 
isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold this complaint. I must look at everything 
Ive seen and been told and decide what I think is most likely. 
Overall, I dont find the evidence is strong enough for me safely to say that Halifax didnt 
make it clear that it was open to Mr H not to choose PPI if he didnt want to have it. 
His mortgage was a major financial commitment, and his home wouldve been at risk if his 
mortgage payments werent kept up to date. It looks to me as if Mr H couldve found PPI 
useful if hed needed to claim. So I can see why he mightve felt that having PPI was 
worthwhile when he arranged the mortgage.  
On balance, I think its more likely that Mr H decided he wanted to protect his home by 
having the benefits the policy offered and it was added on to the mortgage account when he 
chose to buy the PPI. Although I can completely understand if he has forgotten this now. 
To be as fair as possible to Mr H, Halifax has looked at this complaint on the basis that it 
advised him to buy the PPI. If a financial business makes a recommendation about PPI it 
has to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable as well as 
giving important policy information in a clear way. 
I dont see any reason why a PPI recommendation for Mr H wouldnt have been suitable 
based on what Ive seen of Mr Hs circumstances at the time. 
Mr H was eligible for the policy. The policy wouldve covered his mortgage repayments for 
up to 12 months per claim in the event of accident, sickness and unemployment. This was 
longer than Mr H wouldve received full sick pay if he couldnt work. And the policy wouldve 
paid out on top of his sick pay from work, providing Mr H with a useful benefit at whats likely 
to have been a difficult time if hed needed to claim  especially as he mightve had extra 
costs as a result of illness or disability. 
Repeat claims were possible which meant the policy gave him long term protection for his 
mortgage. 
I dont know if Mr H wouldve always had savings he could rely on if hed needed to make a 
claim. PPI wouldve covered his mortgage for longer than his savings wouldve lasted if hed 
had to use these to make his monthly repayments. And having PPI meant he could continue 
to keep his money to spend on the things he was saving up for or so that it could provide 
financial security for the future. 
With PPI in place Mr H could be sure hed be able to keep on paying the mortgage and 
protect his home even if he couldnt work. So, looking at his circumstances at the time, 
I think the PPI couldve provided Mr H with a useful benefit and it was suitable for him. 
Its possible some of the information Halifax gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The policy didnt cover some things. But it doesnt look as if that wouldve 
affected Mr H. 
So, I dont think having more information about the policy exclusions and limitations wouldve 
made any difference to Mr Hs decision to take out PPI. 
I dont know how the PPI cost was explained. But Mr H hasnt complained about the policy 
being unaffordable for him when he signed up for it. Mr H paid for this policy each month. So 
he couldve cancelled it at any time without incurring any extra cost if his circumstances 
changed and he didnt want to continue paying for it. 
Taking everything into account I think Mr H probably still wouldve decided to buy the policy 
even if hed been better informed as it couldve provided useful protection in his particular 
situation.
I dont think its likely that having clearer information wouldve put him off buying it. 
In coming to my decision, Ive taken into account everything Mr H told us, including what 
hes said in response to the adjudicators assessment. I dont feel theres anything I can 
usefully add to what our adjudicator has already said.And, on balance, I dont find theres enough information for me to say that Mr H has lost out 
as a result of anything Halifax did wrong. 
So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021. 
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman