DRN-2085174
The complaint
Miss B complains that Chetwood Financial Limited (trading as LiveLend) gave her a loan 
irresponsibly. She feels there are a number of questions that werent asked at the point of 
application, and it didnt fully consider her personal circumstances. 
Background to the complaint 
In June 2018, Miss B took out a loan with LiveLend for £5000.00. The total charge for credit 
was £756.06 and the monthly repayments were for £159.89. These were due to be paid over 
a period of 36 months. 
After eight months, Miss B chose to settle the loan early  she paid £4000.24 as a full and 
final settlement in January 2019.
In September 2019, Miss B wrote to LiveLend. She complained that the loan was lent to her 
irresponsibly and resulted in her being in further financial difficulty. She didnt feel her 
personal or financial circumstances were fully checked. Miss B raises concerns that she 
wasnt asked questions about her mental health when applying, because at the time she was 
suffering with depression and anxiety. Miss B also says the lending was irresponsible 
because she was living with someone who was a gambling addict, and previously had a 
County Court Judgement (CCJ) and a conviction related to money. 
Miss B said she needed to take out further loans to cover the large amounts of interest being 
charged during the course of the LiveLend loan. She also thinks LiveLend shouldve 
signposted her to charities that support with debt and financial difficulties. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said, 
based on what hed seen, the loan was affordable at the time and he was comfortable with 
the checks LiveLend carried out to confirm Miss Bs identity. Miss B disagreed with our 
investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive considered this while deciding Miss Bs complaint. 
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think that there are two questions I need 
to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Miss Bs 
complaint. These are: 
Did LiveLend carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss 
B would be able to repay what she borrowed in a sustainable way?
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks more likely than not 
have shown? 
Did LiveLend act unfairly in some other way? 
Ill consider each of these questions in turn. 
Did LiveLend carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss B 
would be able to repay what she borrowed in a sustainable way?
The rules and regulations in place at the time LiveLend provided Miss B with her loan 
required it to carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could 
afford to repay what she owed in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment. 
The checks had to be borrower focused. This means LiveLend had to think about whether 
repaying the credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Miss B. 
In other words, it wasnt enough for LiveLend to consider the likelihood of it getting the funds 
back  it had to consider the impact of any repayments on Miss B. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. In 
general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent on a number 
of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the consumer (e.g. 
their financial history, current situation and outlook, any indications of vulnerability or 
financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they were seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income); 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that 
the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make 
repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether LiveLend did what it needed to before lending to 
Miss B. 
LiveLend says Miss B passed its affordability checks, which were based on data from a 
third-party Credit Reference Agency. These checks showed Miss Bs credit commitments at 
the time of application. Based on the data received, Miss Bs total debt in June 2018 was 
£3565.00 and the monthly repayments for this debt were around £139.00. Miss B wasnt 
close to the credit limit on any of the existing accounts she had.
Miss B declared her income as £1422.00 per month, and declared living costs including rent 
as around £700.00 per month. LiveLend said it checked this information on a national 
database which showed Miss B did have this amount going into her account for at least 12 
months. 
Based on these checks, Miss B was left with a monthly disposable income of around 
£700.00. The monthly repayments to LiveLend were a fixed amount and wouldnt fluctuate 
based on spending or differing interest rates in the same way a credit card repayment would. So, LiveLend was confident based on its checks that Miss B could sustainably repay the 
debt. 
Given the amount being borrowed and the fact that Miss B was committing to make 
repayments for three years, I would have expected a greater degree of verification of the 
information Miss B provided. I dont think relying on the amount of funds going into Miss Bs 
account, which are likely to have been made up of a multitude of sources, is the same as 
verifying her income. I also think that LiveLend needed to do more to verify Miss Bs 
outgoings. As LiveLend didnt do this, I dont think that the checks it carried out were 
reasonable and proportionate. 
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks more likely than not have shown? 
As LiveLend didnt carry out proportionate checks, Ive gone on to consider the second part 
of the question, which leads me to think about what more proportionate checks would have 
shown. Due to the time thats elapsed, its difficult to know this exactly. But Ive used 
Miss Bs bank statements and credit report to try and piece together what LiveLend would 
more likely than not have seen had it taken further steps to verify Miss Bs income and 
expenditure. 
Miss B has provided us with her statement from May 2018  one month before LiveLend 
gave her this loan. And I cant see that anything on the statement would be of concern to 
LiveLend. Miss Bs income was around the amount she declared. Miss B did go into her 
overdraft by up to around £150.00, but was out of it again within a few days.
Miss Bs credit report shows three payday loans  two of which were taken out in 2016 and 
one in early 2017. But by April 2017, all three of these loans had been repaid in full. It 
doesnt appear that there were any defaults or late payments across Miss Bs credit 
accounts when the loan was taken out in June 2018. 
Having considered the above information thats available now, three years after the loan was 
given, I cant see anything that makes me believe that further checks would more likely than 
not have shown LiveLend that it shouldnt have given Miss B this loan at the time. 
Did LiveLend act unfairly in some other way? 
Ive carefully thought about the other complaint points Miss B has raised in relation to the 
lending from LiveLend. Ill address these point by point. 
Miss B says shes unhappy that LiveLend didnt ask for proof of identity. LiveLend says the 
application was all completed electronically. Miss B isnt disputing she applied for the loan, 
so its unclear to me what difference further identity checks would have made. LiveLends 
checks were sufficient to confirm that Miss B was who she said she was. I can see the loan 
was paid into Miss Bs current account from the statements shes provided. She then used 
the funds to repay other lines of credit she held at the time. So, Im satisfied that the checks 
that were completed were enough. 
Miss B feels she should have been asked for information about her mental health conditions, 
as she suffered with depression and anxiety which impacted her decisions to spend money. I 
was sorry to hear that Miss B was struggling at that point in time, and I can understand how 
it would affect someone financially. But I wouldnt expect a lender to routinely ask about 
medical conditions as part of a loan application. Had Miss B taken out the loan and told 
LiveLend at a later date she was struggling with her mental health conditions, wed expect 
LiveLend to react to that information and support Miss B where possible. But, from the 
information available to me, I cant see that this happened.    
Another reason why Miss B says she shouldnt have been given the loan is because she 
lived with her partner at the time, who had a CCJ, a conviction related to money and was a 
gambling addict. Miss B has also told our service he was abusive. Id like to start by thanking 
Miss B for sharing that information with us. I understand it cant have been an easy time for 
her. 
In reviewing Livelends actions as a lender, we wouldnt expect LiveLend to check its 
customers partners or familys financial history when a loan is being applied for in an 
individuals name. This is especially as they would require consent from the party being 
searched to request this information.
Miss B feels LiveLend should have signposted her to debt charities because she was in 
financial difficulty. Ive considered this and Ive looked at the correspondence between 
LiveLend and Miss B, as well as Miss Bs management of the account during the eight 
months it was open. Miss B didnt tell LiveLend she was struggling financially until 
September 2019 when she complained. And, by this stage, Miss B didnt owe LiveLend any 
money as the loan had already been paid in full a number of months earlier.
LiveLend did send Miss B links to debt charities in its final response letter. Ive thought about 
whether LiveLend should have realised that Miss B might have been struggling earlier. But 
Miss Bs repayments were always paid in full and on time, so I dont think theres any reason 
for LiveLend to have been aware that Miss B was struggling financially. And, Im satisfied 
when it was made aware, it did signpost her as wed expect. So overall, and having thought 
about Miss Bs additional points, I dont think that LiveLend acted unfairly towards her in 
some other way.
Bearing in mind the above, Im satisfied that LiveLend didnt give Miss B her loan 
irresponsibly. While it couldve done more to check that the loan was affordable given the 
circumstances, I think proportionate checks were unlikely to have led to a different lending 
decision here. As this is the case, Im satisfied LiveLend didnt do anything wrong or treat 
Miss B unfairly, and so Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman