DRN-4256755
The complaint
Mr E complains about how U K Insurance Limited trading as Churchill (UKI) handled the 
pricing and cancellation of his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr E had a motor insurance policy with UKI covering his car. In about June 2022 his car was 
involved in a collision. Liability for the collision continues to be disputed by the third party. 
The policy renewed in late October 2022 and his premium increased.
Mr E paid for his policy by instalments at about £112.65 per month. 
On 26 January 2023 he replaced the car and called UKI to change his policy. The premium 
for the new car was much higher than he thought it should be, and he asked to cancel his 
policy immediately.
UKI told him that it was cancelled. It then took two further payments from him in February 
and March at a total cost of about £225.30 including its charge for instalments. 
Mr E complained about the premium hed been paying from October. He says he obtained 
quotes from UKIs website that were much cheaper and based on the same policy details.
He also complained about UKIs process when he cancelled his policy as it wasnt able to 
clarify exactly how much he would receive. 
It later emerged that UKI hadnt cancelled his policy, and only processed this on 17 March, 
backdating it to 26 January.
Mr E later complained that UKI continued to chase him for payment. This part of his 
complaint doesnt form part of this decision because UKI hasnt responded to it yet.
UKI looked into his complaint and upheld it. It said it hadnt kept Mr E updated about his 
claim well enough, or cancelled his policy when hed asked for it. It said it would pay Mr E 
£300 compensation for its poor service.
Mr E brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into it and didnt uphold it. 
She thought UKI had done enough in realising its error and offering compensation to Mr E. 
Mr E didnt agree with the view. He asked that his complaint was reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it and Ill explain why as I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr E.
Firstly, Ive thought about Mr Es complaint that he was being overcharged for cover. I can 
see in the file that theres been significant correspondence between this service and Mr E 
about this. I can understand Mr Es frustration. He points out that hes been a loyal customer 
of UKI for a decade and feels that his loyalty means that new customers get a better deal 
than his. Hes said he was able to get a premium much lower than his using the same details 
around December 2022.
Ive looked at UKIs evidence on this point. It sent this service some information from its 
internal underwriting system which shows me that Mr E paid a rate close to the rate that 
would have been accessible to a new customer, with the same information he had, at the 
time his policy renewed. I cant share this information with him as its commercially sensitive. 
I know Mr E disagrees with this point as he says he would have been able to get this rate if 
hed asked at the time, but thats why the premium is sensitive as it was only available at that 
point.
It might be helpful if I also mention to Mr E that the collision in which he was involved, and in 
which I can see he was hit in the rear, couldnt be settled as non-fault because the third-
party disputes it. What non-fault means here is whether UKI is able to recover its costs from 
a third party.
The consequence of that is UKI had to price Mr Es renewal price according to the evidence 
it had. So because its still regarded as a fault claim, Mr Es premium would have been 
higher.
Mr E has also mentioned his cover for protected No Claims Discount (NCD) which he was 
paying an additional portion of his premium towards. NCD protection doesnt stop the 
premium changing. Instead it protects the discount that applies to the premium. So the 
collision being a fault one at renewal affected his premium, but the protected NCD he had 
stopped the premium being potentially even higher.
Taking all this into account, I dont think UKI has acted unfairly in the way it calculated his 
premium.
When Mr E cancelled his policy on 26 January, it seems that UKI didnt actually carry this 
out. It doesnt seem to have realised this until 17 March and it continued to take payment. 
This is very poor service as it wrote to Mr E and told him it had carried out his instructions, 
when in reality he was still on cover.
Ive looked at the explanations of the payments Mr E has been making and UKIs 
communications with Mr E arent very good or clear. I feel UKI could, at any point, have 
explained things in a much better way to Mr E and hed be much clearer about what was 
happening. Instead UKI seems to have simply carried on and at one point claimed to this 
service that Mr E had actually paid a very small amount for three months cover, when the 
reality was UKI had made a further error.
Ive thought about the impact of this on Mr E and I can see hes written several times to this 
service about the amount hes expecting to get from UKI. Having done so, and when I 
compare the impact of it with this services guidelines on compensation, I think UKIs offer of 
£300 compensation is fair and reasonable, and Im not going to ask it to pay more.
Id also like to offer Mr E my best wishes.My final decision
U K Insurance Limited trading as Churchill has already made an offer to pay £300 to settle 
the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that U K Insurance Limited trading as Churchill should pay Mr E £300 if it 
hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman