DRN-3937449
The complaint
Mrs D is unhappy about damage caused to her floor by an engineer during a washing 
machine repair. Mrs D has breakdown cover for her washing machine under a household 
warranty provided by Domestic & General Insurance Plc.
What happened
Mrs D made a claim for the repair of her washing machine. Unfortunately, it took more than 
one visit to repair the machine. During one of those visits Mrs D said the engineer damaged 
her floor while moving the washing machine. Mrs D made a further claim for this damage to 
D&G.
D&G declined to deal with this claim. It said the damage was caused by the contractor who 
had separate public liability cover and Mrs D should claim directly from the engineer. It said 
the warranty was clear on this and that damage caused by the engineer wasnt covered as 
D&G insisted all third party engineers had to arrange individual public liability cover.
D&G said after it told Mrs D, she had to claim directly from the engineer she did make a 
direct claim to the engineers company. D&G said Mrs D should wait until this has been 
resolved before coming back to D&G. D&G said if theres a problem and the other company 
doesnt settle the damage claim then Mrs D could go back to D&G for further consideration.
Mrs D didnt accept this. She said D&G should be dealing with this as she is insured by D&G 
and her policy is with D&G. She said as shed made her claim with D&G originally it was its 
responsibility to deal with the matter. As D&G didnt resolve it Mrs D brought her complaint to 
this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said D&G had acted fairly. Our investigator 
said if the engineers company didnt resolve the matter, hed expect D&G to address the 
situation again at that point.
Mrs D didnt accept this and asked for her complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
In my recent provisional decision, I said:
I do understand the point D&G is trying to make. Mrs D cant have a successful claim 
against both the engineering company and against D&G for the same claim - the damage to 
her floor. And I think its a fair point. But I think D&G are rather missing the point Mrs D has 
made.
Mrs D doesnt think that she should have to contact the engineering company. Mrs D took 
out a warranty with D&G. Mrs D contacted D&G when she needed to make a claim. So, now 
that something has gone wrong Mrs D thinks D&G should deal with that. From her point of 
view, I think thats a perfectly understandable position.
D&G said the policy excludes these claims and Mrs D has to go to the engineer directly. 
D&G said it wasnt responsible and the exclusion under the policy said, unless it is our 
fault. I dont think thats fair or reasonable. I dont think that is the sort of response a 
customer would expect.
I think Mrs D is correct when she expects her insurer D&G to deal with damage caused by 
someone representing it in her home. D&G appointed the engineer and so D&G are 
responsible for the actions of the engineer. So, I think a fair and reasonable approach is for 
D&G to accept that someone it sends to deal with a repair is its responsibility. The fault 
belongs to D&G to deal with. I dont think Mrs D would have bought the policy if D&G told her 
if something goes wrong with an engineer D&G wont be responsible and she wouldnt be 
able to claim under this policy.
Although I take on board that Mrs D cant claim twice, I think this can be resolved by D&G 
stepping in and dealing with the claim damage. If D&G wishes it can contact the engineers 
company and claim back any costs from its representatives that way. In effect it could take 
over the claim Mrs D has already started with the engineers company after it (D&G) has 
resolved Mrs Ds issues directly.
I cant make a finding on whether the engineer caused the damage at this point. I can only 
direct D&G to consider Mrs Ds claim.
Responses to my provisional decision
D&G responded. Its main points were:
The terms and conditions make it clear all damage disputes do need to be addressed with 
the Repair Agents directly. The claims process is a personal one and a claims form needs to 
be issued to the customer to start the process.
D&G does accept it can help claims progress by speaking to the Repair Agents to ensure 
things are done in a timely manner.
D&G claims it has an agreed approach with this service in such circumstances. It now 
oversees an end-to-end process.
Mrs D hasnt completed a claim form for the Repair Agent. Mrs D can send the claim form 
via D&G if shed prefer to. D&G say Mrs D has now agreed to complete it.
D&G will ask the Repair Agent to make contact with Mrs D to start the process.
D&G will only settle a claim if the Repair Agent has rejected it. And D&G feel the wrong 
decision has been made.
Mrs D didnt respond to the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
D&G refers to other organisations that it arranges to carry out work on its behalf as Repair 
Agents. But as I said in my provisional decision, I think Mrs D asking D&G, as her insurer, to 
deal with issues caused by a claim under her D&G warranty is fair and reasonable. Mrs D bought her warranty from D&G, made a claim to D&G, and expects D&G to deal with it for 
her.
D&G telling a customer that Repair Agents have their own insurance and that customers 
cant claim from D&G isnt fair and reasonable. And I dont think its what customers like 
Mrs D are buying when they take out the warranty.
Asking a customer to complete a claim form is understandable and D&G are perfectly 
entitled to do that. So, I accept Mrs D should complete the paperwork and she should send it 
to D&G to deal with.
D&G suggests it has some agreement with this service over its approach. Im afraid thats 
not the case - D&G is mistaken. This service deal with each individual complaint brought to it 
by individual customers like Mrs D. And all cases this service deals with are done strictly on 
the merits of each individual case.
I think anyone appointed by D&G to repair, remove or replace an item for a customer is 
acting as D&Gs agent. Such organisations or individuals are helping D&G fulfil the terms 
and conditions of the warranty. So, I think in such circumstances D&G is responsible for the 
actions undertaken - in this case by the engineer. D&G should take responsibility and 
directly handle Mrs Ds claim.
I think it is D&Gs responsibility to consider the claim itself and not to leave it to the Repair 
Agent.
Putting things right
consider the damage caused by its representative directly with Mrs D.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Domestic & General Insurance Plc to:
consider the damage caused by its representative directly with Mrs D.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman