DRN-2276639
The complaint
Its been agreed AXA France IARD should accept responsibility for this complaint. To keep 
things simpler, Ill refer to AXA as the seller of the PPI in my decision.
Mr H says AXA mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
In December 1997 Mr H took out a store card with PPI whilst he was out shopping. 
Amongst other things, Mr H said he had a long term serious health problem when he took 
out the PPI that had first affected him in his teenage years and got progressively worse.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr Hs complaint upheld it. Mainly, she didnt think Mr H 
wouldve taken out the insurance if AXA had made him aware that the policy wouldnt have 
covered accident and sickness claims for any health problem Mr H had when he bought it. 
AXA disagrees with our adjudicators view. Its not in dispute that Mr H had the condition he 
mentioned. But AXA says that its a condition that is usually manageable which wouldnt 
affect a persons lifestyle and would be treated with medication.
AXA says theres nothing to suggest the severity of Mr Hs condition or how it affected his 
ability to work at the point of sale or after. AXA doesnt believe that this condition was 
sufficient on its own for the policy to be unsuitable as it may have never affected Mr H. And 
AXA says Mr H would have thought at the time it was unlikely that he would have needed to 
claim for this condition. 
Also, Mr H wouldve been able to claim for any other condition that meant he had to take 
time off work. 
AXA told us that it required Mr H to provide evidence that the condition was ongoing and 
how it affected his work. AXA said, as there was no evidence that Mr Hs medical condition 
would negate his need for the policy, it didnt agree to uphold the complaint.
So Mr Hs complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
AXA needed to give Mr H enough clear information about the PPI for him to be able to 
decide if it was right for him. 
I dont know exactly what was said when the policy was sold to Mr H.
It looks like the policy Mr H bought didn't cover claims resulting from any sickness, disease, 
condition or injury that he knew about when he took out this PPI.
So I think its likely that the policy wording wouldve excluded cover for accident and 
sickness claims resulting from Mr Hs medical condition. 
I think the limitation on cover for health conditions is likely to have mattered to Mr H. I say 
this because I think that his health condition is relatively serious. From what hes told us it 
looks like the condition has been progressive and by the time he took out the PPI I think its 
fair to say it seems clear it was impacting more and more on Mr Hs day to day life. His 
condition means hes dependent on prescribed pain relief and other medication  which has 
been upgraded over the years to help him cope with more challenging symptoms. From time 
to time the condition flares up and Mr H has injections to help him cope. 
So, despite what AXA said about Mr Hs expectations when he signed up for PPI, I think 
Mr H might reasonably have expected that his health condition could potentially have a 
significant impact on his day to day life and lead to him needing to take time off work.
But I cant see how or if AXA drew this information to his attention, as it shouldve done. And, 
if it had, I think its likely that Mr H wouldnt have bought the policy.  
Ive taken carefully into account what AXA has said in response to our adjudicators opinion. 
But this doesn't affect my overall view. 
When Mr H agreed to the PPI he was entitled to have the main features brought to his 
attention. AXA says it agrees he had the condition. But AXA failed to ask Mr H anything at all 
about his health on the application he filled in to take out the policy  and there was nothing 
on it which suggested his health might be an important issue. Nor has AXA shown me that 
this was something that was discussed with Mr H at the time. Given his medical condition 
was ongoing, I think Mr H wouldve wanted to know it would be covered by taking out this 
type of cover. And if AXA had explained the policy limitation in this regard, I dont think its 
likely that Mr H wouldve thought the policy was right for him. So its unlikely he wouldve 
wanted to take it out. 
Based on all the information I've seen, I think Mr H has lost out because of what AXA did 
wrong and it should put things right. 
Putting things right
AXA should put Mr H in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. How 
it does this will depend on whether Mr Hs store card account is still active or has been 
closed.
If Mr Hs account is still active, the policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled 
already and:
A. AXA should find out how much Mr H would owe on his store card if the policy hadnt 
been added to it.So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mr H owes and what he would 
have owed.
If Mr H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.
B. If  when AXA works out what Mr H would have owed each month without PPI  Mr 
H paid more than enough to clear the balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on 
the extra Mr H paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr H 
wouldve owed AXA something on his store card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. AXA should tell Mr H what its done to work out A and B.
If Mr Hs account has been closed: 
A. AXA should find out how much Mr H would have owed when he closed his store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mr H owed when he closed the 
account and what he would have owed if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.  
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr H would have owed 
when he closed the account from when he closed it until he gets the refund. The interest 
rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when AXA works out what Mr H would have owed each month without PPI  Mr H 
paid more than enough to clear his balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mr H paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr H 
wouldve owed AXA something on his store card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
D. AXA should tell Mr H what its done to work out A, B and C.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mr H that relates to this PPI sale, 
that sum can be deducted by AXA from the redress shown above.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Hs complaint and AXA France IARD should put 
things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman