DRN-2231602
The complaint
Ms W complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money only took the minimum 
payment from her account by direct debit to repay her credit card account balance and not 
the full amount.
What happened
Ms W says she opened the Virgin Money credit card account and set it up to take, what she 
believed was, the full monthly balance owed by direct debit. She says she found out 
following a letter from Virgin Money, that only the minimum monthly payment was being 
taken and so she paid about an extra £2,700. Ms W says she would not have set up the 
account in this way and generally always pays off the full amount owed when using credit. 
She says she didnt check the account statements as had problems accessing them and 
didnt check her own bank account as she knew there was enough money in it to repay the 
full monthly repayment. Ms W would like the money she has overpaid refunded.
Virgin Money doesnt accept making a mistake and says when Ms W applied online for the 
account she would have been asked if she wanted to set up a monthly direct debit for the 
minimum required monthly payment. It says it didnt offer customers the opportunity to set up 
a direct debit for the full amount and says it made clear that the direct debit could be 
amended via online services. It also says any interest or charges were correctly applied in 
line with account terms and conditions. Virgin Money says it sent customers a SMS 
message to remind them about the need to change the direct debit amount if they wanted to.
Ms W brought her complaint to us, but our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Virgin Money had made clear when the account was opened that only a minimum 
required payment could be taken by direct debit and that any changes to that amount would 
have to be made later via online services. The investigator didnt think Ms W had amended 
the direct debit amount and thought she accepted she hadnt looked at either her bank 
account or the Virgin Money credit card statements. The investigator also explained our role 
and that it wasnt for us to tell Virgin Money to amend its policy on this issue.
Ms W doesnt accept that view.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the view that Virgin Money hasnt made a mistake or acted 
unfairly. I realise Ms W will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked at the information Ms W would have seen when she first opened the Virgin 
Money account. And I can see that Virgin Money makes clear that if a direct debit is set up 
then only the minimum required payment will be taken by that method. I also think Virgin 
Money explained that if a customer wished to amend that amount to the full monthly balance 
then that could be done by using its online services at a later stage. I can see that Virgin 
Money says it reminds customers about this by sending a SMS. So, I dont think Virgin 
Money ever offered its customers the opportunity to set up the direct debit to take the full 
monthly balance when accounts were first opened. And so it follows that I dont think its 
acted unfairly or made a mistake in these circumstances.
I appreciate Ms W says she didnt check her own bank account or the Virgin Money credit 
card statements from when the account was opened in 2018. But that is not something I can 
fairly hold Virgin Money responsible for and I would have expected Ms W to have told Virgin 
Money if she had problems accessing her account statements and to have checked those 
statements for accuracy.
I have looked at Virgin Moneys records and Im satisfied that Ms W didnt ask it to change 
the amount of the direct debit. And whilst I appreciate her frustration at Virgin Moneys 
process that is not something I can fairly comment on as we are not its regulator.
Overall, I find Virgin Money didnt act unfairly or make a mistake and so it follows that I cant 
fairly order it to refund the interest or charges which I think were correctly applied in line with 
agreed terms and conditions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman