DRN-2785005
The complaint
Mr S complains that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited failed to provide 
him, in a timely manner, with the necessary information to allow him to move his pension 
savings into drawdown and access his pension commencement lump sum (PCLS  
otherwise known as tax free cash).
What happened
I am dealing with similar complaints from both Mr S, and his wife. They both had similar 
pension arrangements with Royal London and decided to access their PCLS payments at 
the same time. Much of the discussions, on both pensions, were undertaken by Mrs S. But, 
given Mr and Mrs S held their pension savings separately it is right that I deal with their 
complaints separately too. But I am sure that Mr and Mrs S will understand, given the 
identical nature of their complaints, why the decisions I am issuing are similar. Mrs S has 
represented her husband when making this complaint.
Mr S held pension savings with Royal London. On 31 January 2020 Mrs S got in touch with 
Royal London to enquire about taking a PCLS from her, and her husbands, pension 
savings. On that call the advisor explained that in order to take the PCLS Mr S would need 
to move his pension savings to a different product  a product that offered a flexible access 
income drawdown arrangement. Mrs S was told that they would be sent the necessary 
information to start that process immediately following the call.
Royal London accepts that it failed to send that information to them  it says it closed the 
work request by mistake. Around a week later, on 7 February, Mrs S complained to 
Royal London that they hadnt received the promised information. After a further week, on 
14 February, Royal London sent Mr S the information via an encrypted email and the 
information was sent once again on 18 February. Royal London then had a phone 
conversation with Mr S to discuss his circumstances and the choices he was making on 
20 February. An application pack was issued to Mr S around a week later, but I understand it 
was never returned.
Mrs S made a complaint about her situation to Royal London in March 2020. And Mr S made 
a similar complaint in September 2020 once this Service had advised him we would need to 
deal with separate complains from both him and his wife. Royal London accepted that it 
hadnt provided Mr S with a reasonable level of service when he first asked to take his 
PCLS. It offered him the same £150 in compensation that it had offered to Mrs S. But it didnt 
agree that it should make up any shortfall in the PCLS that was available to Mr S. Mr S didnt 
accept the compensation that Royal London offered so brought his complaint to this Service.
Mr Ss complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He didnt think that 
Royal London should be held responsible for Mr Ss decision to not proceed with taking the 
PCLS payment due to the fall in its value. And he thought that the £150 Royal London had 
offered for the trouble and upset the initial delays had caused to Mr S was reasonable. So he 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr S didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr S and by Royal London. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
There is little dispute that Royal London failed to provide the information it had promised to 
Mr S following his wifes phone call on 31 January. But I dont share Mrs Ss concerns about 
why that information didnt get sent. Mrs S says that the advisor on that call failed to follow 
the correct processes, and provide them with all the necessary information about their 
options. So she thinks that, for compliance reasons, Royal London terminated its process.
I have listened to a recording of Mrs Ss call with Royal London on 31 January. Mrs S has 
expressed some concerns about that recording  she thinks it might have been edited 
because she recalls receiving some additional information about the likely processing 
timescales. But I can reassure Mrs S that the information she is referring to was actually 
provided on a later call with Royal London. So I am satisfied that the recording of the call we 
have been given by Royal London is an accurate, and complete, record of their 
conversation.
The call that Mrs S had with Royal London was only the start of the process. So I am not 
surprised that she wasnt given all the information that might be necessary to complete the 
process during that call. Following that call Royal London had further steps in its process to 
ensure that consumers were fully informed of their options before taking any decisions about 
how to use their pension savings  it sent information packs to consumers and then followed 
that up with a longer, carefully scripted, telephone call.
I accept that Mr S might have found it useful if Royal London had set out in detail the steps 
he would need to take before receiving his PCLS during that call. But I dont think that it 
failing to do so has put him at any disadvantage. As Ill now explain I think that Royal London 
provided all the necessary information to Mr S before allowing him to make any irrevocable 
decisions about his pension savings.
The information that Royal London belatedly sent to Mr S, and the conversation it had with 
him by telephone, were designed to ensure that he had a full understanding of the choices 
he was making. Royal London suggested that it might be appropriate for Mr S to seek 
independent financial advice before completing the transaction. But this wasnt something 
Mr S was required to do, and he declined Royal Londons suggestion. I dont think it was 
inappropriate for Royal London to proceed with Mr Ss request on an execution only basis.On both the telephone call, and in the information he was sent, Mr S was told that he wasnt 
required to take his pension benefits from Royal London. Both information sources explained 
that it would be possible, without any penalty, for him to transfer his pension savings to 
another provider. And the literature noted that better annuity rates might be available from 
other providers.
It seems to me that Mr Ss request to take his PCLS was delayed by around two weeks 
because of Royal Londons failure to send him the initial information. But the impact of that 
delay meant that when Mr S was ready to complete his application, after reviewing the 
information Royal London had sent and completing its telephone information process, the 
value of his pension savings had fallen. So it appears that Mr S decided not to proceed with 
his application at that time.
The values that Royal London provided to Mr S in relation to his pension savings were not 
guaranteed. The value of his pension savings would change daily in response to changes in 
the underlying assets they were invested in. So whilst it is unfortunate, and no doubt 
extremely disappointing for Mr S, that their value fell at the time he was considering taking 
his PCLS I cannot reasonably conclude that was the responsibility of Royal London. 
I havent seen anything that gives me any confidence I can reasonably assess when, or if, 
Mr S would have completed any PCLS application if the information from Royal London had 
been provided sooner.
Mr S chose not to take his PCLS in March 2020. That is entirely understandable given the 
fall in the value of his pension savings. But I have noted that the value of his pension savings 
has now risen, and when Royal London last provided us with information, had exceeded the 
valuation in February 2020. So whilst I entirely accept the disappointment Mr S will have 
experienced in not accessing his PCLS in 2020, he will in fact most likely receive a higher 
PCLS payment as a result although of course the value of that payment will still ultimately be 
subject to any changes in the underlying valuation of his pension savings. So I cannot 
conclude that any delays have reduced the payment to which Mr S would have been entitled 
in February or March 2020.
Royal London has acknowledged that its service fell short of the standards it would normally 
expect. And it offered Mr S £150 for the trouble and upset hed been caused. I think that is a 
reasonable offer, and I wouldnt expect to award anything higher in circumstances such as 
these. It appears that Mr S did not initially accept that offer, but Royal London should ensure 
that the compensation is now paid to him.
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any further award against 
The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman