DRN-3345807
The complaint
Mr B, on behalf of himself and the last Mrs B, has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-
sold him a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr B took out the PPI at the same time as arranging the mortgage in 1996 (with the 
mortgage and PPI going live in January 1997). Although it was a joint mortgage, the PPI was 
set up just to cover Mr B.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on a 
balance of probabilities  that is, what is considered most likely to have happened given the 
evidence that is available to me, and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr B has said that the mortgage was presented as a condition of the mortgage and that 
effectively he had no option but to agree to it if he wanted the mortgage borrowing to be 
agreed.
In considering the complaint Ive thought about how long ago the sale was. Mr B does seem 
to have a recollection about some of the discussion that took place at the time of the sale. 
However, hes also talked about not wanting the policy because it had a long deferral period 
and recalls that it would pay out a lump sum for loss or loss of use of particular body parts. 
The type of policy Mr B is talking about is a critical illness policy and he has said that he 
recalls it being called something like a critical illness plan and has named the underwriter.
However, the PPI policy sold by Lloyds was called Mortgagesure and provided cover for 
accident, sickness and unemployment but not critical illness. The policy did have deferral 
periods in the sense that a policyholder had to be off sick for 30 days before making a claim 
or have been unemployed for 60 days before making a claim. However, at that point the 
payment benefit would be backdated to day 1 of the sickness or unemployment period. Also, 
the underwriter was different from the one Mr B has mentioned. 
Therefore, its possible that Mr Bs recollection is about the sale of a different policy rather 
than the PPI. Given the passage of time, it wouldnt be surprising if Mr Bs memory of events 
has faded.
Lloyds has provided a copy of the mortgage application form, although it is difficult to read in 
places. There was a separate section for PPI which has been filled in. It seems likely that 
there was some discussion about taking out PPI as part of the wider mortgage interview. Its 
possible that the adviser told Mr B that it would be a good idea for him to have the policy, 
rather than that he must have it. This is a subtle difference which its possible that Mr B has 
misremembered after all this time.
From what we know of Lloyds branch sales process at the time, the PPI was usually 
presented as optional. I havent seen any evidence to persuade me that something different 
happened in this case. Ive thought very carefully about what Mr B has said but, overall, Im 
unable to conclude that Mr B wasnt given a choice about taking out PPI. I find it equally as 
likely that he decided to buy it, knowing that he didnt have to, even if he no longer 
remembers doing so.
This was an advised sale, meaning that Lloyds recommended that Mr B should buy the 
policy. In doing so, Lloyds needed to ensure that the policy met his needs. And from what I 
know of Mr Bs circumstances at the time, the PPI was suitable for him.
Although Mr B was self-employed, the unemployment terms of the policy are not particularly 
onerous towards the self-employed and it would have been no more difficult for him to make 
a claim for unemployment than an employed person.
Mr B says that he didnt need the policy because, in the event of being unable to work, he 
could have rented out rooms, or moved into his mothers flat and rented out the entire 
upstairs flat, or even downsized to a smaller property. Hes also said that he could have sold 
some assets, such as his vintage motorcycles and that his siblings would have helped him. 
But having the policy would have avoided him having to immediately take such drastic action 
or ask his family for money.
Lloyds also had to provide Mr B with sufficient information for him to be able to make an 
informed choice about whether or not the policy was right for him. I think that Mr B must 
have known something about the policy  that it would cover his mortgage repayments if he 
was unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment  because I dont think hed 
have decided to buy it without knowing anything at all about it. 
The £14.39 cost of the policy is stated on the mortgage offer. Whilst this is after the time that 
Mr B agreed to the policy, it is before the policy went live in January 1997. So Im satisfied 
that Mr B would have been aware of the cost.
Its possible that Lloyds could have provided more information about the policy, such as the 
things that it didnt cover. But Mr B wasnt affected by any of those things. For example, he 
did not have a pre-existing medical condition that might have limited his ability to claim under 
the policy.
As I consider that Mr B had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think that 
more information would have caused Mr B to change his mind about buying it. So he is no 
worse off as a result of anything Lloyds may have done wrong, so there is nothing that 
Lloyds needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr B and the estate of the late Mrs Bs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and the 
estate of Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman