DRN-3414513
The complaint
The estate of Mrs P complains Barclays Bank UK Plc didnt properly close down savings 
accounts in Mrs Ps name.
Mr P is bringing this complaint on behalf of the estate. He was previously represented by a 
family member in doing so, but as the family member is no longer involved, Ill mainly refer to 
Mr P in this decision.
What happened
Mr P complained hed recently become aware Barclays hadnt transferred all of the money 
from Mrs Ps accounts when he notified them of her passing in November 2009. He wanted 
this money refunded along with an apology from Barclays for this error.
Barclays replied, and said Mrs P held four accounts at the time of her passing. They listed 
out the account numbers, explained what amount was in each account, and said they were 
transferred to Mr P. Barclays added all statements for the accounts were sent to Mr P on 
29 January 2010. Because of that, they didnt think theyd done anything wrong.
Mr P didnt accept this, so asked us to look into things. During the complaint Mr P raised 
concerns about a number of specific transactions, and he was also concerned with how hed 
been treated by Barclays when arranging the closure of Mrs Ps accounts. He said it took 
Barclays nearly two months to do this.
Our Investigator put all of Mr Ps comments to Barclays, and in summary they said they were 
satisfied all monies owed from Mrs Ps estate had been properly paid to Mr P. And, because 
of the time thatd passed, they couldnt confirm why itd taken from 23 November 2009 when 
they say they were told about Mrs P to 14 January 2010 for the accounts to be closed. But 
they felt it was possible they were waiting on some documents from Mr P to arrange the 
closures and taking into account the Christmas and New Year time as well didnt think they 
had to do anything further here.
During the complaint, our Investigator answered every query Mr P raised about where 
money had been sent from Mrs Ps accounts. Ultimately, she decided that Barclays had 
transferred all the money they should have to Mr P. And she didnt consider there was such 
a significant delay in making the payment after Mrs P had passed away. She explained she 
couldnt comment if there were any unavoidable delays, given the time thats passed, but its 
possible Barclays were waiting for documents as theyd said.
Mr P didnt accept this. He said he didnt agree the accounts were all closed properly as they 
were handled by someone who was inexperienced in Barclays. He said he thinks there may 
still be further funds left and that in 2009 he just relied on Barclays to close the accounts 
properly. Mr P said he was asked about a Grant of Probate or a Will but said Mrs P didnt 
have either of these so couldnt provide them. As a result of that he completed some security 
checks, and says he needed access to the funds to pay for funeral costs. Mr P said hes 
since asked a bank how long this process should take and was told two weeks. 
Overall, Mr P feels Barclays havent treated someone who was vulnerable fairly and thinks 
errors have been made with the funds. Because of that, the complaints been passed to me 
to decide. 
Before being able to look into the substance of Mr Ps concerns, I needed to ensure he had 
appropriate legal authority that allowed him to deal with Mrs Ps estate. Initially, he didnt, so 
I issued a provisional jurisdiction explaining we couldnt look into the complaint, until that 
legal authority had been provided.
Mr P has recently provided Letters of Administration, which means hes allowed to represent 
the estate of Mrs P. Because of that, Ive now gone on to consider the substance of the 
complaint hes raised.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Have Barclays refunded all outstanding funds?
In short, having reviewed all the evidence Ive been provided with, I think they have. 
Initially, Mr P was querying just one payment, but after receiving further information he then 
queried all accounts held by Mrs P  saying he thought Barclays hadnt closed them down 
properly.
Ive noted Mr P says Barclays seem to have all the statements but are reluctant to answer 
the queries. But I cant agree with Mr Ps thoughts here. As Ive said, on each occasion 
weve passed on Mr Ps queries, theyve answered them. 
I can see in Barclays last answer, they provided a detailed summary of what happened to all 
of the funds  which was shared with Mr P. I can also see they provided their statements to 
evidence this. Ive reviewed those statements, which were also shared with Mr P, and 
Barclays explanations are proven true by those statements.
In Mr Ps response to the outcome of the complaint when it was shared with him, hes said 
he thinks we need to go back to Barclays and work out what happened to all the funds fairly. 
I understand why Mr P says that  but, in effect, weve done that. Weve asked Barclays for 
copies of all the relevant statements, and explanations. Having reviewed all of that, Im 
satisfied it properly shows where all of Mrs Ps money was transferred to and from. So, 
based on my review, Im satisfied Barclays have paid Mr P all of the money from Mrs Ps 
accounts.
In his last comments, Mr P has raised concerns about a transaction for £10,000. This was a 
credit into Mrs Ps account on 12 September 2007. It was transferred out on 5 October 2007 
to another of Mrs Ps savings accounts  which has then been factored into the transfers Ive 
mentioned above.
Did Barclays take too long when closing Mrs Ps accounts and transferring the money?
Mrs P sadly passed away on 14 November 2009. Barclays have said they were notified of 
this on 23 November 2009 and paid out all of the funds to Mr P  as well as sending him 
statements for the accounts  on 14 January 2010. They said they didnt think six weeks was 
too long  although they couldnt say why itd taken this long as due to the passage of time they had no records of this. They thought its possible they were waiting for information, and 
that the Christmas and New Year period might have contributed to the delay.
Mr P says he didnt think the accounts had been closed properly. He said he was asked by 
Barclays to confirm the date of death from a doctor, provide a will or a grant of probate and 
marriage certificate. Mr P says he told a young inexperienced Barclays employee no grant of 
probate or will was available, as his wife never had any of those. Ultimately, he said hed 
completed all the security checks, and was very stressed as he needed these funds for the 
funeral costs. He said no manager was dealing with this, which was wrong, and hed asked 
more recently how long this process should take  and says he was told two weeks.
Ive no doubt this was a very difficult time for Mr P, and Id expect Barclays to handle things 
appropriately given the sensitive nature of matters at this time. But, by Mr Ps own 
recollections, he had to provide some documents to Barclays in order for them to act  as 
hes mentioned getting a letter from his doctor to confirm the date of Mrs Ps passing. 
Mr P hasnt said he already had this letter, though hes said hed already passed their 
security checks. But, I think it unlikely Barclays process would allow them to close down an 
account solely by asking some questions  rather than providing some evidence of Mrs P 
passing away.
I cant know for sure what happened, but on balance I think its likely Mr P would have 
needed to provide some documents in order for Barclays to take action. So, given that, Im 
persuaded by Barclays statement the reason for the time taken is likely due to the 
requirement of documents, and because of the time of the year.
Taking all of that into account, although I realise Mr P will be disappointed, Im satisfied its 
more likely than not Barclays havent unreasonably delayed the closure of Mrs Ps accounts.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold the estate of Mrs Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs P 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 May 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman