DRN-2415095
The complaint
Ms H has complained that CLAIMS (London) Ltd (Claims) took court action against her for 
their costs in assisting her to make a claim for investment mis-selling.  And that theyd not 
pursued her claim to recover payment protection insurance (PPI) payments shed made.
What happened
Ms H first contacted Claims around 2009 to help her make a claim for the losses she 
suffered as a result of being mis-sold investments.  The financial institution involved made a 
payment for her losses in 2010.
Claims said that they didnt receive the fee Ms H had agreed to pay for their services.  So in 
2016 they wrote to Ms H to try and recover this.  Ms H didnt pay as she said the bill had 
already been settled.  Claims continued to pursue their fee and eventually court proceedings 
for recovery were issued against Ms H.  But the case was struck out because proceedings 
had been issued outside the limitation period.
Ms H complained.  She said that Claims should never have brought proceedings against 
her.  And that had caused her an enormous amount of unnecessary stress.  She also 
complained that Claims hadnt pursued a separate claim to recover PPI payments shed 
made.  And she was unhappy about the way Claims had dealt with a separate claim shed 
made on behalf of her late father.
Claims rejected Ms Hs complaints.  They said theyd done a lot of work for her and were 
entitled to try and recover the cost of doing that.  But they said Ms H had never instructed 
them to try and recover PPI payments for her.  And they said they couldnt pursue her 
fathers claim because it had been considered and rejected.
Ms H wasnt satisfied with Claims responses, so she brought her complaint to us.  Our 
investigator considered it but came to the conclusion that Claims didnt need to do anything 
more to resolve the complaint.  He said that we couldnt consider a complaint about Ms Hs 
fathers claim as that had been dismissed by the Legal Ombudsman (who dealt with this type 
of complaint until April 2019).
And, while he sympathised with Ms H for the stress the court proceedings had caused her, 
he said that Claims had been entitled to pursue them to recover what they believed they 
were owed.  Finally he said that hed not found any evidence that Ms H had instructed 
Claims to recover any PPI shed paid.
Ms H didnt agree with the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Ms Hs complaint.  Ill explain why.
I know Ms H wanted us to consider her complaint about the claim made on her late fathers 
behalf.  But  as our investigator told her  that was dismissed by the Legal Ombudsman.  
So I wont be looking at that part of her complaint in this decision.
I sympathise with the position Ms H found herself in when Claims started proceedings to 
recover their fees.  I can understand that it would have been very stressful for her to have to 
defend herself in a court.  But Claims said shed not paid their fees for assisting her to 
recover losses from a financial institution for a mis-sold investment claim.  
Ive see Claims terms and conditions for this claim, which Ms H signed.  The relevant 
section says:
it is agreed that if the claim is successful CLAIMS will be paid on the basis of a fee 
amounting to exactly 25% of any added value offered or awarded
And it goes onto explain how the fee is calculated.  The fee Claims tried to recover in the 
proceedings was calculated using this formula.  
Im satisfied from this that Claims were entitled to be paid for the work they did on Ms Hs 
investment mis-sellling claim  and that they were claiming the right amount.  And, although 
Ms H says shed paid, she accepts she didnt have evidence to show that.  
So I think Claims were entitled to start the proceedings they did.  And the fact those 
proceedings were struck out doesnt change that.  
Ive thought about Ms Hs other complaint  that Claims didnt pursue a PPI claim for her.  
Ms H says its clear Claims had been instructed because theres mention of a building 
society she had dealings with.
Ive looked very carefully at the documents weve received.  Ive seen references to several 
financial businesses.  But these all seem to be linked to the claim against the institution 
which mis-sold investments  to show, for example, how Ms H wouldve used her money 
had it not been invested.  Ive not seen anything which shows me that Ms H gave Claims 
that information for Claims to check if there was a possible PPI claim.  
Nor have I seen any agreement between Claims and Ms H which shows she instructed them 
to do this.  There are agreements on file - but these relate to Ms Hs claim for investment 
mis-selling, not recovery of PPI payments.  
On the basis of what Ive seen, I dont think Ms H has suffered a loss of opportunity from 
Claims failing to make such a claim as I cant see theyd been instructed to do so. So they 
dont need to do anything else to resolve her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding Ms Hs complaint about CLAIMS (London) Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman