DRN-3660265
The complaint
Mr E has complained about how Barclays Bank UK Plc has responded to his request for 
assistance with his overdraft. 
What happened
I have already issued a decision explaining why I am not able to consider events from before 
24 January 2019. This decision will look only at what happened after that date, although I will 
refer to some earlier events for context.
Mr E held a current account with Barclays with a large overdraft facility, on 4 December 2018 
he got in touch with Barclays to say that he was struggling to repay his overdraft, and he 
offered a partial payment as settlement of the outstanding balance. 
After some back and forth, Barclays wrote to Mr E on 24 January 2019 explaining that Mr E 
could speak to the financial guidance team  who were phone based only  or that Mr E 
could write to the banks collections department if he did not want to call. 
Mr E wrote to Barclays again as he was still unhappy with its response, he restated that he 
wanted to come to an agreement to settle the debt and included a budget planner with his 
letter. Barclays responded in February 2019 to say that as per its letter of 24 January 2019 
Mr E could write to the collections team if he wanted to discuss possible settlement of his 
outstanding overdraft, in this letter Barclays also said it would forward Mr Es offer of 
settlement to the collections team and that they would be in touch with Mr E. 
When Mr E didnt hear from the collections team he got back in touch with Barclays to ask it 
to write to him with a reasonable solution to deal with the outstanding overdraft balance. 
Barclays does not appear to have directly responded to this letter, but did go on to send a 
series of general letters noting that Mr Es account was over its arrange overdraft limit. 
Over the next few months there was further correspondence between Mr E and Barclays but 
no resolution was reached. Barclays said in several letters during this period that it had not 
received an offer of payment from Mr E despite Mr E including details of his offer and budget 
planner in previous correspondence.
As Mr E didnt feel he was getting anywhere, he appointed a solicitor to act on his behalf. 
Barclays was unwilling to engage with Mr Es solicitor though, as it said it had not received 
signed authority from Mr E to do so. In January 2020 Barclays issued a further final 
response explaining this, and stating that it had not been able to action his requests 
regarding the settlement of his overdraft as he had continued to write to the complaints 
department rather than to the collections department as he had been advised to do.
Following further correspondence, Barclays issued one more final response letter in May 
2020 which again reiterated that Mr E would need to speak with the bank to discuss a way 
forward with his account. 
In August 2020, Mr E, with the assistance of his son, did call the bank to try to discuss a way 
forward, but nothing was resolved. So Mr E referred his complaint to our service in October 
2020. Barclays then went on to offer to refund charges applied to Mr Es account since 24 
January 2019.
Mr Es account was defaulted in February 2021, and has since been passed to a debt 
collection agency.
Despite Barclays offer, Mr E remained very unhappy with how it handled his concerns, so 
he asked us to consider his complaint in full. One of our adjudicators looked at everything 
that had been provided but felt that the offer Barclays had made was a fair way to resolve 
this complaint. 
I issued my provisional decision on this case on 21 July 2022. In that provisional decision I 
explained what I felt Barclays needed to do to put things right. Barclays agreed with my 
findings, Mr E felt that the level of compensation I had recommended was not enough to 
recognise the impact of what had happened on him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following:
I dont think that what Barclays has so far offered to do goes far enough to resolve this 
complaint. 
I say this because, overall, I feel that Barclays could have done more to help Mr E. In my 
view, Mr E was clearly willing to try to come to some arrangement about repaying the debt 
on his account, but Barclays does not seem to have engaged with him in a helpful way.
I appreciate that it would have been easier if Mr E had been willing to call the financial 
guidance team at an earlier stage, but when he did call that department in August 2020, from 
the phone calls Ive listened to, it seems he was still unable to get any meaningful 
assistance. Instead he was passed between departments, before ultimately being told that 
he needed to submit a new income and expenditure form. But in any case, its not clear to 
me why Barclays was unable to do some or all of the process for agreeing a settlement or 
repayment plan in writing. I also note that Barclays say Mr E was writing to the wrong 
department, but surely the bank could have passed correspondence on to the collections 
department for him. 
Barclays also says it didnt receive the initial letter from Mr E giving it authority to correspond 
with his solicitor. But even if that is the case, its clear that by January 2020 Barclays was 
aware that Mr E wanted it to correspond with his solicitor as this was one of the main points 
addressed in the final response letter it issued at that stage. And as far as I can see Mr E 
wasnt asking for his solicitor to be given access to his accounts or anything more formal, 
just that his solicitor be allowed to act as his representative in his dealings with Barclays 
regarding the repayment of his overdraft, and I think Mr E had made it clear thats what he 
wanted.
With all this in mind, I think that if Barclays had been more willing to engage with Mr E in the 
way he had requested then some kind of resolution regarding this debt may have been 
reached much earlier. I appreciate that Barclays did regularly advise Mr E that he could call 
the financial guidance team or write to collections, but Mr E had already written to the bank with an offer of payment and a budget planner, and didnt make any meaningful progress 
when he did call the bank, so I can understand his frustration with these letters. 
I also consider that  given Mr E had explained in late 2018 that he was likely unable to ever 
repay the full balance of his overdraft  this account should have been defaulted much 
earlier than it was. Im pleased to say that Barclays has recently confirmed that it is happy to 
backdate the default on Mr Es account to March 2019, reflecting what would likely have 
happened if it had begun to take more decisive action regarding Mr Es overdraft when he 
first made contact. 
But while I think the offer to refund all interest and charges since January 2019 and to 
backdate the default to March 2019 is fair, I also think that overall Mr Es journey with 
Barclays has been more stressful and frustrating that in should have been. So as a result I 
think that Barclays should pay Mr E some compensation to recognise the additional stress 
and inconvenience that has been caused to him.
Lastly, I note that Mr E is very unhappy that his debt has now been passed to a debt 
collection agency. He feels that as the account was in dispute then this should never have 
happened. But to clarify the guidance around this issue, in general we would not consider it 
reasonable for a bank to pass a debt to a debt collection agency where the validity of that 
debt is in dispute. For example, where a customer is saying that the debt does not belong to 
them. But this doesnt mean that a bank cant continue all its usual collection processes 
when we are considering a complaint about an account. So I dont think Barclays did 
anything wrong in passing the debt to a debt collection agency when it did.
With everything Ive seen, I dont think that Barclays treated Mr E fairly in how it has handled 
his concerns since 24 January 2019. I think it is fair for Barclays to take the steps it has 
already said it will to put things right for Mr E, but I also consider that Barclays should pay 
Mr E £300 to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused to him by the poor service he 
has received. And Barclays and Mr E (via his solicitor) should now make sure that they 
engage fully with each other to reach an agreement about what will happen with the debt 
going forward.
Barclays has confirmed it is happy to accept my provisional findings. But Mr E has made a 
number of further comments.
I appreciate Mr E taking to time to respond in detail to my provisional decision. Mr E has 
commented on some specific details of what has happened here, as well as more generally 
on the level of service he has received. 
Mr E says that Barclays is wrong to say it didnt receive authorisation to deal with his 
solicitor, and has pointed to the letter he sent on 3 December 2019 giving this authorisation. 
But Ive not seen any clear evidence to show that Barclays received this letter, although I 
dont doubt that it was sent, so its difficult for me to make a specific finding on whether 
Barclays did or did not get this letter given the evidence I have. But in any case, I 
acknowledged in my provisional decision that it should have been clear to Barclays by 
January 2020 that Mr E wanted it to correspond with his solicitor, and I took that into account 
in my provisional findings.
Mr E has also commented that he feels Barclays lied to the collection agency his debt had 
been passed to  by telling it that the Ombudsman service had made a ruling on his case. 
But from what Ive seen, thats not what Barclays told the collection agency, Barclays instead 
told it that Mr Es case had been resolved meaning that Barclays itself had finished its 
investigations. Ive not seen any evidence that Barclays told the collection agency 
specifically that the Ombudsman services investigations were complete. But in any case, as I explained in my provisional decision, regardless of whether we were still looking at the case 
or not, Barclays was still entitled to pass Mr Es debt to a collection agency, so nothing Mr E 
has said here changes my findings.
Lastly, Mr E has commented on his overall journey with Barclays, the time it has taken to get 
to this point, and the failings he has seen in the service he has been given by Barclays. Mr E 
feels that in light of all that has happened, my recommendation that it pay him £300 does not 
go far enough to recognise the impact of what has happened here. Specifically, Mr E has 
said that this amount is far below what he has paid in solicitors fees alone, and that he 
doesnt feel it punishes Barclays enough for what has happened.
Firstly, while I appreciate why Mr E engaged the services of his solicitor, that was his 
decision, not something that either Barclays or our service required. And it is for that reason 
that we do not generally ask businesses to reimburse customers for their solicitors costs. So 
I wont be asking Barclays to increase its payment to Mr E to cover his solicitors costs. 
I also want to explain that the awards we make are to recognise the impact on the customer, 
it is not our role to punish businesses for any failures in their service. I appreciate that Mr E 
feels the award I have recommended of £300 is far too low given what has happened and 
how long his complaint has been ongoing. But I am satisfied that its appropriate in light of 
everything Ive seen, Barclays did let Mr E down here, but it has since offered to refund 
charges and interest and to backdate the default, and I have to bear in mind that at least part 
of Mr Es distress here is due to his financial situation as a whole.
For these reasons, I remain satisfied that the recommendations I set out in my provisional 
decision are a fair and reasonable way to resolve this complaint. I know this will be 
disappointing for Mr E, but I hope he will at least feel that his complaint has been listened to.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I find that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Es complaint for Barclays to put things right by:
reworking Mr Es current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from 24 January 2019 are removed.
contacting Mr Es solicitor to arrange a suitable repayment plan or settlement 
agreement for the outstanding debt.
backdate the default it has recorded about this account to March 2019.
pay Mr E £300 to recognise the impact of its poor service on him over the last 
three years
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank PLC should now put things right in the way Ive set 
out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman