DRN-4307574
The complaint
Mr C complains Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt offered him a way of authenticating that works for 
him meaning hes having problems using his account online.
What happened
Mr C has a current account with Lloyds Bank and a debit card.
In September 2022 Mr C complained to Lloyds Bank that he was having problems using his 
account  in particular, making online purchases  as a result of changes it had made to its 
processes in order to implement strong customer authentication. Mr C said that he didnt 
own a mobile phone and didnt want to and that the changes Lloyds Bank had made 
expected him to do so. He said Lloyds Banks approach wasnt in line with guidance the FCA 
had issued on strong customer authentication in relation to the use of mobile only solutions. 
He also said he didnt think Lloyds Bank should be insisting on him using a device registered 
in his name to authenticate, including his landline. He made suggestions of his own.
Lloyds Bank investigated Mr Cs complaint and said that its customers could authenticate in 
three different ways, namely using its mobile app, receiving an SMS to a mobile phone or 
receiving a call on a landline or mobile phone. Lloyds Bank said that as it only had a landline 
number for Mr C his landline was the only way he could authenticate so hed need to make 
sure he had access to his landline when making online payments. Mr C was unhappy with 
Lloyds Banks response and so complained to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Cs complaint and thought that the alternatives 
Lloyds Bank had offered should work as they could see hed been able to authenticate using 
his landline in September 2022. Our investigator also said it wasnt in our remit to ask a 
business to change its processes or methods.
Mr C was unhappy with our investigators response, saying that it wasnt relevant that hed 
authenticated a transaction in September 2022 using his landline. He gave examples of 
other times when he hadnt been at home and hadnt been able to authenticate. He also said 
that the changes Lloyds Bank had made dont verify the identity of the person its dealing with 
only that theyre in possession of a particular phone. As he was unhappy, his complaint was 
referred to an ombudsman for a decision. His complaint was passed on to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive spoken to Mr C and said why I dont think it wasnt unfair of Lloyds Bank to implement 
strong customer authentication  its an important measure designed to combat fraud  and 
what strong customer authentication involves. Ive also said why I dont think it was unfair of 
Lloyds Bank to use possession as a factor when applying strong customer authentication  
namely, that businesses have to use two separate independent factors from a list of three 
when authenticating their customers and that possession is one of these three factors. 
Mr C accepted what Id said and told me that the main problem he was having was 
authenticating when he wasnt at home. He was happy, for example, to do his online banking 
from home, but he wasnt always at home when he needed to authenticate for online 
shopping. He gave me examples of when this had caused him problems.
Having spoken to Mr C, I contacted Lloyds Bank to see it was prepared to offer Mr C a 
token that he could use to authenticate when he needed to shop online. Thats a solution 
that wasnt available when Mr C originally complained. But it was a solution that it was about 
to roll out. I asked Lloyds Bank if it was prepared to do so as Im satisfied that in Mr Cs 
case, taking into account the FCA guidance he mentioned, amongst other things, Lloyds 
Bank hadnt offered a viable alternative to allow him to authenticate when he needs to shop 
online. Mr C confirmed to me when I spoke to him that a token would resolve his complaint.
I asked Lloyds Bank if it was willing to offer Mr C a token because I could see that it had 
considered doing so at one stage but had decided against it saying tokens are normally for 
customers who don't have a mobile or a landline or a foreign no. In this case, I said to Lloyds 
Bank that I didnt think that was particularly helpful. Unfortunately, I still havent had a 
response from Lloyds Bank despite the deadline I set having expired some time ago.
Putting things right
Given everything Ive just said, and in the absence of a response from Lloyds Bank, Im 
going to require Lloyds Bank to issue Mr C with a token so that he can authenticate when he 
needs to shop online. In addition, Im going to require Lloyds Bank to pay Mr C £250 in 
compensation to reflect the unnecessary inconvenience and frustration hes been caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding this complaint and requiring Lloyds Bank PLC to issue 
Mr C with a token and to pay him £250 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman