DRN-1757215
The complaint
Miss S complains that American Express Payment Services Limited is holding her liable for 
payments she made using her credit card. She thought she was only the secondary card 
holder and the main account belonged to someone else. 
What happened
Miss S says that she thinks she was a victim of an online scam. She gave her details to 
someone she met online because he said he would set her up as a secondary cardholder on 
his account with American Express. When she received the card she used it to make 
payments totalling about £500. American Express is now chasing her to repay this debt but 
she doesnt think she should be held liable for it.
American Express say that Miss S was the sole account holder (there wasnt anyone else) 
and she willingly gave all her details to allow an application to be made, the card was sent to 
her and she carried out all the spending. Therefore, it doesnt think it has been unreasonable 
in holding her liable for the spending.
Our investigator didnt think American Express had done anything wrong. He thought that 
Miss S had made the application herself, the card was in her name and so she should be 
responsible for the spending on it.
Miss S didnt agree. She said, in summary, that she didnt make the application herself and 
so she didnt have any contact with American Express. She was misled into believing that 
she was a supplementary card holder on the main account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do understand that this must have been an upsetting time for Miss S. She has been 
consistent in saying that she didnt make the application herself. She says she gave her 
details to someone she met online because she was misled into believing that she would 
have a second card on that persons main account, and they would be responsible for the 
repayments. We asked Miss S to provide any additional information to support what she 
says happened so that we could investigate this further. But we didnt get a response. So, 
Ive looked to see what else is available to help me decide this case. 
Based on the information Ive seen, Im satisfied that the application was made in Miss Ss 
sole name  not in anyone elses. Shes explained she gave all her personal details, 
including her email address and mobile phone number, to the third party. These genuine 
details were used in the application. American Express says that it sent confirmation of the 
approval of the application to Miss Ss genuine email address. It also sent the credit card, 
credit agreement with details of the credit limit and the terms and conditions of the account 
to Miss Ss genuine postal address. These were all addressed to her and made clear that 
the account was in her name. Miss S also had online access to the account so that she 
could see her billing information at any time.  I dont think she would have had online access 
if the account had been in the name of someone else. 
Perhaps crucially though, I think this information gave Miss S the opportunity to query things 
either with American Express and/or the third party before she undertook the expenditure 
she did. From what shes described this wasnt consistent with what she says she 
understood to be the case. But Ive not seen anything to suggest she raised any concerns. I 
think in going ahead and using the card without question, Miss S accepted the position that 
she was responsible for the account (as per the agreement), even if she had the expectation 
that someone else might make the payments for her. 
American Express says that when it asked Miss S about what happened she agreed that 
she carried out all the spending on the account using the card. So, it didnt think there had 
been a fraud carried out. I think American Express might have requested further details but, 
as I have already said, we asked Miss S to provide further information, such as emails 
between her and the third party to investigate this further but she hasnt done so.
So, after considering all the evidence, for the reasons I have explained, Im persuaded that 
there is enough evidence to show that the account was opened in Miss Ss name and the 
information American Express sent to her at the time showed this. She had opportunity to 
query this, but she carried out spending on the account. It follows that I dont think it would 
be fair here for American Express to bear that loss. I dont think it was unreasonable to hold 
her liable and seek repayment
I understand that Miss S has now repaid the full amount that she spent using the card.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 November 2020.
 
Karen Wharton
Ombudsman