DRN-4366206
The complaint
Ms S complains that Clearbank Ltd didnt do enough to prevent her losing money to an email
interception scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In 2022 Ms S was the victim of a scam.
Emails between her and her former partner were interfered with. This meant that when she
made a series of payments to return funds she owed, instead of going to her former partner,
they instead went to an account controlled by a scammer.
As a result of the scam, Ms S made five transfers, each for £10,000. They were all sent from
her sole trader ClearBank account and were received in another account, also held with
ClearBank. The first payment was made on 11 August 2022 and the remaining four took
place the following day. When Ms S realised shed been the victim of a scam, she reported
this to ClearBank. Ultimately ClearBank were only able to recover and return around £6 and
said they couldnt provide further redress.
Ms S complained and ClearBank maintained their position with regard to the lost funds. They
did however say there had been some delays in chasing second generation funds on their
part and offered £100 compensation for the impact of this. Ms S referred her complaint to
our service and one of our Investigators recommended it should be upheld. In summary she
thought that ClearBank should have done more in relation to the recipient account and that
this could have prevented £20,190 of Ms S loss. So she recommended that ClearBank pay
this amount to Ms S.
ClearBank accepted this outcome but Ms S didnt. She thinks ClearBank should refund her
entire loss and she asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. In November 2023 I 
issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached a slightly different outcome to that of our Investigator. And so
Im issuing this provisional decision to give everyone a further opportunity to comment before
finalising my decision.
Im sorry to hear Ms S was the victim of a scam in this way. And I can quite understand why
she wants to do all she can to try to recover her funds. But it would only be fair for me to
direct ClearBank to make a payment where they are responsible for errors that otherwise
would have prevented the loss or a part of it.
Ms S has mentioned the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model Code
(CRM Code). This is a voluntary scheme through which victims of Authorised Push Payment
(APP) fraud can sometimes receive redress from the banks involved. But it isnt a relevant
consideration in this complaint because ClearBank havent signed up to the CRM Code and
arent obliged to. I appreciate Ms S is disappointed by this and thinks ClearBank should have
signed up to the code or at least clearly publicised that they havent. But the CRM Code at
the time relevant to the complaint (and at the time of writing) is voluntary. So I cant fairly
criticise ClearBank for not signing up and I dont agree this is something they were obliged to
publicise. Which banks are and arent signed up to the CRM Code is information that is
freely available in the public domain and Im sure its something ClearBank would have
responded truthfully to, if the question had been asked of them.
But just because ClearBank havent signed up to the CRM Code, this doesnt mean they
dont need to take steps to try to prevent fraud, scams and the misappropriation of funds.
Ms S accepts that she instructed the payments relevant to this complaint, albeit having been
tricked into paying a different account. So, Ive gone on to consider whether ClearBank as
Ms S bank ought to have done more than they did before following those instructions. And I
dont think they needed to.
Banks cant be involved in every transaction and clearly there is a balance to be struck
between stopping and checking payments that present an increased risk. So key to this is
whether there was any reason for ClearBank to have intervened on the basis of the
payments being so unusual, suspicious or indicative of potential fraud where they
reasonably should have. The previous statements from Ms S account indicate that it wasnt
unusual for her to make payments broadly similar to those she made as a result of a scam.
Three days prior to the scam Ms S sent two payments each for £10,000 in one day. And
there was another occasion in June 2022 where four payments totalling £35,000 were sent
in a single day. Payments like these (and others like them) mean that I just dont think those
made towards the scam would have stood out to ClearBank as unusual or suspicious. That
type of activity was reasonably common on Ms S account. And the fact that the payments to
the scam would have been to a new beneficiary (when the others Ive referenced likely
werent) doesnt change my mind on this. So I dont think ClearBank reasonably should have
done more before processing the payments in question or that they should have prevented
Ms S loss in this way.
The recipient account was also held with ClearBank. And Ms S complains that they didnt do
enough due diligence before opening that account. She highlights that ClearBank advertise
the ease of opening an account with them which she believes means they werent as diligent
as they should have been. Ive seen evidence of the electronic checks ClearBank conducted
throughout the account opening process. And Ive also seen evidence in the form of a utility
bill they took from their customer for additional proof of address. And overall, I dont think
ClearBank failed when opening the account. There was nothing at that stage that indicated
that the account might later go on to be used in connection with a fraud or a scam.
Ive next considered the activity on the recipient account. Following receipt of Ms S funds,
transfers began to be made from the account. Ive set out the relevant activity in the below
table.
Time (where known) and 
DateAmount Notes
7.08pm 11 August 2022 £10,000 credit Payment arrives from Ms S.
After 7.08pm 11 August 
2022£5,000 debit Outgoing payment to G
After 7.08pm 11 August £4,980 debit Outgoing payment to G2022
5.17pm to 5.19pm 12 
August 20224 payments of £10,000 
CreditIncoming payments from
Ms S
5.26pm 12 August 2022 £5,000 debit Outgoing payment to G
5.32pm 12 August 2022 £4,950 debit Outgoing payment to H
5.33pm 12 August 2022 £4,940 debit Outgoing payment to H
5.34pm 12 August 2022 £4,920 debit Outgoing payment to H
5.36pm 12 August 2022 £4,900 debit Outgoing payment to H
5.37pm 12 August 2022 £4,890 debit Outgoing payment to H
5.38pm 12 August 2022 £4,800 debit Outgoing payment to H
5.40pm 12 August 2022 £5,600 debit Outgoing payment to H
The majority of the initial £10,000 that Ms S sent on 11 August 2022 was transferred out the
same day. I dont think this activity was so unusual given the type of account and its
expected and intended use where Id have expected ClearBank to have done more at the
time.
The following day the four further £10,000 credits arrived. Again, I dont think this on its own
ought to have prompted ClearBank to have blocked the account (something Ill come to in
more detail below). But those funds began to be transferred out, and I think it reached a
point where it was reasonable to expect ClearBank to have intervened. I think that point was
upon the instruction of the payment for £4,900 at 5.36pm. By this stage there were several
payments being made in quick succession. It was following the pattern of the previous day
where funds had arrived and been transferred out and was potentially indicative of fraud.
Given what ClearBank knew about their customer (from information taken at account
opening), it also represented outgoing payments of almost the total anticipated yearly
turnover for that account in just two days.
And I agree with our Investigator that had the account been blocked and a review
undertaken, its likely the scam would have come to light and further funds would have
remained in the account available for recovery. I say this because both accounts were held
with ClearBank and given the sectors of their respective businesses, there isnt an obvious
reason for a connection between them. Further to this, ClearBank easily could have reached
out to Ms S (as she was also their customer) to confirm the purpose of her payments, which
clearly would have uncovered the scam at the time.
At that point, £20,210 of the original £50,000 would have remained available for recovery.
However, as £6.26 was recovered from the funds send to H I think its fair to deduct this from
what ClearBank need to pay. This leaves the amount to be paid as £20,203.74. I also think
8% simple interest should be added to be calculated between 12 August 2022 and the date
of settlement. This is to compensate Ms S for being without those funds for that period of
time.
Ive considered whether there should be a reduction in award in this case due to contributory
negligence on Ms S behalf. And I dont think there should be. It seems Ms S was taken in by
a convincing scam. At the time of instructing the payments, I dont think she either knew or
reasonably ought to have suspected something was wrong and continued despite this.
Ms S has suggested that her incoming payments ought to have been a cause for
intervention by ClearBank. The recipient account was held by a business and it isnt unusual
for such accounts to receive significant sums. That being said ClearBank should be
monitoring their accounts, and in this case the payments received were for more that the
accountholder had anticipated for that particular account (based on the information gathered
at account opening). But I dont think this is something that reasonably should have resultedin ClearBank blocking the account. Given the type of account and that there was nothing
else that I think was concerning or suspicious about the incoming payments, in the
circumstances of this complaint, the most I would have expected is for this to have
potentially flagged for a review. I dont think blocking the account at that stage is something
that reasonably could have been expected. And as I think ClearBank ought to have
intervened as Ive set out above (within 20 minutes of Ms S last credit to the account), I
dont think any review based on the incoming payments should have occurred sooner than
the intervention that I think should have happened due to the account activity.
ClearBank have also confirmed that they hadnt received any other notifications of fraud in
relation to this account prior to Ms S funds being transferred out. So, I dont think there was
an error or missed opportunity to act by ClearBank in this regard.
For completeness, Ive also considered that ClearBank contacted second generation banks
where the funds were sent on to and this is what resulted in the recovery of around £6. So,
Ive gone on to consider whether more could have been recovered, had the scam been
discovered sooner. As Ive set out above, I think ClearBank ought to have intervened at
5.36pm on 12 August 2022. But they still then would have had to have investigated before
they could have reported that the funds that had already been sent on from their customers
account were linked to a scam. As a minimum this would have involved speaking to their
accountholder and potentially also speaking to Ms S as the original sender of the funds. Ive
sought evidence from the business with whom H held their account. And these show that the
payments for £4,950, £4940 and £4,920 which took place between 5.32pm and 5.34pm
were all spent from that account in under five minutes. This clearly would have been
insufficient time for ClearBank to have conducted an investigation. So, I dont think the scam
coming to light sooner would have impacted on what might have been recovered from the
funds sent to H.
I think ClearBank took reasonable steps and chased appropriately for the funds sent to both
G and H. I cant hold ClearBank liable for the actions / communication from the second-
generation banks. ClearBank offered Ms S £100 compensation for any of their delays in the
handling of the matter, and given Im not persuaded this impacted the loss shes suffered, I
think this is a fair way to put things right for any distress and inconvenience caused.
Ms S has also said that she believes ClearBank failed to co-operate with the police. Beyond
her testimony Ive not seen any other evidence that this was the case. But even if it were, it
wouldnt change my mind as to the outcome of this complaint. The evidence she has shared
from the police officer investigating included him managing Ms S expectations about the
likelihood of a successful prosecution, the chances of which he thought were low. So, Id
need to be persuaded that both ClearBank had unreasonably failed to co-operate with the
police and importantly, but for that failure, Ms S would have received money back
(presumably as a result of a suspect being apprehended). Based on the evidence from the
police officer, who said that cases like this sadly often dont result in a successful 
prosecution, I dont think that is the case. If Ms S has further evidence of both the alleged
failure and that this would have made a difference to her loss, Id be happy to consider it if
she supplies it in response to this provisional decision.
My provisional decision
For the reasons outlined above, but subject to any further information I receive from either
Ms S or ClearBank, Im intending to uphold this complaint.
I intend to direct ClearBank Ltd to pay Ms S £20,203.74. 8% simple interest should be addedto this amount to be calculated between 12 August 2022 and the date of settlement. If the
£100 compensation referred to in ClearBanks complaint response hasnt already been paid,
this too should be paid to Ms S.
ClearBank responded to say they accepted my provisional decision. Ms S responded and 
said she still disagreed but had no further points to make. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided any further comments or evidence for my consideration, I see no 
reason to deviate from the outcome explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. ClearBank 
Ltd must pay Ms S £20,203.74. 8% simple interest should be added
to this amount to be calculated between 12 August 2022 and the date of settlement. 
If the £100 compensation referred to in ClearBanks complaint response hasnt already been 
paid, this too should be paid to Ms S.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman