DRN-2266171
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Lloyds Bank PLC (when it was trading as Cheltenham & 
Gloucester) mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Lloyds merged with the business that sold PPI to Mr and Mrs M and it is responsible for 
dealing with this complaint. So to keep things simpler, from now on Ill just refer in my 
decision to Lloyds as the seller.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out their joint mortgage in November 1986  without PPI at that stage. 
They took out PPI in April 1994. This protected their mortgage repayments in the event that 
Mr M couldnt work as a result of accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion.
Mr and Mrs M mainly said that, to the best of their knowledge, Mr M did not take out PPI in 
1994 and theres no reason why he wouldve done so. They dont recall ever being sold this 
PPI. And Mr and Mrs M told us they had other ways to pay the mortgage if Mr M wasnt able 
to work so PPI wasnt something they wouldve ever needed or wanted.
Mr and Mrs M asked for an ombudsman to review their complaint and so it has come to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Neither Lloyds nor Mr and Mrs M could provide any signed paperwork from when the PPI 
was sold. But this isnt surprising given how long ago this sale happened. 
And its completely understandable that Mr and Mrs M dont now recall ever discussing PPI 
or agreeing to take it out. It wouldnt be reasonable to expect them to recall everything that 
happened over 25 years ago. 
So, whilst I'm sure Mr and Mrs M are certain about what theyve told us, what Mr and Mrs M 
say now isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold this complaint. I must look at all 
the available information and decide what I think is most likely.
Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage was a financial commitment that still had a substantial number of 
years to run. Their home couldve been at risk if their mortgage payments werent kept up to 
date. PPI provided dependable protection. And the policy offered them better protection than 
they had otherwise. So, I can see why they mightve felt PPI was useful to have, even if they 
hadnt taken it out previously. 
I cant know precisely what was said when Mr and Mrs M arranged this PPI. 
But I think Mr and Mrs M wouldve known that it was up to them to say if they wanted it 
because their mortgage had already been running for some years without PPI. 
PPI was a new extra cost, separate from their mortgage monthly repayments. In order to 
take out PPI, as well as completing an application to have it, Mr and Mrs M wouldve also 
had to complete an instruction form to their bank to set up the monthly repayments for the 
policy. 
Mr and Mrs M wouldve been able to see when the new payment for PPI appeared on their 
bank statements. So if the PPI hadnt been something they wanted, I think its likely that 
Mr and Mrs M wouldve made enquiries and challenged this at the time. I've seen nothing to 
make me think they did that. 
Its completely understandable that Mr and Mrs M have now forgotten the details of an 
application they made so long ago. But, on balance, I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs M 
decided in 1994 that they wanted to protect their home by taking out PPI and they decided to 
buy the policy to cover Mr M.
Given the lack of paperwork showing how Lloyds sold the PPI to Mr and Mrs M, I think the 
fairest way to look at this complaint is to assess it (as Lloyds has done) on the basis that 
Lloyds recommended PPI to Mr and Mrs M as it imposes extra obligations on the lender. 
Looking at the complaint this way gives Mr and Mrs Ms complaint the best chance of 
success. Thats because if a business makes a recommendation about PPI, it doesnt just 
have to give important policy information in a clear way. It also has to take reasonable steps 
to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable. 
This was a joint mortgage so Ive looked at both their circumstances when the insurance was 
taken out. It looks like PPI wouldve been a suitable recommendation based on what Ive 
seen of Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances at the time. 
I havent seen anything to suggest it was inappropriate that the cover was just in Mr Ms 
name. He was eligible for the PPI policy. 
Mr M told us he was entitled to between 3 and 6 months sick pay.
PPI wouldve covered him for accident or sickness for up to 12 months each time he made a 
successful claim. The policy wouldve paid out an amount that covered Mr and Mrs Ms 
mortgage monthly repayments, plus some extra, on top of any sick pay. This couldve been 
a useful benefit at a difficult time if Mr M needed to claim as he mightve had extra costs if he 
was ill or disabled, particularly as it looks like his employer wouldve stopped paying out any 
sick pay at all after 6 months.  
As well as this, the policy also paid out for up to 12 months per claim in the event Mr M lost 
his job unexpectedly and was out of work. Repeat claims were possible providing Mr and Mrs M with long term protection whilst they 
were paying for their home. So I think PPI offered Mr and Mrs M better cover than they 
wouldve had if theyd just depended on Mr Ms employer.
Ive taken into account that Mr and Mrs M also had quite a substantial investment in stocks 
and shares. But this doesnt affect my decision. Having PPI meant Mr and Mrs M werent at 
risk of being forced to sell any stocks or shares - possibly at a time not of their choosing 
when they couldnt be sure of getting the best price. 
Even allowing for the fact that it looks like Mrs M was working in 1994, the mortgage was 
based on Mr Ms income and I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr and Mrs M wouldve 
easily been able to keep up with the mortgage monthly repayments for long if only Mrs M 
was earning  at least, not without breaking into their long term investments. 
And Mr and Mrs M had already chosen not to pay this money towards their mortgage to 
reduce the cost of their borrowing. So, it looks to me as if Mr and Mrs M probably preferred 
to keep their share portfolio intact as a long term investment  and I can see why, as this 
offered them financial security for the future and meant they could keep that money available 
to spend on other things. This means it looks like having cover in place so Mr and Mrs M 
couldve continued to make their monthly mortgage repayments without having to sell 
investments provided them with a worthwhile benefit. 
I've also taken into account that Mr M was in receipt of a pension in 1994. But looking at the 
amount, I dont think this was enough to mean a PPI recommendation wouldnt have been 
suitable for Mr and Mrs M. If Mr M hadnt been able to work and his main monthly income 
was his pension, I still think PPI couldve been useful if Mr M needed to claim.
Its possible some information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. There were some things the policy didnt cover. Ive taken into account that 
Mr M had a lifelong medical condition. But, although the condition mightve been excluded 
under the policy, it seems Mr Ms condition has never led to him having to take time off work. 
So I think its unlikely that Mr M wouldve expected to claim under the policy for this 
condition. Or that he wouldve been put off taking out the policy because of it. So this 
information doesnt change my decision. And it doesnt look like any of the other policy 
limitations or exclusions wouldve affected Mr M. So I dont think having more information 
about these policy terms wouldve stopped him taking out the PPI.
I dont know how or if the cost of the policy was explained. But, as mentioned earlier, 
Mr and Mrs M wouldve had to set up the monthly repayments for the policy at their bank in 
order to take out this insurance, so they must have been happy to do this at the time. And 
the policy seems to have been affordable for them, so thats not a reason for me to uphold 
their complaint.
Overall, its quite possible there were some failings in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Mr and Mrs M still wouldve decided to buy the policy if theyd been better informed as 
it gave them worthwhile protection in their particular situation. I dont think better information 
wouldve put them off buying PPI given the benefits it offered them.
Looked at overall, it doesnt look to me as if Mr and Mrs M lost out as a result of anything 
Lloyds did wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
In coming to my decision Ive thought carefully about everything that Mr and Mrs M have 
said, including the comments made in response to our adjudicators view. I do appreciate they feel strongly about this complaint and I understand that what Ive said will come as a 
disappointment. But I very much hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done will help 
explain how Ive reached my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman