DRN-3836748
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Vanquis Bank Limited returned a reimbursement from a vendor back 
to the vendor rather than allowing it to be credited to his Vanquis credit account. Mr W is 
also unhappy that Vanquis placed a block on his account because of the disputed 
reimbursement and also with the service hes received from Vanquis surrounding this matter.
What happened
Mr W holds a credit account with Vanquis. In October 2021, he instructed a payment of 
approximately £1,000 into his Vanquis account by means of a transfer from a third-party 
vendor - an online trading platform. The receipt of this money was flagged by Vanquis, as it 
was noted by them that there was no corresponding prior transaction out of the Vanquis 
credit account to the trading platform. This led to Vanquis placing a block on Mr Ws account 
and Vanquis sent a text message and a letter to Mr W as a result.
Mr W contacted Vanquis the following day, having noticed his account was blocked. The 
Vanquis agent Mr W spoke with explained that his account was blocked because Vanquis 
needed to see proof of the legitimacy of the money transferred into the account, including 
proof of ownership of the trading account and a bank statement from whichever third-party 
current account Mr W had originally moved the money into the trading account from.
Mr W provided the requested information to Vanquis, but Vanquis confirmed that theyd 
returned the money to the trading platform and wouldnt accept the money as a credit into 
the Vanquis credit account. Mr W wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Vanquis looked at Mr Ws complaint. They confirmed they werent willing to accept refund 
credits into an account if the original debit to the vendor didnt originate from the Vanquis 
account  which hadnt been the case in this instance. Vanquis therefore didnt feel that 
theyd acted unfairly by applying the block to Mr Ws account that they did, or by returning 
the money to the trading platform. Mr W wasnt satisfied with Vanquiss response, so he 
referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that Vanquis were entitled to not 
accept refund credits unless a corresponding debit had been made from their account, but 
they felt that Vanquis communication to Mr W about this had been unclear and that Mr W 
had been led to believe that Vanquis would accept the money into the account if he could 
provide the proofs hed been asked for. Because of this, our investigator recommended that 
Vanquis should make a payment of £500 to Mr W as compensation for the trouble and upset 
hed incurred because of this unclear communication.
Vanquis werent satisfied with the view of this complaint put forwards by our investigator, so 
the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 7 November 2022 as follows:
Im satisfied that Vanquis are entitled to not accept refund credits into their accounts 
when corresponding prior debits from the account to the reimbursing vendor havent 
taken place.
Mr W may argue that the money in question here wasnt a refund but was instead a 
payment made to his credit account from his online trading platform within which he 
held a credit. But the Vanquis account in question here is a credit account, and not a 
current account, and so Im satisfied that Vanquis were entitled to not accept the 
money from the trading platform and therefore to have returned it, and that if Mr W 
wished to make a payment to his Vanquis credit account he should have transferred 
the money from the trading platform to a current account and made the payment to the 
Vanquis credit account from that current account.
 
Mr W has explained that he wasnt able to transfer the money from the trading platform 
to his current account, and that he therefore instructed the payment of the money from 
the trading platform to his Vanquis current account because it was the only means 
available to him to transfer the money from the trading platform.
 
I can sympathise with Mr Ws position here, but I dont feel that Vanquis should fairly 
be instructed to allow the receipt of the money from the trading platform because of 
this, counter to their own policies. And if Mr W is having problems in transferring money 
from the trading platform to his current account, I feel that this is an issue that Mr W 
would need to resolve with the trading platform and his current account provider 
directly.
 
However, while I dont feel that Vanquis have acted unfairly towards Mr W in how they 
returned the money to the trading platform  I do feel that Vanquis communication to 
Mr W surrounding this wasnt clear, and that Mr W has incurred an unnecessary and 
avoidable degree of trouble and inconvenience as a result. 
 
This is because I feel that Mr W was led to believe that Vanquis would be willing to 
accept the money from the trading platform into the Vanquis account if Mr W provided 
proof of the legitimacy of the money to Vanquis.
 
Vanquis disagree with this conclusion, and feel they made it clear to Mr W that they 
wouldnt accept the money into the account under any circumstances, given that it was 
a refund credit to which no corresponding debit had previously been made to the 
vendor from the Vanquis account. And Vanquis note the letter that was sent to Mr W 
dated 25 October 2021 which stated as follows:
 
We would like to draw your attention to some recent activity on your account. On 
21/10/2021 a refund credit was applied to your account for the value of £1055.36 
however the account shows no corresponding debit transaction to the refunding 
retailer
 
Please note that you should not accept refund credits to your account if your 
original purchase was not made using the account. If further refunds are credited 
to your account without corresponding debit transactions it may result in the 
closure of the account. 
 However, Vanquis also added a note to Mr Ws account on that same day, 25 October 
2021, which read as follows:
 
Account reviewed due to Merchant refund. [Customer] has received a refund 
from [trading platform] on 21/10/21 for £1,055.36 with no corresponding debit 
transaction.
 
[Customer] to provide proof of account ownership, transaction history (trading 
betting), proof of withdrawal, proof of original deposit in the form of a bank 
statement, and reason for the refund occurring to this card
 
Vanquis have explained that the receipt of the money into the account had led to the 
account being blocked, and that this block would only be removed when Mr W provided 
proof of the legitimacy of the money in question. Vanquis have also explained that 
while such proof would be needed to unblock the account, it wouldnt be the case that 
they would be willing to accept the money from the trading platform following the 
provision of such proof.
 
This seems reasonable to me, but I dont feel this position was ever clearly 
communicated by Vanquis to Mr W. And I note that when Mr W telephoned Vanquis 
the following day, on 26 October 2021, he spoke with an agent who referred directly to 
the note Ive quoted above. Ive listened to this call, and the agent doesnt seek to gain 
any further understanding of the situation beyond the note in question and simply 
reads it out verbatim to Mr W. 
 
Because of this, what happens on the telephone call is that its verbally explained to Mr 
W that his account is blocked because of the money being received from the trading 
platform, and that Mr W is then asked to provide the various proofs to confirm the 
legitimacy of the transaction, the implication being that the account will be unblocked 
and the money will be allowed to be received into the account. 
 
I can therefore understand why Mr W would have been under the impression that if he 
provided the proofs that Vanquis asked for that they would accept the receipt of the 
money into the Vanquis account. And importantly, Vanquis agent didnt at any time 
during the call explain to Mr W that it would never be the case that the money wouldnt 
be accepted and that the receipt of the proofs was needed only to allow the unblocking 
of the account. 
 
So, while I can appreciate that Vanquis letter did state Mr W shouldnt accept credits to 
his account unless the original purchase had been made from the account, I feel that 
this message to Mr W was effectively superseded by the verbal communication to Mr 
W by Vanquis agent, which Im satisfied did imply to Mr W that if he provided the 
proofs of legitimacy that Vanquis had asked for, that the money would be accepted into 
the account. 
 
Indeed, I feel that if the system note that the Vanquis agent who spoke with Mr W 
referred to had been more explicit, or if that agent had taken the time to better 
understand the situation so that it could be explained more clearly to Mr W, then Mr W 
wouldnt in all likelihood have been given the false expectation that he was given here 
or incurred the inconvenience and frustration that stemmed from it.    
 
Our investigator reached a similar conclusion to that which Ive reached myself, and 
they recommended that Vanquis should make a payment of £500 to Mr W as 
compensation for the trouble and upset he incurred. 
 I also feel that Vanquis should fairly compensate Mr W for the unclear communication 
they issued to him here. But I feel that £500 is a disproportionately high amount to 
instruct Vanquis to pay in these circumstances, and as such Ill be instructing Vanquis 
to pay a lower compensation amount of £250, which I feel is a fairer amount of 
compensation here, given the circumstances of this complaint.
 
In arriving at this lower amount, Ive taken into consideration the amount of trouble and 
inconvenience that Mr W has incurred here solely as a consequence of the unclear 
information he was provided with, including that I feel it was reasonable for Vanquis to 
request that information before removing the block on the account, and that I feel its 
reasonable for Vanquis to feel the information that Mr W has so far provided to them 
doesnt fulfil the criteria required by them to allow the account to be unblocked. 
 
Id therefore encourage Mr W to liaise with Vanquis and provide the information 
needed by them to allow the unblocking of his account. Im also aware that Mr W is 
concerned that the trading platform hasnt received the returned money from Vanquis, 
and so Id encourage Vanquis to work with Mr W to help him assist the trading platform 
locate the returned funds. Finally, Im aware that Mr W made a second transfer to the 
Vanquis account from the trading platform, and I can confirm that my general position 
as outlined above here applies to that second transfer also.
Both Mr W and Vanquis raised several points of concern about my provisional decision, and 
which led to me issuing an updated provisional decision on 15 November 2022 as follows:
Vanquis began by explaining that I had misunderstood an important element of their 
position. They clarified that, in instances such as this, where a payment is received 
onto the account without a prior corresponding debit being present, it isnt the case 
that they wont accept that credit onto the account. Vanquis also explained that the 
when such a payment is received, the account is blocked to prevent the payment 
balance from being used as new available credit before the checks required by 
Vanquis as to the origin and legitimacy of the payment into the account have been 
confirmed.
 
This means that if Mr W had been able to provide the documents that Vanquis 
requested from him, as described in the provisional decision above, then it may have 
been that case that Vanquis would have accepted the payment as a credit to the 
account. 
 
Vanquis have also confirmed that the documents that Mr W did later provide didnt 
meet their requirements and didnt cover the full suite of information that they 
requested from him. This meant that the account remained blocked, although at that 
time the payment from the trading platform remained on the account.  
 
However, a few months later, with the account still blocked as per the above, and 
with the payment from the trading platform still on the account, Vanquis undertook a 
review of the trading platform and made the decision to return all outstanding 
unverified payments to all their account holders from that platform  which at that 
time included Mr Ws payment  back to the trading platform.
 
Id like to apologise to Mr W and Vanquis for my misunderstanding of Vanquis 
position here, and Id like to thank Vanquis for providing the clarification that they did.
Accordingly, Ive reconsidered this complaint in light of the clarifying information 
provided by Vanquis, both in regard to whether I feel Vanquis acted unfairly in 
returning the funds to the trading platform and in regard to whether Vanquiss 
communication with Mr W about this matter was fair.  
In the first regard, I feel that it was fair for Vanquis to have required proof of the 
legitimacy of the payment and to have blocked Mr Ws account until such proof was 
received. Im aware that Mr W feel that he provided sufficient proof of the payments 
legitimacy to Vanquis, even though what he provided didnt cover the full suite of 
information that Vanquis required. However, I feel that its for Vanquis, as the 
account provider, to dictate what information they require in order for them to be 
satisfied as the legitimacy of the payment, and accordingly I dont feel that Vanquis 
acted unfairly by continuing to maintain the block on the account while Mr W 
remained unable to provide the full suite of information they requested from him.
 
Additionally, Im also satisfied that it was reasonable for Vanquis to take the decision 
to return the funds to the trading platform following their review of the trading platform 
having developed concerns about it. 
 
Im aware that Mr W feels that Vanquis shouldnt have returned the funds to the 
trading platform, but that they should have forwarded the money onto his current 
account as he asked them to do. But given that Vanquis had developed concerns 
about the trading platform, and given that their decision to return unverified payments 
from the trading platform back to the trading platform was applied to all their account 
holders, and not just to Mr W, I dont feel that it was unfair or unreasonable for 
Vanquis to apply the action that they were taking universally to Mr Ws account.
 
Mr W has reiterated the problems hes having with the trading platform and has 
expressed particular concern with the lack of help hes received from Vanquis in 
helping him locate the money that was returned to the trading platform by Vanquis, 
but which the trading platform denies was ever received by them.
 
I can appreciate Mr Ws concerns here. But Im satisfied that the money has been 
returned by Vanquis to the trading platform, and as such the present location of the 
funds would appear to be an issue between the Mr W and the trading platform. As 
such, I can only confirm what I expressed in my provisional decision letter, which is 
that I encourage Vanquis to work with Mr W to help locate those funds. However, 
once Vanquis have provided Mr W with the evidence of the return of funds to the 
trading platform, it seems unclear to me what further action Vanquis can take, given 
that the funds would then need to be located by the trading platform itself and given 
that Vanquis are no longer accepting payments from that trading platform.
 
Mr W has also stated that Vanquis should be considered as being responsible for the 
loss of his funds and should compensate him accordingly. I dont share Mr Ws 
position here, and instead I feel that Vanquis were acting fairly by returning the funds 
to the trading platform as previously described, and I feel that Vanquis gave Mr W 
ample opportunity to meet their requirements to confirm the legitimacy of the 
payment such that it might have been allowed to be credited to the account and the 
account unblocked.
 
However, while I remain satisfied, following Vanquis clarification of their position, that 
Vanquis havent acted unfairly towards Mr W either in how they blocked the account 
or later returned the money to the trading platform, my updated understanding of 
Vanquiss position has led me to change my position in regard to Vanquis 
communication with Mr W about this ongoing matter.
 
This is because Id provisionally upheld this complaint on the basis that I though 
Vanquis had provided misleading information to Mr W, and has asked him to provide information to verify the legitimacy of the payment when Vanquis had no intention of 
ever allowing the payment to remain on the account. 
 
I now realise that my understanding of Vanquis position here was incorrect, and that 
in fact, if Mr W had been able to provide the full suite of information required by 
Vanquis to confirm the legitimacy of the payment, that it was likely the case that 
Vanquis would have allowed the payment to remain credited to the account and 
would have unblocked the account so that Mr W could resume using it.
 
As such, the reason for my provisionally upholding this aspect of this complaint is no 
longer valid. And having re-reviewed the communication between Mr W and Vanquis, 
I dont now feel that Vanquis did provide Mr W with misleading information as I felt 
previously was the case, on the basis of my earlier misunderstanding of Vanquis 
position.  
 
Mr W has explained that he has dyslexia, which impacted his ability to obtain the 
information that Vanquis were requiring from him. I can appreciate how this may 
have made it difficult for Mr W to have gathered the information that Vanquis were 
asking him for. But I dont feel that this means that Vanquis should have been 
expected to accept the payment from the trading platform without receiving 
satisfactory confirmation that the payment was legitimate.
 
All of which means that my overall position on this complaint has now changed and 
that I now will not be upholding this complaint. 
Mr W stated that he was unhappy with my updated provisional decision and asked how it 
can be fair that Vanquis returned the funds to the trading platform when Vanquis themselves 
had concerns about it. 
I can appreciate Mr Ws position here, but I can only reiterate that Vanquis did give Mr W 
ample opportunity to provide the information they required to enable the payment in question 
to be verified. And it was only because Mr W didnt provide that information within a 
reasonable timeframe that the payment remained unverified when Vanquis made the 
commercial decision to return all unverified payments to the trading platform that they did. 
Ive asked Vanquis for further information about the concerns that they held about the 
trading platform, and Im satisfied from Vanquis explanation that it was reasonable for 
Vanquis to have held the concerns that they did. Additionally, Im also satisfied that because 
of the nature of those concerns it was reasonable for Vanquis to have made the decision to 
have returned all the unverified payments it held for the trading platform, across all Vanquis 
customers, back to the trading platform.
I realise this wont be the outcome that Mr W was wanting here, but it follows from the above 
that it remains my position that Vanquis didnt do anything wrong here, and as such my final 
decision will be that I am not upholding this complaint. I hope that Mr W will be able to 
recover his money from the trading platform via other means, and that hell understand, 
given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman