DRN-4267492
The complaint
Mr K has complained Santander UK plc wont refund money for a card transaction abroad 
that he didnt make.
What happened
Mr K was overseas on holiday in October 2022. He logged into his Santander account using 
the phone app and noticed a transaction he didnt recognise. He asked Santander to refund 
the money involved as hed not authorised the transaction.
Santander confirmed the payment was authorised using Mr Ks genuine card and PIN. As 
there was no evidence of any compromise of Mr Ks card, they werent going to refund him.
Mr K brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence, including what Mr K said hed been doing at the time 
of the disputed transaction. However in light of Mr Ks genuine card and PIN being used to 
make this payment, she felt it was most likely Mr K had authorised this.
Disappointed in this outcome, Mr K has asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint. He 
also provided timed photographs which he believed showed he couldnt have made the 
transaction.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Mr Ks complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks and financial institutions to refund 
customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. Other factors do apply but 
nothing else specific in Mr Ks case.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what Santander and Mr K have told us. I can reassure Mr K Ive also reviewed the photos 
and maps hes provided to our service.
Overall I believe the evidence shows Mr K authorised the disputed transaction. I say this 
because:
The evidence from Santander shows Mr Ks genuine card and PIN were used to 
authenticate the disputed card transaction.
Mr K says it was most likely he had his card with him when he was out on a boat trip 
but cant be certain. Ive considered Mr Ks photographic evidence which he believes 
meant he was unable to make the card payment himself. The photos are timed at 
15:20 on 10 October. As his phone would reflect local time Im satisfied this doesnt 
match the time of the card payment. I should state that even if Mr Ks phone time 
remained set at GMT this doesnt reflect the card transaction timing. This was 21:20 
on 10 October GMT.
Mr K had used his card three times to withdraw cash from cash machines overseas. 
However the most recent use of his card had been more than 24 hours before this 
disputed transaction. I can see no way an unknown person could have retained 
knowledge of Mr Ks PIN to use it at a much later time, nor is there any evidence how 
they could have located Mr Ks card and then replaced it. At the time Mr K noticed 
the disputed transaction, his card was in his possession.
I am always wary that just because theres no obvious point of compromise, that would 
mean the cardholder must have made the payment. However, based on the evidence here, I 
believe its most likely Mr K authorised the card payment. I wont be asking Santander to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ks complaint against Santander 
UK plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman