DRN-3656534
Complaint
Ms M is unhappy that Santander UK Bank Plc (Santander) closed her account and then 
registered a fraud prevention marker against her.
Background
In November 2021, a transfer of £4,500.00 to Ms Ms account was attempted. The transfer 
was blocked by the sending bank and a second, also unsuccessful, attempt was made later 
the same day. 
Santander subsequently received notification from the third-party bank, responsible for 
blocking the attempted transfer to Ms Ms account, stating that its customer had reported 
being the victim of attempted fraud. As a result of this notification, Santander reviewed        
Ms Ms account and its investigation led it to decide to close the account and record a fraud 
prevention marker.
Ms M was unhappy and complained. Santander looked at Ms Ms complaint and didnt 
uphold it. As Ms M remained dissatisfied she referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Ms Ms concerns. She thought that Santander shouldnt 
have recorded the fraud marker and needed to remove it. Santander disagreed and so the 
complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My provisional decision of 8 August 2022
I issued a provisional decision  on 8 August 2022 - setting out why I wasnt intending to 
uphold Ms Ms complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a 
summary of my findings. 
I started by explaining that the marker that Santander filed is intended to record that there 
had been a misuse of facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In 
order to file such a marker, Santander wasnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt 
that Ms M was guilty of fraud or a financial crime, but it had to show that there are grounds 
for more than mere suspicion or concern. The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this meant in practice was that Santander had to first be able to show that fraudulent 
funds entered Ms Ms account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. 
Secondly, Santander also needed to have strong evidence to show that Ms M was 
deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an 
illegitimate payment. This could include Ms M allowing someone else to use her account in 
order to receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against 
someone who was unwitting; there had to be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, a bank had to carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This would include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
Having set that out, I then went on to explain that in order to determine Ms Ms complaint, I 
needed to decide whether I thought Santander had enough evidence to show that an 
attempt was made to transfer fraudulent funds to Ms Ms account and that her actions 
suggested she was complicit in this. I proceeded to consider whether this was the case. 
I started this part of my provisional decision by explaining that when the payment to Ms Ms 
account was attempted, Ms Ms name, correct sort code and account number were used. 
Given all of this information matched, I thought that it was unlikely these transfers were 
attempted as a result of an error in entering the account details or sort code. So I was 
satisfied that there were deliberate attempts to transfer fraudulently obtained funds to Ms Ms 
account in November 2021. 
Ms M said that she had no knowledge of the payment or why it was attempted. She also said 
that she had no unhappy clients who might have made a claim out of spite and hadnt 
agreed to accept funds on behalf of someone else. Most crucially Ms M said she hadnt 
supplied her account details elsewhere and didnt know how her details came to be known 
by someone else.
I thought about what Ms M had said. But given Ms Ms correct details were used and she 
had no plausible explanation for how these might have been obtained, it was difficult for me 
to accept that this happened without her co-operation. Furthermore, it would have been 
somewhat odd for an opportunistic fraudster to arrange for a transfer of fraudulent funds to 
someone elses account when theyd subsequently have no control or access to those funds 
afterwards. 
All of this meant that I couldnt reasonably conclude that Ms M was an unwitting participant 
in this matter. Instead, I thought that the available evidence suggested that it was more likely 
than not Ms M was complicit in the attempt to transfer fraudulent funds to her account. 
Having considered everything, I was satisfied that Santander did have sufficient evidence to 
show that there was an attempt to transfer fraudulent funds to Ms Ms account. And it was 
also reasonably entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not that Ms M was complicit 
in this. As this was the case, I stated my intention to issue a final decision which found that it 
wasnt unfair for Santander to record a fraud prevention marker in the circumstances that it 
did. 
I then turned to the closure of Ms Ms account. I explained that the terms and conditions of 
Ms Ms account permitted Santander to close it without notice where it was used in any way 
to give rise to reasonable suspicion of fraud or other criminal activities. 
I had already explained why I thought that Santander was reasonably entitled to conclude 
that there was an attempt to use Ms Ms account for fraudulent purposes when explaining 
why I was minded to conclude that it didnt act unfairly in recording the fraud prevention 
marker. As this was the case, I was also minded to conclude that, for much the same 
reasons, the terms and conditions permitted Santander to close Ms Ms account. So overall and having considered everything, this left me intending to issue a final decision 
which found that Santander didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Ms M and therefore I 
wasnt intending to uphold the complaint. 
Santanders response to my provisional decision
Santander didnt respond to my provisional decision or ask for any additional time to do so.
Ms Ms response to my provisional decision
Ms M initially responded confirming that she didnt agree with my provisional decision and in 
summary she said:
she doesnt believe that Santander has met the high threshold for recording a 
marker.
it wouldnt make sense for her to make a formal complaint in circumstances where 
she was involved in fraud.
without being provided with the identity of the person who told their bank theyd been 
a victim of fraud it is difficult for her to defend herself, other than to say that she has 
no idea why anyone would attempt to send her £4,500.00 unprompted.
all she can think of as a possible explanation is that someone who was paying her for 
makeup services accidentally entered £4,500.00 instead of £45.00 as this was the 
amount that she was charging to do someones make up. It is reasonable that this 
possibility is investigated and considered as part of my final decision.
she has received payments from clients by direct bank transfer for a number of years 
and all of these clients have had her bank details.
an objective assessment based on all of the evidence shows that Santander did not 
and still has not met the threshold for recording a fraud marker.  
As a result of Ms Ms further comments, I asked our adjudicator to contact Ms M to ask her 
for further clarification about any payments she may have received in or around November 
2021. During this call Ms M confirmed:
she used a third-party booking system to mange her clients and their payments. The 
company operating the booking system retained a percentage of any payments her 
clients made so a £45.00 payment wouldnt show on her account statements.
any clients would carry out a bank transfer, or pay in cash, before leaving her 
premises in the event they made a booking outside of the booking application 
normally used.
She doesnt have a client who still has to make an outstanding payment of £45.00.Although I have only summarised Ms Ms responses, Id like to confirm that Ive fully 
considered everything shes said and all of the supporting information shes provided.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered Ms Ms points, the evidence shes provided and Ive also listened to 
a recording of the phone call she had with our adjudicator.
I want to start by saying that Ive reviewed the evidence Santander has provided to support 
that a customer of another bank had reported an attempted fraud. I want to assure Ms M that 
the information Santander received was more than just a tick in a box. A third-party bank 
provided a notification stating that its customer had reported attempted fraudulent activity on 
their account. And that a transfer for £4,500.00 had been attempted, on two occasions, using 
Ms M name, sort code and account number. Im satisfied that this was enough for Santander 
to be concerned and that it was required to investigate the matter.
I appreciate that Ms M believes that Santander didnt properly explain the position and what 
was going on. But Santander did ask Ms M whether she was expecting any payments. And 
Ms M completed complaint form to us does refer to an attempted transfer for £4,500.00 
being responsible for the issues she went on to have with her account. So I am satisfied that 
Santander did attempt to carry out an investigation before recording a fraud marker  albeit it 
may not have said that it had recorded a fraud marker.
I now turn to Ms Ms potential explanation for the attempted payment and how and why 
another party might have had her account details. Ive looked through Ms Ms statements 
and have tried very hard to give her the benefit of the doubt here. But the fact remains that I 
cant see any payments for £45.00 in the lead up to November 2021  indeed the last 
payment for this amount was more than a year before this in October 2020. 
I appreciate that Ms M was using a booking application but again this doesnt explain why 
Ms M would have received a payment in error. I say this while especially mindful that Ms M 
said her clients tended to pay on site and most crucially that she didnt have any clients who 
still owed her £45.00, which I would have expected to be the case if £4,500.00 had been 
keyed instead of £45.00 and the payment was then stopped because of this.  
I also have to keep  in mind that Ms Ms correct details were used for the attempted 
payment. And as I explained in my provisional decision, it would be somewhat odd for an 
opportunistic fraudster to arrange for a transfer of fraudulent funds to someone elses 
account when theyd subsequently have no control or access to those funds afterwards.
Ms M has asked me to look at the totality of the evidence. Id like to assure her that that is 
exactly what Ive done. And having done so, Im afraid that I cant reasonably conclude that it 
was unfair for Santander to reach the conclusion that Ms M was complicit in the attempted 
fraud involving her account. So overall and having considered everything including the further arguments and supporting 
evidence provided in response to my provisional decision, I dont think that Santander acted 
unfairly or unreasonably towards Ms M. And Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate 
this will be incredibly disappointing for Ms M - especially given the impact shes said the 
fraud marker is having on her. But I hope that she will understand the reasons for my 
decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to. 
Furthermore, Ms M might find that shes able to open an account with another bank as long 
as she applies for a Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or any such 
equivalent.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision of 8 August 2022, Im 
not upholding Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman