DRN-4028140
The complaint
Mrs W has complained to St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc (SJPWM), on Mr Ws
behalf, that his pension fund was inappropriately invested in stocks and shares when it was
their understanding that it should have been invested in cash pending the conclusion of
Brexit.
Mr W felt that he had no choice but to withdraw the entirety of his pension funds in March
2020 due to the significant falls in financial markets due to the pandemic. He then needed to
pay a significant amount of income tax on that withdrawal.
What happened
Mr W had a financial adviser, who Ill call Mr A, who had been a representative of a
previous firm, which Ill call Firm A. Mr W had been a customer of Firm A through his
relationship with Mr A, but when Mr A moved to SJPWM on 27 February 2020, Mr W
followed him as a client.
SJPWM was unable to service the pension policy - which Mr W held with Aegon - and so the
servicing transferred to a different firm, which Ill call Firm B. But Mr A wasnt a
representative of that separate firm  rather, he was a representative of SJPWM. So Mr A
remained Mr Ws financial adviser, but as a representative of SJPWM.
Mr W has also complained about Firm A, and in a previous determination by this service,
has received compensation for what was considered to be its error in having moved Mr W
from cash into a more stocks and shares based pension fund in July 2019. This liability was
capped as at 27 February 2020  the point at which Mr W was no longer a client of Firm A
and became a client of both SJPWM and Firm B.
My understanding is that Mrs W contacted Mr A on 7 February 2020 saying that shed
thought Mr W had been invested in cash. Mr A emailed Mr and Mrs W on 28 February 2020,
saying that it was his advice to not switch out of the existing funds as history had
demonstrated that markets had always done well over the longer term.
A series of text messages were exchanged on 8 March 2020 between Mrs W and Mr A, in
which Mr A indicated that neither she nor Mr W needed to worry as, if there had been a
mistake, then he would put it right for them.
A meeting then took place on 9 March 2020 between Mr and Mrs W and Mr A, following
which Mrs W sent an email to Firm A saying that they needed to switch their funds back into
cash as soon as possible.
Firm B then spoke to Mr A on the same day, advising him that their process for a
fund switch would involve an adviser completing a full formal advice process with Mr W, and
that this could take four to six weeks.
Mr A advised Mr and Mrs W that the quicker route would be to cancel Mr Ws servicing
agreement with both Mr A and Firm B, and Mr W could then carry out the fund
switch into cash directly with Aegon. This could be achieved in a matter of days.
Further emails were exchanged between Mr and Mrs W and Mr A on 10 March 2020, after
which Mrs W raised the complaint against both Firm B and SJPWM. Firm B replied to say
that they would ask to be removed as the servicing agent, but that it was its understanding
that Mr A was dealing with the complaint.
Firm B said that it couldnt remove Mr A as the representative of Mr Ws pension plan, but
that it would take five working days for Firm B to be removed as the servicing agent. Mr and
Mrs W asked whether this could be actioned quicker, and Firm B then said that it had
removed itself as the servicing agent and had informed Aegon of this.
It also confirmed that this wouldnt affect how the pension plan was held with Aegon and
that, once Mr A had also been removed, Mr and Mrs W would be able to request that Aegon
carry out their instructions directly.
In its response to the complaint, SJPWM said that Mr A was only able to recommend and
advise on products and services which it authorised  and the Aegon plan didnt fall into that
category. It added that, to enable Mr A to continue to provide information about the Aegon
plan, the servicing of the policy was provided by Firm B.
It said that it had, however, made enquires of Mr A regarding the matter, and had
ascertained that he had indicated to Mr W that it would be appropriate for Mr W to remain in
his current pension fund in order to ride out any short term volatility.
SJPWM noted that Mr W nevertheless wished to move back into cash and that Mr A
informed him as to how this could be achieved.
But it didnt think that it could be held responsible for Mr Ws subsequent decision to fully
encash his pension, with the associated tax liability which was incurred. It said that the
decision to switch to cash and then fully encash the pension was done directly with Aegon
and that SJPWM provided no advice on this.
Dissatisfied with the response, Mr and Mrs W referred the matter to this service. One of our
investigators considered the matter, but didnt think the complaint should be upheld, saying
the following in summary:
Mr As position that Mr W should remain invested as he was, without moving into
cash, was supported by wider industry sentiment around markets riding out short
term volatility.
The adviser wouldnt have had the opportunity to assess whether Mr Ws
circumstances and objectives had changed when he moved to SJPWM, and so
any recommendation to switch funds would have been premature.
SJPWM couldnt fairly be held responsible for Mr Ws decision to encash his
pension fund. Mr A had provided information relating to the manner in which Mr W
could move back into cash, but hadnt advised him to encash his policy.
Mr As actions as an SJPWM representative hadnt caused Mr W a loss  the fund
within which Mr W had been invested had increased in value from 28 February
2020, when Mr A recommended that Mr W remain invested in it, up to the present
date.
Had Mr W followed Mr As advice to remain in that fund, he wouldnt haveexperienced the losses in his pension.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed, however, saying that they had tried not to rush the adviser in
February 2020, as he had recently had an operation. But they supplied text messages
relating to conversations which were ongoing at that time, and related to fees and Mr Ws
pension not being invested in cash, along with advice for Mr W not to make any changes to
his pension fund.
As agreement couldnt be reached on the matter, it was referred to me for review.
I issued a provisional decision on the matter on 9 January 2023, in which I set out my
reasons as to why I thought the complaint should be upheld. The following is an extract from
that decision.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
SJPWM has said that, as its authorised representative, Mr A was only able to advise on
products authorised and endorsed by SJPWM  and that the Aegon plan didnt fall into that
category. But Mr A was nevertheless not a representative of Firm B, and on the basis of the
available evidence, he was providing what I think could reasonably be called an advisory
service - rather than simply providing information about the plan (as evidenced by the email
of 28 February 2020 and other text messages recommending that Mr W not transfer into
cash) - whilst an authorised representative of SJPWM.
But even if Mr A was simply providing information about the plan, he was nevertheless an
appointed representative of SJPWM  and so any errors in Mr A conveying that information
(which might have been provided by Firm B) would in my view remain SJPWMs
responsibility. Had the information itself been incorrect, then I agree that this would be the
responsibility of Firm B.
The situation here is that Mr Ws pension shouldnt have been transferred out of the cash
fund. This position has been established by the ombudsman who decided the case against
Firm A. But before this position could be rectified, Mr A became an appointed representative
of SJPWM.
I think it ought to have been reasonably clear to Mr A from the contact made by Mr and Mrs
W with him before he moved to SJPWM, for example that in early February 2020, that they
were concerned that Mr Ws pension fund had been moved out of cash. And I think this
needed to be corrected. This hadnt happened by the time Mr A became a representative of
SJPWM, and the liability against Firm A arising from this  as determined by the previous
ombudsman - ran until the transfer of Mr W as a client to both Firm B and SJPWM. At this
point, as Mr A became a representative of SJPWM rather than Firm B, the responsibility for
ensuring that the position was corrected became, in my view, SJPWMs.
In other circumstances, where a disadvantageous position has effectively transferred with a
client from one business to another, I might reasonably deem there to be a grace period in
which a new adviser would be able to assess the clients position, and then take any
necessary corrective action. But I think the position is different here. There was an ongoing
issue with Mr Ws funds having been removed from cash, of which Mr A was clearly aware
when hed been a representative of Firm A, and which I think should have been corrected as
soon as possible. Mr A was clearly aware that there was a problem which needed to be
rectified, as evidenced by the comments relating to putting things right for Mr W.
The situation was complicated by the transfer of the servicing of the Aegon policy to Firm B,but rather than continue to advise that Mr W remain outside of cash on 28 February 2020,
my view is that the information which eventually enabled Mr W to move back into cash, and
which was provided to him, as far as I can tell, on 9 March 2020, should have been provided
by Mr A, as a representative of SJPWM, on 28 February 2020.
This would have then brought forward the process of Mr W moving his pension funds back
into cash and may have mitigated his subsequent losses caused by this not  as hed
previously thought - being the case.
Putting things right
My view is that, to place Mr W as closely as possible into the position he would otherwise be,
St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc should calculate the value of Mr Ws policy when
he fully encashed the policy, had he switched into cash nine days earlier than he did.
If the value of Mr Ws policy would have been higher, then this should be paid to him, with a
notional deduction for the tax which he would have paid on that higher amount, but with the
addition after that on the net amount he would have received of 8% pa simple interest from
the date that Mr W received his encashed funds up to the date of settlement.
In response, Mrs W queried how the redress calculation would be conducted, as she said
that the adviser had reassured her and Mr W that he would put them back into the financial
position they would otherwise have been in. Mr W had received around £74,000 from his
pension, on which he paid tax of around £30,000. But this should have been in the region of
£89,000, Mrs W said.
SJPWM responded to say that, as its appointed representative, Mr W was only able to
recommend products and services which it had authorised and endorsed. And the Aegon
product didnt fall into that category, it said.
This services position, in that a firm such as SJPWM could only be held responsible for the
authorised actions of one of its representatives, was well established in previous decisions
issued on other cases, it added. As the adviser wasnt authorised by SJPWM to give advice
on the Aegon plan, it didnt consider that the complaint could be upheld against it, it
concluded.
I then issued a further provisional decision on 27 February 2023, in which I said the 
following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And whilst my conclusions on what should have happened here remain the same, I have to
take into account what SJPWM has said about the scope of the advisers advice in this
matter.
And whilst I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs W, if the adviser wasnt authorised to
provide advice on the Aegon plan, and no other advice was provided on a product which
was authorised by SJPWM at the same time  as I understand was the case here  then I
must reasonably conclude that any actions on behalf of the individual adviser fell outside of
the scope of activity as authorised by SJPWM.
As such, and again, whilst I know that this will dismay Mr and Mrs W, I dont now think that
the complaint against SJPWM can succeed.In response, Mrs W commented further on the advisers actions when they were a 
representative of the previous business, and reiterated that they had promised to put Mr W 
back into the position he would have been but for the unsuitable investment. She further said 
that SJPWM would have been responsible for the advisers actions as soon as he entered 
the contract of employment with it.
Mrs W further set out what she considered to have been the advisers actions since January 
2019, and referred to the call she and Mr W had with Aegon on 6 March 2020, in which they 
learned more about the situation with Mr ws pension pot.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand how strongly Mr and Mrs W feel about this matter, and as I said in my previous 
decision, I do think the adviser should have acted differently and, had they done so, Mr Ws 
pension funds would have been switched into cash nine days earlier than they were. Had 
this happened, the pension pot which Mr W then accessed in full may have been higher.
But although Ive noted everything Mr and Mrs W have said in response to my last decision, 
and particularly with regard to the adviser becoming a representative of SJPWM at the end 
of February 2020 and it therefore being responsible for his actions, this doesnt alter the fact 
that the adviser was only able to give advice on products which had been authorised by 
SJPWM  and this didnt include the Aegon plan.
I know this will seem to Mr and Mrs W to be hard to accept, but as the adviser wasnt 
advising upon a product which had been authorised by SJPWM, and there was no 
connected advice which related to a product which was authorised by SJPWM, I cant hold it 
responsible for that advisers actions relating to the Aegon plan.
And so, for the reasons given, I cant fairly or reasonably ask SJPWM to take any corrective 
action here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman