DRN-2238168
The complaint
Mrs W complains, represented by her son, that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has not 
added bonuses to her with-profits policy since 2003. Furthermore, the final bonus was also 
reduced by nearly half compared to what theyd been told before.
What happened
Mr W complained on Mrs Ws behalf to Aviva about a number of issues in relation to the 
with-profits fund. 
Mr W has explained that since 2003 a bonus hasnt been paid, yet before this in all but a few 
years, bonuses were paid regularly. This led to Mrs W expecting a bonus every year and  
therefore in no longer paying bonuses Aviva had failed to meet Policyholders Reasonable 
Expectations (PRE).
Mr W also said that Aviva in this time had paid bonuses to other policyholders who didnt 
have a Guaranteed Annuity Rate (GAR) (Mrs Ws policy did have a GAR). He felt this was 
discriminatory and an unfair practice.
Furthermore, Mr W says they were led to believe that a final bonus of £2,876 would be paid 
but in actual fact Mrs W only received approximately half of this figure.
Our investigator looked into matters but didnt think Aviva had done anything wrong. She 
explained the bonuses were discretionary and not guaranteed, and Aviva had been clear 
about this on statements issued to Mrs W. 
The investigator also pointed out that Mrs Ws policy had grown in value over time and she 
concluded that Aviva didnt need to do anything to put things right.
Mr W didnt accept this and asked for a final decision. He said the investigator hadnt 
answered his PRE point. And Aviva didnt appear to have run the with-profits policy in line 
with its smoothing mechanism. He said by adding no bonuses since 2003 it was essentially 
being run as a non-profit fund.
He also said the investigator had not addressed the point of unequal treatment between 
different groups of policyholders invested within the same with-profits fund. Mr W likened this 
to the Equitable Life court case.
Our investigator responded to say the bonuses are discretionary and Aviva had made this 
clear, so she didnt think Aviva had anything to answer in terms of PRE. She also said all the 
policies like Mrs Ws (Retirement Annuity Contracts) had a GAR, so Aviva wasnt treating 
GAR holders and non-GAR holders differently within the fund.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I wont be upholding this complaint. There isnt much that I can usefully 
add that hasnt already been explained by our investigator (and Aviva in its correspondence 
with Mr W).
It should be noted and as the investigator pointed out, whilst bonuses havent been added 
since 2003, this doesnt mean Mrs W hasnt benefitted from her investment within the With-
Profits fund. Aviva has explained that even without the final bonus, Mrs Ws policy has grown 
at 4.6% per annum since 2003 when Aviva stopped adding bonuses. So I dont agree that 
Mrs Ws fund is akin to a non-profit fund. 
Aviva has been clear in that the bonuses it applies are discretionary and not guaranteed. I 
dont agree with Mr W that by paying bonuses in prior years, Aviva set an expectation that it 
is required to meet  to continue to pay bonuses every year.
The situation here with Aviva not paying bonuses is not unusual across the marketplace. 
The reasons for this go back some years. In the late 80s and 90s, bonuses were applied 
regularly and generally customers were happy with this. But shortly after the turn of the 
millennium, annual bonuses dropped significantly  often to zero. This was due to many 
factors, including a stock market decline and life expectancy increasing at a faster rate than 
insurers had allowed for when theyd set the level of existing guarantees. This typically led to 
lower growth and restricted the freedom insurers had to add further annual bonuses. Many 
insurers instead decided to pass on a consumers fair share of the assets in the fund by 
adding a final bonus.
Consumers were generally happy with the amount of discretion the insurer had when 
bonuses were being paid; but when there were low (or no) bonuses, more scrutiny came on 
the running of with-profit funds. 
The regulator recognised this and now requires policy providers to have and publish a 
document called Principles and Practices of Financial Management (PPFM) which explains 
how it manages its with-profits funds including the nature and extent of decisions it takes to 
manage the fund. And how it applies discretion to treat customers fairly. Among other things, 
the PPFM sets out how policy values are calculated.
Mr W questions whether Aviva are treating customers fairly, particularly as he believes Aviva 
is paying bonuses to those without GARs at the expense of those with GARS. As Aviva has 
explained different bonus rates will apply to different types of policies and investment 
histories. This is normal. These policies will have built up different guarantees and some will 
have bonuses added to them and some not.  And in any event Aviva has explained that all 
those with the same product as Mrs W have a GAR, so I dont think Aviva has done anything 
wrong here.
More generally the application or otherwise of any bonus is a commercial decision for the 
product provider. We deal with individual complaints. A commercial decision made by a 
financial business may have wider implications and affect how the business operates and 
groups of customers or policyholders more generally. We wont usually interfere in that sort 
of commercial decision. 
I understand it can be difficult for policyholders to satisfy themselves that they are receiving 
what they are entitled to under the terms of their policies, including whether any final bonus 
has been calculated correctly. The industry regulator, previously the Financial Services 
Authority (FSA) and now the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), recognises that firms have 
a considerable amount of discretion about how they operate their with-profits funds. 
The regulators Principle 6 requires that firms must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly. And the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) 2 gives specific and detailed rules and guidance for firms on the operation of their with-profits funds, 
including the following (see 20.2.1G): (1) With-profits business, by virtue of its nature and 
the extent of discretion applied by firms in its operation, involves numerous potential conflicts 
of interest that might give rise to the unfair treatment of policyholders. Potential conflicts of 
interest may arise between shareholders and with-profits policyholders, between with-profits 
policyholders and non-profit policyholders within the same fund, between with-profits 
policyholders and the members of mutually-owned firms, between with-profits policyholders 
and management, and between different classes of with-profits policyholders, for example 
those with and without guarantees. 
Aviva is accountable to the FCA for the way in which it operates its with-profits fund (in 
accordance with its PPFM). The regulator monitors the management of with-profits funds. 
Businesses are required to appoint a with-profits actuary and the FCA provides rules and 
guidance on their duties. Aviva also has an independent With-Profits Committee whose 
remit is to protect the interests of the with-profits policyholders and ensure that they are 
treated fairly. The FCA monitors Avivas management of its with-profits fund. And Im not 
aware that it has any concerns about how Aviva runs its with-profits operation or about how 
certain policyholders may have been treated.
I accept the oversight of the with-profits fund management is an ongoing process but without 
evidence to suggest an error or mismanagement, I dont feel I can reasonably conclude that 
Aviva has acted incorrectly or departed from its normal procedures. In my view its 
explanation for the zero bonus application, the reduction in final bonus and its management 
of Mrs Ws With-Profits policy appears reasonable.
In conclusion, for the reasons explained above, Aviva doesnt have to do anything further to 
put things right.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman