DRN-3576993
The complaint
Mr K complains that Gain Capital UK Limited didnt allow him to take any action on the long 
position in US Oil he opened on 20 April 2020.
What happened
On 20 April 2020 Mr K opened a long position in US Oil for the May 2020 futures contract at 
19.02 UK time. The market for the US Oil May futures contract was due to expire that day at 
19.30 UK time.
The underlying market for US Oil is West Text Intermediate (WTI) crude oil. The price went 
negative at around 19.08 UK time for the first time in its history, so shortly after Mr K opened 
his position. Once US Oil turned negative no further trades were possible on Gains platform 
and it also didnt provide any pricing information for US Oil. The reason for this was that 
Gains platform doesnt operate with negative pricing, something it says it was unaware of at 
the time of Mr Ks trade.
Mr Ks trade was initially shown to have settled at 0.1 on expiry, which meant he made a 
small loss on his trade. However, Gain subsequently adjusted all client trades that had been 
affected. For those that had short positions, these were adjusted so the price at close was 
the correct price on expiry of the market at 19.30 GMT - which was minus $37.63. For clients 
such as Mr K who had long positions, these were adjusted so that close out was at the point 
the margin would have dropped below 50% of margin. In Mr Ks case this meant his losses 
were $27,937.99.
In response to his complaint Gain said that it was satisfied the adjustment to his account was 
correct and in line with its general terms and conditions (terms) that governed his account. 
It referred to clause 14 (Manifest error) and clause 15 (events outside our control and 
market disruption events) in this regard. It also referred to the limitation of liability clause in 
the terms.
Mr K referred his complaint to our service and one of our investigators considered it. In short, 
she said the following:
WTI going negative was an unprecedented event and the associated market 
volatility were outside of Gains control.
However, its platform being able to cope with negative pricing was within its 
control and whilst negative pricing may be rare, it does happen.
One of the terms that Gain rely on which sets out what it can do in relation to 
Manifest Error doesnt apply as there was no error in pricing, Gain simply 
stopped pricing the product.
The terms relating to events outside of Gains control and market disruption 
events is relevant in part. 
One of the options it has under that term is to close any open positions, 
cancel and/or fill any Order, and/or make adjustments to the price and/or limit 
the Quantity of any Trade, Open Positions and Orders.
Mr K opened positions in anticipation that the market would move in one 
direction and instead it moved against him and this was down to his trading 
decisions which Gain werent responsible for.
In the circumstances it wouldnt be fair for Gain to have to refund the full 
adjustment it made.
On balance Mr K would have closed his positions at 19.09 hours if he had 
been able to and the pricing on the platform accurately reflected the 
underlying market, so his losses up to that time should be repaid.
Mr K agreed with what the investigator said but Gain didnt. It provided the external tick data 
for the US Crude Oil price for the 20 April 2020 which confirmed that the price had turned 
negative at 19.08 UK time and continued to fall until expiry at 19.30 GMT when the price was 
-$37.
It referred to the information it had provided showing the clients activity on his account at the 
time. It said that even if the buttons were greyed out if Mr K had made a failed trade this 
would show up and a reason for the failure would have been recorded. It said the only record 
it had of Mr K trying to make a trade was at 19.28 UK time and that there was no record of 
him placing a trade at 19.09 GMT when the investigator says he would have closed his 
trades.
The investigator asked for Mr Ks comments on what Gain had said. He responded and said 
that not long after he had placed the trade the options for editing the trade or closing out 
went grey. He said at no point did the system notify him of a negative value and no service 
from Gain that allowed him to ascertain the price was negative.
 
Mr K said he is sure he pressed the grey values to see if they were working, but to no avail. 
He said that by 19.28 UK time he was aware of what was happening with the price having 
found a feed from another provider but would not have attempted to close at that time as the 
price was well beyond the margin call level. He said it was believed that the trade could not 
go negative due to the restrictions of the platform.
I asked Gain to explain why it thought Mr K would have been aware of negative pricing given 
its system couldnt cope with this and didnt show the price going negative. It said if Mr K 
was logged in and looking at the platform he would have seen the live news feed which 
undoubtedly would have shown what was happening with the price of US Oil.
I issued a provisional decision the findings from which are set out below. 
There is no dispute that Gains platform didnt show the price for US Oil and didnt allow any 
trades once the price turned negative. It said this was due to the platforms design including 
inbuilt logic based on it being more likely than not that negative pricing would suggest a 
system error. It said that this wasnt an IT error but a risk mitigation control that was built into 
the system which it was unaware of until the events of 20 April 2020.
Mr K opened his position knowing that the market was volatile and hoping to capitalise on 
that. The market went against him and he no doubt accepted that possibility at the time he 
opened his position and Gain obviously isnt responsible for the market going against him.
However, what Mr K could not have anticipated and taken into account when placing his 
trade was that he would be unable to see the current price or take any action - such as 
placing a stop loss order  when the price turned negative, as there was nothing to forewarn 
him that the platform couldnt deal with negative pricing or any process put in place to deal 
with this if it did happen.Gain is entitled to provide a platform that does not operate with negative pricing  as is still 
the case with its platform now. The difference with the position now as opposed to 20 April 
2020 is that Gain has explained to clients what will happen if oil markets turn negative and 
has a process in place to deal with this.
In short, after 20 April 2020 Gain informed clients in relation to its US Oil and UK Oil markets 
that if the price dropped below $5 a barrel it may not allow any new opening orders or 
trades. It also said that if the price dropped below $5 existing positions would be switched to 
close only with no ability to add to the position until the price went back above $5.
Gain further stated that if the price dropped to or below $0 it will close any positions on that 
market at the current available market price  although warned the underlying price could be 
negative at the time of closing and that it would adjust the account accordingly.
I think the main issue in this complaint is whether Gain did anything wrong because it didnt 
have such a process in place to deal with negative pricing before 20 April 2020. So it is 
clear, the fact that Gain doesnt appear to have been aware of the limitations of its own 
platform isnt a basis for finding it did nothing wrong.
Im mindful that US Oil turning negative has been called unprecedented in some articles I 
have seen. However, I am not persuaded that it is unreasonable to have expected Gain to 
provide clients with information about the limitations of the platform  such as it not operating 
with negative pricing  and/or providing a process that would be followed because the 
platform would not operate when prices are negative.
I am mindful that whilst the negative pricing of crude oil has been called unprecedented 
there had been some warning of this possibility before the 20 April 2020. For example as 
early as 19 March 2020 Blomberg had written about some traders talking about this 
possibility and around a week later it wrote about one obscure crude oil market having 
already turned negative.
I think it is also of note that CME Group provided an advisory notice to its clearing member 
firms on 15 April 2020 warning of the possibility that certain NYMEX energy futures could 
trade at negative trade prices or settle at negative values. So, there seems to have been 
information that pointed towards the possibility of negative prices for crude oil before 20 April 
2020. I acknowledge that US Oil turning negative caught many brokers by surprise but 
nevertheless I think Gain should have been aware of the possibility and ensured its clients 
were aware of the impact this would have on any trades they placed through its platform.
I am not satisfied that Gain provided Mr K with the information it should have done about its 
US Oil market and the fact that the platform wouldnt accept negative pricing. It failed to put 
in place any process to deal with the situation if prices did turn negative and in effect, as a 
result, clients were held in limbo until the market expired.
Gain allowed Mr K to open a trade at 19.02 GMT which the platform then didnt allow him to 
close or place a stop loss for, not because of any action that it had to take as a result of what 
was happening, but because its platform couldnt deal with negative prices  something 
Gain itself was unaware of at the time.
I note that Gain has sought to argue that clause 14  Manifest Error - of its terms allowed it 
to do what it did. Clause 14.2 sets out in what circumstances manifest error is relevant. It 
states:14.2 If a trade is based on a Manifest error (regardless of whether you or we gain from the 
error) and/or closed on the basis of Manifest Error we may act reasonably and in good faith 
to:
14.2.1 void the Trade as if it had never taken place;
14.2.2 close the Trade or any Open Position resulting from it; or
14.2.3 amend the Trade, or place a new Trade , as the case may be, so that 
(in either case ) its terms are the same as the Trade which would have bene 
placed and/or continued if there had been no Manifest Error.
I dont think this has any relevance to the findings I have made about Gain failing to provide 
the information it should have done to clients about the platform being unable to cope with 
negative pricing and its failure to have a process in place to deal with this.
Gain have also referred to clause 15 of the terms  Events Outside Our Control and Market 
Disruption Events. The clause allows Gain to take various steps if it determines such an 
event exists. As with the previous clause I dont think has any relance to the findings I have 
made about what Gain did wrong.
I am not satisfied that either clause is relevant to what happened between when Mr K 
opened his trade at 19.02 GMT and the expiry of the market less than 30 minutes later. The 
platforms failure to show the price when it turned negative and preventing Mr K taking any 
action in that period was nothing to do with Gain exercising rights under the clauses I have 
referred to above.
By its own admission it was unaware beforehand that the platform software didnt permit 
trading when the price turned negative, so I dont think it can reasonably argue that what 
happened before expiry was the result of action it took under the clauses I have referred to. 
Those clauses may have some relevance to what it then did in adjusting client trades to 
reflect what happened in the market. However I dont think that is relevant to my findings 
because Mr K should never have been put in the position that such an adjustment was 
necessary in the first place.
I awarded redress on the basis that Gain pay the difference between the readjusted position 
it put him in and the position he would have been in if his trade had been closed when it 
reached zero. 
I gave both parties the opportunity of responding and providing any further information they 
wanted me to consider before making my final decision. 
Mr K responded and accepted the decision. He noted that I have referred to USD rather than 
GBP.
Gain responded and, in summary, made the following key points:
When the demand in oil slumped, trading in oil slowed down. This coincided with the 
expiration of the futures contract, so there were fewer participants willing to trade.
Because the value of the futures contract is derived from the underlying market, if 
there are not enough participants willing to buy or sell, the number of prices goes 
down. When the volume of prices quoted are low and there is lot of volatility, brokers 
cannot set prices which actively reflect the market.
The contract was not priced so if Mr K was trying to sell between 19.08 UK time and 
19.30 UK time of 20 April 2020  and there is no evidence he was  the client could 
not be closed out because there was no price available to close the positions.The market was greyed out on the market due to the system not being able to price 
negatively but this wasnt the reason why clients could not trade the contracts.
This was not an IT error but a rare market event which affected the margin 
calculations and therefor pricing. At the time negative pricing created challenges for it 
and the US Crude Oil contract settled at $0.01 which did not accurately reflect the 
price of the underlying market.
Its terms allow it to make adjustments to an account and it reviewed all trades to 
ensure proper alignment with the underlying market.
A feature of volatile markets is gapping where there is a significant change to price 
between consecutive quotes. And in this case the market gapped to a price of -
$37.64.
It could have closed out all clients at this price but as a gesture of goodwill simulated 
the close out as if the market had not gapped and the clients close out level had 
reached 50%.
Mr K was closed out at -$13.96 rather than the market price of - £37.64 which was far 
more favourable.
Whilst this was a rare market event the condition and outcomes for trades is very 
familiar as price adjustments in periods of high volatility are common as is gapping. 
Trading a futures contract close to expiry in an attempt to capitalise on extreme 
volatility comes with a very high level of risk and in this case it didnt go Mr Ks way.
Mr K entered his position looking to speculate on the price WTI Oil was trading at and 
if the price had gone the other way and the system had limited the price from going 
above a certain level.
The notice from CME Group was sent to clearing members of CME and it wasnt one 
and did not receive or see the notice before 20 April 2020 according to its Head of 
Trading.
In any event the notice states that recent market events have raised the possibility 
that certain NYMEX energy futures contracts could trade at negative, or zero trade 
prices be settled at negative or zero values.
There are a few reasons why it would not have been feasible to implement a 
contingency plan for negative pricing between 15 April and 20 April 2020 for example 
it would take a month of development and testing to change the logic to calculate 
margin for zero or negative pricing.
It did take risk mitigation measures after the event, in that it decided to refuse orders 
when the price falls below $5 and close out positions at zero.
Mr K provided some further which I have considered. He repeated what he said previously 
about not being able to set buy/sell orders or a stop loss below zero which made him think 
this was the floor of the trade and the point at which he would be closed out. He made some 
comments on what Gain has said which I have not set out as they provide no new 
information or evidence which I need to comment on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have taken account of the various points raised by Gain in response to my provisional 
decision. Having done so I am not persuaded that I should change the findings in my 
provisional decision.
I acknowledge the point Gain has made, about low volumes of prices and high volatility and 
that this means brokers are unable to set prices that accurately reflect the market and that 
Mr K couldnt have closed his position once the price turned negative because there was no price available.
However, I have not upheld this complaint on the basis Mr K was prevented from closing his 
position once the price turned negative. I have upheld it on the basis that Gain provides an 
execution only trading service that is not available to clients when prices are negative but 
didnt inform clients of this limitation in its service or put in place a process to deal with it 
before 20 April 2020.
I accept it may not have been aware of this limitation before 20 April 2020 but this was its 
system and I think it reasonable to have expected it be aware of and be responsible for 
limitations in its service that could affect clients. The fact that negative pricing was very 
unlikely doesnt mean it wasnt possible such that Gain should not have made clients aware 
its system would not operate with negative prices and put in place a process to deal with this 
at the outset. 
Even if I am wrong and that Gain couldnt reasonably have been expected to put in place a 
process to deal with the limitation in its service from the outset I think it is reasonable to find 
it was aware or should have been aware that negative prices were a possibility shortly 
before 20 April 2020 as I think there were indications this could happen  as referred to in 
my provisional decision. So, I think it should have put in place a process to deal with this 
before 20 April 2020 in any event.
I have noted what Gain has said about not being a clearing member of CME Group and as 
such not receiving the notice sent to members on 15 April 2020. However, I referred to what 
the CME Group sent out because I thought it and other information, such as the article from 
Bloomberg referred to in my provisional decision - which Gain has not made reference to - 
showed there was some general awareness of the possibility of negative prices before 20 
April 2020. 
I have noted that Gain has said it didnt get the notice, it has not said that it was unaware of 
what had been happening regarding crude oil and the possibility of negative prices before 20 
April 2020.
Gain has sought to argue that it would have taken some time to implement a contingency 
plan for negative prices and referred to a period of around a month to do this. At the same 
time it has also pointed to the risk mitigation steps it took after the 20 April 2020  which 
steps it took within a matter of days. 
I can see no reason it could not have put these in place before 20 April 2020. If it had done 
so Mr Ks position would have been closed at zero. I acknowledge that he would not 
necessarily have gotten this price but I think it is fair and reasonable to use this price when 
calculating redress.
Putting things right
I think Gain should put Mr K in the position he would have been in if his trade had been 
closed at zero. So, it should compare the readjusted figure it calculated for Mr K with the 
position he would have been if his trade had been closed at zero and pay the difference 
together with simple interest at 8% each year on the figure it calculates is payable. 
I also think that Mr K has been caused distress and inconvenience because of what 
happened. He spent a long time on the phone trying to find out what had happened as well 
as trying to resolve matters through an online chat facility and was clearly frustrated by the 
time it took and the lack of clarity as to what was happening. I think an award of £300 for this 
is fair and reasonable.My final decision
I uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained. Gain Capital UK Limited must 
calculate and pay redress as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman