DRN-2855989
The complaint
Mr C complains about a life and terminal illness policy sold to him by Lighthouse Advisory 
Services Limited (Lighthouse) in 2008.
Mr C has been represented by Mrs C in this complaint, but for ease of reference, I shall refer 
to any submissions shes made as being made by Mr C.
What happened
When taking out the above policy, Mr C says he was led to believe his income would be 
protected in the event he was unable to work due to an accident or sickness.
In 2019, following a stroke Mr C had suffered three years earlier, he contacted the insurer to 
make a claim, but he was advised the policy didnt cover him for this.
Mr C complained to Lighthouse as he felt the policy had been mis-sold. Lighthouse told Mr C 
hed not raised his complaint in time, so it reserved the right to dismiss his complaint without 
considering the merits.
Mr C disagreed so he referred his complaint to our service. I considered Lighthouses 
position but disagreed Mr C shouldve ought reasonably to have been aware he had cause 
to complain before attempting to make a claim in 2019. So, I decided this was a complaint 
our service could consider. 
Because of this, one of our investigators looked into the merits of Mr Cs complaint but didnt 
think it should be upheld. She didnt think the advice was unsuitable for Mr C based on his 
circumstances recorded on the fact-find at the time and found no evidence Mr C asked for 
income protection to be included in the policy he took.
Mr C disagreed with our investigator saying the fact-find from the time doesnt cover all the 
financial discussions he had or detail his actual requirements. He said what hed been sold 
was not what he believed he was paying for and that the cover he received wasnt explained 
to him.
Mr C also said my comments, when deciding on our jurisdiction to look at the merits of the 
complaint, back up that Lighthouses financial advisor had a duty of care to explain exactly 
what the policy covered. Mr C remained unhappy, so his complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I have sympathy with Mr Cs position, I dont think there is sufficient 
evidence to find, on balance, that Lighthouse gave unsuitable advice or failed to set up the 
cover he agreed to.
Ill firstly address Mr Cs comments relating to my prior jurisdiction finding, in which I found 
he was entitled to rely on the advice and recommendations given to him by Lighthouses 
advisor. I also said I wouldnt have necessarily have expected Mr C to have gone through 
the documentation he received in fine detail therefore, I didnt think he shouldve reasonably 
been aware of a cause to complain sooner than when he tried to make a claim. 
But its important to say I must apply two very different tests. No determination was made at 
that point relating to the policy being mis-sold. Thats described as a merits consideration 
which couldnt be considered in the jurisdiction challenge as it went to the heart of the 
complaint. When considering the merits of this complaint, the duty is on the advisor to have 
made a suitable recommendation, giving enough information to show the options available. 
Having looked at the evidence available Im satisfied they did that.
In deciding whats a fair and reasonable outcome in this case, I must take into account the 
relevant law, regulation and best industry practice but Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have 
happened.
Ive noted Mr Cs recollection of the sale and that he says he specifically asked for a policy 
that would provide him cover if he was sick and could not work. But keeping in mind           
13 years have passed since the policy was taken out, Im more persuaded by the information 
gathered about his circumstances at the time of the sale. 
Lighthouse have been able to provide a full fact-find showing Mr C had an in-depth 
discussion about his protection needs during which he said he wished to review his current 
life cover arrangements.
In it, it says Mr C wanted to review a level term life assurance policy in addition to a joint 
policy covering the mortgage borrowing, as it was important to him an additional lump sum 
would be paid to Mrs C to cover any outstanding commitments.
The advisor recorded Mr C said he had adequate mortgage payment protection in place at 
the time which would provide him a payment of £280 per month. The advisor also says I 
have asked him to check this as the benefit provided may not be enough to cover the new 
mortgage monthly costs.
The advisor goes on to say again advised they should also give serious consideration to 
organise longer tern income protection for Mr C in the future, as we have discussed 
previously. They will consider.
I understand this differs from Mr Cs recollection of the conversation at the time but when 
talking about Mrs C, the fact-find records she had adequate benefits via her employment, 
something shes confirmed was the case. So, Im satisfied the fact-find is more likely than 
not a reasonable reflection of the conversation at the time. And Im persuaded by what was 
recorded, that whilst it was discussed, protecting Mr Cs income wasnt something he wanted 
to take further.
Using the information gathered the advisor recommended a level term life and terminal 
illness policy. Based on the content of the fact-find I think it met the need Mr C was looking 
for.
A week after the fact-find was completed Mr C was sent a suitability letter. This letter 
confirmed the details of what was discussed with the advisor and the recommendations 
which were made. Page one of the letter set out that Mr Cs objective was to provide 
suitable life cover, which on your death would pay a lump sum to Mrs C. It goes on to detail 
the level term life policy recommended and says on page two income protection was not of 
interest at this time.
It may help if I clarify that an income protection protects against loss of income for a period 
of time, normally due to illness or an accident. It can provide tax-free income until the 
claimant goes back to work or until the end of the policy term. This type of cover pays an 
income. A life cover policy with terminal illness cover, like the one Mr C was recommended, pays out a lump sum if terminal illness is diagnosed. So, they are different types of cover 
and pay different benefits; one pays a regular income and the other a lump sum.
Looking at the suitability letter Im satisfied it draws sufficient attention to the type of cover 
recommended.
I understand Mr C says he trusted what the advisor told him and because of this didnt read 
the paperwork in any detail. Whilst I think hes entitled to rely on the advice of a professional, 
Im persuaded the advice given was suitable for Mr Cs circumstances at the time. The policy 
recommended provided the life cover Mr C needed and Im persuaded its likely Mr C didnt 
want income protection at the time this application was completed.
Having considered everything carefully Im satisfied the policy was suitable for Mr C and Ive 
seen no evidence that an income protection policy shouldve have been set up for him at the 
time.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman