DRN-2763944
The complaint
Mr J says Loans 2 Go Limited irresponsibly lent to him. 
What happened
Loans 2 Go provided the following loan to Mr J:
Date taken Amount Term 
(months)Weekly 
repaymentTotal 
amount 
payable
Loan 1 30/01/2019 £450 78 weeks 
(approx 
18 months)£23.73 £1,850.94
Mr J told us that he took out this loan when he was in a desperate situation and needed to 
borrow to pay debt owed on bank loans, credit cards and payday loans. He feels that Loans 
2 Go shouldve done more affordability checks and not provided the loan to him. Hes also 
unhappy with the high interest on this loan.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Js complaint. 
Mr J disagreed with our adjudicators view and he has asked for an ombudsman to look at 
his complaint. So it comes to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind when deciding Mr Js complaint.
Loans 2 Go needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr J 
could repay the loan in a sustainable way. These checks could take into account a number 
of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
Loans 2 Go was required to establish whether Mr J could sustainably repay the loan  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make the repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
When Mr J applied for this loan, Loans 2 Go asked him for information about his finances 
and carried out a credit check. 
It checked what hed said about his salary using an online tool and recorded his minimum 
monthly income was £1,392.98. It boosted the figure Mr J declared for his spending and 
allowed for him having to make monthly outgoings of £1,150.03. And it also added a 10% 
buffer to take account of any fluctuations in his monthly income or expenditure. Taking all 
this into account, these figures didnt suggest that Mr J would have any difficulty meeting the 
loan repayments for this loan. 
Ive seen the results of the credit check and it showed Mr J had total outstanding credit of 
around £6,290. It noted that Mr J had opened three new credit accounts during the previous 
12 months and he was currently paying a bank loan, he had two credit cards (one close to its 
credit limit of £700 and the other with around £300 available credit). He was within his 
overdraft limit at the bank. 
The credit checks showed that Mr J wasnt involved in any sort of arrangement with creditors 
and bankruptcy wasnt flagged up. He had no active county court judgements registered and 
no recent defaults on his record. 
Mr J says Loans 2 Go shouldve known he was in financial difficulties at the time it lent to 
him and hes sent us bank statements to support what he says. 
But I think its fair to say that all the information Loans 2 Go had gathered tended to suggest 
that Mr J seemed to be managing his credit without any obvious signs that he had a serious 
debt problem. It wouldnt be unusual for someone applying for this type of lending to have 
other debt  and sometimes even an impaired credit history. And these wouldnt necessarily 
be fair reasons not to lend. I dont think the amount of debt shown on Mr Js credit checks 
was excessive having regard to his income. 
Id expect Loans 2 Go to decide Mr Js lending application based on the information it was 
reasonably entitled to rely on at the time. When a lender carries out a credit search, the 
information it sees doesnt usually provide the same level of detail that a persons own credit 
search will. And it isnt necessarily up to date  that can depend on when other creditors 
have reported information and when its been recorded by the credit reference agency. A 
lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit file, or some information might be 
missing or anonymised. Im also aware that not all payday and short term lenders report to 
the same credit reference agencies. This is why information that Mr J might see on his own 
credit check, including other short term loans, may not have been identified by a credit check 
done by Loans 2 Go when he applied for this loan. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for Loans 2 Go to lend here  especially as there wasnt 
anything obvious, in the information it had, to suggest Mr J wouldnt be able to repay the 
loan in a sustainable way. And I dont think proportionate checks wouldve required Loans 2 Go to probe any more 
deeply into Mr Js finances or ask Mr J to prove what he was declaring (by requiring him to 
send in his bank statements for instance) or check other information sources to verify what 
he had told them (or omitted to say) about his financial circumstances. 
I think there was a very large amount of interest payable on this loan and I can appreciate 
that Mr J might now feel this has unfairly added to his debt problems.
But the loan documents set out the terms and the amount of interest payable. Mr J applied 
for this loan and he had to actively engage in the loan application process. The annual 
percentage rate of charge (APR) on Mr Js loan was 1,275.2 %.
The total amount he would have to repay, including interest, was £1,850.94. The agreement 
showed he would need to make 77 payments of £23.73 and a final payment of £23.73.
Taking everything into account, I think Mr J was aware he was taking a very high cost loan 
on terms he seemed happy to agree to at the time. I dont think Loans 2 Go had any reason 
to think that Mr J wouldnt be able to sustainably repay the loan and it went ahead only when 
it had provided information explaining the main loan costs and Mr J said he wanted to 
proceed. So I cant fairly say that the high cost of this credit is a reason for me to uphold 
Mr Js complaint. 
Im sorry that Mr J had a problem with debt and that repaying this loan has proved difficult for 
him. I accept that in reality Mr Js actual circumstances possibly werent fully reflected either 
in the information he provided, or the other information Loans 2 Go obtained. 
But in order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something wrong. 
And, in this case, I dont think that Loans 2 Go did anything wrong in deciding to lend this 
loan to Mr J. And I havent seen enough to make me think that Loans 2 Go acted towards Mr 
J in any other way that wasnt fair and reasonable.
Each case is decided on its own merits and so what happened on a different case when Mr J 
complained to the lender doesnt affect the outcome here.
I appreciate that my decision will likely come as a disappointment to Mr J and Im sorry. But 
I hope my explanations help him understand why Ive reached these conclusions. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman