DRN-3850457
The complaint
Mr C has complained about his insurer Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd (AIE) because it 
has declined his claim for his stolen but recovered car.
What happened
Mr Cs car was stolen, and recovered, in May 2020. AIE began considering a claim for it. But 
Mr C became ill and was unable to continue dealing with it. The unresolved claim was closed 
in March 2021 (the car having been returned to the finance company). In August 2021 Mr C 
wrote to AIE  he explained hed been ill and affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. AIE 
reopened the claim. 
AIE had concerns about the claim, and asked Mr C to provide it with various details and 
evidence. Mr C answered all of the questions put to him, and provided most of the evidence 
asked for. But AIE wasnt happy with the extent of Mr Cs answers  it felt he hadnt 
cooperated with its enquiries. AIE said that, as a result, it was declining the claim and set out 
a list of issues it felt Mr C had not adequately answered. Mr C complained to us.
Our Investigator felt Mr C had cooperated. She thought that AIE feeling that the answers 
given had not been adequate was not the same as Mr C not having given any answers. She 
felt that the only thing that could be said to be outstanding, when reviewing the list AIE had 
set out in its final response, was a full dated list of the addresses where Mr C had stayed. 
She didnt think it had been fair or reasonable of AIE, in that circumstance, to decline Mr Cs 
claim on the grounds that he had not cooperated with it as required by the policy. She said 
the claim should be considered and that AIE should pay Mr C £200 compensation. 
AIE explained some of the concerns it had with some of the detail Mr C had provided to it. 
AIE added that whilst Mr C had been asked for a copy of the cars V5 (the cars log book), 
Mr C hadnt provided this, even though he could have obtained a copy from the DVLA (the 
Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency). AIE said that, without this, Mr C had not shown that 
he owned the car or had an insurable interest in it. AIE asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with our Investigator. I think AIE failed Mr C on this occasion  that its decline of his 
claim was unfair and unreasonable. 
AIE has recently argued that Mr C did not provide it with a copy of the V5. Id remind AIE that 
a V5 is not evidence of ownership of a vehicle. But most importantly AIE knew in 2020 that 
Mr C did not have a copy of the V5, it knew the reason given for that, and its claim handling 
company recommended that enquiries were made with the DVLA direct to establish any 
registered keeper details. I dont see that, at any time, AIE directed the claims management 
company further regarding the V5, not to complete a search or to ask Mr C again for the V5. 
Not even when AIE was conducting its final review of the claim, nor even when it issued its 
final response explaining to Mr C what detail was outstanding, therefore, giving it cause to 
decline the claim. So I dont think its reasonable for AIE to seek to rely on Mr Cs 
non-provision of the V5 as grounds for saying he did not cooperate with its enquiries. 
Our Investigator noted that the only thing outstanding, which AIE had said was outstanding 
in the final response letter, was dated detail from Mr C about where he had lived. But even in 
that respect Mr C has said he just cant be sure of all the relevant dates. I can understand 
why AIE would want to ask for that information  but if Mr C cant be sure, then that is his 
answer. If Mr C had said something like, Im not giving you that information, that would be 
different. But that is not the case here.
Mr C was unable to deal with the claim between summer 2020 and August 2021. And AIE 
accepted that and reopened the claim. AIE had questions it needed Mr Cs assistance with  
he has given that, to the best of his ability. It is now up to AIE to make its decision based on 
the detail it has.
I think that between the claim reopening and AIE issuing its final response in 2022, AIE did 
cause delays. It kept asking for detail that even its claims management company said had 
already been asked for and answered. And, as Ive said, I think AIEs decline was unfair and 
unreasonable too. I think it should pay Mr C £200 compensation. 
I know this has been an incredibly difficult time for Mr C. I know that losing his car (which 
was felt to be a total loss but was returned to the finance company) and having to pay the 
finance company without the benefit of any settlement from AIE was difficult for him. But Im 
mindful that Mr Cs situation was somewhat stretched, financially speaking, even before the 
loss occurred, and that, initially at least, AIE fairly and reasonably needed Mr C to assist it 
with its enquiries. So I dont think AIE is reasonably responsible to Mr C for things like his 
credit rating being affected, or for him being without any settlement for the claim for so long. 
But, as Ive said, AIE didnt handle the claim fairly and reasonably when it was reopened 
again and that is why Ive awarded the compensation I have. Im satisfied that fairly and 
reasonably reflects the upset caused to Mr C which I think AIE is responsible for. 
Putting things right
I require AIE to consider its liability to Mr C for the claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy. Any necessary further investigation cannot duplicate previous 
enquiries.
I also require AIE to pay Mr C £200 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd to provide the redress 
set out above at Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman