DRN-3538634
The complaint
Mr M complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) blocked his card unfairly and 
provided him with poor customer service.
What happened
Mr M attempted to make a purchase for just over £1 at a supermarket. But his card had been 
blocked by Co-Op. They had sent Mr M a text to confirm if he had attempted to make the 
transaction, but Mr M says he did not have his phone with him, nor is he legally obliged to. 
Mr M made a complaint to Co-op and asked them to unblock his card. He said that although 
they had acknowledged receipt of his complaint, a human had not been assigned to his 
complaint to ensure his debit card was unblocked and to reassure him the problem had been 
rectified as per his previous instructions. Mr M said that Co-ops automated robots continued 
to telephone him every morning and afternoon to advise him of suspicious activity which may 
compromise his account.
Mr M told Co-op that he had typed in his Personal Identification Number (PIN) incorrectly at 
a self-service supermarket till as he had recently received a new debit card and PIN, so he 
had entered the old PIN out of habit. Mr M said that automated calls from Co-op offered him 
no help whatsoever as the robot can only speak, not listen and Mr M couldnt have a 
conversation with the robot. 
Mr M had attempted to speak to Co-op on the day after his card was blocked. He said he 
was on hold for 20 minutes, then he was connected to a call handler, but instead of the call 
being a quick two minute call, Mr M said this was a protracted engagement, which resulted 
in him having to disconnect the call as he had a meeting he needed to get to.
Mr M attempted to speak to Co-op when he was free. Mr M says after being on hold for 32 
minutes, at 6pm, an automated message declared that their offices were now closed and to 
call back again the next day between 8am-6pm and to only stay on the line if he had a lost or 
stolen credit card or he suspected fraudulent financial activity. Mr M says that an option to 
record a voice message was also mentioned. As Mr M stayed on the call, he says he was 
disconnected about two minutes later with no warning, apology or transferral. 
Mr M was able to speak to a human call handler after four days of his card being blocked, 
who managed to unblock his card. While the card was being unblocked, Mr M says that the 
attitude of the call handlers he spoke to were unprofessional and they did not apologise for 
what happened. Mr M was unable to withdraw cash or use his card for four days, until his 
card was unblocked.
Co-op did not uphold Mr Ms complaint. They said Mr Ms card was blocked in line with their 
fraud prevention process. They apologised for the inconvenience of the hold times had on 
Mr M, but they said they hadnt made a mistake in terms of this aspect of his complaint. They 
said that on the call on 1 February, the call lasted one minute and 42 seconds and the call 
handler had been unable to complete security, so they were unable to uphold this aspect of 
his complaint. 
Co-op said that they had fifteen calendar days to investigate his complaint, and as they had 
completed his complaint within the correct timescales, they wouldnt be upholding this part of 
his complaint. They said that Mr M was unhappy at their opening hours, but the opening 
hours were a business decision, so they were unable to uphold this aspect of his complaint. 
Mr M brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ms complaint. He said he had reviewed the evidence and 
Co-op had not made any errors in the blocking of his card or the subsequent service they 
provided to Mr M.
Mr M asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, he said his complaint was more about the appalling level of service that he 
received after his card was blocked, the attitude of the staff he dealt with and the culture of 
Co-Ops communications was the crux of his grievance. He asked how he was supposed to 
interact with a pre-recorded message that does not offer a single option to its recipient and 
he had sent several email requests to Co-op, requesting that they remove the block. 
Mr M said that the Co-op staff he spoke to were sarcastic and were passive-aggressive. Mr 
M said that Co-op had lied about him taking exception to their opening hours, and they left 
him on hold for 34 minutes only for them to disconnect his call  despite Mr M saying he was 
about to be offered the opportunity to be permitted to either leave a message or to be 
transferred to another department.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
I must explain to Mr M that complaint handling by a business isnt a regulated activity and as 
such, the issues hes raised that relate directly to how Co-op have investigated his 
complaint, such as the contents of his final response letter detailing his complaint point about 
being on the phone for 34 minutes before being disconnected, being interpreted as him 
being unhappy with their opening hours, and how they investigated his complaint do not 
come under my powers to consider.
Id like to explain to Mr M that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how to run 
their security procedures. It would be the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct 
Authority, who have the power to instruct Co-op to make changes to their policies and 
procedures, if necessary. Our service acts as an informal dispute resolution service for 
complaints about financial businesses. We look at the circumstances of individual complaints 
and, on a case by case basis, taking into account relevant industry guidance for example, 
make findings about whether a financial business has failed their customer.
Banks and building societies have an obligation to try and keep their customers accounts 
safe and prevent fraudulent transactions. Sometimes they identify and block legitimate 
payments that a customer wants to take place. This can cause distress and inconvenience 
to a customer  but it doesnt necessarily mean they have acted incorrectly. 
Ive looked at whether Co-op have acted in line with their terms and conditions here. Im 
satisfied that they have, and Ill explain why. Their terms and conditions, which Mr M would 
have agreed to upon opening his account, shows that they can stop payments being made from a customers account if they suspect fraudulent activity. Co-op have confirmed in their 
final response letter to Mr M that when this happens, the card may be blocked until they can 
check with the account holder that all spending is genuine. While Im unable to confirm to Mr 
M exactly why his card was blocked, he has told us that he initially entered his PIN 
incorrectly. Although I understand the background behind this, and he said he entered his 
PIN correctly after this, this may have contributed to Co-op suspecting fraud and attempting 
to prevent an unauthorised person using Mr Ms card (even though it was him attempting the 
payment).
Ive then listened to the phone call Mr M had with Co-op on 1 February. Its clear that Mr M is 
in a hurry. The call handler is going through security when Mr M informs the call handler he 
needs to attend an appointment. The call handler asks Mr M to call back when he has more 
time and Mr M swears at the call handler and the call is disconnected. Im not persuaded 
that the call handler acted unprofessionally here as he was trying to go through security with 
Mr M. As this was not completed, then I would not expect Co-op to be able to remove the 
block here.
Ive considered what Mr M has said about the automated calls. I asked Co-op whether there 
was a copy of the automated calls so I could hear exactly what they say. Unfortunately Co-
op have confirmed that their automated calls are not recorded. So Im unable to listen to 
these messages here. Co-op have provided details of the calls made to Mr M. They said that 
the first automated phone message would have said this is the fraud prevention department 
at The Co-operative Bank calling for (customer name) Press any number key to continue.
Co-op have said that if Mr M selected any key, he would have been taken to the automated 
voice flow which wouldve allowed Mr M to confirm whether the transaction was genuine and 
he would be asked a number of questions to authenticate him and the system would read 
out the transactions which flagged on their system. Co-op say that Mr M would have been 
asked to press 1 to confirm the transaction was genuine, 2 to listen again or 3 as not 
recognised. They said if he had pressed 1 then the system would be updated and his card 
would have been unblocked. So Im satisfied that had Mr M followed this process, and not 
disconnected the automated call, then he would have been able to unblock his card much 
sooner than it was unblocked.
I can see that Co-op made six attempts to call Mr M between 1 February-3 February. The 
notes show me that somebody answered the first call and then hung up, the second call 
nobody answered the phone and a voicemail was left for Mr M. The message which Co-op 
said was left was This is the fraud prevention department at The Co-operative Bank calling 
for (customer name). We need to verify some recent activity on your card ending in (last 4 
digits). In order to prevent possible difficulties using your card, it is important that you call us 
back at your earliest convenience, at (telephone number) to verify this activity. You may call 
us back 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. The number again is (telephone number) or Call 
Centre to verify this activity.
So it appears that Mr M was given a telephone number that he could have rang them on 24 
hours a day, seven days a week. There were also four further attempts made by Co-op for 
Mr M to confirm the transaction was genuine. I appreciate that Mr Ms preference may not 
have been to deal with an automated line, but I cant say that Co-op didnt attempt to try and 
contact him and verify the transaction was genuine. Had Mr M had pressed the relevant key 
on his phone (after being authenticated), it appears this would have unblocked his card 
immediately.
Ive considered that Mr M had sent a number of emails to Co-op to unblock his card. But the 
emails he sent them were to the complaint department. On the acknowledgement of Mr Ms 
complaint email, the response clearly states Please note that any contact via this inbox will be added to your complaint file, without acknowledgement, and addressed when our formal 
response is issued. So although Mr M had sent multiple requests for his card to be 
unblocked via this route, Co-op did warn him that these would not be acknowledged and that 
they would be addressed when their formal response was issued. And this is what they did 
when they issued the formal response on 4 February  the same day they rang him to 
unblock his card. So Im not persuaded that Co-op did anything wrong here. 
Ive considered what happened when Mr M says he was disconnected at 6:02pm. Mr M and 
Co-op have differing accounts of what would have happened here. As this call was not 
recorded as Mr M had not been connected to a call handler yet, Im unable to rely on any 
recording here. Co-op have denied that there has ever been an option to record a message 
for them via this method, whereas Mr M has said he was disconnected before he was able to 
leave a message. But Im not persuaded that leaving a message would have been able to 
resolve the issue even if Mr M was able to leave a message and Ill explain why.
Co-op would need to authenticate their customer in order to remove a block on the account. 
So Im not persuaded that Co-op would have been able to do this via a voice message left 
on their phone system without security being completed. 
Co-op have said that the message Mr M would have heard is our offices are now closed, 
please only hold to report a lost or stolen card or if you suspect fraudulent activity including 
unauthorised payments. To use our automated telephone system please redial. They say if 
Mr M would have stayed on hold he would have heard the option to press 1 and if he did not 
select this option, his call would have been disconnected. I can understand the frustration 
that Mr M would have had to be disconnected after being on hold for 34 minutes at that 
point. But Co-op did make alternatives available for him such as the 24 hour telephone 
number they provided him on his voicemail. And it appears he would have also been able to 
use their automated telephone system, even if this was not Mr Ms preferred method.
Ive listened to the calls on 4 February when Mr Ms card was unblocked. The call was made 
from the complaint handler to Mr M. She completes security with Mr M and informs him she 
will be able to transfer him to someone who can look at removing the block on the card. Ive 
considered what Mr M has said about the staff being sarcastic and passive-aggressive. I 
cant agree that she was sarcastic or passive-aggressive, but Im persuaded that the call 
could have gone smoother. 
I say this as there are two occasions where the call handler says youre welcome in 
response to Mr M saying alright (in the context of her speaking to and transferring him to 
the person who will remove the block on the card). Im not persuaded the call handler was 
being sarcastic by saying this, but this may demonstrate that she was not acutely listening to 
Mr Ms responses as it appears she was focused on speaking to the call handler who would 
be removing his block instead of responding to what Mr M said. He highlights this to the call 
handler the second time she says youre welcome as he tells her theres nothing for me to 
thank you for. And the call handler apologises. Mr M interprets this as sarcasm but Im not 
persuaded that she was being sarcastic here. And I cant say this impacted the block being 
removed as the complaint handler transferred him to her colleague who removes the block.
Ive also listened to the second part of the call. Mr M asks if the call handler can see the 
emails he has sent and she confirms she cant see them. The call handler explains that the 
system doesnt give a reason why his card was blocked and she explains that the fraud 
system blocked the payment and not an individual. The call handler then confirms the block 
has been removed and reassured Mr M that he could use the card immediately. So while 
things could have gone smoother on the first section of the call, I cant say the first call handler was being sarcastic and Im satisfied that the second call went how I would expect it 
to.
In summary, I understand how it would be frustrating for Mr M to be without the use of his 
card for four days. But his card could have been unblocked sooner if he followed the 
instruction of the automated calls. While Mr M has said that he would not be able to have a 
conversation with a real human here, he would have been able to confirm that the 
transaction was genuine through his keypad, after being authenticated, which would have 
unblocked his card. Co-op explained in their complaint acknowledgement email that they 
wouldnt acknowledge any further emails and they would be addressed when their formal 
response is issued. And this is what they did. They had completed their investigations on 4 
February and unblocked his card on this date. So it follows I dont require Co-op to do 
anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman