DRN-3187447
The complaint
Miss N has complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited have unfairly tried to 
recover from her the settlement they paid to a third party after her car was involved in an 
accident.
What happened
Towards the end of 2018, a family member borrowed Miss Ns car without her permission 
and had an accident.  The police attended. Miss Ns relative told them they had Miss Ns 
permission to drive the car.  Miss N didnt tell the police that was wrong.
A couple of weeks after the crash, Miss N was contacted by Admiral.  She says she 
explained what had happened and that the relative whod had the crash was dealing with the 
third party  so there was no need for Admiral to be involved.
Miss N says she heard nothing more from Admiral until May 2020, when they wrote to her 
demanding payment of £10.557.69 which theyd paid out to the third party.  Miss N tried to 
find out more details and instructed a solicitor to advise her.  
When she wasnt successful, Miss N made a complaint about Admiral trying to recover costs 
from her and about not contacting her before May 2020.  And she complained about the 
standard of Admirals communication, providing incorrect information to her solicitor and that 
details of the claim had been entered into the insurance database - which reduced her no 
claims bonus and increased the cost of her policy.
Admiral investigated and upheld Miss Ns complaints about poor communication and 
providing incorrect information to her solicitor.  But they rejected the rest of her concerns.  
Admiral said Miss Ns relative wasnt a named driver on the policy, so Miss N wasnt covered 
for anything that happened while they were driving.  They said theyd written to Miss N about 
the claim during 2019, but had no reply.  And they said the accident was recorded on the 
database because it involved her car  which was her responsibility.
Miss N wasnt satisfied with Admirals response and brought her complaint to us.  Our 
investigator considered it and concluded Admiral didnt need to do anything else to resolve it.  
They explained that, where the driver isnt insured but the car is, the company which insures 
the car is responsible for dealing with the third partys claim.  And, unless the insurer is 
satisfied the driver wasnt given permission by the policyholder to drive, they can pursue the 
policyholder for what they pay out.  
The investigator noted that while Miss Ns relative hadnt asked her for permission to drive, 
shed not reported them to the police.  So it was fair for Admiral to decide shed consented.  
And they said it was reasonable for Admiral to record the matter on the database because 
theyd dealt with the claim.
In respect of Miss Ns complaint that Admiral didnt make clear theyd already paid out on the 
claim, the investigator noted that Miss N hadnt fully read the letter sent to her in May 2020  
which explained what theyd done.  So they said it wouldnt be fair to hold Admiral 
responsible for Miss N incurring solicitors costs to find out what theyd already told her.  
Miss N didnt accept the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Ms Ns complaint.  Ill explain why.
Ive looked at Miss Ns policy documentation.  That shows she was the only driver covered 
under the policy.  So Admiral said the accident fell within the general policy exceptions.
Ive looked at the exceptions.  The relevant section says:
You will not be covered for any liabilities you may have for any of the following:
1. Any accident, injury, loss, theft or damage which happens while your car is:
used by a person or for any purpose not shown on your current Certificate of Motor 
Insurance

Miss Ns relative wasnt shown on the policy.  So I think its fair to say there was no cover for 
the accident they had.
But, as our investigator explained, that didnt mean the third party couldnt make a claim.  
And the Road Traffic Act makes Admiral responsible for settling it, because they insured 
Miss Ns car at the time of the crash.  The same section of the policy says:
Nothing in this policy will affect the right of any person indemnified or of any other person to 
recover an amount under or by virtue of the provisions of the law of any country in which the 
policy operates relating to the insurance of liability to third parties. However you will have to 
repay to us all sums which we have paid but would not otherwise have paid had the 
provisions of the laws of such countries not applied.
which Im satisfied allows Admiral to recover what they paid to the third party.  
I can see Miss N feels its unfair she should have to pay, as she wasnt driving the car.  I 
understand why shed feel that way.  In these circumstances, Admiral can pursue the 
policyholder for what they pay out.  Or they can pursue the person who took the car  if 
theyre satisfied it was taken without Miss Ns permission.
Miss N told Admiral she didnt give her consent.  But she told the police she did.  Admiral 
said theyd pursue her relative if Miss N pressed charges.  Miss N doesnt want to do that.  
And - while I understand her reluctance  that means I think its reasonable for Admiral to 
conclude she gave her relative consent to drive.  And its reasonable for Admiral to pursue 
her for the costs under the section above.
Miss N also complained that she had no contact with Admiral between January 2019 and 
May 2020.  So she had no opportunity to provide input before she was liable to pay 
£10,557.69. Ive thought about this.  But Im not persuaded Admiral did anything wrong here.
The documents Ive seen dont support what Miss N says.  I can see Admiral wrote to her in 
February 2019 and told her that, because her relative was driving, she couldnt claim for any 
damage to her own car  and that they may contact her for reimbursement of any costs of a third party claim.  And they wrote to her again the following month, offering to negotiate on 
her behalf, on the basis shed need to reimburse their costs.
I understand these letters went into Miss Ns junk/spam folder, so she didnt see them.  But 
thats not Admirals fault.  So I cant say they should do anything to compensate Miss N for 
her not seeing them.
Similarly, Miss N says she didnt appreciate, when she received Admirals letter in May 2020, 
that the claim had already been settled.  So she ran up solicitors fees to find out.  
Im sorry Miss N felt she had to run up those costs.  Ive read Admirals letter.  It says:
We have dealt with the third party claim for the third partys hire and repair claim.  We have 
made the following payments:
Hire  £2,450
Repairs - £8,047.69
Engineers fee - £60 
Our total outlay in respect of this claim is £10,557.69.
I think thats clear.  So I dont think its reasonable for me to say Admiral should reimburse    
Miss N the cost of consulting a solicitor. 
Finally, Ive thought about Miss Ns complaint that the claim has been recorded against her.  
Its true she wasnt driving.  But the accident involved her car and the claim was paid in 
accordance with the terms of her policy.  
Insurers have a duty to record information accurately on the insurance database.  Im 
satisfied from what Ive seen thats what Admiral have done.  So I dont think they need to do 
anything differently in relation to this, or any other, aspect of Miss Ns complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Ns complaint about Admiral 
Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman