DRN-3194965
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with Union Reiseversicherung AGs decision to decline their 
claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S had travel insurance, provided by Mr S packaged bank account. In July 2019, 
they booked a family holiday departing 8 March 2020 and returning on 1 April 2020. They 
had to cut their holiday short because of the COVID-19 pandemic and, after overcoming 
some initial problems arranging the flights, they returned to the UK on 29 March. 
Mr and Mrs S claim is for curtailing their holiday earlier than theyd originally planned. 
Theyre claiming £5,211.82 and AUS $620. These amounts are made up of mainly the costs 
of the new flights home, prepaid accommodation and amenities that went unused. Their 
claim was declined by URV and so they brought their complaint here.
URV said it declined the claim because the policy didnt offer cover for this type of issue. It 
said that the policy wasnt designed to cover every eventuality and that its policy is specific 
about cover available and has specified terms. It said that it cannot be held responsible for a 
completely unforeseen event which affected the wider world.
Our investigator sympathised with Mr and Mrs S, but ultimately, he agreed that URV hadnt 
done anything wrong by declining their claim. He said that because the policy had specified 
terms, and that pandemics or natural disasters arent included, there was no cover available 
in these circumstances. 
But Mr and Mrs S disagreed. They said that they were in a difficult situation because they 
were advised to get home before the Australian borders closed. They also said that had they 
not returned to the UK by that time, then they wouldve been stuck there until June when 
they were due to open again. Mr and Mrs S said they wouldnt have been able to afford to 
pay for accommodation had that been the case. They also said that Mrs S mother was 
terminally ill and so that wouldnt have been a feasible option for them. Theyd like their claim 
to be paid in full. And so, its for me to decide.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. My reasons for doing so are similar to those 
already explained by our investigator in that theres simply no cover available for this 
situation. And so, URV hasnt made a mistake by declining their claim. Ill explain why. 
Policy terms say;
the insurer states that they will pay up to £3,000 in total for your unused proportion of:
 pre-paid excursions booked before you go on your trip;
 loss of accommodation;
 foreign car hire; and
 either your pre-booked return travel costs, or the cost of your curtailment travel costs, 
whichever is the greater that you have paid or agreed to pay and that you cannot recover 
from any other source following your necessary cutting short of your trip, for your early return 
home because of the death, injury or illness of:
- you or a friend with whom you are travelling;
- a close relative who lives in your home country;
- a close business associate who lives in your home country;
- a friend who lives abroad and with whom you are staying with.
- you, a friend or close relative who is travelling with you being required in your home country 
for jury service or as a witness in a court of law;
- you, a friend, business associate or close relative who is travelling with you being called 
back by the Police after your home, or the home in your home country of your friend, 
business associate or close relative, or usual place of business in your home country, having 
suffered from burglary, serious fire, storm or flood.
And 
You are not covered for:
You travelling to an area that is classified as Advise against all travel or Advise against all 
but essential travel by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office at the time of your departure 
I think its important to highlight the terms because it forms the basis of the insurance 
contract between Mr and Mrs S and URV. Theyre aware that URV is entitled to decide the 
level of risk it wanted to take, and I think this is clearly set out in the policy terms. The policy 
isnt intended to cover every eventuality, which is why URV didnt include this circumstance 
in its policy. Its because of this, that URV hasnt done anything wrong by declining Mr and 
Mrs S claim.
Ive also thought about the term about the Foreign Commonwealth Office (FCO) advice and 
whether that changes things, but Im not persuaded that it does. I say that because the 
advice to return to the UK was issued on 26 March 2020 and Mr and Mrs S were already in 
the process of arranging their return flights home as theyd already been in contact with their 
tour operator from 18 March. Further, Mr and Mrs S were already in Australia, meaning they 
werent travelling to a foreign country, they were attempting to return home.
I wanted to acknowledge the difficult circumstances that Mr and Mrs S were in. And I note 
the comments about Mrs S mother who was terminally ill. I should say that this, 
unfortunately, doesnt change the outcome of this complaint for all the reasons Ive 
explained. Theres provision of cover for curtailing the trip owing to an illness for a close 
family member, but that wasnt the reason for the curtailment. And even if it was, there would 
be conditions around the timeliness of the illness and whether Mr and Mrs S were 
reasonably aware of it prior to booking the trip. I know this isnt the outcome they were 
hoping for, but I wanted to reassure them that Id considered everything.   
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive explained. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman