DRN-1572462
The complaint
Mr B says Barclays Bank plc (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy Mr B took out in 2001. It was added to his 
account when he applied for the card in person. 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Barclays disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding [consumer]s case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mr Bs complaint because:
Mr B tells us he didnt consent to PPI being added to his account  so it was added without 
his knowledge. I looked at Mr Bs credit card application form very carefully. I dont know 
exactly what was said to Mr B, but I dont think Barclays made clear it had obtained Mr Bs 
consent to buy the policy. It looks on the application form that Mr B has a choice of Yes or 
No in the PPI section on the form. But it seems an X has been entered in the PPI Yes 
box and the No box has been left blank. On the rest of the form, I can see that ticks  not 
crosses - have been used to choose or decline other optional offers like the balance transfer 
and Card Protection. So I dont think its clear that a cross in the PPI Yes box was clear in 
its message and I think Barclays should have checked this with Mr B that he was consenting 
to buy PPI. But it didnt, so I think this was a failing in the sale. I think this is a fundamental 
requirement for a sale, so I think it is a strong enough reason to uphold this complaint. 
Ive taken into account Barclays comments, including what it said about its adviser following 
all the relevant selling rules and regulations at the time; that the adviser probably entered the 
cross because the typed cross wasnt clear; and that if Mr B had declined PPI, then the 
adviser would have crossed the PPI No box. But I still think it isnt clear that Mr B 
consented to buy PPI due to the way the rest of the form has been completed. 
Putting things right
Barclays Bank plc should put Mr B in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken 
out PPI.
A. Barclays Bank plc should find out how much Mr B would have owed when he closed 
his credit card account if the policy hadnt been added.So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges. 
Barclays Bank plc should then refund the difference between what Mr B owed when he 
closed his account and what he would have owed if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays Bank plc can take off what 
he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
B. Barclays Bank plc should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr B 
would have owed when he closed his account from when he closed it until he gets 
the refund. The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
C. If  when Barclays Bank plc works out what Mr B would have owed each month 
without PPI  Mr B paid more than enough to clear his balance, Barclays Bank plc 
should also pay simple interest on the extra Mr B paid. And it should carry on paying 
interest until the point when Mr B wouldve owed Barclays Bank plc something on his 
credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
D. Barclays Bank plc should tell Mr B what its done to work out A, B and C.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays Bank plc to take off tax from this interest. 
Barclays Bank plc must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks 
for one.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Barclays Bank plc should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman