DRN-3694471
The complaint
Mr J complains that Aviva Insurance Limited delayed in dealing with his claim for an escape 
of water, and they have refused to validate his claim.   
What happened
Mr J was on holiday abroad when he had a water leak from his toilet.
Mr J says his son phoned to tell him and carried out an emergency repair to stop the issue, 
but there was extensive water damage. 
Mr J says that he contacted Aviva to inform them, and it was then three weeks before they 
attended. The water damage had dried out by then.
Aviva say that when they sent out their assessor, Mrs J was at the property with her two 
sons but wasnt able to give a clear answer about how the escape of water had occurred, 
and so they couldnt validate the claim. 
Mr J has complained that Aviva havent settled the claim and feels he is being treated 
unfairly. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Js complaint and he thought that Aviva had acted 
fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms of the policy.    
Mr J disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to decide whether Aviva have acted fairly and reasonably, and properly applied the 
terms of the policy. 
Having considered all the evidence, I am not upholding this complaint, and I will explain why. 
The decision not to validate the claim
Aviva have said they are unable to validate the claim because they say that Mr J hasnt 
provided sufficient evidence that the loss was caused by an insured event.  In other words, 
he hasnt provided evidence that the cause of the leak was one covered by the policy. 
The policy terms require any insurable event to be a one-off event, not a gradual problem 
caused over a period of time, and the onus is on the policyholder to prove that in order to 
validate a claim. 
Page 3 of the policy says
You need to look after your home
Your policy doesnt cover wear and tear, or damage that happens gradually over a period of 
time. So you still need to maintain your home. This sort of damage is most common on 
guttering, flat roofs, fascia boards and boundary walls., so check them regularly. 
It also says:
Proving your loss
If you need to make a claim, you need to prove any loss. So keep hold of any receipts, 
valuations, photographs, instruction booklets and guarantee cards to help with your claim. 
And so, Im satisfied that in asking Mr J to provide information and evidence about the 
source of the leak to show it was a one-off event, Aviva are acting fairly and within the terms 
of the policy. They need to be satisfied that the insurable event has occurred. 
The notes show that when the assessor visited the property, Mrs J and her sons were there, 
and they talked about there being a leak in the toilet but also about there being a leak from 
the shower. They were unable to specifically say where the leak had occurred. 
As no specific leak could be identified, Im satisfied that Aviva acted fairly in advising Mr J 
that they couldnt validate the claim. 
Aviva have advised Mr J that they are willing to consider the claim further if Mr J works with 
their assessor to provide the evidence indicating a one off event, and so this option is still 
open to him. This might be, for example, evidence of the emergency repair, or photographs 
of the leak and the damage at the time it occurred.     
The delay in processing the claim
The incident is reported to have happened on 20 October 2021, but Avivas records only 
show that it was reported to them on 3 November 2021. 
This would seem to be because Mr J was out of the country and his wife was acting on his 
behalf, but his authority needed to be obtained. 
The assessors were appointed on 8 November 2021, and the visited on 11 November 2021. 
The assessor took damp meter readings in the en-suite and bedroom, but these didnt show 
any excess moisture. Aviva accept that this could be because the assessors visit was three 
weeks after the alleged leak and the area may well have dried out by then.  
While there was some delay in the claim assessors visiting the property, I dont consider that 
this was Avivas fault, and although I can also see that this meant that the damp had dried 
out by the date of the visit, this isnt the cause of the issue with the claim. The claim hasnt 
been validated for the reasons above. 
My final decision
My decision is that Aviva Insurance Limited do not need to do anything further.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman