DRN-3189295
The complaint
Mr S complained that Bamboo Limited irresponsibly provided him with unaffordable 
loans.
What happened
Bamboo provided Mr S with a loan as follows:
Date taken Date repaid Number of monthly 
instalmentsLoan 
amountMonthly  
repayment*
10 July 2017 16 September 2019 24 £3,000 £207.29
When Mr S complained to Bamboo it didnt agree it had done anything wrong but offered a 
payment of £500 in full and final settlement of his complaint. 
Mr S didnt feel this went far enough and so he brought his complaint to this Service. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Ss complaint and she set out the steps Bamboo needed to take 
to put things right. 
As far as I can see, Mr S is happy to settle the complaint in the way our investigator 
recommended.
Bamboo disagreed with our investigators view. 
In brief summary, it said that the adverse information on Mr S credit report was historic, he 
had no payday loans and its credit checks showed no signs of financial distress. 
Bamboo said it didnt consider it wouldve been proportionate to ask Mr S to provide bank 
statements at the time as it had a wealth of information on the credit report it obtained. 
It also said that having now seen his bank statements, the information shown wouldnt have 
been a barrier to lending.
Bamboo asked for an ombudsman to review the case. The complaint came to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account things like the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, 
a proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. 
For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Ss case, I have considered the 
following questions:
 Did Bamboo complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr S 
loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? If it did, did Bamboo then make a fair lending decision?
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
Like our investigator, I dont think Bamboo shouldve provided the loan. Ill explain why 
I say this.
Bamboo asked Mr S some questions about his income and did its own checks, which 
included obtaining information about Mr S credit history and it relied on statistical 
information about how much someone in Mr S position typically spent each month on living 
costs. 
Bamboo recorded a figure of £2,850 for Mr S take home pay which included an element of 
overtime. Using national average figures to reflect his living costs and allowing for Mr S spending around £539 on his other credit commitments, Bamboo worked out that, after 
making the monthly repayments for this loan, Mr S would still have around £1,397 spare 
cash. So the loan looked comfortably affordable for him. 
I've taken into account what Bamboo has said about how it calculated the affordability 
of this loan before it agreed to lend to Mr S. But, I dont think Bamboo made a fair 
lending decision when it lent to Mr S based on the information it had gathered because 
I dont think its checks were proportionate.
As the term and the cost of the loan was high, I think reasonable and proportionate checks 
wouldve involved Bamboo obtaining a thorough knowledge of Mr S financial circumstances, 
including evidence. I say this because the monthly cost presented a high risk of becoming 
unaffordable or unsustainable over the term of the loan. Bamboos checks needed to be 
borrower focused. I think it needed to do more to obtain a thorough understanding of Mr S 
overall financial situation to be satisfied he could afford the loan, particularly bearing in mind 
that Bamboo had relied on third party data to establish Mr S income and expenditure but 
seen no direct evidence of his actual pay. And it hadnt particularly enquired, as far as I can 
see or checked, if he had any costs over and above what would be typical for someone in 
his financial situation.
And I dont agree with Bamboo that there were no signs of financial stress at all shown on 
the credit report it acquired. I think its fair for Bamboo to say that seven defaulted accounts 
were historic and so this information was of limited value in terms of making a judgement 
about Mr S present financial situation. But, it was also evident that five of the accounts had 
been unpaid for a number of months despite being on payment arrangements. Our 
investigator also mentioned that Mr S had other current high cost borrowing in an 
arrangement to pay. And he had a recently acquired credit card, taken out only a few months 
earlier, which he had run up close to its credit limit more or less straightaway. 
I think at least some of this information looked to be at odds with the amount of disposable 
income Bamboo thought Mr S had and all this leads me to think, on balance, that Bamboo 
should have carried out a complete review of Mr Ss finances and done more to verify what 
he had told it to ensure a more thorough understanding of his financial circumstances.
So, Ive looked at what I think proportionate checks would likely have shown.
I've looked at bank statements provided by Mr S which I think are a useful guide to 
understanding his overall financial situation at the time  and I am aware that these have 
also been seen now by Bamboo. I've taken into account that Bamboo considers that the 
bank statements dont demonstrate that the loan wasnt affordable and that Mr S was 
choosing to spend a proportion of his disposable income on discretionary expenditure.
But I think, if Bamboo had done a proportionate check before lending, it wouldve seen 
nothing to reassure it that this loan was going to be sustainably affordable for Mr S. It seems 
that Mr S wife was subsidising Mr S current account to help maintain it in credit. And it is 
apparent that Mr S was regularly sending money abroad to support family overseas which 
wasnt a cost reflected in the statistical data Bamboo relied on when assessing affordability.   
I can see that, far from having the amount of disposable income left over each month that 
Bamboo had calculated, in reality Mr S was often struggling to his keep his bank account in 
credit. His pay in the months running up to him taking this loan fell significantly short of the 
figure Bamboo had relied on in its affordability assessment. And had Bamboo used Mr S 
basic pay figure of £2,300 in its affordability assessment (which was closer to the amounts 
he was paid in the run up to applying for this loan) and not assumed he would always receive overtime (which wasnt guaranteed) it wouldve realised that the amount Mr S would 
now be paying for his existing debt plus his new Bamboo loan would typically be almost a 
third of his take home pay. I think this was such a significant proportion of his net pay that 
Bamboo shouldve realised that Mr S was unlikely to be able to maintain the monthly 
repayments in a way that was sustainable over the whole loan term. 
I cant fairly say that I've seen enough to make me think that Bamboos loan helped Mr S to 
improve his financial situation. So I dont currently think Bamboo should have agreed to give 
this loan to Mr S.
The fact that Mr S was able to mostly pay the loan on time and ultimately repay it doesnt 
mean that he was able to do so in a way that was sustainable  so this doesnt affect my 
overall view. 
As Mr S has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on loans 
that he shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of 
what Bamboo did wrong. So, I think Bamboo needs to put things right.
I havent seen enough to make me think that Bamboo acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Mr S some other way. So Im not proposing to award any additional redress over 
and above what I've set out below.
I thank Bamboo for its detailed responses to this complaint. But for all the reasons I have 
explained above, I think it is fair and reasonable for Bamboo to take the following steps to 
put things right.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr S is happy with what I've said in my provisional decision.
Bamboo has said it will review the findings for future guidance but otherwise has no further 
comments to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and Bamboo for responding so promptly and constructively to my provisional decision. 
Given that Ive not received any further evidence or comment that changes my mind about 
this complaint, I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
In line with this Services approach, Mr S shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he 
borrowed when he took out the loan. But he has had to pay interest and charges on a loan 
that shouldnt have been provided to him  which isnt fair or reasonable. 
I understand the loan was repaid in full. With this in mind, Bamboo should:  add up the total amount of money Mr S received as a result of being given the 
loan (not including anything already refunded).The payments Mr S made should 
be deducted from this amount 
 
if this results in Mr S having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement) 
remove any adverse information placed on Mr Ss credit file regarding these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo to take off tax from this interest. Bamboo must 
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it takes off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr S complaint and direct Bamboo Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman