DRN-2600906
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with the way that Aviva Insurance Limited dealt with his home insurance 
claim for storm damage to his fence and conservatory roof.  
What happened
In February 2020 Mr T made a claim to Aviva following a storm. Part of his fence had blown 
down and water was leaking through his conservatory roof. There was also some damage to 
his main roof and garden shed.  
Aviva appointed a loss adjuster who arranged for an assessor to look at the property. He 
came to the conclusion that the damage wasnt due to storm, but to wear and tear, and 
advised declining the claim. After a review of the claim Aviva agreed to pay for the shed and 
main roof repairs, initially without VAT, but it later paid the VAT. After speaking to Mr Ts 
contractor about the conservatory roof, who advised that the seals were not damaged, so 
Aviva agreed to pay for the temporary repairs. It paid £100 towards the cost of the fence as 
its assessor had removed some panels, but after reconsideration of that, paid the full 
amount. It rounded up its final payment to include £48 for the inconvenience caused. 
Mr T was unhappy as he said his signature had been forged on the assessors report. Aviva 
advised him to contact the police. He did so but he was told it was an internal matter for 
Aviva. Aviva subsequently said if the police had decided not to investigate, it could take the 
matter no further.
On referral to this service our investigator said that Aviva had paid for the damaged parts of 
the house, but that in light of the extra inconvenience caused to Mr T she said Aviva should 
pay a further £100. Aviva agreed to this but Mr T remained unhappy.
The matter has been passed for further consideration.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I believe Mr T accepts that he has now been paid the full amount, including VAT, for the 
damage to the main roof, shed, fence and conservatory roof. Just for clarity Ive checked the 
payments made against the invoice from Mr Ts contractor, and it does appear to me that 
Mr T has been paid the full amount of that invoice.
Ive further considered Mr Ts complaint about his signature appearing at the end of the first 
assessors report. Aviva has maintained this is a matter for the police. And whilst I 
understand Mr Ts annoyance, he has been paid the full amount of his claim so if the 
signature wasnt his, it hasnt made any difference to the overall claim. So I wont require 
Aviva to do anything further in that respect.
I do think Mr T was caused some inconvenience and also some anxiety when he believed 
Aviva said hed accepted the first report. That report was followed up by a desktop report 
after Mr T sent in more photos and after speaking to Mr Ts contractor Aviva accepted the 
claim for the conservatory roof and the fence. It took about three months for the claim to be 
resolved which I accept was too long for a straightforward claim. And Mr T, having bought a 
policy which included fence cover was disturbed that the first assessor believed he wasnt 
covered, that the initial report was being relied on and that it was thought hed accepted it.
Putting things right
Mr T has received a payment of £48 in respect of the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Our investigator proposed a further £100 payment. I think that, in total, is fair and reasonable 
and in line with awards we have made in similar cases. So Aviva should pay a further £100 
compensation.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Aviva Insurance Limited to act in accordance with what 
Ive said under Putting things right above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman