DRN-2938759
The complaint
Mrs P has complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limited. She isnt happy that it 
wouldnt deal with a claim under her motor insurance policy and the costs she 
subsequently faced. 
What happened
Mrs Ps husband, a named driver on her policy, was involved in an accident when he was 
under the influence of alcohol. He was prosecuted for drink driving and so Admiral turned 
down the claim as the policy doesnt cover anyone found to be over the legal limit for alcohol 
or drugs. However, Admiral was obliged to deal with the claim under the Road Traffic Act 
which it did. And then it looked to recover its costs from Mrs P and the named driver.
But Mrs P wasnt happy about the way Admiral dealt with the claim. She wanted to defend 
the third-party claim and was surprised to find the costs of the claim had risen significantly a 
few years later, especially as she hadnt heard anything more from Admiral. 
Admiral acknowledged its delays and poor communication and offered £250 by way of 
compensation. But as Mrs P wasnt happy she complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for her but didnt uphold her complaint. Although she 
agreed that Admiral should have kept her up to date about the claim and that its service was 
poor she thought that its offer of £250 compensation was fair for this. And, although she 
sympathised with Mrs Ps position she didnt think Admiral had done anything wrong in 
relation to the claim. As Mrs Ps husband was drink driving he wasnt insured under the 
policy and so Admiral was entitled to deal with the claim under the Road Traffic Act and 
recover its costs.
Mrs P didnt feel Admirals offer of compensation was enough to cover the stress and 
inconvenience caused by Admiral and so the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mrs Ps complaint. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to her, but Ill explain why. 
I can understand how difficult Mrs P has found all of this. I agree that Admiral could and 
should have kept her up to date about the spiralling costs it faced in dealing with this claim. It 
took a while for the third party to put forward details regarding personal injury and for the 
claim to be settled. Admiral shouldve kept Mrs P up to date about this. But, as our 
investigator has explained, it had to deal with the claim. As the named driver was found 
guilty at court in relation to drink driving offences it was obliged under the Road Traffic Act to 
deal with the third-party claim. And as the named driver wasnt insured Admiral can look to 
recover its costs.
Mrs P seems to accept this and that it would be difficult for Admiral to dispute liability as the 
named driver was under the influence of alcohol at the time of the accident. I note that 
Admiral did try and negotiate a 50//50 settlement but as the other side didnt agree it settled 
the claim on a without prejudice basis. 
However, I know Mrs P is suspicious about the level of costs, especially the medical costs, 
involved in this case. And given the low level of damage to her vehicle this is 
understandable. But I think Admiral acted fairly here. Mrs Ps car was bigger, and the other 
car sustained more damage and injury can be sustained at relatively low speeds. And the 
two personal injury claims were supported by medical reports and they had been seen by a 
medical examiner and undertaken physio, so I think Admiral acted reasonably in paying 
these costs. Mrs P wouldve liked Admiral to go to court but given the evidence I dont think it 
acted unreasonably. And this would have escalated costs, which Mrs P and the named 
driver were responsible for, so I think it acted reasonably.
The main thing that Mrs P is still unhappy about is the level of compensation Admiral has 
offered her in relation to the poor communication and service she received. It is accepted by 
all that Admiral should have kept her fully up to date about the claim, especially the personal 
injury claims and spiralling costs. Given that Mrs P and the named driver were ultimately 
responsible for the costs it must have been a shock to realise that the costs had potentially 
gone from around £3,000 to £16,000 given the personal injury claims. Although the final 
figure dropped to around £12,000 I can understand why this was so stressful for Mrs P. 
Admiral initially offered £150 by way of compensation in acknowledgement of the way it 
handled this and the failure to keep Mrs P up to date, which it increased to £250. But I dont 
think any amount of compensation would ease the stress all this caused Mrs P. I say this as 
the main stress and worry stems from the fact that Mrs P and the named driver are 
responsible for the costs. 
So, although Mrs P wants significantly more compensation than this I think Admirals offer is 
fair. And despite my natural sympathy for Mrs P (as she didnt choose to drive under the 
influence, her partner did) Im not asking Admiral to do anything further. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman