DRN-3333350
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy Wise Payments Limited wont refund payments he made to a fraudster.
What happened
Between late August 2020 and early October 2020, Mr B made six payments utilising Wises 
services, totalling £11,600 to payees based overseas. He believed the payments were made 
as part of a legitimate investment but, unfortunately, he was actually paying fraudsters.
It wasnt until mid-2021 that Mr B reported the matter to Wise. He complained that it hadnt 
done enough to protect him from fraud. Wise said that, as Mr B had made the payments 
himself and it could not be responsible for the actions of recipients, it wouldnt provide a 
refund. It also said it had attempted, where possible, to recover Mr Bs money but hadnt 
been successful.
One of our investigators didnt uphold the complaint. They were of the view that the 
transactions Mr B made wouldnt have appeared unusual or out of character to Wise, so it 
hadnt made a mistake in processing them. The investigator was also satisfied with Wises 
attempts to recover the funds.
Mr B asked for the matter to be considered again  so the complaint was passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Mr B authorised these transactions and that means that under the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the terms of his account he is presumed liable for 
the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider Wise 
should fairly and reasonably:
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which payment service providers are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer. 
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases decline to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Its important to note that Mr B only opened his Wise account in late August 2020 and he 
didnt instruct it to make any payments, other than the disputed transactions. As such, Wise 
would have no legitimate activity to compare those transactions against and therefore no 
real basis for deciding that the transactions were unusual or out of character.
The payments were all international, but I understand making international payments is the 
main reason Wises customers use its services. So it would be difficult to say that such 
activity ought to have stood out for this reason either.
The amounts of the payments, though clearly not insignificant, wouldnt alone be enough to 
give Wise any cause for concern. The payments were also spread out over more than a 
month. Again, this pattern of activity would make it harder for Wise to recognise Mr B was at 
risk of financial harm from fraud.
Overall, I dont think Wise acted unfairly by letting the payments proceed, as it would have 
no reason to think that they were made as a result of fraud. 
Finally, Im satisfied that Wise did enough to try and recover Mr Bs funds  it contacted the 
banks which received five of the payments but didnt receive a response. I understand that 
there was no attempt to recover one of the payments as it went to a jurisdiction that, 
according to Wise, requires a local police report to be filed for a recall attempt to be valid. I 
can see that Wise passed this information back to Mr Bs bank (as it had tried to recall the 
funds from Wise). I think these actions were reasonable and, Im afraid, given that the scam 
was reported to Wise many months after it took place, the possibility of recovery was always 
going to be remote. 
My final decision
I know this will be disappointing for Mr B, but for the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold 
this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman