DRN-2495642
The complaint
Miss M complains Lowell Portfolio I Ltd havent refunded money relating to a debt with them 
she says they should.
What happened
Miss M had a debt with a bank, who Ill call Bank A, which Lowell bought. In March 2020 
Bank A wrote to Miss M saying theyd completed a review of some accounts and realised a 
refund of around £950 was due to her. They also explained as she had an outstanding 
balance with Lowell, the refund was paid to them.
Miss M called Bank A and said there was no outstanding balance with Lowell  but Bank A 
said they wouldnt have sent the refund to Lowell unless theyd confirmed there was an 
outstanding balance. Miss M said this wasnt right, because Lowell had said theyd written off 
the balance  so she got in touch with Lowell and asked them to confirm this to Bank A so 
she could be sent the refund. Lowell said the refund had been offset against the outstanding 
debt. But, as Miss M understood this to have been written off, she felt she was due the 
refund directly so complained.
Lowell replied to Miss M and said they could see in May 2019 theyd written to her saying 
they decided to close her account and remove the default. They explained this wasnt 
because they didnt believe the account was hers, but this was done as a gesture of 
goodwill. And they said as the account wasnt repaid in full, the refund was applied to the 
balance that was owed before the account had been closed.
Miss M was unhappy with this and asked us to look into things. One of our investigators did 
so. During her investigations Lowell explained they took the decision to stop asking Miss M 
to repay the debt, because they couldnt provide certain documents due to the time thatd 
passed. But they still felt it was appropriate for the refund to be applied to the balance.
Our investigator considered all of the evidence but felt that Lowell had acted fairly by 
applying the refund to the balance of the debt owed before the account was closed. Because 
of this, she didnt recommend Lowell return the refund to Miss M.
Miss M wasnt happy with this, saying theyd zeroed her balance, and removed it from her 
credit file so still felt the money should be refunded. As a result of this, the complaints been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, while I appreciate this will be disappointing for Miss M, Ive decided not 
to uphold her complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy of the Notice of Assignment (NoA) which shows Lowell bought the debt 
from Bank A. This was sent to Miss M in December 2016, and Ive also seen payments have 
been made by her to Lowell since then. So, based on the information I have it seems Miss M 
doesnt dispute the debt was hers and that the amount owed, around £5,800, was owed by 
her.
Miss M hasnt really disputed the debt is hers  more that she thinks Lowell effectively wrote 
off her debt, so the refund from Bank A should be hers. To evidence her point, shes 
provided us with a copy of the letter she received in May 2019, which is where Lowell said 
theyd decided to close the account. Miss M has also pointed out this letter says, Balance 
£0.00.
The letter does say theres a zero balance, so I can see why Miss M would focus on this and 
combined with Lowell saying theyd closed her account its understandable shed think the 
refund is due to her.
But Lowell have explained they made a business decision to close the account and not ask 
Miss M for repayment because they couldnt provide the relevant documents needed to do 
so. I think this is different from saying no money is outstanding. As Ive mentioned above, the 
debt was around £5,800 at the time the account was closed on their systems. I do note 
Miss M has pointed to the letter saying the balance is £0.00, but I dont think this changes 
the fact the debt hadnt been repaid.
So, thinking about whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Miss Ms case  it 
seems the debt was accrued by her, and the debt remained outstanding on Lowells books. 
Because of this, I think Lowell have acted fairly in applying the refund to the outstanding 
balance rather than allowing for it to be paid to her directly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman