DRN-3293003
The complaint
Miss B is unhappy Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax hasnt reimbursed funds she sent 
to a scam.
What happened
Miss B was contacted on social media by a stranger and invited to invest with them. They 
later threatened Miss B in order to get more funds from her. Miss B sent this person several 
payments using her debit card by two different third parties before realising this was a scam. 
Miss B complained to Halifax as well as both payment service providers. She received a 
refund from one but the payments she sent from the other werent refunded. She asked 
Halifax to cover the cost of these payments as shed been the victim of a scam.
Halifax didnt agree to refund Miss B as it said that it was a matter between her and the 
payment service provider. It had sent money via this firm on Miss Bs request and so shed 
used her account with the other party to send money onto the scammer. Miss B disagreed 
and brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said Halifax hadnt needed to intervene as 
the payments werent of a very high value or unusual for Miss B, she used this payment 
service provider before. And it had no ability to recover the funds via chargeback due to the 
way they were paid through the payment service provider and so Halifax didnt send the 
money direct to the scammer. Miss B asked for a decision as she said shed hoped shed 
receive some money back as the victim of fraud.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept Miss B has been the victim of a scam and has lost funds, but I see no reason that 
Halifax is required to cover this cost. Miss B was contacted by a stranger and agreed to send 
them money. I cant see that she verified this person or the further contact she received after 
making the first payment. Halifax wasnt party to the scam and as Miss B sent all these 
payments through another firm, it had no interaction with her.
I accept the amounts were significant to Miss B, but in terms of general banking practices 
they are low amounts. We would expect a bank to intervene if someone if sending a high 
amounts that are out of character. But the highest payment sent in this case was £502.99, 
so not an amount wed reasonably expect a bank to block or intervene with, especially when 
its sent in the way this was. Halifax simply processed Miss Bs instruction via the other firm 
and sent the money as she requested. And I cant say it was wrong to do this. 
As Miss B used the other firm to make the payment, Halifax isnt able to successfully attempt 
a chargeback claim. And as this was a debit card payment other fraud protection codes dont 
apply. So there isnt any way for Halifax to recover Miss Bs funds for her. And I cant fairly 
say it should reimburse her and therefore it pay this cost, when its done nothing wrong.
I understand that losing money to this scam has had a big impact on Miss B and made her 
financial situation much more difficult. I do empathise with the position shes in, but I dont 
agree it would be fair for Halifax to bear the cost of this scam, as it didnt make any errors in 
processing the payments or later declining to refund her.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman