DRN-2819110
The complaint
Mr M, who is a director of F, brings a complaint on Fs behalf. Mr M feel that
Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) shouldve carried out more checks before processing a 
payment he sent to a fraudster.
What happened
In April 2019 Mr M received an email he understood to be from one of Fs regular clients. 
The email contained an invoice and asked Mr M to send the payment to a different account 
to the one it had made payments to previously. 
Mr M sent the first payment of £10,000 which was the maximum he could transfer in one go 
on 12 April 2019 and sent a further payment of around £1,400 a few days later.
According to Barclays records, when sending the second payment, Mr M noticed some 
typos and strange text in the email containing the invoice and grew suspicious. He contacted 
the client he thought the invoice had come from and discovered the email with the new bank 
details and invoice had been sent by a scammer.
Mr M contacted Barclays to report the scam on 15 April 2019. Barclays contacted the 
receiving bank the same day to attempt to recall the funds but the majority had been 
removed from the account and only around £800 could be retrieved. This was returned to F 
in June 2019.
Mr M made a complaint to Barclays. He said it shouldve done more to check the payment 
before it was sent. Had it done so, it wouldve discovered the name on the account didnt 
match the account details and F wouldnt have lost the funds.
Barclays responded to the complaint. It said it correctly followed Mr Ms payment instruction 
and when informed of the scam it had acted swiftly in contacting the receiving bank to recall 
the funds. So it felt it had acted fairly and wasnt liable for the loss F had suffered.
Mr M asked us to look into the complaint. Our investigator didnt uphold it. They explained 
Barclays wasnt required to check the names on the accounts matched. They also didnt feel 
the payment was significantly unusual activity as transfers of this amount were frequently 
made from Fs account. So they didnt feel Barclays ought to have intervened or carried out 
any further checks before the transfer was processed.
Mr M didnt accept their findings. He said:
Barclays shouldve checked the name of the account holder matched the account 
details hed provided.
Barclays shouldve done more to inform him no further checks were being carried out 
before he made the payment
He said he didnt authorise the payment as the account holder name hed given 
Barclays wasnt the party that received the money. And hed only authorised payment 
to the party hed named.
As Mr M didnt accept the investigators findings the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Did Mr M authorise the payments?
The relevant regulation in this case is the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs). In 
effect, the PSRs set out that a payment has been authorised when the payer, in this case 
Mr M who has authority to act on behalf of F, has consented to, and then made a payment 
instruction in line with the agreed processes set out within the terms and conditions of the 
account.
It isnt disputed Mr M consented to the payment. Hes confirmed he gave the instruction for 
the money to leave Fs account. And according to Barclays records he did this by logging on 
to Fs online banking, using the correct security information and following the expected 
process to make an online transfer  providing the account details he wanted the money 
paid to. 
And in the terms and conditions, under the section Making payments out of your account 
Barclays sets out that for UK accounts it needs the account number and sort code. It 
appears this information was provided by Mr M, and Barclays made the payment to the 
account number and sort code provided to it.
So whilst Ive considered Mr Ms point that they didnt want the payment to be made to the 
individual that ultimately received it, authorisation in this context is whether Mr M gave 
Barclays clear instruction, in line with the terms and conditions of the account. And as he did, 
Im satisfied he authorised the payment.
Should Barclays have intervened when Mr M made the payment?
As Im satisfied Mr M authorised the payments on behalf of F under the PSRs, and the terms 
and conditions of the account, F is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
But Ive also taken into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. As such I think 
Barclays should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. Having considered the transaction history of Fs account I can see online transfers are 
frequently made to other accounts for similar amounts as the £10,000 paid to the scammer. 
In fact, in the same month Mr M made this payment, several other, seemingly legitimate 
payments for similar or significantly larger amounts were made to various other accounts. 
And whilst the disputed payment may have been to a new payee, it doesnt seem 
significantly unusual that a business might need to make payments to a new payee from 
time to time. 
Barclays has to strike a balance when monitoring its customers accounts. I wouldnt 
reasonably expect it to block every transaction thats put through a business account in order 
to carry out further checks. This would likely cause delays and severely impact the operation 
of the business. Overall I dont think the payment Mr M made to the scammer was 
significantly unusual. So I dont think Barclays needed to take any additional steps before 
processing it.
Mr M has argued Barclays shouldve checked the company name provided in the payee 
details. But at the time payment was made, it wasnt a requirement for Barclays to check 
with the receiving bank that the name of the account holder matched the account number 
and sort code. So I think its reasonable it didnt check this.
Mr M has said Barclays shouldve better informed it that it didnt check this information 
before it made online payment. But this was standard practice at the time. And as Ive 
mentioned above the terms and conditions set out that the sort code and account number 
are the only details required when making a transfer. 
It appears online transfers have been made from Fs account for some time. If Mr M wanted 
more information about the process Barclays followed when processing these transfers, 
other than the information provided in the terms and conditions, I think it wouldve been 
reasonable for him to ask Barclays about this.
Did Barclays do enough to retrieve the funds?
Barclays records indicate it contacted the receiving bank the same day Mr M reported the 
fraud to request the return of any funds that remained. Its not clear how quickly it did so.  
But Ive seen evidence from the receiving bank that, by that date, the majority of the funds 
had already been removed by the scammers. All that remained was the amount of around 
£800 that was returned to F. So Im satisfied Barclays couldnt have done more to try and 
retrieve the funds.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman