Page 1 of 7The complaint
Mrs D has complained about the delays she experienced when transferring her ISA account 
from St Jamess Place Investment Administration Limited (SJP) to another platform. She 
says she suffered massive inconvenience and frustration and serious delay in transferring 
funds. She wants financial compensation and an apology. 
Mrs Ds husband has a similar complaint and some of the contact between the parties I refer 
to was made by Mr D but for ease of reading I shall refer to Mrs D.
What happened
Mrs D held an ISA with SJP which she wanted to transfer to another platform who I shall 
refer to as Company B. 
Mrs D completed Company Bs ISA transfer application form in November 2020 and sent 
this onto Company B. Mrs D didnt hear anything further and contacted SJP and was told it 
hadnt received the ISA transfer application form from Company B.
As requested, Mrs D re-sent the form to SJP via email and also by recorded delivery. 
After additional contact between Mrs D, SJP and Company B the transfer of the ISA was 
completed on 27 January 2021. 
Mrs D was very concerned about the lost ISA application form sent in November. She had 
been told by Company B this had been emailed to SJP on 12 November and Company B 
had chased SJP about it. There had been problems with the acceptance letter Company B 
had sent to SJP in order for the transfer to be completed. Mrs D was also concerned about 
the settlement for the ISA being made by cheque instead of a bank transfer which would 
take more time for the ISA transfer to complete. 
Mrs D complained to SJP. In its response on 22 January 2021 SJP said:
It apologised for its failure to respond sooner to Mrs Ds issues which had been
raised by her husband on 23 December.
It confirmed it had received ISA transfer application form for Mrs Ds account on
18 December 2020. It advised the address that the form should have been sent to
was Company B. As SJP hadnt so far received an acceptance letter from
Company B it was unable to proceed with the transfer.
It said that on 6 January 2021 SJP had forwarded Mrs Ds ISA transfer application to
Company B and to date it had not received an acceptance letter and remained
DRN-3126290Page 2 of 7unable to transfer the ISA until it did. 
Mrs D was unhappy with the response and brought her complaint to this service. She said:
She had completed an ISA transfer application on 2 November 2020.  Company B 
processed that application and sent it to SJPs administration centre. Mrs D was told 
by SJPs administration centre on 16 December it had no record of her ISA transfer 
request. Mrs D sent a further copy of her ISA transfer application and which was 
signed for by SJP on 18 December. 
On 8 January 2021 SJP wrote to Mrs D asking her to send the ISA transfer 
application to Company B. And that SJP needed a letter from Company B to confirm 
that it would accept the transfer. Mrs D said she was told by Company B it didnt 
need to send an acceptance letter and it hadnt been asked to do so for previous 
transfers for other customers. Its transfer application form contained sufficient 
instruction for the ceding scheme provider.
Mrs D said Company B spoke with SJP who confirmed that Mrs Ds application had 
been included with other customers application, but her application wasnt 
processed. Following a conversation between Company B and SJP it was agreed the 
transfer could go ahead without the covering letter. SJP sent cheques instead of 
bank transfers. Mrs D said that SJPs administration procedures caused the delay 
and considerable distress to her.
SJPs final response letter to her complaint didnt refer to all the issues she had 
identified, and she didnt think it had been investigated or that the organisation 
communicated within its internal departments. 
Mrs D thought the handling of her transfer application through to her complaint to be 
incompetent, insulting, and insensitive. She said she may have been financially 
disadvantaged because of the delays. 
Our investigator who considered the complaint didnt think it should be upheld. She said:
She outlined SJPs terms and conditions regarding ISA transfers and Government 
guidelines which were that the transfer of a stocks and shares ISAs should be 
completed within 30 days. 
The ISA transfer form Mrs D completed on 2 November stated that it should be sent 
to Company B, but it had been sent to SJP, so it was reasonable to say the 30 day 
transfer process hadnt started at that point. 
SJP confirmed it hadnt received any contact from Company B prior to receiving the 
ISA transfer application she had sent in December so hadnt been able to proceed 
with the transfer. The application sent in November included the address for another 
department within SJP rather than its administration centre, so it was likely the 
correct department hadnt received the application sent in November. 
After Mrs D had expressed her concerns SJP had contacted Company B. As a result, 
concession was granted to proceed with the transfer without the correct paperwork or 
process being followed which the investigator thought was a reasonable outcome 
and showed SJP had acted fairly towards Mrs D. 
SJP had confirmed the ISA withdrawal of £23,350.74 as at the valuation point of     
22 January 2021 and settlement was completed on 27 January. 
In conclusion, the investigator didnt think SJP had acted unfairly, it had transferred 
Mrs Ds ISA within a reasonable timeframe and outside of its procedures. 
Mrs D didnt agree with the investigator. She said, in brief:Page 3 of 7SJP had previously processed applications by email due to the pandemic and Mrs D 
had sent the second application by recorded delivery, the same day that SJP 
requested it. 
During the call with Company B, SJP had agreed it was at fault and processed the 
application without the covering acceptance letter. 
The original November ISA application had been sent by email to Company B and 
Company B had emailed that onto SJP on or after 12 November. Company B also 
chased SJP for updates. 
Mrs D couldnt accept that SJP didnt receive the original application. She would have 
expected such a large business to be able to redirect mail. And Company B had sent 
the November application to SJP.
It was Company B who contacted SJP and SJP had admitted its errors. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved it has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is conflicting evidence and testimony on file for this case. When the evidence or 
testimony is incomplete or contradictory, I have to make my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  which, in other words, means I base my decision on what I think is most likely 
to have happened given the available evidence and the wider circumstances. And without 
wishing to be appear discourteous to Mrs D, Ill be addressing what I consider the most 
salient points of her complaint with reference to the actual transfer itself and any identifiable 
delays caused by SJP.
The crux of this complaint is whether SJP received the November 2020 ISA transfer 
application. And if it didnt, did SJP process the second transfer request sent in December in 
a timely way. 
For ease of reference Ill first briefly outline what SJP has agreed should happen during an 
ISA transfer  
The customer completes an ISA transfer application form and sends this to the new 
platform  in this case Company B.
Company B then contacts the ceding company, SJP, with the ISA transfer 
application.
SJP agrees the transfer with Company B.
Company B provides SJP with an acceptance letter for the ISA and the transfer 
proceeds. 
The application sent in November
Mrs D has given us a copy of her ISA transfer application which I see is signed by her and 
dated 2 November 2020. The instruction at the top of the form is for the completed transfer 
application to be sent to Company Bs address and that it required a wet signature for 
transfers. I note the address for the transferring ISA manager details   was given as SJPs 
head office address rather than its administration centre.  Page 4 of 7Mrs D has said she sent her original ISA application form onto Company B and that it was 
emailed onto SJPs office by Company B on or after 12 November 2020. We asked SJP 
about this and it confirmed that it doesnt have any records of being contacted or chased by 
Company B about that application. The first internal notes recorded by SJP about Mrs Ds 
ISA transfer application dont start until 18 December. 
I cant know what happened to that application. Mrs D has said that Company B emailed that 
form on to SJP and chased but I havent seen any evidence of that. SJP has told us it wasnt 
received. And as mentioned above the address for SJP given on the application form was 
SJPs head office rather than its administration centre. 
So, it could be the case that the form was directed to the incorrect recipient address. If it was 
emailed, SJP has confirmed to us it wasnt accepting emailed instructions despite what    
Mrs D says she was told by Company B. But if that was the case, I would have expected 
there to have been some record that the email was received (even if it was rejected by SJP 
for any reason) but there arent any records to that effect. 
In the absence of anything to confirm that the application was sent to SJP by Company B - 
by whichever delivery method  and the lack of any internal notes by SJP to show receipt, 
Im not persuaded it was more likely the application was received by SJP any earlier than it 
has already told us. If it had been, I would have expected action to have been taken and to 
see some sort of record, similar to those internal notes SJP has provided us for the 
December application and there arent any. 
As I dont have any evidence to show the application was received by SJP, my conclusion is 
that its most likely the first SJP knew about Mrs Ds ISA transfer application was on 18 
December 2020 when its records start. 
I appreciate Mrs D will be frustrated by my conclusion, but Im not persuaded, on the balance 
of probabilities, that its most likely SJP received the ISA transfer application form any earlier 
than indicated by its records. As Ive said, we do have records from 18 December onwards 
and I would have expected to see the same or similar if anything had been received sooner 
than that, even if the form was rejected, for whatever reason. 
As Ive reached this conclusion, I now have to consider what, in my option, is the second 
main element of the complaint and that is whether SJP transferred the ISA to Company B in 
timely manner after it received the re-sent application. 
The application sent in December 
Mrs D has said in December she re-sent the ISA transfer application directly to SJP, rather 
than company B, as advised by SJPs administration centre during a call with Mr D. SJP has 
confirmed it was received but said that the form clearly shows it should have been sent to 
Company B. 
Ive carefully listened to the call recording of Mr Ds discussion with SJP on                         
16 December 2020. Mr D requested an update on the progress of his ISA transfer instruction 
and commented that Mrs D was in the same position. After completing Mr Ds security 
questions SJPs representative asked when the transfer request was sent or when the 
opposite plan manager sent it. Mr D confirmed that the application had been sent around a 
month earlier. 
The representative confirmed that it hadnt been received and gave examples of why this 
may have happened  the opposite plan manager not sending it on, it being lost in the post 
or being sent to the wrong address. She advised that Mr D should contact Company B about Page 5 of 7the missing application and that Company B could either send the application via the Altus 
system (if Company B used that system) or that it could forward it onto SJPs administration 
office by post for which she gave the address.  
It looks as though Mrs Ds understanding of the call was that she should re-send her form to 
SJP  which was received on 18 December  instead of Company B, rather than contacting 
Company B and advising it to send the form she had already sent in November onto SJP via 
the two methods outlined by the SJP representative. 
As Ive said above, SJP has confirmed the first time it received any ISA transfer application 
correspondence was on 18 December 2020 which ties in with the dates referred to by Mrs D 
when re-sending the application. 
The ISA transfer
Ive reviewed SJPs file and notes. Briefly;
on 18 December, those notes show the transfer was rejected because of a lack of an 
acceptance letter from Company B. And that the inbound document  which I take to 
mean the ISA transfer application  needed to be sent onto the ISA transfer team at 
company B. 
There is a note dated 30 December which requested that correspondence be sent to 
Company B asking for an acceptance letter as SJP was unable to transfer the ISA 
without it. 
The ISA transfer application form was sent onto Company B on 6 January 2021. 
Mrs D was written to on 8 January 2021 by SJP advising that for it to be able to 
action her transfer request she would need to send her transfer form to Company B. 
It said Company B would then send it an acceptance letter to enable it to proceed. 
Mrs D says she was told by Company B that it did not send acceptance letters, it hadnt 
been asked to do so for previous transfers to SJP and the transfer application itself 
contained sufficient instruction. In order to expediate the transfer of the ISA I can see there 
was a call between SJP and Company B about customer experience (including the need for 
physical forms and payment methods) and which was followed up by emails on                  
11 January 2021 and after. There was clearly some confusion about the wording needed in 
an additional transfer letter and it was questioned as to why Mrs D had been treated 
differently to other customers whose transfers had been actioned. 
SJP has confirmed that it had received only one acceptance covering letter from Company B 
for several transfers, and the cover letter wasnt scanned onto Mrs Ds account in error, 
hence the transfer not going ahead as it should have done like the other customers 
transfers that did take place. But its clear that this was resolved when a representative from 
SJP confirmed that as a concession the transfer of Mrs Ds ISA could go ahead in any event. 
So, while there is evidence an administrative error did occur, it was recognised and resolved, 
and I dont think it had any significant impact in the overall timing of the transfer. 
Settlement
Mrs D has said a cheque payment was sent rather than a bank transfer (BACS) when the 
ISA transfer was completed which caused a delay of around ten days as the cheque had to 
be cancelled and a BACS payment made. 
Ive looked through the notes and conversations between SJP and Company B and can see 
cheque payments are referred to but not for Mrs Ds account. And I note that in an email from SJP to Company B on 21 January 2021 it said that to allow for redemptions to settle 
(the proceeds fro m sale of the ISA holdings) the money should be with Company B in five 
working days. There is also an internal note dated 22 January 2021 confirming SJP had 
asked Company B for BACS details. And the account was settled on 27 January so I cant 
conclude there were payme nt delays.
SJPs response to Mrs Ds complaint
In SJPs response of 22 January 2021 to Mrs Ds complaint it said that on      
6 Janua ry 2021 SJP had forwarded Mrs Ds ISA transfer application to Company B  and to 
date it had not received an acceptan ce letter from Company B and remained unabl e to 
transfer the ISA until it did. Clearl y 
this was wrong and SJP have confirmed this was an 
oversig ht as the complaint handler wasnt aware of the agreement reache d between SJP 
and Company B about the transfer of the ISA going ahead without all of the paperwork. 
I can appreciate thi s caused Mrs D some considerable frustration and no doubt confusion, 
but the complaint and the ISA transfer itself were ongoing simultaneously and being dealt 
with by two different parties at SJP within a short time span. So, I dont find the 
misinformation given in that letter to be deliberate or was designed to confuse. 
As Ive said abo ve, Ive concluded Im not persuaded  for whatever reason  the ISA 
transfer application Mrs D sent in November was ever received by SJP. And I think its most 
likely the first SJP was aware of the ISA transfer application was on 1 8 December 2020 as 
suppo
rted by SJPs notes. 
So, Ive considered whether  from 18 December 2020 to 27 January 2021  was a 
reasonable time period for SJP to have completed that transfer. Clearly there were some 
problems with the paperwork th at was required  as evidenced by the cal ls and emails 
between SJP and Company B  but that was resolved by SJP agreeing that the transfer 
could go ahead. And I also accept that Mrs D was misinformed in SJPs response to her 
complaint which must have been confusing. 
But bearing in mind the Christmas and New Year breaks, where there would be less staff in 
the office and the inevitable delays, I dont think a transfer time of just over five weeks to be 
unreasonable. 
Mrs D has said she may have been financially disadvantaged because of the delays. But Ive 
seen nothing to persuade me that s appropriate in thi s case. Mrs D s investments remained 
intact until they were sold prior to the transfer and I cant reasonably award redress based on 
hypothetical losses. In this instance Im not persuaded that Mrs D i s entitled to redress (for 
potential losses claimed ) just because she experienced issu es with the transfer of her 
holdings. 
As Ive said abo ve, I think the crux of this complaint is whether SJP received the November 
ISA application and if it didnt, did it process the subsequent application in a reasonable 
timeframe.
In conclusion, I think its most likel y the first SJP became aware of the ISA transfer 
application was on 1 8 December as I havent seen a nything to the contrary. I accept that 
there were so me administrative failings but overall, once the December application was 
being processed and the transfe r subsequentl y agreed with Company B, I dont think those 
failings had any significant impact on the timing of the transfer. And I havent found any 
evidence of delays in the final settlement of the ISA transfer.
Page 6 of 7Page 7 of 7Id like to thank Mrs D for the effort she has made in bringing her complaint and I appreciate 
her strength of feeling about the issues surrounding her complaint. Its clear she was 
regularly in contact with SJP in order to progress the ISA transfer which must have been 
time consuming and frustrating for her. 
I realise Mrs D wont be happy with my conclusion. But I hope I have been able to explain 
why and how, in the individual circumstances of this complaint I have reached the decision 
that I have. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman