DRN-3238104
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money (MCF) lent to her 
in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
Mrs H was given two loans by MCF. She first borrowed £2,000 in January 2020 that she 
agreed to repay in 12 monthly instalments. Around seven months later Mrs H refinanced her 
first loan, and took £3,450 of additional borrowing. So in July 2020 Mrs H borrowed 
£4,546.44 that she agreed to repay in 24 monthly instalments. A balance remained 
outstanding on Mrs Hs second loan when she made her complaint.
Mrs Hs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think that there 
was sufficient evidence to conclude that MCF shouldnt have given the first loan to Mrs H. 
But she thought the results of MCFs checks should have led the lender to conclude that, at 
the time she asked for the second loan, Mrs H was facing problems managing her money. 
So she didnt think MCF should have agreed to give the second loan to Mrs H, and she 
asked the lender to pay Mrs H some compensation.
MCF didnt agree that it had been wrong to give the second loan to Mrs H. So, as the 
complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
decide. This is the last stage of our process. If Mrs H accepts my decision it is legally binding 
on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mrs Hs complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time MCF gave these loans to Mrs H required it to carry out 
a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay what she 
owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so MCF had to think about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mrs H. In practice 
this meant that MCF had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Mrs H undue 
difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for MCF to simply think 
about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of any 
repayments on Mrs H. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether MCF did what it needed to before agreeing to lend 
to Mrs H.
MCF gathered some information from Mrs H before it agreed the first loan. It asked her for 
details of her income, and her normal expenditure. It then used some industry statistical data 
to ensure that Mrs Hs declared expenditure was realistic. And it checked Mrs Hs credit file 
to see how much she was paying to other lenders, and how she had managed credit in the 
past. When Mrs H applied for the second loan MCF gave her the opportunity to update the 
income and expenditure information shed previously provided. And it again checked her 
credit file.
Mrs H was entering into a significant commitment with MCF when she asked for the loans. 
She would need to make monthly repayments for periods of one and two years. So I think it 
was right that MCF wanted to gather, and independently check, some detailed information 
about Mrs Hs financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to her. I think that the checks 
Ive described above were sufficient to achieve that aim  I think the checks MCF did before 
agreeing each loan were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to 
react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. 
Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. So 
Ive looked at the results of MCFs checks to see whether it made a fair lending decision on 
each loan.
When she applied for the first loan Mrs H told MCF that she would have around £1,000 left 
over each month that she could use to make her repayments. I dont think it was 
unreasonable for MCF to rely on what Mrs H had said. So it would have seemed likely that 
Mrs H would be able to afford the repayments shed need to make on the loan.The credit check results didnt show anything that I think should have led MCF to decline 
Mrs Hs application. She had a number of credit card accounts that showed zero balances. 
There might have been some concern that Mrs H had taken a relatively large loan just four 
months earlier, but she appeared to have managed her repayments well, and they were 
included in the disposable income calculations that MCF had performed. And both a credit 
card account and bank overdraft were utilising less than half their agreed limits.
So, on balance, I dont think that there were any signs at that time that Mrs H might be facing 
problems managing her money. I think it was reasonable for MCF to conclude that she 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable manner. So I dont think MCF was wrong to 
give the first loan to Mrs H.
Just over halfway through the agreed repayment term, Mrs H asked to refinance her first 
loan. And of even more concern she asked to take some additional borrowing amounting to 
almost £3,500  far more than shed borrowed the first time. I think both the need to 
refinance the loan, and take so much additional borrowing should have caused serious 
concerns to MCF about the state of Mrs Hs finances.
And I think those concerns should have been amplified by the changes that MCF could see 
on Mrs Hs credit file. In the seven months since taking the first loan, Mrs H had taken three 
new loans. And she now had two credit card accounts that were close to their agreed limits. 
Taken together those presented a picture of someone that was finding it increasingly difficult 
to manage their money, and was relying on credit to meet their day to day living costs and 
debt repayments.
So I dont think it was reasonable for MCF to give the second loan to Mrs H. I think the 
results of its checks showed that she was unlikely to be able to meet her repayments in a 
sustainable manner. So I think this part of Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld and that MCF 
needs to put things right.
Putting things right
I dont think MCF should have agreed to give the second loan to Mrs H in July 2020. So 
MCF should;
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on the second loan and treat all the 
payments Mrs H made towards this loan as payments towards the capital
if reworking the loan account as Ive directed results in Mrs H effectively having made 
payments above the original capital borrowed, then MCF should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement. 
If reworking the loan account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
I remind MCF that it should take a sympathetic view if it needs to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Mrs H
remove any adverse information already recorded on Mrs Hs credit file in relation to 
the second loan
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MCF to take off tax from this interest. MCF must give 
Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Mrs Hs complaint and direct Madison CF UK Limited 
to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman