DRN-3375929
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited declined her claim for storm damage
under her home insurance policy.
What happened
In June 2021 Mrs B noticed water had penetrated the roof of her home causing damage
internally. She arranged for a roofer to attend by claiming under a separate home
emergency policy. Mrs B says the roofer found a build-up of moss on the roof. She says this
had accumulated in a roof valley and was preventing rainwater draining away. Mrs B
confirms it was this that caused water to penetrate the roof and cause the damage internally.
Mrs B says there is no way she could have known about the moss. She thinks this was a
sudden, one-off unexpected event. And the internal damage should be covered by her home
insurance policy.
Fairmead says it considered whether Mrs B had shown an insured loss had occurred,
resulting from a storm. It says the weather records dont show storm conditions around the
time of the loss had occurred. Because there was no loss attributable to the insured event
caused by a storm, Fairmead declined the claim for storm damage.
It also considered whether the claim could be considered under Mrs Bs accidental damage
cover. It says water ingress is excluded under its policy terms, so it declined the claim for
this accidental damage also. Fairmead says it didnt provide a good standard of service
during the handling of Mrs Bs claim and paid her £50 compensation to acknowledge this.
Mrs B wasnt happy with this outcome and referred her complaint to our service. Our
investigator upheld her complaint. He identified heavy rain was experienced at the time of
the loss. Based on the level of rain that fell over a 24-hour period, he says this shows a wet
storm had occurred. He thought the internal damage was a direct result of the storm and
Fairmead should accept this part of Mrs Bs claim. Because of the delay in settling the claim
he thought it was fair for Fairmead to pay £300 compensation for the trouble and upset Mrs
B had been caused.
Fairmead disagreed with our investigator. It says the claim isnt covered by its policy terms
as the water ingress was caused by a build-up of moss, which is a maintenance issue.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, it has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in February 2022 explaining that I was intending to not uphold 
Mrs Bs complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im minded not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. I appreciate this will be 
disappointing for her, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair.
Part of Mrs Bs complaint relates to a home emergency policy. This is underwritten by a
different insurer and doesnt form part of her complaint about Fairmead. I wont be
considering her concerns about this policy here.
Its the role of the customer to prove that they suffered an insured loss. If this is proven then
the insurer should, generally, settle the claim in line with the policy terms, unless it can show
that a valid exclusion applies.
Mrs B says the damage was caused by a sudden ingress of water through her roof. She
doesnt specifically mention that a storm occurred. But for a claim to be considered, damage
must have resulted from an insured event. Fairmead considered whether the damage
couldve been caused by a storm, which is an insured event under its policy. It determined
storm conditions didnt occur around the time of the loss, so declined Mrs Bs claim.
Given Mrs Bs description of a sudden ingress of water through her roof, I think its
reasonable to consider whether a storm cause applies here.
In assessing the evidence, I must establish whether there were prevailing storm conditions
at the time of the claim. If I am not satisfied there were, I must decide if Fairmead ought to
have considered the claim under any other section of the policy.
There are three questions we take into consideration when determining whether an event
can be classed as a storm. These are:
1) Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is
said to have happened?
2) Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3) Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage?
If any of the answers to the above questions are no then an insurer can generally,
reasonably decline a claim.
Mrs Bs policy gives a definition of storm as:
Wind speeds with gusts of at least 47mph/75kmh or torrential rainfall at a rate of at least
25mm/one inch per hour or snow to a depth of at least one foot/30cm in 24 hours or hail of
such intensity that it causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass.
I have reviewed the weather conditions at the closest weather station to Mrs Bs address,
which is around six miles away, on the date of the loss. Wind speeds were recorded to be
well below the policy definition of storm conditions. Hourly rainfall was recorded at 6.6mm,
which again is much less than required by the policy definitions.
The policy terms dont include a measure of rainfall over a 24-hour period under the
definition of storm. But we will consider the intensity of rain over a 24-hour period when
deciding if storm conditions were experienced. The weather records show rainfall of 34mm
over a 24-period around the time of Mrs Bs loss. This shows heavy and sustained rainfall
fell over the period when the loss occurred. So, I think its reasonable to accept storm
conditions were experienced, and so the answer to question one is, yes.
Damage caused by rainwater ingress is consistent with something that happens during a
storm. So, the answer to question two is also yes.Turning to question three, were storm conditions the main cause of the damage. A well 
maintained property is unlikely to suffer damage caused by a rainstorm. So, there will likely
be another reason why the damage occurred. Mrs B says the cause of the water ingress
was a build-up of moss in a roof valley. This was preventing water from draining away via
the guttering and drainpipes.
Fairmead in response to our investigators view says a well-maintained roof/gutter system
would be able to withstand this level of rainfall. It says moss growth prevented the guttering
performing its function, which is a maintenance issue. It says Mrs B is responsible for
carrying out or arranging maintenance to prevent this issue from occurring.
The policy terms on page two of the document say:
This policy covers the costs of unexpected loss or damage. It does not cover:
Wear and tear
Maintenance costs such as refixing loose roof tiles, repointing brickwork
or replacing guttering
Damage that happens over a period of time for example damp, rot and
damage from vermin.
To make a successful claim you must keep your property in good repair and take all realistic
and practical steps to prevent loss or damage.
Having considered this, I think Fairmeads view is persuasive that the policy terms exclude
the damage described here. This was caused by a lack of maintenance allowing a build-up
of moss to block the roof valley. I acknowledge Mrs Bs comments that she was unaware of
this. But the policy terms are clear that its her responsibility to keep her property in good
repair. The build-up of moss shows it wasnt.
So, the answer to question three is no. I dont think a storm was the main cause of the
damage. Because of this I dont think Fairmead acted unfairly when declining Mrs Bs claim
for storm damage.
I have thought about whether the damage could be covered under the cause of accidental
damage. Mrs Bs policy provides this cover. Fairmead says water ingress is excluded from
the policy terms. The policy terms say:
15. Accidental Damage
In addition to items listed on pages 13-14 we will not pay for:
Damage from any cause described in paragraphs 1 to 14 of this section.
Loss or damage caused by escape of water from guttering, rainwater downpipes, roof
valleys and gullies.
From this its clear the accidental damage terms specifically exclude escape of water from a
roof valley as an insured event. So, a claim for accidental damage is also excluded under
the policy terms.
Im sorry Mrs B has suffered damage to her home. I understand this must be distressing for
her. But I think its been shown that Fairmead behaved reasonably in relying on its policy
terms and declining the claim under both the cause of storm and accidental damage. So, I
cant reasonably require it to do any more to resolve Mrs Bs complaint.I said I was intending to not uphold this complaint.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Fairmead responded to say that whilst it has a different view on whether a storm was 
prevalent, as the provisional decision agrees the claim should be declined for the lack of 
maintenance, it has nothing further to add.
Mrs B responded to say her concerns regarding the home emergency policy do form part of 
her complaint about Fairmead. It may be underwritten by another insurer but it was 
Fairmead that told her a £300 excess she had paid would be refunded. As Fairmead was 
acting on behalf of another insurer Mrs B says it should honour the £300 refund. 
Mrs B says the roofer who attended told her she wouldnt be aware of the moss build up 
unless a drone flew over her house. It wasnt found that roof tiles or guttering were poorly 
maintained. She says her gutters are cleared and maintained on an annual basis. And it was 
the moss build up that prevented excess water flowing towards the guttering. Having 
discussed with her neighbours, Mrs B says no-one was aware that the use of drones is a 
requirement to prevent roof problems. 
   
Mrs B is unhappy her claim was declined as she behaves responsibly to ensure her property 
is maintained. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Mrs Bs comments regarding the home emergency policy and the excess 
payment she feels should be reimbursed. But Fairmead isnt responsible for this policy. It 
explained it was able to provide some information on the cover provided. This related to the 
policy limit. But it explains it isnt the insurer responsible for this policy. 
Its clear Fairmead isnt responsible for Mrs Bs home emergency policy. Although some 
information was provided, I dont think its reasonably been shown that its responsible for 
refunding the fee Mrs B refers to. She may wish to contact her home emergency policy 
insurer regarding this point. 
I have thought about Mrs Bs comments that she cant reasonably have known moss had 
built up without the benefit of a drone. I understand she is frustrated that cover isnt provided 
for the damage caused. But the policy terms are clear that she is responsible for ensuring 
her property is maintained. The build up of moss is not something that is caused by a storm 
or is covered under the cause of accidental damage. How Mrs B ensures her roof is 
maintained is not Fairmeads responsibility.  
So, although I sympathise that Mrs B will have to pay for the cost of repairs, I dont think 
Fairmead treated her unfairly in declining her claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mrs Bs 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman