DRN-1738706
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain about the service they received from Saga Services Limited after 
they chose not to renew their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P had an annual insurance policy which was arranged by Saga. It was due to 
renew in July 2019.  Saga sent out a renewal reminder letter in early June 2019.
Unfortunately, Mr P had been very unwell a few months beforehand and had begun to suffer 
from an auto-immune condition afterwards. So he wasnt fit to travel. Mr P got in touch with 
Saga to let it know about his health conditions, which were updated. He didnt plan to renew 
the policy.
But due to a system error, renewal acceptance documents were generated and sent to Mr 
and Mrs P, followed by a payment request. Mrs P called Saga to explain the policy hadnt 
been renewed. The call handler let Mrs P know no payment had been taken but didnt cancel 
the policy at that point. This led to further payment reminders being sent to Mr and Mrs P.
Mr and Mrs P were unhappy with the way Saga had handled things. They felt itd caused 
them unnecessary distress and inconvenience at an already difficult time.  So they 
complained to Saga. It looked into their complaint and offered an apology for the system 
error and the repeated payment reminders thatd been sent out. It offered Mr and Mrs P £30 
compensation to recognise the upset its service had caused them.
Mr and Mrs P didnt think Sagas apology or offer went far enough to recognise the distress 
and inconvenience theyd been caused and the time Mr P had spent trying to sort things out. 
They felt compensation of around £300-375 would more fairly reflect the impact the matter 
had had on them. They asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator thought Sagas offer of compensation was fair and reasonable. He 
acknowledged that Saga had made mistakes, which had led to Mr and Mrs P suffering some 
trouble and upset. But he felt Saga had resolved things in a timely way, once it became 
aware of what had caused the error. So he didnt think Saga needed to do anything more.
Mr and Mrs P disagreed. They felt that at a time when they were vulnerable, theyd been 
hassled to take out a travel insurance policy that they didnt want and couldnt use. They said 
Saga had continued to send payment reminders even after it knew thered been a problem. 
They felt Saga had treated them appallingly. They were also concerned that other vulnerable 
customers might experience the same issues with Saga. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Sagas offer of settlement is fair and reasonable. Ill explain why.
First, as the investigator explained, were not the industry regulator. So we cant punish or 
fine the businesses we cover. Our role is to consider individual complaints brought by 
consumers about financial businesses. And we consider whether the business has done 
anything wrong it needs to put right and if it has, what fair compensation should be.  
Its common ground that Saga made mistakes in the way it handled Mr and Mrs Ps policy. 
Mr and Mrs P clearly told Saga about Mr Ps health issues and the reasons why they 
wouldnt be renewing their policy that year. Unfortunately, the system error caused 
acceptance documents to be sent out, despite Mr and Mrs Ps wishes. So I can entirely 
understand why they wouldve been surprised and concerned to receive policy documents 
and an initial payment reminder. 
And its also clear that Mrs P called Saga when they received these documents to find out 
what had happened and to reconfirm that the policy shouldnt have been renewed. While it 
seems the call handler told Mrs P why the documents had been generated and that no 
payment had been taken, Saga accepts the call handler shouldve cancelled the policy at 
this point. Instead, they told Mrs P this wasnt possible. It seems to me that if the policy had 
been cancelled at this point, things couldve been sorted out then, or very shortly afterwards 
Because this didnt happen, further payment reminders were sent out, which caused Mr and 
Mrs P more inconvenience and upset.
So I agree its appropriate that Saga should acknowledge its mistakes. Saga has apologised 
for its errors and I can see that it undertook a detailed investigation into whatd happened, so 
feedback could be given. I think this was an appropriate response. I also think the £30 
compensation its offered is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs P were worried about Mr Ps health at that time and that receiving 
these demands wouldve added to their concerns. But I havent seen enough to suggest 
Saga was trying to pressure them into renewing their policy. In fact, it appears that it did tell 
Mrs P quite early on that there was nothing owing and that the documents had been sent out 
by mistake. And Saga didnt take any money from Mr and Mrs P in error that it needs to 
refund. Im satisfied it took sufficient steps to resolve things in a reasonable timeframe. So 
overall, I think its apology and £30 compensation is a fair response to Mr and Mrs Ps 
complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that Sagas offer of compensation is 
fair.
Saga Services Limited must now pay Mr and Mrs P the £30 its offered if it hasnt already 
done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 October 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman