DRN-3389513
The complaint
Mr B would like HSBC UK Bank Plc to reimburse him around £100,000 that he lost as the 
result of a scam.
Mr Bs complaint has been brought by a representative, and he uses the same 
representative to help him manage his financial affairs. But for ease of reading Ill mostly 
refer to Mr B throughout. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In October 2019 Mr B sent £100,000 from 
his account with his own bank B. At the time he believed the payment was going to a third 
party, who Ill refer to as P. Mr B had an existing relationship with P. Hed previously made 
payments to them. But unfortunately, it seems that despite coming from the third partys 
email address, the payment request Mr B received was fraudulent and contained new 
account details to use for the payment. The account that received the funds was held with 
HSBC.
When another request for payment arrived, Mr B checked with P who confirmed they hadnt 
requested any payments. Mr B realised hed been the victim of a scam and reported this to 
the relevant parties including B and the police. B notified HSBC the same day. HSBC say 
they took the appropriate action but were only able to recover around £285. 
Mr B complained to HSBC and referred the matter to our service. He feels HSBC have failed 
to appropriately manage the beneficiary account and that they should reimburse him the 
outstanding amount. One of our Investigators didnt recommend that the complaint should be 
upheld. In summary she didnt think there were any failings by HSBC which contributed to 
Mr Bs loss. Mr B disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
In June 2022 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator, but for different 
reasons. So, Im issuing this provisional decision to give everyone a further opportunity to 
comment before finalising my decision. 
It isnt in dispute that Mr Bs transfer to the HSBC account was an authorised payment. So, 
even though he was tricked into making the payment, he is presumed liable in the first 
instance. And simply because Mr B has been the victim of a scam and an account held with 
HSBC was later found to have been used to receive fraudulently obtained funds doesnt 
automatically entitle Mr B to a refund. HSBC also has no direct duty of care to Mr B (as he 
wasnt their customer). With that being said, there can be some circumstances where the 
beneficiary bank has failed in its obligations in such a way that its fair and reasonable for 
them to be held liable for all or part of a victims loss. 
HSBC have various obligations which include being alert to fraud and scams and to perform 
due diligence both at account opening and in the course of managing their relationships with 
their customers on an ongoing basis. But in deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances, I also need to consider Mr Bs own obligations to take all reasonable steps to 
protect his own interests and to mitigate any loss. 
I dont necessarily agree with what our Investigator has previously said about the activity on 
the beneficiary account not being worthy of further scrutiny or investigation by HSBC. Given 
the nature of the account and its intended use, I wouldnt have necessarily expected HSBC 
to have been concerned by the incoming payment or the initial spending. But HSBC had an 
obligation to conduct ongoing due diligence and as the funds continued to be spent 
(particularly on a relatively newly opened account)  I think it reached the point where they 
ought to have intervened and asked some questions of their accountholder. In the 
circumstances here, I dont need to make a finding as to whether that intervention would 
have made a difference. Even if it would have resulted in some recoverable funds, I think 
there has been such a level of negligence in instructing the payment, that the fair and 
reasonable outcome is for no award to be made. Ill explain why. 
Mr Bs representative in bringing this complaint is Mr L. I understand that Mr L is employed 
by Mr B to help him manage his financial affairs and that Mr L has a third-party authority to 
transact on Mr Bs accounts. As such, Mr L is an agent of Mr B (who is ultimately responsible 
for the actions Mr L takes on his behalf). 
As a professional involved in the management of finances and investments, I think its 
reasonable to have slightly higher expectations of Mr L than a general consumer. I think 
there is some obligation for him to educate himself as to the risks that he may face in the 
course of his duties and for this to include some knowledge of common fraud and scams. 
Scams involving hacked or intercepted emails have been common for a number of years 
and this is something Id expect someone whose role involves moving funds to generally be 
aware of. 
Ive also taken into account part of an email dated 31 October 2019 (shortly after the scam 
was discovered) between Mr B and Mr L. In the email Mr B says: Approximately two months 
ago I have send you an email/text requesting that no payment is made over £5,000 without 
my specific authorization. Please can we adhere to this. This indicates that there was an 
agreed process in place for Mr L to follow for payments greater than £5,000. The payment in 
question was significantly beyond this limit and appears to have been instructed outside of 
the agreed protocols.
 
Beyond this there is also information from Mr Bs bank, B. This says:
Before the payment was processed, B called Mr L to verify the payment as genuine.
B asked enhanced questions during the call to confirm that the instruction had come 
from a genuine source and that the account details were genuine and had not been 
altered.
Mr L positively answered the questions and the payment was subsequently released.
B believe they did all they could to prevent the loss from occurring.
Mr B says he was already expecting a change of account details from P, so it wasnt a 
surprise when the details were changed in an email. But I havent seen further documentary 
evidence to support this being the case. Mr B has already been asked to provide further evidence such as how and when this notification of a pending change of details was made, 
but to date he hasnt provided a response or evidence of this. He is of course welcome to 
submit any further evidence in response to this provisional decision. 
But taking all the above into consideration, in the specific circumstances of this complaint, I 
think there is such a level of negligence in agreeing to send the payment that making an 
award against HSBC as the beneficiary bank isnt a fair and reasonable outcome. B provided 
a warning of the type of scam that Mr L was in the process of falling for at the time, and he 
continued with the payment despite this. 
For completeness Ive also considered the actions taken by HSBC upon notification of fraud 
(on 30 October 2019). Im satisfied that they acted promptly to inhibit the account. I dont 
think there were failings by HSBC which impacted on the amount they were able to recover. 
Mr B also specifically questioned HSBCs actions in crediting their account with a payment 
that included a different intended beneficiary name. But at the time of the payment there was 
no obligation for HSBC to check that the name or any other reference provided matched that 
of the accountholder. The payment was deemed to have been correctly executed if it went to 
the unique identifiers (commonly account number and sort code) provided. 
Mr B has questioned whether HSBC have reported these matters to the police and the 
actions they took in relation to any second-generation accounts that his funds were paid in 
to. It would be for Mr B to make a report to the police, this isnt something Id expect HSBC 
to do as they themselves havent been a victim of crime. That being said, Im sure HSBC will 
co-operate fully with any police investigation. Our jurisdiction doesnt allow me to comment 
on HSBCs actions beyond the account that received Mr Bs funds. But it is evident that they 
did make such efforts. Again, Im confident HSBC will share any information they hold with 
the police upon a request to do so. And there isnt a basis upon which I can ask HSBC to 
share second generation account information directly with Mr B. 
HSBC responded to say they had nothing further to add. Mr B responded with some 
comments which Ill address below. Now both parties have had an opportunity to comment, I 
can go ahead with my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L said that he works for Mr B in a very small family office and not a financial institution. 
He also re-iterated that he had no reason to be suspicious of the email as it closely followed 
the format of previous communication. And the standing of the sender of the email from P 
meant it was unlikely to have been anything other than genuine. 
Ive considered this, but Im not persuaded to deviate from the outcome Ive previously 
explained. I accept that the email in isolation wouldnt have easily been identifiable as 
fraudulent. But my reasoning wasnt that the email was an obvious fake that ought to have 
been spotted. It was the wider circumstances which Ive detailed in my provisional decision 
(see above). 
Mr B also believes the activity on HSBCs account ought to have flagged on their systems for 
potential money laundering. Banks have obligations to monitor (and where appropriate to 
report activity on) accounts in order to meet their lawful obligations in relation to money 
laundering. Im satisfied that HSBC has such systems in place and Im not persuaded in the specific circumstances here that the loss ought to have been prevented on the basis of those 
obligations.
Mr B also says that he believes the actions of banks that receive fraudulent funds are 
effectively being swept under the carpet based on technicalities such as the sender not 
being a client of the bank. Im limited to commenting on the circumstances of this complaint, 
not the wider industry situation which would be an issue for the regulator. 
That being said, I acknowledged in my provisional decision that despite there being no direct 
duty of care between HSBC and Mr B there can be some circumstances where the 
beneficiary bank has failed in its obligations in such a way that its fair and reasonable for 
them to be held liable for all or part of a victims loss. Its just that in the circumstances of 
this complaint, for the reasons Ive explained, this isnt what I consider to be the fair and 
reasonable outcome. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman