DRN-3245946
The complaint
Mrs T complains about the advice given by Argentis Financial Management Ltd (Argentis) 
to transfer the benefits from her defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a 
self-invested personal pension (SIPP). She says the advice was unsuitable for her and 
believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
Mrs T approached Argentis in June 2017 to discuss her pension and retirement needs. Mrs 
T met with Argentis jointly with her husband. This complaint is about the advice Mrs T 
received  but where appropriate and for context I will refer to Mrs Ts husbands 
circumstances.
Argentis completed a fact-find to gather information about Mrs Ts circumstances and 
objectives. Argentis also carried out an assessment of Mrs Ts attitude to risk, which it 
deemed to be moderate. 
In September 2017, Argentis advised Mrs T to transfer her pension benefits into a SIPP and 
invest the proceeds via a Discretionary Fund Manager (DFM) arrangement provided by a 
company Mrs T already had a customer relationship with. The suitability report said the 
reasons for this recommendation were:
To provide flexibility of when benefits are taken including income because Mrs T 
wanted to retire gradually and not take benefits all at once.
To provide better death benefits.
To provide for a wider range of investment vehicle and opportunity.
To provide a SIPP, which the chosen DFM could use for their investment products.
Mr T accepted the recommendation and the transfer duly went ahead.
In August 2019 Argentis contacted Mrs T as part of a review of the pension transfer advice it 
gave and it invited Mrs T to be part of it. Mrs T accepted the invitation and Argentis 
considered the advice it gave to her. In September 2020 it wrote to Mrs T to say that it 
concluded the advice it gave to transfer out of her DB pension scheme was suitable. In 
summary it said that while it noted Mrs Ts pension monies appeared to have been invested 
in a fund which was of a higher risk than her recorded attitude to risk, and that the adviser 
had made a wrong assumption about the continuation of Mrs Ts rental income, it said the 
transfer met her stated objectives and the points noted didnt impact the suitability of its 
advice. 
Mrs T referred his complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the complaint and 
required Argentis to pay compensation. In summary they said that because the critical yield 
required to match Mrs Ts existing scheme benefits was 6.2% assuming she took her tax-
free cash entitlement, taking into account her attitude to risk and the relevant discount rate of 
3% per year, they thought Mrs T was likely to be worse off financially as a result of 
transferring. They noted that the adviser said the growth rate was unrealistic and if Mrs T 
was looking to purchase an annuity they wouldnt have recommended the transfer. They 
said despite the fact that Mrs T had other assets and income streams available to her, which 
might have indicated she could take some risk with her DB scheme benefits, they didnt think 
she needed to do so  she didnt have a strong need for flexibility of income, she had no 
plans to retire early and she didnt have an immediate need for a lump sum. Overall they 
didnt think the transfer was in Mrs Ts best interests.
Argentis disagreed. In summary it said the advice was given on a joint basis with Mrs Ts 
husband and it needs to be considered in this context. It said Mrs Ts capacity for loss was 
high given the considerable joint assets held and it believed her guaranteed DB scheme 
income was surplus to their overall joint retirement income. It said given their existing assets, 
Mrs T wanted flexibility of benefits, which the transfer gave her. It said Mrs T was told about 
the critical yield  but it says it believes this is less relevant in her case because she wanted 
flexibility and wasnt looking to match the scheme benefits. It went on to say that Mrs T was 
attracted to the transfer value, the resulting tax-free lump sum, which she said she wanted to 
use to help out her children financially and improve the inheritance position.
It explained that while it had found Mrs Ts husbands advice to transfer out of his DB 
scheme was unsuitable, because it deemed Mrs T wasnt reliant on her pension income the 
advice was suitable. It said that, had both Mrs T and her husband retained their DB benefits, 
their two key objectives of gaining immediate flexibility and better death benefits wouldnt 
have been met. Finally it said it also noted the suitability report confirmed Mrs T intended to 
use the income from her pension to avoid a potential Lifetime Allowance (LTA) tax charge for 
her husband.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given by 
the investigator. My reasons are set out below. 
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, Argentis should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mrs Ts best interests (COBS 19.1.6). And having 
looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in her best interests.
Financial viability 
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. The investment return or critical yield required to match Mrs Ts benefits at age 63  her DB 
schemes normal retirement age - was 7.6% if she took a full pension and 6.2% if she took 
tax-free cash and a reduced pension. This compares with the discount rate of 3% per year 
for four years to retirement in this case.
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle 
projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% per year.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mrs Ts 
moderate attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. 
There would be little point in Mrs T giving up the guarantees available to her through her DB 
scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, 
given the most likely scenario of Mrs T taking her tax-free cash entitlement and a reduced 
pension, the critical yield was 6.2%. This figure was significantly higher than the regulators 
lower rate and higher than the middle projection rate  it was also more than double the 
discount rate. I think Mrs T was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value 
than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk.
Because the required sustained growth rate was more than twice the discount rate, I
think it is clear the transfer was not compatible with Mrs Ts attitude to risk. To have come
close to achieving the level of growth required, in my view would have required Mr T to take
significant investment risk, which was far greater than her recorded appetite. And even then I
think its more likely than not that Mrs T would have been worse off financially at retirement if
she transferred out. I think the term to retirement was also a limiting factor here. 
I can see that Argentis has argued that Mrs Ts capacity for loss was high because she had 
significant other assets. But while I accept Mrs T did have other assets of a substantial 
value, albeit the majority of them were not liquid, this doesnt automatically mean that the 
transfer was suitable or that Mrs T needed to risk her DB scheme benefits. As Ive indicated 
above, the high critical yield figure in this case in my view clearly showed that Mrs T was 
likely to be worse off in retirement as a result of investing her pension monies as proposed. I 
think this should have acted as a clear sign that Mrs T ought to retain her DB benefits and 
that transferring out was not likely to be in her best interests  other assets and capacity for 
loss notwithstanding. 
Indeed I can see the adviser in their recommendation letter acknowledged the financial 
unviability of the transfer saying the growth rate required seemed ...potentially unrealistic 
based on the assumed term to retirement and your current attitude to investment risk... But 
they went on to say that the decision to transfer away should not be solely based on the 
potential to generate the same or similar benefits provided by the existing DB scheme. I can 
also see that Argentis has argued the relevance of the critical yield figure in this case.
But I dont think the importance of the critical yield figure should have been downplayed by 
the adviser, which I think is what happened here. 
The regulator required Argentis to provide the rates of return required to replicate the 
benefits available to Mrs T through her DB scheme. So, telling Mrs T it wasnt really relevant 
to her in my view undermined the analysis the regulator required it to undertake. And as Ive 
already said, I think given the high critical yield figures in Mrs Ts case, these should have 
acted as a clear sign that Mrs T ought to retain her DB scheme and that transferring out was 
not likely to be in her best interests.
I also think its clear from whats recorded in the advice paperwork that Mrs Ts income 
needs could already reasonably be met by remaining in her DB scheme  she didnt need to 
take on any investment risk with her DB scheme benefits. Ill talk more about this later on.Overall, I think Argentis ought to have told Mrs T it wasnt in her best interests to transfer out 
of the DB scheme because I think its clear that she would be worse off financially if she did 
so. And for this reason alone, I dont think the advice to transfer out was suitable. Of course
financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice  something the 
adviser said in giving their advice. I accept there might be other considerations, which mean 
a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered these below. 
Flexibility  access to tax-free cash and income needs
One of the primary reasons for the recommendation to transfer out of the DB scheme, was 
because Mrs T wanted flexibility of how she took her benefits. Its recorded that Mrs T also 
wanted access to a lump sum to help out her children financially.
But I dont think this was a suitable reason to recommend the transfer. I say this because 
firstly I cant see that Mrs T had an immediate need to access a lump sum from her pension. 
The recommendation letter says Mrs T wanted to use the tax-free cash entitlement to help 
her children if required for a property purchase or student loan repayment and would like to 
be able to have access to this part of the pension for ad hoc needs in and during retirement. 
But this doesnt say or imply that Mrs T needed the money straightaway  it says: if 
required and ad-hoc needs in and during retirement. And Mrs T has told us she didnt have 
an immediate need for a lump sum. Mrs Ts ad-hoc needs in retirement could have been met 
by remaining in her DB scheme and taking her entitlement to tax-free cash at her normal 
retirement age, which was only around four years away.
And as for helping out her children, its recorded in the assets section of the fact-find that 
Mrs T was planning to sell a property within the following 12 months, which after repayment 
of the mortgage would have provided for a large sum of money. So given there was no 
immediate need and no apparent set timeframe for helping out her children, I see no reason 
why Mrs T couldnt have used part of this expected lump sum to meet her objective  I dont 
think she needed immediate access to her pension monies to do so.
The other reason Argentis gave for the recommendation to transfer was to provide
flexibility in how Mrs T took future income  the adviser recorded that as she wanted to 
potentially retire gradually and not take benefits all at once, a personal pension arrangement 
would facilitate this allowing as much or as little to be taken as needed. 
But I cant see that Mrs T had a strong, if any need for variable income through her 
retirement. In fact the advice paperwork appears contradictory on this point. I say this 
because in the Pension Review Questionnaire the question was asked about whether Mrs 
T anticipated retiring gradually or in one go, and the adviser has written One go. Yet the 
primary reason given for recommending the transfer was to provide flexibility for gradual 
retirement. 
Argentis has said its advice was given jointly to Mrs T and her husband  but if Mrs T and 
her husband had different retirement plans this should have been clearly set out in the 
recommendation.
Im mindful that Mrs Ts husband isnt a party to this complaint and Im not considering the 
advice he received from Argentis here. But in my view his circumstances are relevant in this 
case, so I will refer to these here. For example the suitability letter also records that jointly 
Mrs T and her husbands income and expenditure wasnt expected to change and they didnt 
expect any significant changes to their future circumstances within the next five years. And 
when asked how much income they needed in retirement they gave a fixed figure  not 
differing amounts at different times. This in my view doesnt describe a need for flexibility. Argentis has also said that Mrs Ts DB pension income was surplus to their overall joint 
retirement income need allowing Mrs T to be flexible with how she accessed her benefits. 
But I disagree it was surplus to requirements. Based on the income figure Mrs T said they 
jointly needed, her DB scheme income played a key part in achieving it taking into account 
the expected reduction to their rental income following the future sale of one of their jointly 
owned properties.
Not only was Mrs Ts income important, crucially in my view the overall income recorded as 
being needed by Mrs T and her husband was already achievable based on what the adviser 
recorded their respective DB schemes would provide at their normal retirement ages. These 
were guaranteed and would escalate. So Im satisfied Mrs Ts contribution to their joint 
income needs in retirement could be met by remaining in her DB scheme.
I can see that Argentis has also said that the suitability report confirmed Mrs T intended to 
use the income from her pension flexibly to avoid an immediate LTA tax charge for her 
husband. But as the adviser recorded in the suitability report, Mrs Ts husband couldnt avoid 
this completely  it was going to happen at some poinT. So I dont think this was a suitable 
reason for recommending Mrs T transfer out of her DB scheme
Overall, nothing here supports a need for flexibility in my view and Im not persuaded it was 
a real objective  I think it was simply a consequence of transferring out to a different 
arrangement.
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mrs T. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mrs T might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer her DB scheme to a personal pension because of this - I can also see that a 
general reference was made in the advice paperwork of Mrs T wanting to use her pension as 
an estate planning vehicle - the priority here was to advise Mrs T about what was best for 
her retirement provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. 
And I dont think Argentis properly explored to what extent Mrs T was prepared to accept a 
lower retirement income in exchange for higher death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mrs T 
was married so the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful to 
her spouse if Mrs T predeceased him  notwithstanding the fact that Mrs Ts contribution to 
the joint household income was lower. I dont think Argentis made the value of this benefit 
clear enough to Mrs T. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on 
investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was.  
In any event, Argentis should not have encouraged Mrs T to prioritise the potential for higher 
death benefits through a personal pension over her security in retirement.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension arrangement justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mrs T.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility and potential for higher death benefits on offer through a 
personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mrs T. But Argentis wasnt 
there to just transact what Mrs T might have thought she. The advisers role was to really 
understand what Mrs T needed and recommend what was in her best interests.Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mrs T was suitable. She was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income, which I consider would have met her future 
retirement income needs. By transferring, Mrs T was very likely to obtain lower retirement 
benefits and in my view, there were no other compelling reasons which would justify a 
transfer and outweigh this.  
So, I think Argentis shouldve advised Mrs T to remain in her DB scheme.
I now need to consider whether Mrs T wouldve gone ahead anyway, against Argentis
advice. Having done so, I dont think Mrs T wouldve insisted on transferring out of her DB
scheme and gone ahead in any event. I say this because Im not persuaded Mrs T was 
enough of an experienced investor or had the requisite skill, knowledge or confidence to go 
against the professional advice they received - I think she relied solely on the advice she 
was given. At the time this pension was the primary source of Mrs Ts guaranteed
future retirement provision. So, if Argentis had provided Mrs T with clear advice against 
transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt suitable for her because it met 
her stated future retirement income need, and not risk her guaranteed pension to do so, I 
think that wouldve carried significant weight. I think Mrs T wouldve accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think Argentis should compensate Mrs T for the unsuitable advice,
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mrs T, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for Argentis unsuitable advice. I consider Mrs T
would have most likely remained in her DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
Argentis must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators
pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised
Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension
transfers.
If Mrs T had remained in her DB scheme, I dont think she would have accessed her pension 
benefits early. So compensation should be based on her accessing benefits at her schemes 
normal retirement age of 63.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly
following receipt of notification of Mrs Ts acceptance of the decision.
Argentis may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mrs 
Ts contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mrs Ts SERPS/S2P
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid
into Mrs Ts pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mrs T as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow forincome tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount
must where possible be paid to Mrs T within 90 days of the date Argentis receives
notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to
the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Argentis to pay Mrs T.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above - and so any
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Argentis Financial 
Management Ltd to pay Mrs T the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Argentis Financial Management Ltd to pay Mrs T any interest on that amount in full, as set 
out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Argentis 
Financial Management Ltd to pay Mrs T any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Argentis Financial Management Ltd pays Mrs T the balance. I would additionally recommend 
any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mrs T.
If Mrs T accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Argentis Financial 
Management Ltd.
 
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mrs T can accept my
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mrs T may want to consider getting
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman