The complaint
Mr K complains that Bank of Scotland plc is holding him responsible for borrowing on credit 
cards which he says he never applied for.
What happened
Mr K says he didnt apply for a card with Bank of Scotland and one under its brand name of 
Halifax. He says he has been the victim of impersonation and that the cards were taken out 
fraudulently while he was away.
Bank of Scotland said it didnt accept that these applications were made fraudulently by a 
third party. There had been three cards applied for on 25 July 2019. These were the two 
mentioned here and another with MBNA a different business area in the organisation it 
belongs to. Large transactions were made and attempted on the cards. The Halifax card was 
blocked. And on 7 August 2019 it said Mr K visited a branch with his passport and driving 
licence and confirmed an attempted payment on his card as genuine. A decision was made 
to close all accounts and when Mr K later spoke to it on 7 August 2019 he didnt then say 
that hed been impersonated and the cards werent his. It had listened to all the call 
recordings and considered that all the calls were made by the genuine Mr K.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr K had said that the 
person who called Bank of Scotland on 7 August 2019 was the fraudster. But our 
investigator didnt agree that the voice was someone else. That person had also given 
correct information about accounts Mr K had with other banks during the call. Mr K had been 
given a recording of that call to consider. The three card applications all had the same 
information about Mr K and had passed the application checks. The cards and PINs were 
sent to the correct address for Mr K. Hed been identified in a branch on 7 August 2019 after 
his card had been blocked for fraud checks. He considered that Mr K had applied for the 
cards and made the payments.
Mr K didnt agree. He said that the voice on the recording didnt match his and said what he 
thought the different accent of the caller was. He referred to a forensic audio expert being 
able to clarify it wasnt him. He wanted to see copies of his identification provided on 7 
August 2019 and CCTV. And he said that the only route open to him now seemed to be to 
contact a solicitor.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
DRN-1619931Im looking in this complaint at the credit cards taken out with Bank of Scotland and Halifax. 
And Ill separately be issuing a decision about the card taken out with MBNA as thats a 
separate business area. But the evidence is clearly linked especially as all the cards were 
taken out on the same day and my reasoning in each complaint is going to be the same.
Mr K has referred to the services of a forensic audio expert. Thats not something wed 
arrange as part of our informal dispute resolution service. I think hes had the opportunity to 
do so if he wanted and Ive not seen any expert evidence from him. Like the investigator Ive 
listened to all the call recordings weve been provided with across both complaints. And I can 
see why Bank of Scotland has decided that its consistently been dealing with the genuine 
Mr K. As Ill explain thats not the only evidence suggesting he took out these cards.
It wont now be possible to get CCTV of Mr K visiting a branch in August 2019 given the time 
that has passed. And I wouldnt have expected branch staff to keep copies of his 
identification at that time. But as his card had been blocked on suspicion of fraud I think it 
most likely careful checks of his identification were made and the notes indicated he spoke 
on the phone from the branch to the fraud team and confirmed a recent attempted payment.
Its not impossible for someone to obtain information about Mr K to make an online 
application for all the cards. The applications were made in succession within less than 10 
minutes of each other. And all the information input was the same. The address given for  Mr 
K was the correct one and so the cards and PINs were dispatched to his address. When he 
referred his complaint to us hed mentioned that hed lived in the same house for a number 
of years. His passport and driving licence were in his possession. He went on to say that 
hed been sharing with a different family for a couple of months and been away when the 
cards were used. He also said he was suspicious of people outside his house at times 
waiting at a bus stop. Hes not provided any further information to support how he thinks the 
cards and PINs were intercepted. Three cards and three advice of PINs were all sent to  Mr 
K. The person attempting the payments had all of them as all three cards were used.   Mr K 
hasnt persuaded me that its most likely that all six separate items of post were intercepted.
During the call on 7 August 2019 the person said to be Mr K explained why hed taken out all 
the cards and what hed been spending the money on. Information about other accounts was 
given. That seemed a credible account to me and not likely what would otherwise be the 
very bold actions of a fraudster. And at no time did he say that he hadnt taken out any of the 
cards. I can see that the address for the Halifax card was changed that day. Mr K says he 
only came to know about the card when he received a letter about it at around that time. No 
further post would have gone to the address on the application. And the case notes from 
Halifax dont record him complaining about being impersonated until October 2019. 
I can also see from his Bank of Scotland account statement that there was a credit applied in 
August 2019 for £2,500  just after the transactions. I am struggling to see why a fraudster  
especially if knowing that the account had been restricted  would have made such a 
payment. That payment may have been in response to Bank of Scotlands concern about 
how close to the limit the account was. And the pattern of usage of the cards seemed to be a 
factor in it deciding no longer to offer him card accounts.
Ive balanced all these factors carefully. I think the most likely explanation is that Mr K was 
aware of the applications for these credit card accounts at the time and consented to the 
cards in his name being used to make these payments. He wanted to continue to have 
access to the card accounts and particularly to use the available limit still on the Halifax card. 
He didnt complaint then about being impersonated. And Im afraid I dont think thats most 
likely whats happened here. I find its reasonable for Bank of Scotland to hold Mr K 
responsible for these cards and the related borrowing. I wont be asking Bank of Scotland to do anything further. Mr K remains free to pursue his complaint in court if he doesnt accept 
my decision subject to any relevant time limits as hes mentioned he might do.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July2020.
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman