DRN-1804890
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him a packaged bank 
account, misled him that he had to keep the account in order to qualify for an overdraft, and 
then charged him for two packs of potential benefits it added to a fee-free account without 
his permission. 
Mr B thinks that Barclays should refund him all the fees he paid, plus interest.
What happened
Mr B has banked with Barclays for quite a long time. He originally had a fee-free account 
and then in 2008, Barclays sold him a packaged bank account, called an Additions Active 
account. This replaced Mr Bs fee-free account and Barclays charged him a monthly fee in 
return for some potential benefits. 
In 2014, Mr B complained directly to Barclays about the way it had sold him the Additions 
Active account. Barclays accepted that it hadnt sold the account fairly, upheld Mr Bs 
complaint, and paid him some compensation. However, it didnt close Mr Bs Additions 
Active account and continued to charge him the monthly fees. 
Then, in 2016-2017, Barclays withdrew Additions Active accounts from its customers, 
including Mr B. In early 2017, it switched him to a fee-free account but added the two packs 
of potential benefits, one called a Travel Pack and one called a Tech Pack, for it which 
charged monthly fees.
One of our adjudicators has already looked into this complaint and didnt think that Barclays 
had acted unfairly. The adjudicator didnt recommend that Barclays should refund any 
money to Mr B. Mr B didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an 
ombudsman to review his case. So, it has come to me to make a final decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about this complaint. Ive
looked into everything that Mr B and Barclays have told us or sent us about the case, and 
Ive decided not to uphold it. Ive explained why below. 
Mr B has raised similar concerns about three different events. The first was the way Barclays 
sold him the Additions Active account in 2008; the second was the way it kept charging him 
fees for the account after it upheld his complaint; and the third was the way it switched him 
to the Travel Pack and Tech Pack in 2017. Hes told us that all (he) ever needed or wanted 
was an account with an overdraft and that he didnt need any of the other benefits any of his 
accounts or packs offered. Hes told us that Barclays never told him what other accounts 
(were) available and that he asked about this on at least three occasions, but Barclays 
advised him that if he wanted an overdraft then he needed to have a packaged account or a 
benefit pack. 
Despite the similarity in Mr Bs concerns about the three different events, as they were 
separated by several years and happened in different ways, to make sure I havent missed 
anything, I have considered each individually. 
The way Barclays sold Mr B the Additions Active account in 2008
As Barclays has accepted that it mis-sold the account to Mr B, I have not looked into 
the actual sale any further. However, I have looked at the way Barclays worked out the 
compensation it paid to Mr B. 
In July 2014, Barclays wrote to Mr B and explained how it had calculated the 
compensation. It seems to have done this fairly. So, Im satisfied that there is nothing 
further for me to consider from before July 2014. 
The way Barclays continued to charge Mr B fees for the Additions Active account after 
it upheld his original complaint
As well as explaining how Barclays calculated the compensation for Mr B, its letter of 
July 2014 explained that if he wanted to cancel the Additions Active account, he could 
contact Barclays either by phone or letter and gave the appropriate contact details. 
So, I think that at that time Barclays gave Mr B a reasonable option to change his 
account, and to stop paying the monthly fees. 
The letter did not mention Mr Bs overdraft and did not imply that he couldnt continue 
to use one if he opted for a different type of account. So, I dont think that Barclays 
misled Mr B about his options for an overdraft. 
The way Barclays switched Mr B to a fee-free account in 2017 but added a Tech pack 
and a Travel Pack for which it charged fees. 
During 2016, Barclays decided to withdraw the Additions Active account from its 
customers. This was a commercial decision, which it was allowed to make providing it 
told its customers what it was planning and gave them reasonable choices.
Barclays has sent us copies of two letters it wrote to Mr B about changing his account. 
It sent the first letter in September 2016. This letter told Mr B that Barclays proposed to 
switch him to a Barclays Bank Account with no monthly fee, but that it would add the 
Tech Pack and the Travel Pack. The letter explained that Barclays would add these 
two packs as their potential benefits were similar (though not identical) to those of the 
Additions Active account. The letter told Mr B how much the two packs would cost and 
what features they would provide. It also told Mr B that he could opt out of these packs 
and that if he did so his account would not have a monthly fee. It described how could 
do this either by visiting one of Barclays branches or by calling a particular phone 
number.
One of the benefits of the Additions Active account was that if customers arranged an 
overdraft, Barclays would not usually charge interest on the first £300 they overdrew. 
The letter explained that if Mr B accepted the packs, Barclays would reduce this 
benefit to the first £200 of any overdraft. It also explained what would happen if Mr B 
opted out of the packs. It said that if he did so, his overdraft limit wouldnt change, but 
no part of the overdraft would be free.
 Barclays sent the second letter to Mr B in January 2017. This letter told Mr B that 
Barclays had changed his account and that it had started to charge him for the two 
packs. It also told him that both packs were optional, and he could remove them from 
his account at any time. 
 
Taking these two letters together, I think that Barclays told Mr B what it was planning 
to do and gave him reasonable choices. I also think that Barclays explained that he 
could still have an overdraft if he opted out of the packs but would lose the potential 
benefit of not having to pay interest on the first £200. 
Later on, during 2017, Barclays increased the free for the Tech Pack and has sent us 
a copy of a letter it wrote to Mr B about this increase. The letter told Mr B how he could 
remove the pack from his account if he wished and also explained what would happen 
to any overdraft he had arranged if he did so. It said: 
if you only have one pack and you cancel it, you will no longer be entitled to the fee-
free amount on any overdraft you have. This won't affect your overdraft limit, but it will 
mean you start to pay charges if you do go overdrawn.
During 2018, it increased the price of the Travel Pack and again wrote to Mr B, giving 
him the option to remove the pack and explaining again what would happen to any 
overdraft. It said:
You also receive a fee-free amount on your overdraft as part of your Travel Pack. If 
this is the only pack you hold and decide to remove it, you will no longer be entitled to 
the fee-free amount on any overdraft you have. This won't affect your overdraft limit 
but will mean you start to pay charges if you do go overdrawn. 
Barclays increased the price of the Tech Pack again during 2019 and sent Mr B a very 
similar letter to the first one I mentioned, with the same information about overdrafts. 
I think these letters continued to remind Mr B that he didnt need to keep either pack to 
have an overdraft. 
Mr B has also told us that he thought Barclays used too much jargon in its letters and that 
this was unfair. I accept that some of the letters may have been a bit lengthy, but I think they 
were clear enough for Mr B to follow. I dont think they said anything which was unfair or left 
out anything significant.
 Mr B has also commented that each time Barclays advised him that he had to keep the 
packaged account or the benefit packs to have an overdraft it was always in person in the 
bank or on the telephone. 
Mr B hasnt given us much information about these discussions, and I cant tell for sure what 
Barclays said or didnt say. But it seems likely to me that Barclays may well have told Mr B 
that he would lose the interest-free portion of his overdraft if he switched accounts. But this 
would have been true and so was a fair thing for Barclays to say. However, I doubt that 
Barclays told Mr B he couldnt have an overdraft if he switched accounts, as this would have 
obviously been the opposite to what it had put in writing several times. 
So, in summary I think that in July 2014, Barclays compensated Mr B fairly for mis-selling 
him the Additions Active account in 2008. From July 2014 onwards, I think that Barclays 
gave Mr B reasonable choices about his bank account and treated him fairly. I dont think it 
misled him that he couldnt have an overdraft with a fee-free account or without buying a 
pack of other benefits. My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mr Bs complaint about Barclays 
Bank UK PLC. I am not going to tell it to give him any more money back. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2021.
 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman