DRN-3376796
The complaint
Ms K complains about the setting up of a fixed sum loan agreement she took out with Klarna 
Bank AB (publ), to get a brand new mobile telephone.
What happened
In January 2021, Ms K signed a fixed sum loan agreement with Klarna, to pay for a brand 
new mobile telephone. Within the terms and conditions of the agreement, Klarna told Ms K 
that the repayments would begin one month after the handset is sent to her, by the supplier. 
Following the order, Klarna sent Ms K an email to say the repayments would start on 5 
February 2021. Ms K queried this email, as the repayment date was around three weeks 
after she had placed the order. Ms K said she was expecting the initial repayment date to be 
at least one month after she had signed the agreement. 
Klarna sent the handset to Ms K in January 2021 and attempted to take a direct debit from 
Ms Ks account on 5 February 2021. The direct debit wasnt paid and Ms K raised a 
complaint with Klarna. She said they had breached their agreement with her, by trying to 
take the initial payment earlier than they had agreed to. 
In their final response to Ms Ks complaint, Klarna explained that at the checkout stage of the 
order, Ms K had confirmed repayments would start on the fifth of each month, the month 
after the handset was ordered. They accepted that the wording used was confusing but told 
Ms K she needed to make up any missed payments. 
Ms K didnt accept Klarnas response and brought her complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into Ms Ks concerns and found that Klarna had treated her fairly. They 
concluded that although the wording of the agreement wasnt particularly clear, Klarna 
provided clarity at the checkout stage and confirmed that further in their email to Ms K, 
shortly after the order was placed. 
Ms K didnt agree and said that the agreement she has with Klarna is different from the 
repayment structure they had put in place. The investigator didnt change their conclusions 
and now Ms Ks case has been passed to me to make a final decision.
I sent Ms K and Klarna my provisional decision on this case, on 1 March 2022. I explained 
why I think the complaint should be upheld. A copy of my provisional findings is included 
below:
This case is about an application for a fixed sum loan agreement, which is a regulated 
financial product. As such, we are able to consider complaints about it. 
The fixed sum loan agreement 
The agreement Ms K has with Klarna explains the detail about the duration of the contract, 
the total amount repayable, the deposit and the monthly repayment amounts. I can see that 
on page one of the fixed sum loan agreement, it says: 
Repayment details: 
You shall repay the total amount payable by an initial payment of £28.89 payable one 
month after the shipment of the goods/services by the Supplier, 
I can also see that Klarna sent Ms K an email the day after she placed her order which said: 
Next planned payment 5 February 
And in an online chat conversation Ms K had with an advisor from Klarna on the same day, 
she was told: 
the payment plan will be started for the order and the next due date will be 05 of 
February 2021. 
Having considered everything, I think the agreement Ms K signed with Klarna says the 
repayments will start a month after the handset is sent to her. Klarna says the handset was 
sent to Ms K by the supplier on 14 January 2021. 
So, I think the repayment date given to Ms K in the email and online chat conversation was 
incorrect. I think the earliest repayment date Ms K could have expected was 14 February 
2021. 
In all the circumstances, I think Klarna treated Ms K unfairly when they told her a direct debit 
was due sooner than the timescale detailed in her agreement with them. So, Ive gone on to 
consider what Klarna have done to put the matter right. 
The payment from Klarna in June 2021 
Nearly five months after Klarna say they sent the handset to Ms K, they made a payment to 
the account she had with them. I can see from looking at the account statements for the 
fixed sum loan agreement, that Klarna refunded £28.89 on 8 June 2021. 
Klarna say the effect of this refund, was to adjust Ms Ks account, to what she was 
expecting, when she entered the agreement. In other words, Klarna revised their stance on 
Ms Ks complaint and accepted that their initial request for payment in February 2021 may 
have been confusing. 
The loan account statements provided by Klarna show that Ms Ks agreement was in dispute 
from January until June 2021. They also show that by 23 June 2021, Ms Ks account was up 
to date and that she has continued to make the monthly repayments ever since. 
Ive spoken to Klarna about the amount Ms K still owes under the fixed sum loan agreement. 
Klarna also confirmed that the final payment of £160.74 is due on 5 January 2023. This is 
now less than the final payment figure which shows on Ms Ks fixed sum loan agreement. 
Having considered everything, I think Klarna have taken steps to put things right for Ms K. I 
think the refund of £28.89 on 8 June 2021 means that the initial payment date was reworked 
so that it wasnt due until one month after the handset was sent to Ms K. I think the 
agreement is still due to end when Ms K expected it to. And it means the overall balance 
Ms K owes to Klarna is slightly less than she had initially agreed to. 
The information held with credit reference agencies 
The statements for the fixed sum loan agreement show that Ms K didnt make any payments from January until June 2021. Ms K has told us that this will have a negative effect on her 
credit score. As payments werent made to Ms Ks account, I can see how this was worrying 
for her. But, I can also see from Klarnas internal records for Ms Ks agreement, that the 
account was in dispute. 
Ive spoken to Klarna about this and they explained that they havent recorded any adverse 
information about Ms Ks agreement, with the credit reference agencies they use. Ive also 
looked at Klarnas internal records and cannot see that they completed a default process, 
although I acknowledge that Ms K says she was sent letters warning of a default notice. And 
Ms K hasnt sent us any information to show the impact on her credit file. 
On balance, Im persuaded that Klarna havent passed on any adverse information to the 
credit reference agencies they use. In all the circumstances, I think Klarna have treated 
Ms K fairly when looking at the repayment information recorded about her fixed sum loan 
agreement. 
The distress and inconvenience experienced by Ms K 
Ive concluded that Klarna didnt treat Ms K fairly when they asked her to make a payment 
sooner than was detailed in the agreement. This was corrected when Klarna made a 
payment to the account, nearly six months later in June 2021. 
Throughout that time, it must have been very worrying for Ms K. Particularly because Klarna 
continued to pursue a repayment which they later said they shouldnt have. 
Ms K has told us about the impact this has had and the distress and inconvenience it has 
caused her. Although Ms K still had use of the handset, there was uncertainly about the 
repayments to the agreement. And I can see that Ms K had to make up five months of 
arrears, in the space of a few weeks, when the repayments eventually restarted. 
Having considered everything, I think Ms K experienced distress and inconvenience when 
Klarna told her a payment was due on 5 February 2021. And I think Klarna caused Ms K 
further distress, when it took them nearly six months to take steps to put the matter right. 
In all the circumstances, I think its fair that Klarna pays Ms K £100, by way of compensation 
in recognition of that.
Ms K responded to the provisional decision and in summary, she said: 
- The payment of £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused is acceptable.
- Shed like Klarna to pay her £28.89 directly, instead of to her fixed sum loan because 
she wont see the benefit, if she agrees to upgrade her current handset.
- Klarna are likely to make the same error again.
Klarna responded to the provisional decision and said that the repayments taken from 
Ms Ks current account in June 2021 were always due to be paid. They said Ms K had 
missed those payments, while the account was in dispute.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ms K says she wont see the benefit of the payment of £28.89, made by Klarna to her fixed 
sum loan agreement in June 2021. She says this will be absorbed by Klarna if she chooses 
to upgrade her handset and take out another loan.
I understand why Ms K may say this. But, I think an upgrade and cancellation of her current 
agreement is down to what she decides to do. I think any subsequent agreement Ms K 
choses to take out with Klarna, is separate to the fixed sum loan Ive considered as part of 
this case. 
And from what Ive seen from the statements Klarna have sent to us, is that the balance of 
Ms Ks loan was reduced by the payment she was disputing in February 2021, at no extra 
cost to her. So, I still think Klarna have treated her fairly here. It then follows that I dont think 
Klarna need to make a payment to Ms K of £28.89.
Ms K has also told us about her concern that Klarna will make the same mistake with the 
first repayment date, should she enter a new agreement for a new handset. Its my hope that 
Ms K wouldnt have cause to complain about the same concern again. 
But, it remains her decision as to which provider she uses to change her handset. Id like to 
be clear, in that any concerns Ms K may have in the future, will be separate to what Ive 
considered in this complaint.
I understand Klarnas argument that Ms K was always due to make up the repayments she 
missed while her fixed sum loan agreement was in dispute. Ive concluded that on balance, 
Klarna didnt pass on any adverse information to credit reference agencies. Ive also seen 
that Klarna eventually accepted the wording within the agreement was confusing.
But, I dont think Ms K was given any other option or forbearance when multiple payments 
were taken from her current account in June 2021. In all, £144.45 was taken from Ms Ks 
account over a few weeks. And for around five months before that, Ms K faced uncertainty 
with what was happening with her agreement. 
I also think it would have been particularly worrying for Ms K, as at that stage, she wasnt 
sure if any information was being passed to credit reference agencies. I say this because 
Ms K says Klarna continued to send her notices about the arrears on her loan account, while 
it was in dispute.
Having considered everything, I still think Ms K experienced distress and inconvenience 
when Klarna gave her confusing information about the first repayment due to her fixed sum 
loan agreement. In all the circumstances, I think its fair for Klarna to pay Ms K £100 in 
recognition of that.
Putting things right
For these reasons Klarna Bank AB (publ) should pay Ms K £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience shes experienced.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Klarna Bank AB (publ) to put 
things right as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman