DRN-4241078
The complaint
Mr G has complained about the level of service he received from ReAssure Limited over a 
prolonged period; he feels this resulted in him having to switch his pension to a new 
provider. Mr G said he is also unhappy with how ReAssure administered his pension transfer 
and as such, feels he has lost out financially because of their lack of transparency around 
how the switch had been priced.
What happened
In 2021, Mr G decided to switch his pension away from ReAssure as he wasnt happy with 
the service hed received from them over the previous year. During 2021, Mr G and his IFA 
raised several complaints with ReAssure about their service and wider offering. In December 
2021, an Origo request was submitted by his new pension provider and ReAssure 
transferred his funds away in January 2022.
On 2 March 2022, Mr Gs IFA wrote a letter of complaint to ReAssure on his behalf. 
Referring to the last two complaint letters both he and Mr G had made in 2021, he said he 
didnt believe ReAssures previous correspondence got to the heart of his clients concerns 
about the service hed received. He also said in summary:
ReAssure failed to provide an accurate indication of the transfer process timeline.
ReAssure failed to provide a central contact person or a compromise to ensure Mr 
Gs funds would be out of the market for the minimal amount of time possible.
In addition, Mr Gs IFA explained the main focus of their letter was their wish to raise a 
further complaint point: the service and process during the transfer of benefits from 
ReAssure to his new plan. They went on to explain they felt Mr G had suffered a financial 
disadvantage because of ReAssures actions.
After not receiving a response to his 2 March 2022 letter, Mr G submitted his complaint to 
this service on 21 September 2022. This service contacted ReAssure asking for a copy of 
their final resolution letter. ReAssure explained on 8 March 2023 they had no record of the 
complaint from March 2022. They went on to explain it was their view, as theyd already 
responded to Mr Gs previous complaints, that this service didnt have the jurisdiction to hear 
his latest concerns as it had been raised outside of the timescales the regulator permits. 
ReAssure took the view that the complaint letter from March 2022 raised no new points that 
hadnt already been previously addressed.
The complaint was then considered by one of our Investigators who concluded that 
ReAssure hadnt treated Mr G fairly. He felt theyd unreasonably delayed transferring his 
pension and as such, they should undertake a loss assessment to put him back in the 
position he wouldve been in had it not been for their delays.
However, ReAssure disagreed with our Investigators findings. In summary, they said they 
didnt believe this service had the jurisdiction to hear the complaint because Mr G had raised 
his concerns outside of the timescales the regulator sets. 
Our Investigator was not persuaded to change his view as he didnt believe ReAssure had 
presented any new arguments hed not already considered or responded to.
After carefully considering the complaint, I issued a provisional decision explaining that 
whilst I was upholding the complaint, I was adding further context to that of the Investigator, I 
also explained there were some elements of Mr Gs concerns that I wasnt able to look at 
and I revised the redress calculation on how ReAssure should put things right for Mr G. For 
completeness, Ive set out the findings I made in full below.
My provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Can I consider this complaint?
I appreciate Mr G feels strongly that ReAssures actions have resulted in a financial impact 
on him but, if a business, in this case ReAssure, objects to this service looking into their 
concerns due to the complaint not being submitted to us in time, I must first look if it meets 
the regulators rules on whether this service can or cannot look at the case. Those are 
covered under the Financial Conduct Authoritys Dispute Resolution Rules - DISP2.8.2. The 
rules explain that for this service to be able to consider Mr Gs complaint, he must have 
submitted his concerns to us no later than six months after having received ReAssures final 
resolution letter.
ReAssure believe they addressed Mr Gs concerns in their resolution letters of 23 
September 2021 and 21 February 2022. However, Mr G says theyve ignored his IFAs letter 
of 2 March 2022. But, ReAssure say the complaint points in his IFAs March letter have 
already been addressed. And, given six months has more than elapsed between their 
resolution letters and Mr Gs complaint to this service, ReAssure say his case is out of time. 
However, in summary, Im satisfied this service can consider part of Mr Gs complaint. I can 
look at his concerns about the mechanics of the pension switch, so, the timing and the 
values used. But I cant look at the wider points Mr G has raised, such as those about the 
service he received from ReAssure that led him to want to transfer away, and how a 
potential transfer away would work. Ill explain why:
Mr Gs complaint letter of 2 September 2021 said in summary, that despite asking them 
in August 2021 for a form to switch his pension away to another provider, they didnt post 
the respective paperwork to him until 7 September 2021. 
In response to that complaint, ReAssure issued a resolution letter to him on 23 
September 2021. They upheld the complaint and offered him £150 for the trouble theyd 
caused. They also explained that if they were to receive a transfer application within 28 
days of that letter, theyd also be happy to undertake a loss calculation to ensure hed 
not missed out financially because of their delays. Mr G was unhappy with their reply and 
responded on 27 September 2021 explaining the £150 was inadequate. He also referred 
to his IFAs letter to them of 14 September 2021 and asked ReAssure to deal with those 
concerns promptly. For me to able to consider this element of his complaint, Mr G would have needed to submit 
that specific concern to this service no later than six months after having received 
ReAssures final resolution letter. So, that means the deadline for him submitting that part of 
his complaint to us would have been 23 March 2022. Mr G brought his complaint to this 
service on 21 September 2022. So, it therefore follows Ive concluded this element of his 
complaint is out of time.
On 14 September 2021, Mr Gs IFA also complained to ReAssure raising several further 
concerns. He said in summary, that because of the poor service levels Mr G had 
encountered, he was left with little option but to switch the fund away to a new provider. 
He also said that there had been issues with data not being switched over to ReAssure 
when they took on the pension from L&G. He also said Mr G was unhappy with a lack of 
access to online valuations which resulted in him having to continually telephone the 
ReAssure helpline, a lack of fund/ investment choices, frustrations with ReAssures 
withdrawal process and a slow fund switch process. Mr Gs IFA also didnt feel the 
redress from prior complaints hed raised with them was adequate for the inconvenience 
hed suffered. In addition, he sought clarification from ReAssure on how a potential 
transfer away to a new provider would work and whether ReAssure could take steps to 
minimise the inconvenience and cost of such a transfer.
ReAssure responded to that complaint with its 21 February 2022 resolution letter. They also 
confirmed on 1 March 2022 their 21 February letter was in relation to Mr Gs 14 September 
2021 complaint letter. So even though they didnt address the consumers concerns in any 
level of detail, this service is unable to consider anything Mr G raised in that complaint letter 
as it is outside of our jurisdiction given when Mr G brought his complaint to us. If Mr G wasnt 
happy with ReAssures response on those particular points, he had to have submitted his 
concerns to this service within six months of ReAssures final resolution letter  the deadline 
of which would have been 21 August 2022. Mr G referred his complaint to us on 21 
September 2022.
Mr Gs letter to ReAssure of 2 March 2022 repeated much of what had already been raised 
with them previously  with the important exception of the timing and mechanics of the 
switch. Having carefully reviewed Mr Gs March letter and the various issues raised, Im 
satisfied I can consider his complaint points about the timing of the switch. Thats because 
ReAssure cant have addressed his concerns about the switch because they said their 
resolution letter specifically related to the 14 September complaint which came before the 
transfer even happened. Allied to that, the switch didnt take place until January 2022 so, 
logically, Mr Gs September 2021 complaint couldnt have raised concerns about a switch 
that hadnt yet taken place.
Mr Gs March letter was sent to ReAssure via Royal Mail recorded delivery. Royal Mails 
website states the letter was signed for on 7 March 2022. So, it appears that ReAssure 
received the letter but it failed to make its way to their complaints team. They had eight 
weeks to provide a response to that letter. That time limit wouldve expired on 2 May 2022 by 
which point they should have issued Mr G his referral rights to this service, but those rights 
were never provided. 
It therefore follows that this part of Mr Gs case wasnt submitted to us outside the time limits 
set out by the regulator. As such, Ive concluded this service can hear this part of his 
complaint.
ReAssures handling of the pension switch
ReAssure switched Mr Gs pension to his new provider on 7 January 2022 using the value of 
his fund at 6 December 2021. On 6 December 2021, ReAssure received the first Origo request to switch Mr Gs pension 
away. That request failed because information was missing from the application, so a 
subsequent request was made on 10 December 2021. It appears ReAssure had all the 
information they needed at that point. ReAssure in their correspondence from 29 September 
2021 state the policy value is worked out with effect of the date that the transfer forms 
received or Origo request sent in, that value will be paid to the receiving scheme. However, 
within the official printed transfer pack ReAssure provided Mr G on 1 December 2021, it 
states the current value is not guaranteed and we will re-calculate it on the day after we 
receive all the documents weve requested. I consider the latter definition to be ReAssures 
official approach (as its included within a standard transfer document), rather than the more 
ad hoc comments made by someone during the course of the complaint.
Given the correctly completed transfer form was received on 10 December 2021, the next 
working day would be 13 December 2021. Its therefore reasonable that the latter date 
shouldve been used to determine the transfer value. It seems that ReAssure explained to 
Mr Gs IFA they were in a position to send the monies to his new provider on 16 December 
2021 but for whatever reason, they didnt. The monies werent sent until the next month 
which meant Mr Gs investment plans had to be put on hold. As such, I think ReAssure 
should look into whether Mr G has suffered a financial loss because of their delays. In doing 
so, I think its reasonable therefore to use 16 December 2021 as the point at which the funds 
wouldve been sent. 
Looking at the process Mr G went through, I dont think ReAssure managed his expectations 
clearly enough. He was given conflicting information and ReAssure didnt follow the 
commitments theyd given him. For example, they explained on 16 December 2021 the 
transfer would be initiated that day but, in reality, the monies werent sent until 7 January 
2022.
So, taking account of the trouble Mr G suffered as a consequence of ReAssures handling of 
the switch, I am also instructing them to pay him £300 for the inconvenience theyve caused 
him.
The inconvenience suffered by Mr Gs IFA
In their complaint letter of 2 March 2022, Mr Gs IFA stated that, in addition to seeking 
recompense for the trouble and upset ReAssure had caused their client, they also wanted to 
be compensated for their inconvenience too. However, only Mr G is an eligible complainant 
under our rules; I cant look at the inconvenience suffered by any parties representing Mr G.
Responses to my provisional decision
Having received my provisional decision, Mr G responded emphasising he wished to make 
the point that he wasnt happy with either the service, delays or various interactions hed had 
with ReAssure. He had hoped this would be taken into account as part of the decision.
ReAssure replied explaining they believed the correct date had been used for pricing the 
pension switch. They said that, despite information being missing from the file, theyd 
typically use the date that the original Origo request was received to work out the value of 
benefits that should be transferred. ReAssure also said that meant the pension value of 6 
December 2021 should be used in the loss calculation. They went on to say that it was their 
view the funds should have been transferred to the new provider by 20 December 2021, 
which was in line with their normal service level standards.
ReAssure explained they were in agreement with the £300 awarded to Mr G for the trouble 
theyd caused him.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive already explained, the purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point 
raised. My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr G and ReAssure and reach 
what I think is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but it is for me to decide, based on the available information I've been 
given, what's more likely than not to have happened.
Whilst I appreciate Mr G may be disappointed with the various aspects of the service hes 
received from ReAssure, as Ive already explained earlier, the rules of the regulator set out 
what complaints I can and cant consider. So, because Mr G submitted his concerns about 
the service hed received from ReAssure more than six months after receiving their final 
resolution letter, I can only consider the part of his complaint that relates to the delays of his 
pension switch.
ReAssure have agreed its appropriate to undertake a loss calculation to put Mr G back into 
the position that he wouldve been in had it not been for their delays in switching his pension. 
What they dont agree with is the dates that have been set out in the provisional decision to 
determine what loss, if any, there may be.
ReAssure have said that the pension value of 6 December 2021 should be used as the 
starting point in the loss calculation  thats because its the date that they received the initial 
transfer request through. I dont agree, and thats because importantly, that application was 
incomplete. ReAssure didnt receive a correctly completed transfer form through until 10 
December 2021. Im not persuaded to alter the redress start date to 6 December 2021 
because ReAssures official transfer paperwork states the current value is not guaranteed 
and we will re-calculate it on the day after we receive all the documents weve requested. 
So, it therefore follows that given the correctly completed transfer form was received on 10 
December 2021, the next working day would be 13 December 2021 and its therefore 
reasonable that the latter date (of 13 December 2021) should be used to determine the 
transfer value.
In their response to the provisional decision, ReAssure also said it was their view that the 
funds should have been transferred to the new provider by 20 December 2021 which was in 
line with their normal service level standards. I also dont agree with that contention. Thats 
because, as Ive already explained, ReAssure told Mr Gs IFA that they were in a position to 
send the monies to his new provider on 16 December 2021 but for whatever reason, they 
didnt. So, given ReAssures admission that they wouldve been able to transfer the monies 
on that date, I dont think its reasonable to use the later transfer date of 20 December 2021. 
Ive therefore decided that ReAssure must use 16 December 2021 as the point at which Mr 
Gs funds wouldve been sent to his new provider in their loss calculation. 
Having considered the further comments that have been submitted to me, I have reached 
the same decision for the reasons Ive already set out in my provisional decision above.Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr G should be put back as closely as possible into the position he would 
probably now be in if it had not been for ReAssures delays.
Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr G's circumstances 
and objectives when he invested.
As Ive already explained, in addition to the actions below, ReAssure must also pay Mr G 
£300 for the inconvenience theyve caused him in not handling his pension switch as 
effectively as they could have done.
What must ReAssure do?
To compensate Mr G fairly ReAssure should:
Compare the performance of Mr G's investment with that of the benchmark shown below. If 
the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If 
the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If there is a loss, ReAssure should pay into Mr G's pension plan, to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation. ReAssures payment should allow for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief. ReAssure shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension plan if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If ReAssure are unable to pay the compensation into Mr G's pension plan, they should pay 
that amount direct to Mr G. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to notionally 
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to 
ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr G wont 
be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr G's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr G is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected 
retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr G would have been able 
to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, 
resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr G in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If ReAssure considers theyre required by 
HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Mr G how 
much they have taken off. ReAssure should also give Mr G a tax deduction certificate in 
respect of interest if Mr G asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on interest from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interestReAssure 
PensionSwitched to 
7IM7IM 
investment 
fund*16 
December 
2021Date of 
transfer to 
7IM8% simple 
per year on 
any loss 
from the end 
date to the 
date of 
settlement**
* Mr G to provide documentary evidence to ReAssure of the 7IM fund his monies were 
originally invested in January 2022 so ReAssure are able to undertake the comparison.
** Despite the fact the consumer has switched their pension away, any loss Mr G has 
suffered needs to be brought up to date. To keep things simple for both parties, rather than 
asking ReAssure to seek out third party information from Mr Gs new provider calculating 
what would've happened with his fund, Im satisfied that adding 8% simple interest per year 
is a fair award.
Actual value
This means the actual amount of Mr Gs transfer value.
Fair value
This is what Mr Gs pension would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
ReAssure should in their calculation use the value of what Mr Gs fund would have been on 
13 December 2021 had all units been disinvested and that value invested with 7IM from 16 
December until the end date.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the ReAssure pension should be deducted from the fair value 
calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if you total all those payments and deduct that figure at the 
end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because Mr G had intended to switch his plan to 
7IM in December 2021. Ive started the redress at 16 December 2021 as thats the point at 
which the consumers pension shouldve been with 7IM by. Therefore, ReAssure are 
responsible for the delays theyve caused thereafter. Im satisfied that what Mr G eventually 
did when investing with 7IM is a guide to what he would have done had he been able to 
transfer earlier.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Gs complaint and I require ReAssure Limited to take the actions Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2023.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman