DRN-3672096
The complaint
Ms W complains that Aviva Insurance Limited mishandled her claim on a motorhome
insurance policy.
Where I refer to Aviva, I include assessors, repairers and others insofar as I hold Aviva
responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a motorhome, first registered in 2011.
For the year from mid-March 2021, Ms W had it insured on a comprehensive policy under
which Aviva was responsible for dealing with claims. The cost for the year was £410.32
including Insurance Premium Tax.
Unfortunately on 3 July 2021, a third party damaged the rear of the motorhome while it was
parked. Ms W contacted Aviva and it appointed a repairer.
On 11 August 2021, Aviva inspected the motorhome. Later that month it produced a report
on the proposed repair.
On about 21 September 2021, Ms W complained to Aviva about delays in the authorisation
of the repairs. Later in September 2021, Aviva apologised and paid £250.00 compensation.
In January 2022, Ms W complained, through us, to Aviva about further delays in getting the
motorhome repaired and returned so that she could use it. After eight weeks, Aviva hadnt
sent a final response, so we investigated.
From mid-March 2022, Ms W had to re-insure the motorhome for a further year.
Ms W got the motorhome back on 29 April 2022. After using it once, she found that the
battery was dead and wouldn't re-charge. She paid for a new battery.
By a final response dated 27 May 2022, Aviva offered £550.00 compensation for the distress
and inconvenience caused. Unhappy with that, Ms W asked us to continue to investigate.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator at first recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that a
reasonable repair period mightve been about three months. He thought that Ms W had been
deprived of the use of her motorhome for about six months longer than perhaps she
shouldve been. He thought that the issue with the battery was, more likely than not, a result
of the motorhome being inactive for a prolonged period. He didnt think that Avivas payment
of £550.00 compensation was sufficient. 
He recommended that Aviva should:
1. refund 50% of the cost of Ms Ws motorhome insurance policy for the period since 
the start date of 15 March 2021, due to her being deprived of its use for longer than 
was necessary. This was sufficient to also cover the period from the policy renewal 
date in March 2022, to 29 April 2022, when her vehicle was returned;
2. refund 50% of the cost of Ms Ws vehicles annual road tax (evidence of the cost to 
be provided by Ms W);
3. refund Ms W for the cost and fitting of the new battery she had to buy (evidence of 
the cost to be provided by Ms W);
4. pay Ms W a further £250.00 (i.e. a total of £800.00 compensation) for distress and 
inconvenience;
5. add simple interest at the standard rate of 8% per annum to the above figures;
6. provide Ms W with a clear breakdown of all the above figures.
Ms W agreed with the investigators opinion. She provided an invoice dated 31 May 2022 for
the supply and fitting of the battery for £227.32 including VAT.
Aviva disagreed with the investigators opinion and made further points to us.
Our investigator changed his view. Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint
should be upheld. He thought that:
The £250.00 Aviva paid for the initial delays, covered the period until around October 
2021. So the £550.00 compensation offer made by Aviva for the delays in the repair 
and return of the motorhome was fair and reasonable, and in line with similar cases 
considered by this service.
Aviva should consider the issue of the replacement of the vehicles battery as a new 
issue and respond to Ms W separately.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Ms W  
and to Aviva on 5 August 2022. I summarise my findings:
There wasnt enough evidence that Ms W complained to Aviva about the battery 
before its (belated) final response on 27 May 2022. I didnt think Aviva had an 
opportunity to answer that complaint before Ms W brought it to us. So I didnt 
consider it appropriate to deal with that complaint.
Overall, I was satisfied that Avivas offer was at least as much as I wouldve found 
fair and reasonable if it hadnt made that offer.
Subject to any further information from Ms W or from Aviva, my provisional decision was that 
I upheld this complaint in part. I intended to direct Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Ms W  in 
addition to its earlier payment of £250.00  a further £550.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Aviva hasnt responded to the provisional decision.Ms W disagreed with the provisional decision. She says, in summary, that:
Although Aviva had already admitted they made mistakes, they were not proactive in 
solving the situation. As a consequence she has financially lost out incurring costs for 
a vehicle that she could not use.
Her request now is that Aviva reinstate her full losses of insurance, tax and battery in 
addition to the £550.00 that was offered as a way of an apology.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute
resolution rules. The effect of one of those rules is that a consumer must first make a
complaint to the financial firm and wait for up to eight weeks for a final response before we
can investigate that complaint.
That means that we can investigate a complaint that a consumer has made to the firm
before the final response or the expiry of the eight weeks (whichever comes first).
Where we uphold a complaint about an unfair act or omission, we look at its impact on the 
complainant and we direct the firm to take steps to put that right. We assess compensation 
by reference to the impact on the complainant. We dont assess compensation at a level 
intended to punish or deter unfair acts or omissions.
As regards the flat battery, this happened between late April 2022 when Ms W got the
motorhome back and late May 2022, when she got an invoice for the new battery. 
Theres not enough evidence that Ms W complained to Aviva about the battery before its 
(belated) final response on 27 May 2022.I dont think Aviva had an opportunity to answer 
that complaint before Ms W brought it to us. So I dont consider it appropriate to deal with 
that complaint in this final decision.
Ms W already had a problem when she contacted Aviva; thats why she contacted Aviva. An
insurance claim was bound to involve some time and inconvenience.
I havent seen any evidence that the policy entitled Ms W to a replacement motorhome while
hers was being repaired.
I accept that Aviva was responsible for getting her motorhome repaired in a reasonable time.
The assessors report did recommend a habitation check.
Ive seen that there were initial delays up to September 2021 for which Aviva apologised and
paid £250.00 compensation.
Yet Aviva was responsible for incorrect information and further delay around the habitation
check.
Save in relation to that check, I dont find it unreasonable for Aviva to describe the actual
repair by reference to the report of August 2021.
Overall, Ms W was without her van from early July 2021 to late April 2022. Thats nearly ten
months. But I dont agree that all of that was delay or time wasted. It would be reasonable forAviva to do the repair in a reasonable time. And in my view Ms W has fallen short of
providing evidence showing what a reasonable time wouldve been.
I can understand Ms Ws complaint that she was still having to meet the outgoings on the
motorhome while not having any use of it. I can understand why she feels out of pocket.
However, as regards insurance, its a common policy term that if a policyholder makes a
claim and the insurer meets that claim, then the insurer wont refund any of the premium for
that policy year (even if the vehicle is written off and the policy is cancelled).
I think its fair that, if the policyholder has used the policy by making a claim, then there wont
be any refund. I say that notwithstanding that the insurer may later recover its outlay from a
third party or their insurer.
So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Aviva to compensate Ms W for the insurance 
for the period while the motorhome was being repaired  or the extra period of any delay to 
the repair.
As regards road tax, thats a legal requirement unless the vehicle is the subject of a SORN
(Statutory Off-Road Notification). So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Aviva to
compensate Ms W for the road tax for the period while the motorhome was being repaired 
or the extra period of any delay to the repair.
Im not persuaded that Aviva was responsible for any unfair act or omission that
caused Ms W a financial loss.
I accept that Aviva was responsible for some delays and other shortcomings in its service. I
accept that this caused Ms W extra distress and inconvenience at an already difficult time for
her. Ms W has fallen short of providing evidence showing that Aviva caused her ill-health.
I keep in mind the initial delay and the payment of £250.00. In is belated final response in
May 2022, Aviva tried again to put things right. It apologised and offered a further £550.00.
Putting things right
Overall, Im satisfied that Avivas offer was at least as much as I wouldve found fair and
reasonable if it hadnt made that offer.
I note that the offer was in full and final settlement. I find it unlikely that Ms W accepted it or
received payment. So I uphold this complaint and to direct Aviva to pay Ms W  in addition to 
its earlier payment of £250.00 - a further £550.00 for distress and inconvenience
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Ms W  in addition to its earlier payment of £250.00  
a further £550.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman