DRN-4106172
The complaint
Mrs K and Mr S complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc wrongly advised them not to switch to a 
five-year product in 2021. They ask that it applies the five-year rate available at that time to 
their mortgage.
What happened
In mid-2021 Mrs K and Mr S contacted HSBC. They wanted to take out additional borrowing 
for home improvements. They also asked HSBC about switching to a five-year fixed interest 
rate product. They had a product in place at that time, so switching would mean paying an 
early repayment charge (ERC) and a product fee. HSBC said this wasnt cost effective.
Mr S says HSBC didnt take into account that they wanted the certainty of a five-year 
product, or take their fears about rising interest rates seriously. He says it only compared the 
potential savings over the remaining term of their existing product (21 months), not over five 
years, and they werent aware of this until recently. Mr S says HSBC did give them advice 
(which was not to switch) and it was in a position to speculate about future interest rates 
when their product ended.
Our investigator said HSBC told Mrs K and Mr S it could only compare the savings over the 
remaining term of their fixed rate product. It said Mrs K and Mr S could switch products if 
they wanted. Our investigator said HSBC gave Mrs K and Mr S correct information. Mr S and 
Mrs K didnt agree.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs K and Mr S but Im not upholding their complaint. 
First, I dont think it was incorrect or unfair for HSBC to compare the costs savings over the 
remaining term of Mrs K and Mr Ss existing product (which was due to expire on 31 May 
2023).
HSBC couldnt calculate if switching products would result in cost savings after May 2023 as 
it didnt know what rate would be applied to their mortgage. 
The mortgage adviser Mr S spoke to in July 2021 said he couldnt calculate savings over five 
years. He told Mr S he could only work out the saving over the remaining term of the existing 
product and this wouldnt be cost effective, given the ERC. 
HSBC says while switching would have saved Mrs K and Mr S about £60 per month up to 
May 2023 (totalling about £1,200) theyd have had to pay an ERC of £2,400 and a product 
fee of £999. 
Mr S told the mortgage adviser he wanted certainty over five years, and wanted to know 
what the cost of this would be. The mortgage adviser said he could still switch products if he 
wanted to and had a reason to do so, even if this wasnt cost effective. 
I think it was made clear to Mr S that the mortgage adviser calculated the cost savings over 
the remaining 21 months of the existing product. And that Mr S and Mrs K could still switch 
products if they wanted to. 
Mr S contacted HSBC again in November 2021 about taking out the additional borrowing. 
He told the mortgage adviser he was thinking of a two-year interest rate product hed seen 
online  this was for the additional borrowing. Mr S said he expected rates to increase. He 
said he was comfortable with a two-year rate for the additional borrowing but if it had been 
the main mortgage hed have chosen a five-year rate. The mortgage adviser asked if hed 
pay the ERC to switch his main mortgage onto a new rate if this was cost effective. The 
mortgage adviser noted the previous discussion in July 2021 had been that this wasnt cost 
effective. The adviser looked into switching the main mortgage onto a two-year rate and said 
this wasnt cost effective. 
At the end of the call in November 2021 the mortgage adviser told Mr S he could apply for a 
new rate on an execution only basis, if he wasnt making other changes to the mortgage. 
Because interest rates have increased, Mrs K and Mr S might have been better off switching 
to a five-year product in 2021, despite the ERC and product fee. I understand their 
frustration that HSBC didnt (or couldnt) tell them this in 2021. But HSBC couldnt have 
known in 2021 what interest rates would be in mid-2023. I dont think it would have been fair 
for HSBC to provide calculations based on an estimated or speculative interest rate which 
would, most likely, have been wrong. 
I think HSBC provided the information it could, which was a cost comparison over the term of 
the existing product. It told Mr S this was the basis of the calculation. It also told him he 
could still switch products if he wanted to do so. This wouldnt have been an easy decision 
for Mr S and Mrs K. Theyd have had to weigh the costs involved in switching against what 
they thought about future interest rate rises. But, ultimately, this was a decision that Mr S 
and Mrs K had to make. I dont think I can fairly find that HSBC should have advised Mr S 
and Mrs K to switch products in 2021 given theyd have paid the ERC and product fee 
without any certainty this would save them money overall.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 October 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman