DRN-3347510
The complaint
Miss J is unhappy with the charges applied by Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited trading as Mercedes Benz Finance (MBFS), following the return of a car under a hire 
agreement.
What happened
On 17 April 2018, Miss J was supplied with a new car through a hire agreement with MBFS. 
The agreement was for 24 months, with an initial rental of £1,846.69 and 23 monthly rental 
payments of £205.19.
The agreement was due to come to an end on 1 May 2020. In April 2020, MBFS instructed a 
collection agent, who was unsuccessful in contacting Miss J to arrange to collect the car. 
And Miss J was unsuccessful in her attempts to contact MBFS to arrange this. However, on 
23 April 2020, Miss J asked MBFS for a three-month extension to the agreement.
MBFS sent Miss J an extension agreement, which detailed the additional costs and charges 
she would incur. Miss J agreed to this, and the agreement was extended to 1 August 2020. 
Once the extension had expired, there was a delay in the car being collected. The car wasnt 
collected until 13 October 2020, and Miss J continued to use the car up until collection.
MBFS invoiced Miss J for the costs of her keeping the car until October 2020. Miss J wasnt 
happy with this, and she complained to MBFS. MBFS said they thought the charges were 
fair, but they acknowledged theyd given Miss J incorrect information in a phone call on 30 
December 2020. So, they reduced the charges by 10% as a gesture of goodwill.
Miss J remained unhappy with the charges, and she brought her complaint to us for 
investigation.
Our investigator said that, given Miss J had use of the car until it was collected, he thought it 
was only fair that she pays for this. He said that MBFS had invoiced her for the charges set 
out in the extension agreement, and the fact they gave her incorrect information in 
December 2020 doesnt change what she owes. And he wouldnt expect MBFS to have to 
honour the incorrect information. Because of this, he thought the 10% reduction in charges 
offered was fair, and he didnt think they needed to do anything more.
Miss J didnt agree with the investigator. She said that, had she been able to speak to MBFS 
in April 2020, the car wouldve been collected as per the original agreement, and she 
wouldnt have been charged. But, because she couldnt contact them, she had no option but 
to extend the agreement. So, she thinks that paying a late payment which ultimately was a 
result of their lack of response/acknowledgement is incredibly unfair.
Because Miss J didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Miss J was supplied with a car under a hire agreement. This is 
a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into complaints 
about it. 
Ive seen a copy of the agreement Miss J signed on 17 April 2018, as well as the extension 
agreements that were issued in May and August 2020. The original agreement was due to 
end in May 2020, and its not disputed that MBFS and Miss J werent able to discuss the 
return of the car before this.
Ive seen that MBFSs collection agent tried to contact Miss J on both 14 and 23 April 2020, 
and these attempts were unsuccessful. I appreciate that Miss J has said that she wouldve 
returned the car had she been able to speak to MBFS in April 2020, but the collection agent 
wouldve continued to try and contact her to arrange for the car to be returned, even after the 
agreement has finished. The only reason this didnt happen is that Miss J asked for the 
agreement to be extended. And on 5 May 2020, she agreed to the extension terms.
The extension was due to finish on 1 August 2020, but the arrangements to collect the car 
were put on hold again, as Miss J asked for a further extension. I can see that a second 
extension agreement was sent to her on 6 August 2020, but this was never signed and 
returned. So, the collection process was restarted, and the collection agent spoke to Miss J 
on 29 September 2020, arranging for collection on 13 October 2020.
Given the above, Im satisfied that MBFS acted reasonably when arranging to collect the car. 
And they appropriately acted on Miss Js requests for extension requests  agreeing the first 
one and putting collection on hold while Miss J considered the terms of the second one. So, I 
dont think MBFS need to do anything more about this.
Miss J had use of the car while it was in her possession, and I think its fair that she pays for 
this usage. And the extension agreements sent to her detailed how much she would be 
charged for keeping the car after 1 April 2020. So, I think its reasonable that MBFS calculate 
the additional usage charges based on these figures.
The original agreement Miss J signed also explained that the car needed to be returned in a 
reasonable condition, and detailed what level of damage was and wasnt acceptable. And 
Miss J was charged for damage that fell outside of these reasonable wear and tear 
guidelines. Miss J is not disputing these charges. But, when she discussed them with MBFS 
on 30 December 2020, they incorrectly told her that the charges for some of this damage 
was being waived. And this resulted in Miss J believing that the damage charges had been 
reduced from £486.90 to £266.90. Which wasnt the case.
MBFS have acknowledged their mistake and offered Miss J a 10% reduction in the charges 
as a gesture of goodwill. I consider this offer to have been reasonable in the circumstances, 
as Miss J spent a few days believing she had to pay less and finding out this wasnt the case 
wouldve come as a shock to her.However, this conversation was about the damage charges, and not the additional usage 
charges. So, Im satisfied that Miss Js understanding of the additional usage charges she 
was being asked to pay remained unaltered. And, as Ive said above, Im also satisfied that 
MBFS acted fairly by making these charges. So, I wont be asking them to reduce or waive 
them.
It's now for Miss J to decide whether to accept MBFSs offer of a 10% reduction in the 
charges or not.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Miss Js complaint about Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited trading as Mercedes Benz Finance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman