DRN-2418046
The complaint
Mr M complains about two loans that he took out with Western Circle Limited, trading as 
Cashfloat, (WCL), which he said were unaffordable. 
What happened
Mr M was given two instalment loans by WCL between March 2019 and September 2019. 
The loans were each repayable by two monthly repayments and both have been repaid. 
A summary of the loans taken out by Mr M is shown below:
Loan 
number Date of loan Repayment 
dateLoan 
amount 
1. 17/3/19 18/4/19 £350
2. 3/9/19 31/10/19 £200
Mr M said that he was accepted for loans which he should not have been accepted for. He 
had other payday loans at the time and WCL would have known this if proper checks had 
been carried out. He repaid Loan 1 early as he was scared of racking up high interest costs. 
Hed repaid £437.36 in total including £87.36 in interest. He borrowed from other lenders to 
repay this loan which made his situation even worse. 
WCL said in its final response letter that it had carried out a thorough review of Mr Ms 
account and determined that it had followed all its processes and conducted a 
creditworthiness and affordability assessment on each loan application made by Mr M. Its 
calculations were based on the income and expenditure information that Mr M provided in 
each of his loan applications. This demonstrated that his net monthly income of between 
£1200 and £1218 left him with sufficient funds to comfortably cover the agreed
repayments on each of his loans, without jeopardising his existing declared credit
commitments and priority living expenses.
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Ms complaint about Loan 1 should be upheld. He 
noted that the information WCL gathered showed that Loan 1 was not affordable for Mr M. 
This was because when he considered the income and expenditure WCL recorded along 
with the highest repayment for this loan, it left an income and expenditure shortfall.
WCL disagreed. It said that Mr M declared an income of £1,218 with a further £700 of 
outgoings towards his household bills and a further £300 towards credit repayments.
After gaining additional information from a credit reference agency, this was
increased to £482. 
Although this initially looked like Mr M only had £36 disposable income to
cover his repayment of £257, Mr M also included his partners monthly income of £1669 in 
his application. WCL referred to CONC 5.2A.12. (The relevant part of this provision says:
The firm must consider the customers ability to make repayments under the agreement: 
(1) as they fall due over the life of the agreement.;
(2)  out of, or using, one or more of the following:
(a) the customers income; 
(b) income from savings or assets jointly held by the customer with another person, income 
received by the customer jointly with another person or income received by another person 
in so far as it is reasonable to expect such income to be available to the customer to make 
repayments under the agreement;.)
WCL said that it would be reasonable to assume a proportion of Mr Ms partners income 
would be available to help with the household bills. And as Mr M was in the early stages of 
borrowing, it was reasonable to accept this small loan as being affordable with the 
information provided by the customer. This was further demonstrated by Mr M settling off his 
account earlier than scheduled.
The adjudicator responded to say that he did not agree that is was reasonable to also rely 
upon Mr Ms partners income in this instance. So, he still thought that Loan 1 wasnt 
affordable.
As this complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to investigate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
When WCL lent to Mr M the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and relevant 
regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). The CONC
contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
CONC said that a lender needed to check that a consumer could afford to meet his 
repayments in a sustainable manner. This meant a consumer being able to meet his 
repayments out of his normal income without having to go without or borrow further. 
The regulations werent prescriptive about what checks WCL needed to carry out in order to 
reasonably assess whether or not Mr M would be able to meet his repayments sustainably. 
But the regulations said that such checks needed to be proportionate. This suggests that the 
same checks might not be the appropriate thing to do for all consumers, or for the same 
consumer in all circumstances. 
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
WCL has told us that its affordability assessment required Mr M to give it full details of his 
monthly income and outgoings. It tested Mr Ms declared outgoings using statistical data and 
if the data produced a higher figure, it used the higher outgoings figure in its assessment. 
WCL also took account of the outstanding borrowings and other credit balances stated by  
Mr M and calculated an up to date monthly repayment figure for each credit item. Its 
affordability check only approved a loan if the total of all Mr Ms monthly credit repayments 
together with all his other living expenses, left him with sufficient disposable income to 
comfortably afford his loan repayments to it. As part of this affordability assessment, it 
ensured that Mr M had a reasonable buffer of disposable income over and above his 
expected living expenses and credit commitments. 
WCL also said that it used Mr Ms partners income of at least £800 to check whether the 
amounts provided by him as his share of household living expenses were reasonable. 
I note that we havent received the results of credit checks from WCL. 
We havent received a credit report from Mr M. So, I cant say that there was anything on 
that report that I think should have concerned WCL.
Ive thought about whether WCLs checks were proportionate for the loans. I note that for 
Loan 1, Mr M needed to make a highest monthly repayment of around £257 to repay the 
loan over two months. 
It seems on the face of it that the repayments would have looked relatively modest 
compared to Mr Ms declared income. However, as I explain below, I think the information 
WCL gathered should have raised concerns and prompted further checks. 
WCL has told us about the checks it did before lending Loan 1 to Mr M. It asked for his 
income which Mr M declared as £1,218 and for his outgoings. WCL asked for details of      
Mr Ms expenditure on food, utilities, rent, travel, other credit commitments and loan 
repayments. This totalled £1,050. Then WCL gained additional information from a credit 
reference agency and it increased his outgoings. That meant that Mr M only had £36 
disposable income to cover his repayment of £257. So, I cant see that Loan 1 was 
affordable. 
But WCL said that it also considered Mr Ms declared partners monthly income of £1,669. I 
can see that lenders are able to take account of other income from other household 
members where they reasonably expect this to be available to the borrower for the 
repayment of the credit. I also note that CONC 5.2A.18 (3) says that where another persons 
income is taken into account in the assessment, account should also be taken of that 
persons non-discretionary expenditure. But in respect of Mr Ms partner, I cant see that 
WCL did any proportionate checks on her information or that it indeed spoke to her. 
I also dont think its reasonable for WCL to have assumed that a proportion of Mr Ms 
partners income would be available to help with the household bills or credit commitments 
without further checks. Mr M told WCL his monthly expenses were £1,050. Its possible that 
Mr Ms partner had joint responsibility for some of this. But I think WCL should have asked 
Mr M if that was the case. Ive considered what Mr M would likely have said if WCL had asked him this. Ive seen       
Mr Ms bank statements from the time. It appears that Mr M was paying for his regular 
expenses and credit commitments which all appeared to be substantially higher than hed 
declared and that his finances were under pressure. In the three weeks prior to Loan 1, hed 
taken out short term loans totalling £1,400. I can also see that Mr M appeared to be 
contributing far more to his partners expenses than she was to his. 
So, in Mr Ms circumstances, I dont think that WCL could fairly rely on income from Mr Ms 
partner as the means by which Loan 1 could become affordable for Mr M. So, I dont think 
that it was reasonable for WCL to lend Loan 1 to Mr M. 
I note that Mr M repaid Loan 1 early and he borrowed Loan 2 around four and a half months 
later. I think the gap between Mr Ms repayment of Loan 1 and taking out Loan 2 was 
sufficient for WCL to look at Mr Ms application for Loan 2 afresh and effectively treat him as 
a new customer at that time. I can see that the loan amount was almost half that of Mr Ms 
previous loan amount as was the monthly repayment. Mr M had declared his income as 
£1,200 and his expenses as £655. I dont think the monthly repayment amounts of around 
£134 were so large that its obvious they wouldve caused Mr M financial difficulty. And the 
information Mr M gave about his income and outgoings indicated that the repayments would 
be affordable. 
So, given Mr Ms repayment amounts, what was apparent about his circumstance at the 
time, and Mr Ms repayment history, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for WCL to 
ask him for the amount of information that would be needed to show the loan was 
unsustainable. 
So, I dont think WCL was wrong to give Loan 2 to Mr M.
So, Im upholding this complaint in part and WCL needs to pay Mr M some compensation 
relating to Loan 1 as set out below. 
In deciding what redress WCL should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it not lent Loan 1 to Mr M, as Im satisfied it ought not to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr M may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, Mr M may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr M in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr M would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce WCLs liability in this case for what Im satisfied 
it has done wrong and should put right.
putting things right  what WCL needs to do1. Refund the interest and fees Mr M paid for Loan 1; 
2. Pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement; 
3. Remove any adverse information about Loan 1 from Mr Ms credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires WCL to take off tax from this interest. WCL must give   
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this complaint 
I order Western Circle Limited, trading as Cashfloat to pay the compensation and take the 
steps set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2021. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman