DRN-3409952
The complaint
Mr H complains about the advice he says he received in 2015 to transfer two personal 
pensions to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice wasnt suitable 
and he holds Wellington Court Financial Services Limited responsible.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision which set out the background to this complaint and my 
provisional findings. This is included below and forms part of this decision:
In 2015, Mr H transferred the benefits he had in a personal pension to The Orbis SIPP 
administered by Guinness Mahon Trust Corporation Limited (GMTC). He says he was 
advised to transfer by Wellington Court.
In June 2015 his two personal pensions were transferred to the SIPP bank account. The fund 
value on opening was £22,312.60. IFA Fees were paid out of the fund, which the evidence 
shows was paid to Wellington Court. It appears Mr Hs investments remained in cash until he 
transferred the funds to another pension provider in January 2017 following advice from 
another firm. The value transferred was £21.672.16.
Wellington Court said Mr H has never been its customer, so it has no case to 
answer. It says any paperwork linking Mr H to Wellington Court is fraudulent.
Mr H referred his complaint to us. He said hed been told the transfer and investment (that 
never occurred) in German Property was low risk. Hes unhappy hed been left uninvested for 
a year and a half and lost out due to the fees applied to the SIPP. Mr H asked to be put back 
into the position he wouldve been in, had the transfers not taken place.
Our investigator looked into whether this was a complaint we could consider against Wellington 
Court. They concluded that Wellington Court was responsible for the advice given to Mr H and 
therefore it was a case we could consider against it.
Wellington Courts position remained that Mr H wasnt a customer of its as it had no contact or 
dealings with him.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Review of Evidence
In making my provisional decision I will be referring to the following:
1. Documents provided by Mr H and GMTC
The following were provided by Mr H and GMTC:
I.An undated letter to GMTC, sent on Wellington Court headed paper, applying to 
the Orbis SIPP on Mr Hs behalf. The letter said it was enclosing an application 
for the SIPP and an invoice. It was date-stamped as being received by the PAN 
Group (administrators and trustees) on 1 June 2015. The letter is signed on the 
behalf of Mr P from Wellington Court. The signature is indecipherable.
II.The Orbis SIPP New Application Checklist. This was a series of tick boxes of 
the various documents (such as a SIPP application form and transfer discharge 
form) that the adviser had to check had been provided for the transfer to proceed. 
Like the covering letter, this was signed on the behalf of Mr P from Wellington 
Court rather than by Mr P himself. The signature is indecipherable but looks to be 
the same as the one on the covering letter. Under the signature, Mr Ps name has 
been printed by hand. Mr Ps first name was spelt incorrectly at first but was then 
corrected. An incorrect Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) reference number was 
also provided  the number used was actually Wellington Courts Irish company 
registration number.
III.The Orbis SIPP application form, signed by Mr H.
IV.The Orbis SIPP Important Risk Notices document. This was a nine-page 
document that outlined the various risks of the SIPP.
V.An Adviser Remuneration Form. This set out the advice fee that Mr H had 
agreed to pay Wellington Court. It said the following:
I have appointed [Mr P] of Wellington Court Financial Services Ltd ("the Company") 
to provide me with advice in relation to The Orbis SIPP (the SIPP') and any related 
investment advice in respect of assets held within the SIPP
Initial Fee Renewal Fee Fixed Fee (£)
Transfers into 
the Scheme1% to a 
maximum of
£800 plus 
VATNIL NIL
Single 
PremiumNIL NIL NIL
Regular 
PremiumNIL NIL NIL
I confirm my agreement to these charges and authorise Guinness Mahon Trust 
Corporation to debit the fees from the SIPP Bank Account and pay them on my 
behalf, this agreement replaces any existing agreement
VI.The Orbis SIPP Transfer Details Information Form. This set out the details of Mr 
Hs transfer, including the policy number of the pension he was transferring from 
and the transfer value.
VII.Various documents from Mr Hs transferring scheme.
VIII.Screen-shots showing the entries made into an advisers portal for Mr Hs 
transfers. The portal records the details of the individual transferring (name, 
address, details of transferring scheme and so on) as well as the advisers name 
 Mr P  and the name of an introducer.
2. Mr Hs recollections
Mr Hs recollections are not detailed. He says he recalls being contacted by an introducer who 
told him about the possibility of investing his pension funds in more attractive investments 
which would produce higher returns. In order to receive advice on this he says he was referred 
to Wellington Court, who were regulated. Mr H says he was advised by Wellington Court to transfer his pension to a SIPP with GMTC as he would be able to get better returns.
3. Documents from Wellington Court
Wellington Court hasnt provided any documents in relation to Mr Hs transfer because it says it 
didnt advise Mr H and that Mr H has never been a client of Wellington Court.
Wellington Court has, however, said (in relation to a different complaint) that it did some 
consultancy work on behalf of GMTC in relation to the transfer of pensions into the Orbis SIPP. 
It says the work was limited to checking files to ensure there were no transfers of safeguarded 
benefits into the SIPP because GMTC didnt want to receive that type of transfer. It has also 
recently stated that all payments it received from GMTC were for administrative consultancy 
work carried out by Mr P and nothing else.
Wellington Court added that its regulator, the FCA, contacted it in 2016 in relation to some 
GMTC pension cases which led to it meeting with the FCA on 10 August 2016. The attendees 
at that meeting were Mr P from Wellington Court and two representatives from the FCA. It says 
evidence of the administrative work carried out by Mr P was produced at the meeting with the 
FCA. Wellington Court provided some notes relating to the meeting but I havent included the 
notes here as ultimately they are not material to the outcome of this complaint.
We asked Wellington Court to provide us with a copy of the consultancy agreement it had with 
GMTC and further details about its work  for instance the fees it earned  but it hasnt done 
so. Wellington Court says further details about the meeting with the FCA and the evidence 
provided in relation to the work carried out by Mr P can be provided by the FCA.
4. Payment to Wellington Court in relation to Mr H
Mr H transferred £10.633.60 from one personal pension and £11,679.00 from the other to the 
Orbis SIPP on 12 & 15 June 2015 respectively. A 1% fee on these amounts (along the lines of 
the initial fee in the Adviser Remuneration Form described above) would equal £106.34 and 
£116.79. According to his SIPP transaction statement, these exact amounts were taken from 
Mr Hs transfer value. It was recorded on his SIPP statement as an IFA fee and was paid from 
the SIPP deposit account (with Bank M) to the GMTC client account (with Bank N). This was 
included with other 1% fees from other individuals and the total amount was then paid from the 
GMTC client account to Wellington Courts bank account (with Bank H). It appeared on 
Wellington Courts bank statement as GM IFA FEES.
5. Evidence from similar cases
Im aware of a significant number of other complaints about Wellington Court which have very 
similar features to Mr Hs case. Whilst Im deciding here on whats fair and reasonable in the 
particular circumstances of Mr Hs case, for context I think its reasonable to consider the 
evidence from these other cases alongside the evidence that has been collected in relation to 
Mr Hs case. Specifically:
I.Paperwork from other cases show a number of introducer firms were involved in these 
cases.
II.The recollections of the complainants in other cases havent been particularly detailed. 
But its apparent that for many other individuals, they invested in Dolphin Trust (a German 
property investment that has since failed) and that they signed a one-page investment 
instruction in order to make that investment. There is no such instruction in Mr Hs case, 
which accounts for why Mr Hs SIPP remained invested in cash (although why Mr H didnt 
complete an investment instruction isnt clear).
III.Other payments to Wellington Court
Information provided by GMTC in relation to other complaints shows that 1% payments along 
the same lines as Mr Hs were made to the same Wellington Court bank account in relation to many other individuals, including (but not necessarily limited to) the following:
£9,239.74 on 30 March 2015 in relation to thirty-two transferred policies (for 22 individuals 
 some individuals transferred more than one policy). The payment reference that was to 
appear on Wellington Courts statement was GM ADVISER FEES.
£8,588.76 on 24 April 2015 (the number of policies and individuals this payment relates to 
isnt clear). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts statement was 
OR ADVISER FEES.
£9,503.33 on 20 May 2015 in relation to 31 transferred policies (for 19 individuals). The 
payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts statement was ORBIS SIPP 
FEES.
£8,881.16 on 16 June 2015 in relation to 24 transferred policies (for 21 individuals). The 
payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts statement was GM IFA 
FEES.
£11,423.77 on 26 June 2015 in relation to 25 transferred policies (for 17 individuals). The 
payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts statement was GM ADVISER 
FEES.
£7,731.07 on 15 July 2015 in relation to 23 transferred policies (for 18 individuals). The 
payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts statement was ORBIS 
CLIENT FEES
£4,762.19 on 27 July 2015 in relation to 14 transferred policies (for 12 individuals). The 
payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts statement was GM IFA FEE.
£3,091.06 on 5 August 2015 in relation to 8 transferred policies (for eight individuals). The 
payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts statement was GM IFA 
FEES.
£4,624.87 on 18 August in relation to 12 transferred policies (the number of individuals this 
relates to isnt clear). The payment reference that was to appear (and did appear) on 
Wellington Courts statement was GM IFA FEES.
£6,573.32 on 25 August 2015 in relation to 14 transferred policies (the number of 
individuals this relates to isnt clear). The payment reference that was to appear (and did 
appear) on Wellington Courts statement was GM IFA FEES.
£12,672.03 on 7 October 2015 in relation to 46 transferred policies (for 31 individuals). The 
payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts statement was GM IFA 
FEES. This included the £567.02 Mr H paid to Wellington Court.
The above is based on information provided in Mr Hs case and other similar cases. Its not 
necessarily comprehensive. So I think its fair to say the above shows that at least £87,000 was 
paid from GMTC to the one Wellington Court bank account in relation to over 200 transferred 
policies in a six-month period. Its entirely possible that payments were happening before and 
after this six month period too.
For completeness, it should be noted that we have the records for the payments being made 
from GMTC but we dont have the records for all those payments being received by Wellington 
Court other than for the £6,573.32 payment on 25 August 2015 and the
£4,624.87 payment on 18 August 2015. This is because Wellington Court has only provided us 
with heavily redacted bank statements. I see no plausible reason why GMTCs payments 
wouldnt have all reached Wellington Court. So, Ill proceed on that basis, particularly as 
Wellington Court has already had the opportunity to dispute this evidence in relation to other 
cases in which decisions have been issued.Interpreting the evidence  what does all this mean?
I need to make findings of fact based on the available evidence in order to decide whether this 
complaint is one we can consider against Wellington Court and, if so, whether its fair and 
reasonable to uphold the complaint. Where things are unclear or in dispute, I have made my 
findings on the balance of probabilities; that is, on what I think is more likely than not to have 
happened in the circumstances.
In the absence of any clear evidence or persuasive arguments to the contrary, my findings of 
fact will likely be as outlined in this section.
It looks like Mr H was approached by someone  most likely an unregulated introducer  and 
as a result of those conversations, became interested in transferring his pension to the Orbis 
SIPP. His motivation was to improve the returns he was getting from his pension. Unlike many 
other transfers to the Orbis SIPP, Mr Hs funds werent invested in a German Property scheme 
 although Mr H made mention of it in his complaint. As a result, Mr Hs funds remained in cash 
until he transferred his pension to another provider around a year and a half later in 2017.
It looks like GMTC wanted the involvement of an independent financial adviser (IFA) before 
accepting a transfer because in its Important Risk Notices, it said the SIPP was ordinarily 
offered through an IFA regulated by the FCA. It appears the paperwork described above was 
evidence enough for GMTC to have accepted the transfer as coming through an IFA. As a result, 
the transfer went ahead and the 1% initial advice fee was taken from the transfer value and paid 
to Wellington Court. As Mr Hs transferred monies remained in cash, he has lost out from missed 
investment returns as well as from the fees he paid to transfer and his SIPP charges. He 
complained to Wellington Court because its name appeared on the transfer paperwork which 
said, amongst other things, that Wellington Court had provided advice.
Wellington Court says it has never had any direct, or indirect, dealings with Mr H and the 
evidence linking Wellington Court to Mr H is fraudulent. It says the covering letter from 
Wellington Court to GMTC to open the SIPP was faked and didnt come from Wellington Court. 
It points to the unprofessional look of the letter, as well as the fact that the letter was signed on 
behalf of the adviser in question  Mr P  rather than by Mr P himself and the person who 
signed that letter is untraceable because their signature is indecipherable. With regards to the 
application checklist, it points to an incorrect FCA reference number being written on the form 
and the adviser, Mr P, misspelling (and then correcting) his name. It also says Mr P worked in a 
marketing/administrative, rather than advisory, capacity and did not have regulatory permissions 
to advise on pensions.
More broadly, and as Wellington Court has pointed out in a recent response to a decision 
issued on another case, there isnt any evidence to show any documents were sent to 
Wellington Court. Wellington Court says it would have expected GMTC to send it the customary 
acknowledgments and associated documents that go alongside the setting up of a new SIPP. It 
says the absence of such documentation supports its view that all of the above was done 
without its knowledge.
Overall, Wellington Court says that the pension transfers and subsequent investments were 
orchestrated by unregulated introducers, who worked directly with GMTC. It says that fact that 
other customers have said they didnt meet or speak with Mr P shows that Wellington Court 
was not involved at all and that any documents that suggest otherwise have been faked.
Ive considered all of the above points carefully, but my view is that Wellington Court was 
engaged in advisory business involving the transfer of pensions (Mr Hs included) to the Orbis 
SIPP and that Wellington Courts actions are not consistent with its allegations that it has been 
the victim of fraud.
Wellington Court has recently said that it did not know that 1% was calculated, deducted from 
GMTCs client and paid to it, saying that GMTCs accounting system was controlled by it and not 
Wellington Court. But the fees appeared on Wellington Courts bank statement as GM IFA FEES (or something similar) which I think is clear. The payments were all made to the same 
bank account. And the amounts are significant  at least £87,000 in a period of just six months. I 
dont see how these payments could have been overlooked, which suggests to me that they 
werent overlooked but were, instead, recognised payments in relation to work it had completed. 
If they were genuinely unexpected, I would have expected Wellington Court to have investigated 
the receipt of such substantial advice fees.
Ive also reviewed Wellington Courts financial statements for the period under review and these 
show a significant increase in income in 2015 in comparison with the previous year (where 
income was minimal). Given the numbers, its reasonable to say the increase in income was 
driven largely by the fees from GMTC. So, Wellington Court would have to have overlooked 
large payments both at the time and later on when preparing its accounts. But
I dont think that is likely.
I appreciate Wellington Court has (in other cases) pointed to the consultancy work it did with 
GMTC. It has most recently said that all payments received from GMTC were for administrative 
consultancy work carried out by Mr P and nothing else. It isnt clear whether Wellington Court 
means it is confirming the fees I have outlined above were for the consultancy work it says Mr P 
carried out for GMTC or whether it is simply confirming that it did receive money from GMTC for 
consultancy work.
Either way, Im not persuaded the fees Ive mentioned above were expected as payment for the 
consultancy work carried out for GMTC by Mr P. I say this because theres a clear audit trail that 
shows the payments werent for consultancy work but were instead 1% advice fees for particular 
policies that had been transferred. Wellington Court hasnt provided us with any details of the 
fees it earned for its consultancy work and the bank statements it did provide (which would have 
shown all income received from GMTC) have been too heavily redacted to allow much insight. 
So whilst its possible that Wellington Court was also receiving fees for its consultancy work, I 
find it hard to believe that Wellington Court couldve mistaken the substantial fees outlined 
above, which were paid around the same time and had similar payment references, were for 
administrative services carried out by Mr P.
To support this view, Im aware that other financial advice firms have done similar consultancy 
work in relation to transfers to GMTC  those firms charged a fixed fee of £30 per case. So for 
Wellington Court to have earned enough to have reasonably overlooked some payments from 
GMTC, it would have to have worked an unfeasibly large number of cases to make the 
numbers add up. Alternatively, it could have charged more than £30 per case. But even with 
this assumption, the numbers dont look feasible. A charge of £100 per case (unlikely in itself to 
just check whether a pension had safeguarded benefits) would still require 870 cases in order 
to produce an income in the region of £87,000.
Its also worth noting that in cases where Ive seen advisory firms provide checking-type services 
as part of the transfer process, the checklists they completed and signed on each case are still 
available. I find it unusual that GMTCs consultancy work left no paper trail whatsoever whereas 
there is a paper trail for work it said it didnt do. I think its case can only be weakened by such an 
anomaly. And the advisory firms that provided checking-type services also made it clear in their 
paperwork that they wouldnt be offering advice. So I think Wellington Courts case is weakened 
further because it cant now provide any similar evidence to show it never intended to operate in 
the advisory space in relation to its work with GMTC.
Wellington Court seems to suggest that evidence of the work carried out by Mr P for GMTC can 
be obtained from the FCA. But it is for Wellington Court to provide us with evidence in support 
of its position. In the absence of such evidence, I dont think Wellington Court has shown that 
its role in Mr Hs pension transfer was limited to providing a checking service for GMTC. If 
Wellington Court wishes to provide us with this evidence in response to my provisional 
decision, I will take it into account.
I think the meeting Wellington Court had with the FCA would also have been a prompt for further 
investigation on Wellington Courts part. Wellington Court hasnt provided us with much detail about that meeting. So I dont know if the FCA had specific concerns about Wellington Court or 
whether the purpose was to investigate GMTC and/or the unregulated introducers who were 
operating in this area. Either way, it strikes me that the FCAs intervention was unusual and, as 
such, should reasonably have prompted further investigation by Wellington Court about its own 
dealings with GMTC. The fact that Wellington Court  based on the evidence provided to date  
didnt take any further action is another reason why I think the advice fees it received from 
GMTC were in line with what it was expecting rather than being a result of something more 
alarming like fraudulent activity. I also think it would have been prudent of Wellington Court to 
have kept at least some documents in relation to the nature of its consultancy work with GMTC 
once the FCA had started to enquire about it.
On a similar note, it seems to me that when Wellington Court started to receive complaints 
about its alleged role in a number of transfers to GMTC, it could have investigated what had 
happened more thoroughly. Instead, based on its responses to the complainants involved, and 
to us, Wellington Court appears to have done little more than say it hasnt heard of the 
consumers in question (Mr H included) and that it has been a victim of fraud. I would be more 
willing to give greater credence to those allegations  which are serious after all  if Wellington 
Court had, for instance, contacted the police. But, based on the available evidence, it hasnt 
done this.
In terms of its allegations of fraud, Wellington Court appears to be blaming GMTC and 
unregulated introducers. It points to GMTCs insolvency, and questions its due diligence 
processes, but hasnt provided much further detail or evidence in terms of the specifics of 
what it thinks happened.
I think questioning GMTCs role in what happened is a reasonable response here. But it doesnt 
necessarily follow from this that GMTC was acting fraudulently or that Wellington Court wasnt 
involved. It could be argued that Wellington Courts involvement in the transfers could only have 
happened had there been failures on the part of GMTC too. So I dont think the well-publicised 
issues at GMTC necessarily absolve Wellington Court here.
It also strikes me that in order to perpetrate the fraud that Wellington Court has alleged, GMTC 
would have been reliant on Wellington Court not noticing a series of unsolicited, but substantial, 
payments into its bank account over an extended period and on those people that transferred (of 
which there many dozens) not questioning Wellington Court at any point. I dont think it likely 
that GMTC would have taken its chances in this way unless, of course, it had some sort of 
understanding with Wellington Court  in which case Wellington Courts involvement is still key 
to what happened.
Its also not clear to me how GMTC could have acted in the way Wellington Court has 
suggested. Wellington Court says its letter template was forged. But I dont think its clear from 
the evidence that thats the case. And to forge the letter in this way, and pay fees to Wellington 
Court, would have required access to one of Wellington Courts letters, and for it to have known 
Wellington Courts bank details. GMTC may have been able to get hold of both if it had 
previously worked with Wellington Court  through the consultancy work referred to earlier for 
instance. But Wellington Court hasnt provided anything to show what information (letter 
templates, bank details, names of employees and the like) GMTC would have had access to 
prior to the transfers taking place. Its worth noting in this context that Mr P from Wellington 
Court was self-employed and not a registered financial adviser so it seems unlikely his name 
would have been in the public domain or publicly linked with Wellington Court. GMTC also 
doesnt appear to have tried to hide the payments it made to Wellington Court in any way. If it 
had wanted its fees to go unnoticed, referring to them as GM IFA FEES or GM ADVISER 
FEES on its payment reference wouldnt have been the best way to have ensured that.
I can also see from its Companies House filings that Wellington Court was registered in the UK in 
2014 with an address in Reigate. GMTCs address was also in Reigate. So at the time of Mr Hs 
transfer (and the transfer of many others) there appears to have been a close geographical 
proximity between GMTC and Wellington Court. This doesnt, of course, mean Wellington Court 
acted incorrectly. But it does add weight to the possibility of a close working relationship between 
Wellington Court and GMTC (especially as Mr P appears to have spent time at GMTCs offices). It also shows that the relationship could have involved minimal formality and paperwork which 
would be in keeping with how Mr Hs transfer appears to have been conducted.
For the sake of completeness, I should point out that Wellington Courts company address 
has since moved from Reigate to Devon (which was effective from December 2016 according 
to Companies House).
I have considered Wellington Courts allegation that the transfers and investments were 
orchestrated by unregulated introducers with GMTCs knowledge, and that this is supported by 
testimony of customers that they did not speak to Mr P or any representative of Wellington 
Court. But it is not uncommon for an introducer to drive the process of transferring a pension 
with the intention of investing in a particular scheme. And introducers often carry out the majority 
of the fact-finding directly with the customer before involving a regulated adviser to complete the 
process. In some instances, customers will not meet with or speak to the firm providing the 
advice. So I dont think that those customers who say they didnt speak to a representative of 
Wellington Court, or who were unaware of its involvement, is particularly unusual here. As I have 
said above, in order to proceed with the transfer, GMTC needed to have confidence that advice 
had been given to Mr H. And the paperwork submitted, such as the adviser remuneration form, 
confirmed Mr H had appointed Wellington Court to provide him with advice. So, I think the 
transfer proceeded on the basis that Wellington Court had advised Mr H to do so.
I recognise Wellington Courts point that the covering letter in Mr Hs case isnt signed by the 
adviser in question (Mr P) but signed on his behalf by someone who has an indecipherable 
signature. Mr Ps name is misspelt, and then corrected, in the application checklist. And the 
same form has Wellington Courts Irish business registration number instead of its FCA 
reference number. I also havent seen any correspondence that was sent to Wellington Court or 
any documents that are typical of an advice process. So there are a number of question marks 
here.
However, my role is to make findings of fact based on the available evidence in order to 
establish whether this is a complaint that we can consider against Wellington Court. And, if so, 
whether its fair and reasonable to uphold that complaint. My role isnt to speculate beyond 
that. With this in mind, and for the reasons set out above, I make the following findings of fact:
Wellington Court was engaged in advisory business relating to the transfer of pensions to the 
Orbis SIPP. This included the transfer of Mr Hs pension.
Wellington Courts actions are not consistent with it being the victim of fraudulent activity.
Ive covered why I think this already, but I think its worth repeating the key points:
Theres documentary evidence to show Mr H  and many others  signed up for advice from 
Wellington Court and that the 1% fee for that advice was paid to Wellington Court.
By its own admission, Wellington Court undertook some work in relation to the transfer of a 
number of pensions to the Orbis SIPP.
The 1% fees that were paid to Wellington Court were, in aggregate, sizeable but it doesnt appear 
to have queried any of them, suggesting it was expecting to receive those fees.
Wellington Courts consultancy work shows there was a working relationship between the parties 
at the time. It wouldnt be a stretch to say that this could have led to Wellington Court doing other 
work on the transfers, potentially with the minimum of paperwork  especially as both 
organisations were based in the same town when the transfers (Mr Hs included) were taking 
place and Mr P apparently spent time in GMTCs offices.
The consultancy work could be looked at in a different light in so far as it could explain why 
Wellington Court overlooked payments from GMTC. However, Wellington Court hasnt provided 
us with the agreement it signed with GMTC for its consultancy work, or the amounts it was paid or 
the dates the payments were made (or indeed if there was more than one payment) so its difficult to say its consultancy work would reasonably have explained why it didnt query all the income it 
was receiving from GMTC.
The nature of Wellington Courts consultancy work was such that it held discussions with the FCA 
about what it was doing for GMTC so it seems its activities were important and prominent enough 
to have warranted interest from the regulator.
Wellington Court hasnt kept any documents relating to its consultancy work with GMTC even 
though it wasnt a particularly long time ago and despite this activity coming under the scrutiny of 
the FCA.
Wellington Court has said it was a victim of fraud. Its a serious allegation and yet Wellington 
Court hasnt (based on the available evidence) reported its concerns to the appropriate authorities 
(the police for instance) or even done much to investigate the matter itself beyond telling us, and 
many complainants, that it wasnt involved. So its difficult to give Wellington Courts allegations 
too much credence at this point given its own lack of action on the alleged fraud.
Jurisdiction - in respect of the activities of Wellington Court
Mr H has complained about the advice he was given to transfer his personal pension to the Orbis 
SIPP and the subsequent lack of investment returns that resulted because his transferred 
monies remained in cash. He has complained to Wellington Court because it was the advisory 
firm that appeared on the transfer paperwork.
The Financial Ombudsman Service can consider a complaint under its compulsory jurisdiction 
if that complaint relates to an act or omission by a firm in the carrying on of one or more listed 
activities, including regulated activities (DISP2.3.1R).
Advising someone to set up a SIPP and to transfer rights in an existing personal pension to that 
SIPP is a regulated activity. For the reasons given above, Im satisfied there was an advisory 
relationship between Wellington Court and Mr H. There is a lack of documentation to show what, 
if anything, Wellington Court did in relation to giving advice to Mr H. Potentially it didnt do 
anything (whether that was deliberate or an oversight isnt for me to speculate on). It doesnt 
make a difference to my jurisdiction over this complaint because if there were omissions in the 
provision of its advice, that doesnt mean the activity becomes any less regulated as a result.
In addition, under Article 25(1) of The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated 
Activities) Order 2001 (the RAO), making arrangements for another person to buy and sell a 
specified investment is a regulated activity. The FCAs Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG) 
says the following about Article 25(1):
The activity of arranging (bringing about) deals in investments is aimed at arrangements 
that would have the direct effect that a particular transaction is concluded (that is, 
arrangements that bring it about).
I consider it unlikely that Mr H would have transferred his pension at that time if it hadnt been for 
Wellington Courts involvement. GMTC required the involvement of an advisory firm before it 
would accept a transfer. And Mr H signed up for advice and paid for that advice too. So I 
consider it unlikely that he would have wanted to transfer to the SIPP if Wellington Court had 
indicated he shouldnt do so. Im satisfied, therefore, that Wellington Courts actions had the 
direct effect of bringing about Mr Hs transfer. In short, what Wellington Court did here 
constitutes making arrangements under Article 25(1) of the RAO.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied the activities complained about fall within our 
jurisdiction. They relate to acts or omissions in carrying on the regulated activities of advising on 
and arranging pensions and investments.
Jurisdiction  was Mr H an eligible complainant?
DISP 2.7 covers what is required for someone to be an eligible complainant. Broadly speaking, there are two requirements that need to be met, relating to the entity bringing the complaint 
(DISP 2.7.3) and the relationship between that entity and the business being complained about 
(DISP 2.7.6).
Im satisfied that Mr H meets the requirements of DISP 2.7.3 because he is a consumer (which 
is defined as an individual acting for purposes which are wholly or mainly outside that 
individuals trade, business, craft or profession).
With regards the second requirement, Mr Hs complaint must also arise from matters relevant 
to a relationship with the business he is complaining about (referred to as the respondent in 
the rules). DISP 2.7.6 sets out 17 different types of relationship. The first of these is the 
relevant one for the purposes of Mr Hs complaint:
To be an eligible complainant a person must also have a complaint which arises from 
matters relevant to one or more of the following relationships with the respondent:
(1) the complainant is (or was) a customer, payment service user or electronic money holder of 
the respondent
Clearly, for the reasons given previously, Wellington Court doesnt think Mr H was its 
customer. I disagree.
Mr H signed a document agreeing to Wellington Court to provide him with advice and to pay 
Wellington Court 1% for that advice. That 1% fee was duly taken from his SIPP and recorded as 
a Wellington IFA fee on his SIPP statement. Ive seen nothing to show Mr H queried the fee 
when it was taken so I think its evident he wasnt, at that point, concerned about paying advice 
fees to Wellington Court. Clearly there doesnt appear to be any documents showing what, if 
anything, Wellington Court did in return for that advice fee. But Mr H doesnt strike me as being a 
particularly experienced investor so he wouldnt necessarily have known what to expect. So I 
think he would therefore have reasonably considered himself a customer of Wellington Court. 
And from Wellington Courts perspective, its difficult to argue Mr H wasnt its customer given it 
knowingly accepted the 1% payment in relation to Mr H and the transfer wouldnt have happened 
if it hadnt been for its involvement.
In short, Mr H signed up for advice. He paid for advice. Wellington Court was sent, and 
accepted, payment for that advice. And that advice  or appearance of advice  was critical to 
Mr H transferring his pension. So all things considered, Im satisfied there was a customer 
relationship here.
I should point out here that I have seen similar cases where the advisory firm has had a 
relationship with another business (the introducer firm for instance) which involved it checking 
some aspects of a persons transfer paperwork. In such a situation, its likely that there is a 
business-to-business relationship (between the advisory firm and the introducer firm) rather 
than a direct relationship between the person transferring and the advisory firm. This has 
implications for the eligibility of the person bringing the complaint under DISP 2.7.6 because the 
complainant doesnt appear to have been a customer of the respondent.
This argument doesnt appear to apply here. Yes, Wellington Court may well have undertaken some 
consultancy work for GMTC. But, as outlined above, it hasnt provided enough information to establish 
what the exact nature of its relationship with GMTC was. And, for the reasons given above, there was 
a relationship between the complainant, Mr H, and Wellington Court anyway regardless of any 
consultancy arrangement that may have been in place.
There are a number of other jurisdiction tests that must also be met before I can consider the merits of 
a complaint. Broadly speaking, these are that the complaint must be made against a regulated 
business, about an activity carried on from an establishment in the UK, and be brought within the time 
limits set out in the rules. The activities in question were carried on from an establishment in the UK. 
Wellington Court is a regulated business. And Mr H brought his complaint to us within the relevant 
time limits.With all the above in mind, Im satisfied that this is a case I can consider.
The merits of Mr Hs complaint
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, my provisional decision is to uphold Mr Hs 
complaint.
It looks like the transfers to the Orbis SIPP were initiated by introducers who sourced potential clients 
and did much of the work in terms of getting clients into a position to transfer. And then in order to 
progress the transfer, GMTC required the involvement of an advisory firm. Wellington Court fulfilled 
that role. But theres a lack of paperwork to show what, if anything, Wellington Court did in return for 
its advice fee. I dont know if this was due to an oversight on its part  that is, it didnt fully understand 
what it should have done given the regulations in place at the time  or whether it knew its actions 
were negligent. Either way, it seems Wellington Courts involvement was little more than window 
dressing, providing a veneer of advice to satisfy GMTC in return for a 1% fee on a large number of 
transfers.
The above means there isnt any detailed documentary evidence to show what Mr Hs financial needs 
and circumstances were at the time. Nevertheless, Im satisfied the transaction wasnt suitable for Mr 
H. I say this because Mr H transferred from personal pensions which were invested and transferred to 
a SIPP that ended up invested in cash.
 Although it appears Mr H was open to transferring his pension to another provider in order to benefit 
from higher returns, theres nothing to evidence this or to show why a SIPP was the right product for 
him. Based on what we know about Mr H, who had very little investment knowledge or experience, I 
dont think he wanted or needed access to non-standard investments. And I dont think he had the 
necessary investment knowledge to self-manage his pension or select his own investments. And, 
more importantly, I dont think it was appropriate for Mr H to have moved to the Orbis SIPP only to 
end up invested in 100% cash. So, in the circumstances, therefore, I dont think the advice he 
received from Wellington Court was suitable for him and as a result I think he has suffered a loss to 
his pension.
On balance I think without Wellington Courts involvement Mr H wouldve left his pensions with 
previous pension provider.
Mr H transferred his pension away from the Orbis SIPP in 2017, which appears to have been through 
another adviser. This means that when putting things right for Mr H, Wellington Court is only required 
to compensate him for loss he experienced up to the point he transferred his pension away from the 
Orbis SIPP.
Mr Hs representative let us know he accepted the provisional decision. Wellington 
Court didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I see no reason to depart from the conclusions reached in my provisional 
decision and as set out above.
In conclusion I uphold this complaint, the advice wasnt suitable for Mr H. And on balance 
had he not been given the unsuitable advice I think Mr Hs funds would have remained in the 
two pension plans he had with his previous provider. 
Mr H transferred his pension away from the Orbis SIPP in 2017, which appears to have been 
through another adviser. This means that when putting things right for Mr H, Wellington Court is only required to compensate him for loss he experienced up to the point he 
transferred his pension away from the Orbis SIPP. The redress methodology Ive set out 
below reflects this.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr H should be put as closely as possible into the position he would 
probably now be in if it hadnt been for Wellington Courts actions. I dont think Mr H 
wouldve transferred his personal pensions to the Orbis SIPP. Its not possible to say 
precisely what Mr H would otherwise have done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out 
below is fair and reasonable given Mr H's circumstances and objectives when he 
invested.
To compensate Mr H fairly, Wellington Court must:
Compare the performance of Mr H's investment with that of the benchmark shown. If the 
fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If 
the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable. Wellington 
Court should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Wellington Court should pay into Mr H's pension plan to increase its 
value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be 
paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Wellington Court is unable to pay the compensation into Mr H's pension plan, it should 
pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally 
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr H's actual or expected marginal 
rate of tax at his selected retirement age. Unless either party provides evidence to the 
contrary, compensation should be based on Mr H being a basic rate taxpayer.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Wellington Court deducts income tax 
from the interest, it should tell Mr H how much has been taken off. Wellington Court 
should give Mr H a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
The Orbis 
SIPPtransferredMr Hs two 
previous 
pension 
arrangem
entsdate of 
transfer to 
Orbis SIPPdate 
transferred8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to 
the date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair valueThis is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted 
from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any 
return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Wellington Court totals all those 
payments and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
I think had it not been the involvement of Wellington Court, the two personal pensions in 
question would most likely have remained invested as they were with the previous 
provider.
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money since 
the end date.
In addition, Wellington Court should pay Mr H £250 for the disruption to his retirement 
planning.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Wellington Court Financial Services Limited to put things 
right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman