DRN-3999713
The complaint
Mr H complains that QIC Europe Ltd declined a claim he made under his home insurance 
policy for subsidence.
Reference to QIC includes its agents and representatives.
What happened
The circumstances arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the background:
Mr Hs home has an upstairs extension supported by pillars, forming a carport below. 
He noticed cracks in the extension and pillars after there had been a leak on the 
water main and got in touch with QIC about it in February 2021.
QIC appointed C, who surveyed the drainage system. It found no defects but it said 
there was standing water in the pipework. As this section was the responsibility of the 
local water authority, QIC asked Mr H to take this further. He did so, the local water 
authority cleared the pipework, and Mr H returned to QIC.
C carried out ground investigations and surveyed the drainage system again. It found 
damage and recommended repairs. QIC told Mr H that once the repairs were 
complete and the ground had recovered, it would carry out repairs to the extension or 
pay Mr H to do so.
In January and February 2022 C carried out work to drains Mr H was responsible for. 
The local water authority was due to carry out work to drains it was responsible for, 
but it said it wouldnt do so given the damage to the pillars.
QIC appointed S, a chartered surveyor, to review the problem remotely. QIC said S 
advice was for Mr H to appoint a structural engineer to liaise with the local water 
authority to have the outstanding drainage work completed.
Mr H thought this was something QIC should do. He also said communication had 
been unclear and the claim had taken too long. He complained.
QIC declined the claim for damage to the building. It said there was no evidence of 
ground movement and the damage wasnt consistent with subsidence. It thought the 
pillars had been damaged by settlement, had been the subject of previous repairs, 
and werent capable of supporting the extension above. It didnt comment on the way 
the claim had been handled.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She noted that the pillars 
had stood for over 40 years without a problem and there had been recent drain 
problems, so she didnt think it was fair for QIC to decline the claim. She asked it to 
look into the claim further and pay £150 compensation.
QIC arranged for S to provide a full report into the problem. S said the damage was 
unlikely to be related to ground movement and maintained that the advice of a 
structural engineer should be sought.
Mr H commented on S report. He noted S hadnt inspected the damage first hand 
and reiterated that thered been no damage in the 25 years hed lived at the property. 
He got in touch with the previous owner who said the extension was over 50 years 
old and hadnt suffered damage during their ownership either.
QIC offered to pay for a structural engineer to inspect the damage and report on its 
cause. And to increase compensation to £300 in total. Mr H didnt accept this offer.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied QICs offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Ill 
explain why.
The policy covers damage caused by subsidence, where subsidence is defined to 
mean downward movement of the ground your buildings stand on that is not the 
result of settlement.
In a nutshell, QIC declined the claim because it didnt think the damage had been 
caused by subsidence. It said the damage had been caused by other factors, namely 
settlement, general degradation, and an inability for the pillars to support the 
extension above  none of which is covered by the policy.
This position is supported by a chartered surveyor. Whilst I note Mr Hs point that 
they didnt visit the property to inspect the problem first hand, I cant disregard their 
professional opinion  and I havent seen any professional opinion to the contrary.
However, the extension has stood damage free for a significant period of time  
seemingly as much as fifty years  until the recent drain problems, which are directly 
underneath and nearby the pillars. I dont think that indicates a settlement problem, 
as that usually happens early in the life of a structure and typically up to the first ten 
years. Nor do I think its in keeping with a design fault or similar, such that the pillars 
are unable to support the extension. Thats because no particular fault has been 
identified and it seems unusual for this kind of fault to surface after such a long time. 
And rather than a gradual problem, the damage seems to have occurred recently.
So overall, there is no professional opinion to say the damage has been caused by 
subsidence. So I dont think it would be fair for me to conclude subsidence was the 
likely cause of damage. But the other causes suggested by QIC arent consistent 
with the evidence, so I dont think it would be fair for me to conclude any of them 
were the likely cause of damage either. The surveyor suggested a structural engineer 
inspect the problem. In these circumstances, Im satisfied thats the fair way to 
progress the claim and reach a point where the cause of damage is clear.
QIC has offered to pay for a suitably qualified structural engineer to visit, inspect the 
problem, and provide a report to set out their professional opinion on causation. The report should be shared with both parties and, based on the engineers findings, QIC 
should let Mr H know whether it will accept or reject the claim  or potentially whether 
further investigation is required.
It took QIC nearly eighteen months from the start of the claim to its complaint 
response, when it declined the claim. Whilst some of that time was spent waiting on 
the local water authority, which is outside of QICs control, it still seems an 
unnecessarily long time to complete ground investigations, survey the drainage and 
complete some drainage repairs. And I note that after this length of time, the cause of 
damage remained unclear.
During the claim, QIC communicated with Mr H through a portal. Lots of messages in 
the portal said things were going to happen  but had a date in the past. Messages 
were rare and unclear, often leaving Mr H to question what the next steps were and 
when they would happen, with limited responses. QIC gave Mr H the impression the 
claim was accepted, telling him the building damage would be repaired or settled, 
until the complaint response when it said otherwise.
Taking all of this into consideration, Im satisfied Mr H was caused avoidable distress 
and inconvenience during the claim. I consider QICs offer of £300 in total is a 
reasonable remedy to that.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require QIC Europe Ltd to:
Pay for a structural engineer to inspect and report on the cause of damage.
Pay a total of £300 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman