DRN-4188508
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs M complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc have unfairly declined their claim for 
water damage to their property. 
 
What happened
Mr M and Mrs M held a buildings insurance policy with AXA for their park home.  
In September 2022 they asked a contractor to replace a drip rail on their park home. On 
removing the drip rail, the contractor discovered an ingress of water at various points on the 
structure beneath the windows and underneath some artificial decorative brickwork 
panelling. 
Mr M and Mrs M contacted AXA about this and supplied photographs and a report from the 
contractor about what he found and the cause. 
AXA then declined the claim as they said that the damage was not as the result f an 
insurable event and fell outside the accepted cover agreed by them.  
Mr M and Mrs M had to pay £11,760 from their savings for the repairs and feel that this 
should have been covered by their insurance as they have properly maintained their 
property since new which was 13 years ago, painting it with the correct paint every three 
years. 
The complained to AXA but the complaint wasnt upheld. AXA did offer a £25 gesture of 
goodwill in respect of the delays in communication. Mr M and Mrs M brought the complaint 
to us.   
One of our investigators has looked into Mr M and Mrs Ms complaint and she thought that 
AXA had acted fairly in declining the claim. 
  
Mr M and Mrs M disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to 
review.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I have to consider whether AXA have declined the claim in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy and come to a fair and reasonable decision in doing so. 
However, having considered all of the evidence carefully, I havent upheld Mr M and Mrs Ms 
complaint, and I will explain why.  
Insurable event
For any loss or damage to buildings to be covered under this or any other insurance policy it 
needs to have been caused by an insurable event. What counts as an insurable event is 
detailed in Mr M and Mrs Ms AXA policy booklet at pages 9  11. It includes events such as 
fire, water leaking from pipes and fixed appliances, theft, storm, vandalism, being hit by 
animals, trees or vehicles, subsidence and accidental damage. If it cant be shown that the 
damage is as a result of one of these insurable events, then unfortunately the claim fails at 
the first step. 
AXA asked Mr M and Mrs M to provide them with photographs of the damage and a report 
from the contractor who discovered the hidden damage when came out to the property to 
replace the drip trays.
 
The report describes rot in the wood underneath the painted exterior that has occurred over  
a period of time as a result of a slow ingress of water in various places on the exterior of the 
structure.
 
As this sort of slow water ingress isnt listed as an insurable event and cant fairly be said to 
fall under any of the insurable events listed in the policy, Im satisfied that AXA have acted 
fairly in declining the claim as not being covered under the policy.
Exclusions 
In addition, there are some further general exclusions in the policy which can apply even if 
an insurable event has occurred. These relevant ones here are:
13. Gradually Operating cause , insects or vermin and micro organism exclusion
This insurance does not cover any claim arising from (a) anything which happens gradually 
including deterioration or wear and tear, settlement or shrinkage; (b) mildew, fungus, climatic 
or atmospheric conditions, frost, wet or dry rot; (c) damage by insects or vermin
16. Faulty design or workmanship
This insurance does not cover any claim arising from faulty design, materials or 
workmanship. 
General exclusions 
5. Any defect, damage or failure caused by malicious or wilful act, negligence, misuse, third 
party interference or faulty workmanship, including any attempted repair or modification 
which does not meet recognised industry standards.
The evidence in the report indicates that the water ingress has caused the damage gradually 
over an extended period, most likely as a result of faulty design or workmanship when the 
home was manufactured. The report shows that water was able to get behind the decorative 
blocks that were installed under the windows by the manufacturer, causing the walls behind 
to get damp and rot over time.
And so Im also satisfied that its fair for AXA to apply these general exclusions. 
I can see that Mr M and Mrs M have maintained the property in line with the 
recommendations, and also to a high standard. I also accept that they were in no way aware 
of the ingress of water behind the decorative bricks, and that had they been made aware, 
they would have acted sooner. I can understand that Mr M and Mrs M are upset about 
having to pay for an expensive repair, and this has caused a lot of stress for them.However, this doesnt unfortunately change my view on the matter because the fact that they 
were not aware of the gradual ingress of water over time, doesnt stop it from being caught 
by the exclusion on the policy. As the investigator has suggested, they may wish to speak to 
the manufacturer of the home to discuss this problem further as it is still a relatively new 
construction. 
I note that AXA have paid Mr M and Mrs M £25 as a gesture of goodwill for the delays in 
replying to their complaint, and I would not disturb that. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr M and Mrs Ms complaint, and AXA Insurance Uk Plc 
dont need to do anything further. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman