DRN-4381531
The complaint
Ms K and Mr W complain that Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd unfairly declined a claim 
they made under their home insurance policy.
Accredited is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As Accredited has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the 
agents, in my decision, any reference to Accredited includes the actions of the agents.
What happened
In January 2023, Ms K and Mr W took out a home insurance policy with Accredited. They 
told it they were buying the property they were insuring but hadnt completed the purchase 
yet.
About a week later, Mr W went to view the property and discovered that an escape of water 
had caused significant damage. Ms K and Mr W made a claim under the policy and 
Accredited arranged for surveyors to assess the damage.
Accredited later told Ms K and Mr W it was declining their claim. It said that as the incident 
was prior to the completion date, their solicitor should have advised that the liability for the 
claim would have been with the previous owners insurance company.
Ms K and Mr W made a complaint but Accredited maintained its position. So, they asked our 
service to consider the matter.
Our investigator thought Ms K and Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. She recommended 
that Accredited reassess their claim and pay them £300 for distress and inconvenience.
Accredited disagreed with our investigators outcome. It said it had in theory only a 10% 
liability and therefore felt that the ownership was with the seller of the property, and it would 
consider discussing with the sellers insurer this 10% element. It said it failed to see how it 
could be responsible for the whole claim as the policyholders had not completed on the sale 
when the incident occurred. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
The policys terms and conditions say:
We cover your buildings up to the sum insured shown in your schedule against loss or 
damage directly caused by the following covers. The loss or damage must take place in your 
home during the period of insurance.
It goes on to list the insured perils including escape of water or oil.
Accredited says that after exchange of contracts, the seller of the property still owns it, but 
the buyer is legally bound to complete the purchase. It says it is recommended that the 
buyer should take out insurance on the property from the date of exchange, but the seller 
should also still have insurance in place until the day of completion to cover any physical 
damage that may occur to the house just in case the buyer fails to complete.
Accredited says the buyer may not have responsibility for any loss to the property, but if the 
buyer is in breach of the terms of the contracts that have been exchanged there could be 
penalties that result up to losing their 10% deposit.
Accredited believes it has only a 10% liability. It says it would consider discussing this 10% 
with the sellers insurer. But it doesnt think its responsible for the whole claim.
Ms K and Mr W were advised to take out buildings insurance to cover them from the date of 
exchange of contracts by their solicitor who said:
The risk for the property will pass to you on exchange of contracts and therefore you should 
be sure that you take out insurance policy on the day that contracts exchange.
Theres nothing in the policy documentation to suggest Ms K and Mr W wouldnt be able to 
claim for damages to the property that occurred between exchange and completion, or this 
would be limited to 10%. Accredited says its decision to decline the claim was more of a 
general law / insurable interest stance. But Im not persuaded that this was reasonable.
 
Im satisfied that Ms K and Mr Ws insurance was in place before the insured loss is said to 
have occurred. And Accredited has acknowledged Ms K and Mr W told it they were buying 
the policy but hadnt completed yet when they took it out. So, I dont think Accredited acted 
fairly and reasonably when it declined Ms K and Mr Ws claim.
I appreciate that Accredited doesnt think it should be responsible for the whole claim. Its 
possible that it may be able to cover some of its costs from a third party. But I dont think it 
would be fair for Accredited to only consider 10% of Ms K and Mr Ws loss, given what it 
says in the policys terms and conditions.
It was no doubt distressing for Ms K and Mr W to be told that their claim was declined. I 
understand theyve had to go ahead with repairs whilst this matter has been in dispute. And I 
think this is likely to have caused them some unnecessary inconvenience. So, I think it would 
be fair for Accredited to pay them £300 to compensate them for the distress and 
inconvenience its caused them.
Putting things right
Accredited should:
Reassess Ms K and Mr Ws claim, in line with the remaining terms and conditions of 
the policy and
Pay them £300 for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Ms K and Mr Ws complaint and direct Accredited 
Insurance (Europe) Ltd to put things right by doing as Ive said above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman