DRN-3788442
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited hasnt settled 
a claim Mr B made on a travel insurance policy.
As Mr B made the claim and brought the complaint, for ease of reading, Ive referred simply 
to him.
What happened
Mr B was on holiday abroad. Unfortunately, his luggage didnt arrive at the airport. While he 
was abroad, he filled out some paperwork for the airline. And he subsequently completed 
information electronically, to allow the airline to try and trace his luggage. However, the 
airline said it needed a wet signature in order to look into the matter further. As the airline 
hadnt located the luggage, Mr B made a personal property claim on his travel insurance 
policy.
Red Sands said it didnt have enough information to accept the claim. It stated that, in line 
with the policy terms, Mr B needed to provide evidence from the airline to show that his 
luggage was irretrievably lost. 
Mr B was unhappy with Red Sands position and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think that Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. He wasnt persuaded 
that Mr B had proved his claim, in line with the policy terms and conditions. He felt that by 
failing to provide the airline with the evidence it required to proceed with its investigation into 
the lost luggage, Mr B hadnt shown that hed exhausted the airlines process. Red Sands 
had confirmed that it would consider the claim, if Mr B provided the evidence it required to 
demonstrate that his luggage was irretrievably lost. The investigator concluded that this was 
a fair and reasonable position for Red Sands to take.
Mr B disagreed. He said hed provided the airline with the information it had asked for more 
than once, while he was abroad. And hed given Red Sands a full breakdown of the lost 
items.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr B, I think Red Sands has treated him fairly 
and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mr Bs policy and the available evidence, to decide whether Red Sands handled 
Mr Bs claim fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mr Bs 
contract with Red Sands. Page 13 of the policy sets out the cover Red Sands provides for 
Personal Property  which includes cover for a policyholders items which are permanently 
lost whilst theyre on a trip. And this section of the policy also sets out specific conditions 
which apply to personal property claims. These include the following requirements:
- That a policyholder has obtained written confirmation of any loss, damage or delay 
from (their) tour operator/airline provider.
- For items lost in transit, a policyholder needs to: report the loss or damage to the 
appropriate carrier and obtain a Property Irregularity Report form or its equivalent 
within 24 hours. 
Page nine of the contract also sets out a list of general conditions and exclusions which 
apply to the whole policy. One of these says that Red Sands wont provide any cover for:
any claim not supported by the correct documentation as laid out in the individual section.
I think that Red Sands has clearly explained that it provides cover for personal property 
which is permanently (and by extension, irretrievably) lost and that it requires supporting 
evidence from the airline which supports this.
As the investigator explained, its for a policyholder to provide enough evidence to show that 
they have a valid claim on their policy. This means its Mr Bs responsibility to show both that 
his luggage was permanently lost and that he owned the items he claimed for. Red Sands 
doesnt think Mr B has provided enough evidence from the airline to show that his luggage 
was irretrievably lost. So Ive considered whether this was a fair conclusion for Red Sands to 
draw.
Its clear that Mr B was in regular contact with his airline to chase up his luggage. And in 
some circumstances, I may consider that if a policyholder made regular contact with their 
airline to chase up a loss, but received little response, they had taken sufficient steps to try 
and prove their loss. 
But in this particular case, Ive seen emails from the airline which clearly state that in order 
for its investigations to proceed, Mr B needs to provide it with a wet signature, which meets 
its security requirements. Mr B says he provided this information while he was abroad, and 
he doesnt intend to provide it again. In my view, while I can appreciate why Mr B might be 
frustrated with the airlines procedures, its his choice not to provide it with the information it 
needs in order to continue looking into his lost luggage. And therefore, the airline doesnt 
appear to be in a position to confirm to Mr B whether its traced his luggage or whether it has 
been irretrievably lost.
As such then, I dont think it was unreasonable for Red Sands to conclude that Mr B hasnt 
provided sufficient evidence from the airline to show that his property was irretrievably lost. 
And that means I dont think it was unfair for Red Sands to decline to further consider Mr Bs 
claim in the absence of the evidence it needs to move forwards. Red Sands has told us that 
its prepared to reconsider its position, if Mr B is able to provide it with the evidence its 
asked for. 
It remains open to Mr B to get back in touch with the airline with the information its asked 
for, should he choose to do so. Its then open to him to forward any additional evidence the 
airline might provide on to Red Sands for its consideration.
I note too that Red Sands has indicated that if Mr B wishes to make a delayed baggage claim, for the essential items he had to purchase abroad, it will consider this in line with the 
policy terms and conditions. Mr B should contact Red Sands directly should he now wish to 
make such a claim.
Overall, despite my natural sympathy with Mr Bs position, I find that Red Sands has treated 
him fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman