DRN-3443053
The complaint
Mr G complains Harvey & Thompson Limited trading as (H&T) gave him loans when he had
a significant amount of other debt as well as a high number of defaults on his credit file.
What happened
Mr G took two loans between December 2016 and July 2017. Ive included some of the
information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment date term 
(months)monthly 
repayment
1 £450.00 24/12/2016 06/07/2017 9 £78.86
2 £1,816.76 06/07/2017 outstanding 24 £142.09
The statement of account provided to the Financial Ombudsman Service from H&T shows
that Mr G had problems repaying his final loan and an outstanding balance remains.
H&T considered Mr Gs complaint and issued its final response letter on this matter in
August 2021. H&T investigated the complaint and concluded it hadnt made an error when it
approved these loans for Mr G.
It explained that it did a credit check which met its criteria to lend. H&T also says it took
details of Mr Gs income and expenditure and this information was verified either through a
payslip or bank statements. H&T says that Mr Gs applications passed its affordability
assessment, so it wasnt wrong of it to lend.
Mr G didnt agree with the outcome reached by H&T and he referred the complaint to the
Financial Ombudsman Service in August 2021.
The complaint was then considered by an adjudicator who didnt think it was wrong for H&T
to have granted either of the loans to Mr G. He concluded H&T carried out proportionate
checks for loan one which showed H&T the loan repayments were likely to be affordable.
For loan 2, he felt, given the term that Mr G was due to repay the loan over, that H&T
needed to do further checks before approving this loan. But the adjudicator, in his view,
didnt have enough information about Mr Gs financial position at the time to say it was
unfair of H&T to have advanced this loan.
H&T didnt respond to the adjudicators assessment.
Mr G didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. In response he made a number of
points including;
He didnt have an issue with loan one.
H&T tried to profiteer from Mr Gs situation by giving him loan 2.
His wider financial history needed to be taken into account.
His declared income was made up of overtime which wasnt always guaranteed.
The expenditure didnt include existing debt repayments.
H&Ts expenditure categories dont include sections for debt and / or child benefit.
Mr G had two County Court Judgements (CCJs) recorded against him in 2016.
Mr G says H&T was also aware of a recent default on his credit file and he was fully 
utilising a £2,000 overdraft.
Later on, in addition to the above, Mr G told us:
The loan application was completed in store.
He says H&T didnt forward all the necessary information before providing loan 2.
Mr G had a high debt ratio as can be seen on his credit file.
Mr Gs credit file shows a history of defaults and he was a regular user of other high 
cost, short term loans.
Finally, Mr G provided a complaint reference for another one of his complaints against a
bank, which Mr G says was a complaint about an overdraft which was provided just before
the loan was approved.
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to partially 
uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings follow this in italics 
and a smaller font and forms part of this final decision. I asked both H&T and Mr G to 
provide any further information, comments or evidence for consideration by no later than 20 
April 2022.
What I said in my provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this sort of lending - including all the
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
H&T had to assess the lending to check if Mr G could afford to pay back the amounts hed
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to
the circumstances. H&Ts checks could have taken into account a number of different things,
such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Gs income and
expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest H&T should have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr G. These factors include:
Mr G having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr G having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time 
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or 
was becoming, unsustainable);
 Mr G coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearlydemonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr G.
H&T was required to establish whether Mr G could sustainably repay the loans  not just
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr G was able to repay his
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Gs complaint.
I wont make a finding about loan 1 because Mr G accepts that he doesnt have an issue
with that loan. Instead, this decision will focus on the checks that H&T carried out before it
granted loan 2 and whether these went far enough.
Loan 2
For this loan H&T has provided us a copy of the credit agreement, which outlines the term,
amount borrowed and Mr Gs monthly commitment. In addition, it has given us a record of
the information that Mr G declared to it at the time the loan was approved.
Mr Gs income is recorded as being £2,234.63 with outgoings of £1,023.56. This left Mr G
with a disposable monthly income of £1,211.07. Based on these figures H&T may have
believed the monthly repayment of £142.09 was affordable to Mr G.
In H&Ts final response letter to Mr G it says it wouldve asked for evidence of his income
either through a payslip or bank statement. But H&T hasnt provided the Financial
Ombudsman with the information it gathered (if it did) to verify the income before this loan
was approved.
I can see Mr G has some concerns about his income because he has explained that the
amount given to H&T was made up of overtime that wasnt always guaranteed. But, for the
reasons Ill explain below, I dont think the income figure which H&T recorded, is in this case
going to make a difference.
H&T also said that a credit check wouldve been carried out, but again those results havent
been provided. So, I dont know what information it received from the credit reference
agencies when it says it carried out this check.
This wouldve been useful to know because a credit check doesnt always show the lender
all the information that is visible on a customers full credit report. H&T may have for
example only asked for information about current outstanding balances.
But, again, the fact this information hasnt been provided hasnt had a bearing on the
outcome of this complaint, because for the reasons Ill explain below, and for the same
reasons as the adjudicator I dont think H&Ts checks went far enough for loan two.
Mr G returned for loan two and given the value that was advanced its likely some of the
capital for this loan went towards repaying loan 1. But even if that didnt happen in this case,
it wouldnt change my view on this loan given the term and value of the loan Mr G was
advanced.
I do think by this point H&T needed to do more. Mr G had been indebted to H&T for around
seven months and was coming back for further borrowing and extending his indebtedness
by at least another two years.These factors ought to have led H&T to have carried out further checks before loan two was
granted. It couldve done this a number of ways, it couldve asked to see a copy of his full
credit report and it couldve checked his expenditure either through asking for bank
statements or perhaps asking to see copies of the bills that he had declared.
I accept that H&T says it may have done this but as it hasnt provided the Financial
Ombudsman Service with the evidence of these checks I can only conclude, at the moment
that its checks didnt go far enough.
Mr G has provided the Financial Ombudsman with a copy of his full credit report. I accept,
that this report was generated in February 2017, with is five months before the loan was
approved. But it does show information that wouldve been visible to H&T at the time had it
asked to see the credit report.
I can consider it reasonable to rely on the information within the report because it provides
an overview of Mr Gs wider financial situation in the time just before the loan was approved.
The full credit report shows two CCJs recorded against Mr G, one in August 2016 (so less
than a year before loan 2 was advanced) and one in May 2016.
These two CCJS are in my view close enough to the advancing of this loan to show that
Mr G must have been having current financial difficulties and had problems repaying his
outstanding debts.
In addition to this, Mr Gs credit file shows at least 15 defaults recorded since 2011. These
defaults are spread throughout the period of time which the credit file covers. But what it
does show is that Mr G was having consistent problems repaying and managing his credit
repayments.
Of the 15 defaults that I can see, around five of those had been recorded within a year of this
loan being approved. Importantly, these defaults are from several different types of credit
providers including, a mobile phone provider, a mail order provider and a current account.
Which reinforces the view that Mr G had and was still having sustained financial problems.
Finally, Ive reviewed another complaint that Mr G has had with the Financial Ombudsman
Service. In this complaint, bank statements have been provided for the period leading up to
loan two being advanced.
From these bank statements, I can see that Mr G was regularly moving quite significant
funds between this and another account  but I dont have the statements for the second
account. I can see only minimal living costs on this account  so these statements that I
have dont really shed any light on what Mr G was spending his money on each month in
terms of bills and utilities.
However, the bank statements do show, that Mr G was at or near his overdraft limit almost
the entire month. In addition to this, when Mr G was paid, his account balance barely goes
into credit. This, I think is a further sign that Mr G may have been struggling, after all using
the full overdraft almost for the entire month is likely to be a sign of wider financial difficulties.
Overall, for loan two, Mr Gs credit file shows a sustainable period of financial difficulties with
a deterioration from the end of 2016 onwards which H&T wouldve likely been aware of had
it carried out a proportionate check. So, Im intending to uphold his complaint about this loan
because I dont think the repayments were sustainable and so this loan ought to not have
been advanced.
Response to the provisional decision 
Mr G received the provisional decision and responded with the following summary;
Mr G was unhappy H&T had been an additional two weeks to respond. Mr G wanted to reiterate that he didnt accept the income figures that H&T recorded 
for his income as this included his overtime. 
The outgoings also didnt include the payments that Mr G had to make towards his 
other debts. 
H&T responded to the provisional decision and said that the intended uphold has used 
present day lending standards and in effect retrospectively applied them to a historic loan. 
It also went on to explain, that typically its customer base are people who cant obtain credit 
from mainstream lenders and so credit files and general financial health reflect this. 
In addition to this, H&T also said;
At the time the loan was approved, it only took account of CCJs recorded within six 
months of the loan start date. 
H&T points out that 2011 (a date mentioned in the provisional decision) was five 
years before the first loan and six before the second. 
The application wasnt considered through open banking and therefore H&T didnt 
have access to Mr Gs bank statements. 
A customer is entitled to fully utilise their overdraft. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what H&T provided in response to the provisional decision and overall, what 
it says hasnt changed my mind about this complaint. 
The test Ive applied to the case, is well established and in my view, consistent with the rules 
and regulations that can be found in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) section 5 
and which was applicable at the time the second loan was approved. 
At the time, as I explained in the provisional decision H&T had an obligation to carry out a 
proportionate check before granting the loan. It also had to make sure, that the loan was to 
be sustainable for Mr G and Im satisfied that Ive applied the correct test given what CONC 
said at the time. 
In terms of the credit file, when reviewing the content of a credit file, I did take account of 
what H&T says is the profile of its customers. However, in this case, I could see that Mr G 
had been having long term financial difficulties or at least long term difficulties in managing 
his credit commitments. This was visible throughout the credit file that Ive seen. 
There were a significant number of defaults  over the six year period, with at least five 
being recorded within a year of the loan being advanced so these were recorded in 2016, 
which was before the loans were approved and not after, as H&T has suggested. 
So while I accept that people that use these sorts of loans tend to have less than perfect 
credit files or scores. The amount of information contained within Mr Gs ought to have given 
H&T cause for concern. 
The credit report Mr G provided was dated February 2017, which is five months before loan 
two was advanced and for the reasons Ive explained in the provisional decision, I consider it entirely reasonable to use this credit report to gain an understanding of what Mr Gs financial 
position was likely to be shortly before loan 2 was advanced. 
I accept that the defaults in 2011 wouldve little bearing on H&T decision to lend, but the fact 
that Mr Gs credit file shows that defaults were regularly being applied does to me show that 
he was having problems repaying creditors over a number of years and that these problems 
would likely continue. 
In addition to this, there were two recently recorded CCJs. I appreciate H&T says that it only 
considers CCJs recorded within six months of when a loan is advanced. But it was required 
to carry out a proportionate check, and in my view, the overall status of the credit file needed 
to be considered before this loan was advanced. In my view, this approach is consistent with 
the rules and regulations that were applicable at the time at the time. 
As I explained in the provisional decision, I thought before loan two was granted further 
checks needed to be carried out, and one route to do further checks couldve been to view 
bank statements. But I accept these werent checked as part of Mr Gs application. 
While, the use of an overdraft isnt on its own sufficient, in most cases to uphold a loan. In 
this case, given everything else on the credit file I think it further reinforces that Mr G was 
having wider problems. After all, the overdraft is credit that is owed to another lender, which 
could be asked to be repaid, in full at any time. 
Taking all of this into account, along with what H&T may have seen in the bank statements 
wouldve, in my view, led it to conclude that this loan shouldnt have been granted. 
I appreciate Mr Gs frustration that H&T was afforded another two weeks to respond. 
However, given the outcome I was intending to reach differed to the one that had been 
reached by the adjudicator it was only fair to give both parties to the complaint an 
opportunity to review what was said. 
While I can understand Mr G being unhappy with the income figure H&T used, this didnt 
have too much of a bearing on the outcome of the complaint, for the reasons I explained in 
the provisional decision I think H&T needed to do more before it granted the second loan. 
Had H&T carried out further checks, then, in my view it wouldve likely discovered Mr G 
wasnt in a position to sustainably repay what he owed. So, Im still intending to uphold 
Mr Gs complaint about this loan and Ive outlined below what H&T needs to do in order to 
put things right below.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress H&T should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might
have happened had it not provided loan two, as Im satisfied it ought to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr G may have simply left matters there, not
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had donethat, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Mr G in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Mr G would more likely than not have taken up any one of these
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce H&Ts liability in this case for what Im satisfied
it has done wrong and should put right.
If H&T have sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back if it is able to do so and then
take the following steps. If H&T is not able to buy the debts back then it should liaise with the
new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A. H&T should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance of loan 2, and 
treat any repayments made by Mr G as though they had been repayments towards 
the principal. If this results in Mr G having made overpayments then H&T should 
refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, 
from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is 
settled.
B. If there is still an outstanding balance then H&T should try to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Mr G. H&T shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of 
principal it has already written-off.
C. H&T should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Gs credit file in relation 
to loan 2.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires H&T to deduct tax from this interest. H&T should give 
Mr G a certificate showing how much tax it deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Mr Gs 
complaint in part.
Harvey & Thompson Limited should put things right for Mr G as direct above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman