DRN-3782939
The complaint
Mr R complains about delays and poor service from Sainsburys Bank Plc when completing 
an ISA transfer.
 
What happened
In early December 2021 Mr R instructed an ISA transfer from his existing provider (N) to 
Sainsburys Bank. A transfer form was forwarded to N and it wrote to Mr R to confirm his 
existing ISA had been closed. A cheque was sent by N to Sainsburys Bank to complete the 
transfer. 
Sainsburys Bank says it didnt receive the cheque within the normal timescales. Another 
cheque was issued by N but Sainsburys Bank later contacted Mr R to notify him it had been 
returned unpaid. Over the following weeks replacement cheques were issued by N. But 
Sainsburys Bank advises there were still issues when trying to deposit the funds and 
replacement cheques. 
N issued a final cheque which was successfully deposited on 28 January 2022. Sainsburys 
Bank says the funds were paid into Mr Rs ISA on 1 February 2022. 
Mr R complained and Sainsburys Bank agreed to back date interest to 16 December 2021, 
the date it expected to receive his ISA funds from N. Sainsburys Bank also paid Mr R £150 
for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Rs complaint. They thought Sainsburys Bank 
had made a fair offer and didnt ask it to take further action. Mr R asked to appeal and said 
hed been the driving force to ensure his funds were transferred. Mr R also said the 
investigations had failed to answer why cheques werent paid and the he didnt think the 
settlement paid was fair. As Mr R asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr R was very much involved in the transfer process and tried to liaise with 
Sainsburys Bank and N to complete it. I dont doubt what Mr R has told us about the amount 
of time taken and that inconvenience was caused. When deciding how to fairly resolve a 
complaint, well look at whether the customer has experienced a financial loss. Well also 
consider whether a payment for the distress and inconvenience caused is fair. 
In this case, Sainsburys Bank agreed to backdate interest to 16 December 2021, the date it 
would normally have expected to receive Mr Rs ISA funds. I understand Sainsburys Bank 
has already made payments to reflect the interest Mr R wouldve received had the transfer 
gone through without delay. So theres no financial loss as Mr R has received interest in line 
with what wouldve been paid if there hadnt been a delay. 
I understand Mr R wants a better understanding of why cheques were returned unpaid. But 
the cheques were issued by N, not Sainsburys Bank. And Ive seen correspondence from 
Sainsburys Bank that shows the cheques it initially deposited on Mr Rs behalf were 
returned unpaid. Its possible that cheques issued by N crossed over when replacements 
were requested. But theres nothing in Sainsburys Banks supporting information that shows 
it made mistakes in terms of the way it deposited the cheques containing Mr Rs ISA funds. 
Sainsburys Bank accepts it couldve communicated more clearly with Mr R at times and 
paid him £150 to apologise. Ive read and considered everything Mr Rs told us about how 
the issues raised impacted him. And Ive taken into account the level of contact he had with 
Sainsburys Bank and time taken. Im sorry to disappoint Mr R, but Im satisfied Sainsburys 
Bank has already agreed a settlement that fairly reflects what happened and the impact to 
him. In my view, £150 takes into account the service issues and delays Mr R has told us 
about and is a fair way to resolve his complaint. 
As Sainsburys Bank backdated interest and Im satisfied its already agreed a settlement 
that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint because Sainsburys Bank Plc has 
already agreed a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman