DRN-4148813
The complaint
Mr L complains Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk 
(MoneyBoat) provided him with three loans in the same month and he had to borrow 
money from other providers to repay them. 
Mr L also says the interest rate was too high.
What happened
A summary of Mr Ls borrowing can be found in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
monthly 
instalmentshighest 
repayment per 
loan
1 £500.00 10/05/2022 10/05/2022 6 £141.61
2 £200.00 13/05/2022 18/05/2022 6 £61.07
3 £300.00 18/05/2022 13/02/2023 6 £85.00
MoneyBoat considered the complaint and concluded it had made a reasonable decision to 
provide these loans because it had carried out proportionate checks. Unhappy with this 
response, Mr L referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator, who didnt uphold it. He said MoneyBoat 
had reasonable grounds to believe Mr L could afford the loans and it had carried out 
proportionate checks. 
Mr L didnt agree saying he didnt see how MoneyBoat had confirmed his income. As no 
agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat had to assess the lending to check if Mr L could afford to pay back the amounts 
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate 
to the circumstances. MoneyBoats checks could have taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ls 
income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MoneyBoat should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr L. These factors include:
Mr L having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr L having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr L coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr L. The adjudicator didnt consider it 
reached the point in the lending relationship where this applied and I agree, considering only 
three loans were granted.  
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Mr L could sustainably repay the loans  not 
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr L was able to repay 
his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without 
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, 
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it 
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ls complaint.
Before each loan was approved, MoneyBoat asked Mr L for details of his income, which he 
declared as decreasing with each loan  from £3,800 for loan 1 to £3,000 by the time he 
applied for loan 3. 
MoneyBoat says the income figures were checked either by obtaining a copy of Mr Ls wage 
slip or by cross referencing information through a third-party report. A copy of this report and 
/ or the wage slips that MoneyBoat may have received havent been provided.  
Notwithstanding the additional checks MoneyBoat may have done into Mr Ls income, I 
would add, is that it would be unusual that Mr Ls income could fluctuate by as much as £800 
when all the loans were taken within 8 days of each other. So, it isnt clear, which if any of 
the incomes is accurate, but even taking the lowest amount Mr L declared  the loans still 
appeared affordable. 
Mr L also declared he didnt have any monthly outgoings for loan 1, and then £315 for loan 2 
and £355 for loan 3. As part of the application, MoneyBoat used information from its credit 
searches (which Ill come onto discuss below) and from the Common Finance Statement to 
adjust the declared expenditure Mr L had provided. As a result, Mr Ls monthly expenditure 
was increased by £850 per month for loan 1, £535 for loan 2 and £495 for loan 3. 
In Mr Ls complaint this means that for each loan, MoneyBoat considered Mr Ls monthly 
outgoings, amounted to £850 per month and it was this figure which was used for the 
affordability assessment. After carrying out these checks, even using the lower income figure of £3,000 and the 
highest expenditure figure of £850, Mr L had more than enough disposable income to be 
able to afford the payments he was committed to making. 
Before each loan was approved MoneyBoat also carried out a credit search and it has 
provided a summary of the results it received from the credit reference agency. It is worth 
saying here that although MoneyBoat carried out credit searches, there isnt a regulatory 
requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. But what MoneyBoat couldnt do 
is carry out a credit search and then not react to the information it received  if necessary.  
Ive reviewed the credit check results, and they are all similar which isnt surprising 
considering the close proximity of the loan applications. The results indicated that Mr L 
wasnt either insolvent or had County Court Judgements recorded against him. Mr L had in 
my view, quite a significant amount of total debt of around £38,000. But around £33,000 of it 
was due to two recently opened hire purchase agreements where he was due to pay a total 
of £658 per month. 
I can see that Mr L was over his credit limit on two credit cards. On one it seems to have 
been the case that the provider had reduced his credit limit and on the other one he was 
over the limit by £6. Given the marketplace that MoneyBoat provides money in, I dont think 
that information on its own wouldve prompted further checks, considering the relatively 
modest sums borrowed and that a consumer having some less than perfect information on 
their credit file wouldnt be a barrier to be provided with this type of credit. 
MoneyBoat knew that Mr L had defaulted on one account in 2017, but as this was around 
five years before these loans were applied for then I dont consider it wouldve been 
concerned by this. 
In addition, one account had entered delinquency in June 2021 but had been repaid in full by 
August 2021. Overall, I dont think given the time that had passed since the last default or 
delinquent account wouldve led MoneyBoat to have either carried out further checks or led it 
to decline Mr Ls applications solely based on the credit search results.  
Given the total Mr L needed to repay on his hire purchase agreements, plus his mail order 
and credit card accounts this likely led to monthly repayments of around £800. And its also 
likely, there were other outgoings as well, as Mr L had declared for loan 3. But even 
substituting the credit commitment amount to his other expenditure which Mr L had declared 
than the loans still appeared affordable. 
For these loans Ive not seen enough to make me think MoneyBoat needed to go further with 
its checks  such as verifying the information he had provided. In my view that wouldve 
been disproportionate. 
Ive also thought about what Mr L has said about the interest rate. It seems the rate 
MoneyBoat has charged is outlined in the credit agreements he signed. In addition, there is 
a cost cap which was introduced by the regulator. However, having looked at the payments 
Mr L has made, MoneyBoat hasnt breached the cost cap. So, while, Mr L may feel the 
interest was too high for these loans, I cant conclude MoneyBoat has made an error by 
charging what it did. 
Overall, the checks MoneyBoat carried out where proportionate and indicated that Mr L 
would be able to repay these loans. There also wasnt anything else to suggest that Mr L 
was having or likely having financial difficulties or that these loans would be unsustainable 
for him. Im therefore not upholding Mr Ls complaint. 
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman