DRN-3407818
The complaint
Miss T complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) wrongly 
attempted to take a payment and didnt take into account the costs she had incurred storing 
the car when it applied charges at the end of her hire purchase agreement. 
What happened
Miss T entered into a 48 month hire purchase agreement with VWFS in April 2016 meaning 
the agreement ended in April 2020. Miss T says before the end she contacted VWFS to say 
she wanted to hand the car back. She was then contacted by her bank about a payment of 
over £10,000 being requested. 
Miss T contacted VWFS on 18 May and again said she wished to hand back the car. She 
says she was told she would be contacted about this and the car would be collected within 
10 days however this didnt happen. She says she received a letter about storing the car in a 
safe environment, but her situation meant the only safe place was her garden. She says the 
car was in her garden uninsured until 12 August. She says the car was kept in good 
condition but caused damage to her garden as well as being an inconvenience. She 
received an invoice for £1,700 which was offered to be reduced to £1,400 but she says this 
doesnt reflect the damage to her garden and that she had to store the car as well as the 
attempt to remove funds which caused her stress and inconvenience. 
VWFS said that Miss T contacted it on 27 April about a lack of communication following her 
request to return the car and that it had tried to take the final payment from her account. 
VWFS said that Miss T had contacted it about returning her car before the end of her 
agreement, but this hadnt been actioned meaning the final payment was requested. It said 
Miss Ts hand back request was processed on 18 May but there was a delay in the collection 
of the car due to the Covid-19 pandemic. After collection Miss T was charged £1,610 for 
excess mileage and £94 for refurbishment costs. It issued a final response letter in August 
2020 saying the excess mileage charges had been applied in line with terms and that it 
would request any adverse information regarding the final payment be removed from Miss 
Ts credit file. Given the issues it offered to reduce the end of contract charges to £1,400.
Miss T referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He acknowledged the difficulties Miss T had 
experienced in storing the car but said there was no evidence to show that Miss T was 
required to store the car in her garden. In regard to the end of contract charges he said there 
was no evidence to show these had been applied unfairly. He noted the reduction in the 
charges offered by VWFS and thought this was a fair amount and more than he would have 
offered and so he didnt think it was required to do anything further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand this the issues Miss T has experienced following the end of her agreement 
have caused her inconvenience and upset. However, for me to uphold this complaint I would 
need to be satisfied that VWFS had done something wrong or treated Miss T unfairly and not 
taken reasonable actions to remedy this.
Miss T contacted VWFS before the end of her agreement saying she wished to return the 
car. Unfortunately, her request wasnt correctly actioned which meant VWFS attempted to 
take the payment from Miss Ts account. Miss T has explained that as there werent 
sufficient funds for this payment it was recorded as being missed affecting her credit file. As 
VWFS made a mistake by not actioning Miss Ts request it should put Miss T back in the 
position she would have been had the mistake not been made. In this case the money 
wasnt taken and so this isnt an issue however Miss T was worried about the impact on her 
credit file. VWFS has confirmed that Miss Ts credit file has been amended so no adverse 
information is recorded in regard to the April 2020 payment. I find this reasonable. 
The second part of Miss Ts complaint is about the issues she experienced because the car 
couldnt be collected until August 2020. I appreciate the points she has made but also that 
the collection was due at the start of the Covid-19 pandemic and businesses were 
experiencing restrictions. So, while in normal circumstances we wouldve expected the 
collection to have taken place sooner, these werent usual times and so I think it 
understandable why a delay occurred. 
Miss T says she was told to store the car safely and has explained this meant she needed to 
store it her garden, causing damage to her garden and requiring a fence to be removed. 
While I note Miss Ts comments, she would have been parking her car in a safe place during 
the term of the agreement and it was her choice to take the action she did and park it in her 
garden. 
Miss T has said because of the issues she experienced the end of contract charges should 
be reduced. I have considered this but note that the mileage when the car was collected in 
August 2020 was 54,358 miles against the maximum allowed mileage of 32,000 miles. The 
excess mileage charge was set out in the agreement and I cannot say the charge of £1,610 
has been applied unfairly. I have looked at the inspection report and there is damage that 
can been seen on the inspection photographs. Therefore, I do not find I can say the charges 
were applied unfairly and as VWFS offered to reduce these charges to £1,400 I think it has 
acted reasonably in regard to this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not require Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited to do 
anything further in resolution of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman