DRN-4487404
The complaint
Mr P complains that Valour Finance Limited, trading as Savvy.co.uk, declined his loan 
application, and failed to call him back on the phone.
What happened
In January 2023 Mr P applied to Savvy.co.uk for a loan. He filled in an application online, 
and then was told that he had to phone in. The first call was only two minutes long, and just 
before it ended Mr P told the call handler that he was about to run out of credit. The call 
handler told him that she would call back. However, she did not call back, and so after an 
hour Mr P had to buy more phone credit and then call Savvy.co.uk a second time. That was 
expensive for him, as he was calling from abroad.
During the second call (which was with a different call handler), Mr P was asked some 
further questions. One of those was about the purpose of the loan. Mr P explained that he 
wanted to consolidate two overdrafts. The call handler told him that Savvy.co.uk does not 
offer consolidation loans, and so he did not qualify for a loan.
Mr P complained about the loan decision, and also about the failure to call him back after the 
first call. But Savvy.co.uk did not uphold his complaint. It told him it had not met its loan 
criteria. It said that the first call handler had not told him that she would call back immediately 
or at any particular time, and that she would have had to deal with other incoming calls, and 
so this would have delayed her calling Mr P back. Savvy.co.uk apologised for what had 
happened, but it did not agree to pay him compensation.
Mr P then brought his complaint to our service. Two of our investigators considered it, but 
they did not uphold it. They agreed with Savvy.co.uks reasons. Mr P asked for an 
ombudsman to review his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold this complaint, for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigators and Savvy.co.uk gave.
I have listened to both call recordings. Mr T did not tell the first call handler that he was 
calling from abroad. She told him that she would call him back, but she did not say when that 
would be. However, I think that it was reasonable of Mr T to assume that she meant she was 
going to call him back straight away. So I can understand why he has complained about that. 
Nevertheless, I think that if the call handler immediately received another call from another 
customer, then she would have had to deal with that first, before she could call Mr T back. 
So I accept Savvy.co.uks explanation about why it did not call him back.
I think the first call handler should have told Mr T that she might not call him back at once, 
but that there might be a wait. Failing to tell him that was an error by Savvy.co.uk. However, 
I think that its apology was enough to resolve that issue.
Savvy.co.uk is allowed to decide for itself what its loan criteria are. That does not have to be 
confined to Mr Ts credit history, income and expenditure. It can also include the purpose of 
the loan. If Savvy.co.uk does not offer consolidation loans, then Im afraid that is a matter 
with which I cannot interfere.
After telling Mr T that his loan application had been unsuccessful, the second call handler 
arranged for his manager to speak to Mr T in case there was anything she could do for him. 
The manager spoke to Mr T on the same call. Unfortunately she only repeated that 
Savvy.co.uk does not offer consolidation loans. But I think that the call handler was just 
trying to be helpful.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024. But apart from that, this final decision brings our 
involvement in this complaint to an end.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman