DRN-3497501
The complaint
Mrs B complains Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) failed to assist her with 
disputed transactions on her credit card relating to an unsatisfactory holiday cottage.
What happened
The background to the dispute is well known to all parties so I will not narrate the history in 
full. However, to summarise:
Mrs B had an M&S credit card which she used to book a holiday cottage through a 
website allowing consumers to book holiday homes, S, on 15 July 2021. Mrs B 
made three payments to S on her credit card, of £240, £1 and £349, between 15 July 
2021 and 17 September 2021. The accommodation itself was not provided by S, but 
by the owner of the cottage. Rental of the property for 7 nights cost £500, with a £55 
booking fee and £35 owner supplement.
Mrs B travelled to the cottage at the end of October 2021. Although she remained at 
the cottage for the duration of the stay, she was very disappointed with its 
cleanliness. She said the bins were overflowing with bottles and rubbish, the 
barbecue was dirty, and she found discarded articles of clothing from a previous 
guest. She then discovered hair in the shower and, on the last day of her stay, large 
quantities of mould behind the headboard of her bed. Mrs B said she became ill 
during her stay due to the unsanitary conditions.
Following a complaint to S, Mrs B was offered £75 compensation by the owner of the 
cottage, which represented 15% of the rental fee. Mrs B decided to escalate matters 
to M&S in November 2021, and sought to make a claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). The bank rejected her claim, saying there was 
not a valid debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement in place under which she 
could hold M&S liable. Mrs B complained about this decision but M&S refused to 
change its position.
Mrs B was dissatisfied with this outcome and referred the matter to this service for an 
independent assessment. One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She concluded 
Mrs B did not have a valid claim against M&S so it had not treated her unfairly by declining 
to honour a section 75 claim. She also explored whether M&S should have tried to get any 
money back for Mrs B via another route called chargeback, but concluded that because 
Mrs B had decided to stay at the property, this wouldnt have been a viable route to a refund.
Mrs B appealed our investigators assessment, and so the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with our investigator that M&S did not treat Mrs B unfairly by not refunding her. I 
have decided to set out my decision in a summary form, covering the two ways in which 
M&S could have refunded Mrs B  section 75 of the CCA, and chargeback. The reasons for 
my decision are as follows:
Section 75
Section 75 of the CCA would allow Mrs B to make a claim against M&S for any 
breach or contract or misrepresentation by a supplier of goods or services she paid 
using her M&S credit card.
Mrs B used her credit card to pay S. She entered into two contracts. One was a 
booking contract with S, for managing and arranging her booking, and transmitting 
her payments to the cottage owner. The other contract was a rental contract with an 
unidentified owner, for the use of the cottage for the duration of the stay. 
Mrs Bs complaint is about the cleanliness of the property, which would be a claim 
against the owner for breach of contract. She cant make a claim against M&S for this 
because she didnt pay the owner with her credit card.
There are some exceptions to this general rule, such as where S and the owner are 
associates as defined in the CCA. No evidence has been provided of S and the 
owner being associates, so this does not help Mrs Bs case. Ive been unable to 
identify any other exceptions which might apply.
M&S was therefore not wrong to decline Mrs Bs section 75 claim and didnt treat her 
unfairly or unreasonably by doing so.
Chargeback
Chargeback is a way that a bank can dispute payments made on a card, under 
certain circumstances which are set out by the card scheme which runs the card 
network. In Mrs Bs case, it appears the card network was Mastercard.
Chargebacks are not guaranteed to succeed and must adhere to rules set by 
Mastercard, who will have the final say on any disputes. We would expect a bank to 
attempt a chargeback if their customer has a dispute over a payment and theres a 
reasonable chance of the chargeback succeeding.
Its possible to raise a chargeback where goods or services are not as described or 
are defective in some way. In principle, this could include where a holiday cottage is 
dirty, as in this case. 
While I dont necessarily agree with our investigators point that just because Mrs B 
stayed at the cottage for the whole duration of her booking, a chargeback couldnt 
have been successful, I do think it would have made it very difficult for her to claim 
the full refund she is seeking. This is because she would have been taken to have 
made full use of the service she had paid for.
I think it is possible a chargeback for a small proportion of the rental price might have 
been successful. Ultimately, I cant be sure what Mastercard would have decided. 
But I am not convinced that it would have necessarily been more than the 15% 
refund which had already been offered by the owner. And I think a chargeback for the 
amount Mrs B was seeking would have been robustly defended and likely been 
unsuccessful. So while I think M&S should have considered attempting a chargeback, and theres 
no evidence they did consider this, I dont think this has disadvantaged Mrs B. 
My final decision
While I appreciate Mrs B will be disappointed, I dont think Marks & Spencer Financial 
Services Plc dealt with her claim for a refund unfairly or unreasonably. It follows that my final 
decision is that I do not uphold her complaint.  
I leave Mrs B to consider if, on reflection, she would like to accept the offer made by the 
cottage owner, assuming it is still available to her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman