DRN-2652939
The complaint
Mr S complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) mishandled his claim on 
his motor insurance policy.
What happened
The subject matter of this complaint is a car made in 2008. It was a rare model. I wont state 
the model in case it might identify Mr S in this decision when it is published. 
For the period from mid-December 2019 to mid-October 2020, Mr S had the car insured with 
Admiral. The policy was comprehensive, so it covered damage or loss of Mr Ss car - up to 
its market value. Any claim was subject to an excess of £400.00.
Unfortunately, on 14 August 2020, the car suffered damaged in the area of its front 
passenger door and sill. Admiral decided the car was a total loss.
On 10 September 2020, Admiral said the pre-accident vale of the car had been £8,354.00. It 
offered Mr S that amount less the excess.
Mr S complained to Admiral that it had under-valued his car. By a final response dated 21 
September 2020, Admiral turned down the complaint. Mr S brought his complaint to us 
without delay.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied 
that the offer Admiral had made was in line with the trade guides and it was entitled to rely 
on these when assessing the value of the car.
Mr S disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
His car was the high performance "top of the range" vehicle and was one of only 74 
manufactured.
The guide prices are suitable for mass market and higher volume production runs.
Admiral advised him that because he had not bought his car through the main dealer 
network the higher price for that category of vehicle would not be available to him as 
a settlement.
He searched for the car he bought for around 18 months (because of the limited 
production numbers they did not come up for sale frequently). The one he bought 
was from a specialist garage and not from the main dealer network. No main dealer 
would sell a 10+ year old vehicle.
He expected to be able to use the settlement offered to buy a similar vehicle to the 
one the insurance company decided not to repair.
He provided two examples of "similar" cars (only one was the high performance 
model) both offered for sale at around £13,000. 
In February 2021, he saw three examples (which are lower mileage than his) for sale 
at between £25,995 and £14,950. 
This is not an easy car to find and his was a well looked- after vehicle and in very 
good condition.
The offer of £8,354.00 is not even close to any of these figures (only 65% in fact).
At renewal he valued his vehicle well above the offer figure and presumably paid a 
higher premium based on this valuation - which is then simply set aside when the 
time to pay out on the policy came.
He has been fortunate in that apart from a windscreen claim he has driven for many 
years without a fault accident (evidenced by a 26 year no claim bonus). His 
experience with insurance companies is therefore limited but his sense of natural 
justice is offended here.
The offer made is not close enough to the value of the car (as evidenced by 
advertisements of similar cars at the time) and to hide behind a guide book valuation 
which is appropriate for mass produced vehicles takes no account of the limited 
production run (and therefore a very small numbers of sales).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have no reason to doubt Mr ss statement that he gave Admiral his valuation in December 
2019. But he didnt have an agreed value policy. His car was insured up to its market value 
immediately before the accident.
We consider whether the insurer has acted fairly and reasonably in assessing such a value. 
Sometimes we find that a car is too old or too rare to be priced in the trade guides. But 
generally we expect an insurer to use trade guide prices where they are available. 
To be clear, the trade guides contain retail prices to be expected from main dealers. Im 
satisfied that the trade guide prices reflect all aspects of supply and demand. The trade 
guides include many different types of vehicle from many manufacturers. The trade guides 
include a myriad of different vehicles produced in small numbers.
We place less weight on advertisements for the sale of individual cars. That is because 
advertised prices are often negotiated down.
Ive noted the make, model, year, specification, mileage and very good condition of Mr Ss 
car before the accident.
Ive considered the information Mr S has provided. And I accept that Admirals final response 
contained some confusing statements about Mr Ss purchase of the vehicle and the effect on 
its valuation.However, his car was not so specialist that the trade guides dont include it. The trade guides 
do contain prices for a car exactly like Mr Ss. 
From the trade guide prices Ive seen, I dont consider that Admiral valued Mr Ss car unfairly 
or unreasonably. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to increase its 
valuation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Admiral Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman