DRN-2373009
The complaint
Mr P complains that Skipton Building Society mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. His complaint is brought on his behalf by a third party.
What happened
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out in 1998. The policy was taken out in 
one of the societys branches when Mr P applied to change his mortgage to a new product. 
The policy provided him with cover for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr P didnt agree. 
His representative said, on his behalf and in summary, that:
Mr P never received any information about PPI and wasnt given a choice whether to 
take it out. He didnt know he had it.
The form Mr P signed doesnt mention PPI.
Skipton should provide proof that Mr P took out house and contents insurance to qualify 
for the mortgage. This would show he didnt need PPI to qualify for the mortgage, and 
therefore he had no need to take it out.
His 2003 joint mortgage application says that PPI was in place. But Skipton didnt 
check with Mr P if it was still required.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ps complaint.
The PPI was sold more than 20 years ago so, inevitably, some of the evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory. In cases like this, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr P has also complained about the sale of PPI in 2003 when he applied for a joint 
mortgage with his wife. This is the subject of a separate complaint and I wont comment on it 
further here. I need to decide whether Skipton did anything wrong when Mr P took out a PPI 
policy in 1998 and, if it did, whether I think that would have made a difference to Mr Ps 
decision to take the PPI. What was or wasnt discussed in 2003 does not have a bearing on 
whether the PPI was mis-sold in 1998.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint for the following reasons:
Mr P says he wasnt given a choice about taking PPI. As this happened so long ago, 
I wouldnt expect Mr P to remember the detail of what was discussed. For this reason, Ive 
placed more reliance on the paperwork that was completed at the time.
The mortgage Mr P applied for required him to have one of three named insurance products 
with Skipton. Skipton told us that Mr P already had house and contents insurance, and this is 
evidenced by its internal records which Ive seen. This meant he qualified for the mortgage 
without the need to take PPI. Im not persuaded Mr P wasnt given a choice about the PPI. 
And I can see that he had to complete, and sign, a separate application form for the PPI, 
rather than it being part of the mortgage application. Overall, I think it more likely than not 
that Skipton made Mr P aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it. Im not 
surprised Mr P cant remember that now.
Skipton recommended the PPI and it doesnt look like it was unsuitable based on what Ive 
seen of Mr Ps circumstances at the time. I say this because:
Mr P was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the policy terms and 
conditions.
Mr P told us he would have received six weeks pay from his employer if he couldnt work 
due to sickness or an accident and that he had no other means of meeting his mortgage 
payments. The PPI would have paid out in addition to Mr Ps work benefits and for up to 
12 months. It also covered him if hed become unemployed. The mortgage was a 
significant long-term financial commitment and Mr Ps home was at risk if he didnt keep 
up with the repayments. So, overall, I think he had a need for the policy.
Mr P wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits such as 
those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As 
he could have benefitted from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely he needed 
better advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
Its not clear whether cost of the policy was clearly communicated to Mr P before he 
agreed to purchase it. The first six months of the policy were free, and I think its possible 
he wasnt told how much it would cost each month after that until after the mortgage had 
started. For this reason I have considered whether clearer information about the cost 
would have affected Mr Ps decision to purchase the policy. I've found that hed chosen 
to take out the policy and knew he would have to pay something for it. The policy was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely he would have made 
a different decision if better information about the cost had been provided.
I do think Mr P received some information and explanation about the PPI, even if he 
cant recall that now. I can see from the PPI application form that he wrote a note to the 
member of staff telling her that he was going to go for option B pls fill in the amount 
which suggests he had considered his options and that these had been discussed. Mr 
Ps representative says the form doesnt mention PPI. That is the general term for 
these types of products but different businesses called their particular products by 
different names  in this case Mr P applied for Skipton Assured. The copy of the form 
he completed isnt very clear and large parts of it are obscured. But, from what I can see, 
I think its reasonably clear that this is an application for an insurance product to protect 
mortgage payments.
I accept its possible the information the society gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it should have been. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Skiptons recommendation was unsuitable and I dont think Mr P would have made a different 
decision about taking out the policy if better information had been provided to him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman