DRN-3355860
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G were sold a PPI policy for a mortgage in 2001. Mr and Mrs G paid for the PPI 
with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered Mr G, in case he was 
off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Gs case. 
Having done that, I have not found this policy to have been mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Neither side still have all the original documents from the time, which is understandable 
given the decades that have passed. Mr and Mrs G questioned why some documents were 
available but not others, as they felt their mortgage and PPI applications were essentially 
done together. I can completely understand why they raised this. But Mr and Mrs G applied 
for their mortgage through an intermediary, whereas their PPI was set up through Halifax, 
separately to the mortgage application. And its generally quite normal for only some 
documents to still be available after so much time. Ive thought carefully about whats most 
likely to have happened based on the information thats still available.
From what Ive seen of Halifaxs sales process from the time, in order to get a policy Mr and 
Mrs G would need to have specifically applied for it, separately to applying for the mortgage 
itself  the PPI was not part and parcel of the mortgage, nor a compulsory addition. And its 
cost wouldve been set out separately to the mortgages cost  again, it wasnt part and 
parcel of their mortgage premiums, nor a hidden cost. Ive not seen any wider problems with 
Halifaxs sales process from the time, nor any evidence which shows that Mr and Mrs G 
were misled into buying PPI here. So I think its more likely than not that Halifax made 
Mr and Mrs G aware they had a choice about buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it 
at the time  though I can understand if they no longer recall doing so after so long.
Its not clear whether Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs G, or not. The 
requirements were stricter on Halifax if it did recommend it  so to be as fair to Mr and Mrs G 
as possible, Ill assess things using the higher standard. That would mean Halifax had to 
check the policy was right for them. And based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at 
the time, it looks like it most likely was.
For example, it looks like Mr G was the main earner, was eligible for the cover, and was not 
affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations. The PPI would have paid out in addition 
to Mr Gs work benefits and offered him more comprehensive cover, shoring up any gaps for 
when his benefits ran out or reduced to a fraction of his normal pay. It also meant Mr and 
Mrs G could effectively protect their savings, instead of potentially needing to sacrifice one 
asset to save another. And while I understand Mr and Mrs G had other policies, like life and 
critical illness cover and a pension, those were for different things to the PPI and were not 
alternatives to PPI, so Im afraid they werent really relevant here. Further, its worth bearing 
in mind that this mortgage was a very significant, long-term commitment. At the time of the 
sale there was no guarantee that Mr and Mrs G would still have the same benefits or savings 
available in the many years to come. And if they fell behind on their mortgage, they couldve 
lost their home. So in their situation, the PPI could have been useful for Mr and Mrs G in 
protecting their home and providing some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs G about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. But as I explained above, Mr G wasnt affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for Mr and Mrs G in case 
something went wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out 
in a claim. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr and Mrs G could cancel it 
at any time without a penalty. So overall, I dont think that better information was likely to 
have put them off taking out the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2022. 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman