DRN-3291978
The complaint
Mr S complains that Aviva Insurance Limited mishandled his claim on his motor insurance
policy.
Where I refer to Aviva, I include claims-handlers, engineers and others insofar as I hold
Aviva responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
From April 2021, Mr S, through a broker, took out a mini fleet insurance policy. The
insured vehicles were a hatchback car and a van. Cover was third party, fire and theft
(TPFT). The policy didnt cover damage to either of Mr Ss vehicles  unless the damage
was caused by fire or theft (including attempted theft).
On the evening of 25 May 2021, someone damaged Mr Ss car outside his partners home. 
The damage included damage to door handles, windows, glove box and interior. There was
also damage to the panels, roof and rear of the car.
Through the broker, Mr S made a claim to Aviva. Mr S said that criminals had caused the 
damage while trying to steal the car.
Aviva declined the claim, saying that the damage was vandalism. Aviva said the car was a
total loss in category B (so that it should never again appear on the road).
Mr S complained to Aviva. By a final response dated 20 July 2021, Aviva turned down the
complaint. Mr S brought his complaint to us in August 2021.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought that
some of the damage was theft-related. He recommended that Aviva should pay Mr S what it
would cost to repair the damage to the interior, glove box, front windows and door handles.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr S 
and to Aviva on 11 January 2022. I summarise my findings:
Avivas notes suggest that the first notification of loss was in relation to the damage 
on 25 May. It says that the broker reported this as vandalism. But whatever Mr S had 
told the broker, the broker may have misreported to Aviva. So I didnt place much 
weight on the file note as evidence that Mr S initially reported vandalism and then 
changed this to attempted theft.
As the damage was sustained, I found it likely that all the damage was caused 
directly by the unsuccessful attempt to drive the car away, including the criminals 
violent frustration. For that reason, I was minded to find that Aviva treated Mr S 
unfairly by declining his claim.
If I was wrong that all the damage was caused directly by the attempt to drive the car 
away, then there was an alternative reason why I was minded to find that Aviva 
treated Mr S unfairly by declining his claim. That reason was that, on the balance of 
probabilities, the criminals actions met all the ingredients of the offence of theft. By 
breaking into his car, they dishonestly assumed some of the owners rights and 
appropriated it. By deliberately damaging it beyond repair, the criminals showed an 
intention permanently to deprive the owner of his car.
As far as I knew Mr S still had the use of his van. But he has some issues with 
anxiety. And I found it likely that Avivas decision made him feel disbelieved and 
more worried than usual about the future. He had to get his partner to help him 
pursue his complaint.
Subject to any further information either from Mr S or from Aviva, my provisional decision 
was to uphold this complaint. I intended to direct Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mr S:
1. the market value of the car as it was before the damage on 25 May 2021, less the
policy excess; and
2. simple interest on that payment at a yearly rate of 8% from 25 May 2021 to the date 
of payment. If Aviva considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should 
also give him a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate; and
3. £200.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Mr S accepted the provisional decision.
Aviva disagreed with the provisional decision. It says, in summary, that:
It refers to the Criminal Damage Act 1971 Section 1 and the Theft Act 1968 Sections 
1,3, & 6.
By deliberately causing the level of damage that they did, the criminal(s) could not 
have had any intention to appropriate the vehicle. Instead, their intention was to 
maliciously and wantonly cause criminal damage. It is not feasible that this level of 
damage was caused in the act of attempting to steal the vehicle.
The vehicle clearly had not been driven and there was no evidence it had been 
moved, or the criminal(s) attempted to move it. If it were the criminal(s) intent to steal 
the vehicle and drive it away, smashing the windscreen would be counterproductive 
to this. It seems pure conjecture to speculate that the criminal(s) were so frustrated 
by their inability to steal the vehicle that they would risk arrest by creating additional 
disturbance and damaging the vehicle beyond repair. 
The vehicle was not appropriated as for the entire duration the damage was caused 
to it, it was still situated on Mr Ss partners driveway. The vehicle effectively 
remained in his custody, but was criminally damaged whilst it remained so.Damaging something beyond repair while it remains in someones custody is not the 
same as appropriating the vehicle and removing it from their custody with the 
intention of permanently depriving them of it. Aviva as a motor insurer deals with a 
high number of theft and attempted theft claims, and the circumstances and physical 
evidence from this incident do not fit the usual way of theft/attempted theft.
Brokers report claims to Aviva on behalf of our mutual clients. It is their duty to 
ensure that they are reporting incidents correctly and accurately. Aviva takes such 
information from brokers on trust, unless any evidence emerges to the contrary. As 
such, if there has been a genuine error or omission on the part of the broker, Aviva 
contends that this would be a complaint for the policyholder to raise with the broker. 
The claim was presented to Aviva as vandalism, and it has seen no compelling 
evidence to suggest this was anything but as first reported. As such, the TPFT cover 
will not respond in respect of this incident.
The police say the incident was reported as criminal damage and not attempted theft. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account the law, regulation and good practice. Above all Ive considered
whats fair and reasonable.
The policy wording was written to apply whether the cover was comprehensive or TPFT.
Section 1 of the policy covered damage. A policy index provided that where cover was
TPFT, Section 1 operated only in respect of loss of or damage caused directly by Fire or by
Theft.
The policy contained the following definition of Theft:
Theft, attempted theft or taking your vehicle without your consent.
So the definition of theft included attempted theft.
Mr S has told us that on 24 May, an object broke the rear windscreen of his car while he was
driving it. Avivas notes make no reference to this.
Mr S has told us that the next day, criminals first tried to break into his partners home,
probably to look for car keys. Mr S has told us that the incident included the criminals
entering the car and emptying the glove box, probably to look for a spare key.
Avivas notes suggest that the first notification of loss was in relation to the damage on 25
May. It says that the broker reported this as vandalism. But whatever Mr S had told the 
broker, the broker may have misreported to Aviva. So I dont place much weight on the file 
note as evidence that Mr S initially reported vandalism and then changed this to attempted 
theft. 
In any event, I dont doubt that the criminals had done criminal damage. It would be 
reasonable for Mr S, the broker, the police and Aviva to say so. But neither the legislation or 
the policy wording say that criminal damage and theft are mutually exclusive. So there 
remained the issue of whether the damage was  in the words of the policy - caused directly 
  by Theft. And Theft includes attempted theft.The damage to the car was very extensive. It went way beyond what a thief or joyrider would 
usually do in the course of trying to enter and start a car.
One of the engineers expressed the following opinion:
I would suggest that the vehicle has been subject to vandalism damage and not
theft. I cannot see how the vehicle would have been subject to attempted theft ,
surely if this was attempted theft the thieves would not have hung around to cause
this amount of damage in case of disturbing someone in the process
But the photographs show that the criminals got into the vehicle. And that engineers opinion 
doesnt analyse the damage by reference to how they got inside. So I dont place much 
weight on that opinion.
And I find that the damage to usual points of entry such as doors and windows was
consistent with breaking into the car in an attempt to take it away. 
On balance, I accept Mr Ss evidence that criminals had tried and failed to take his car,
before doing further damage to it. The damage included malicious damage to glass and 
body panels. And the damage was sustained for some time. So I find it likely that the 
criminals started the damage in an attempt to drive the car away, and  when they were 
unsuccessful -  they continued to cause damage out of violent frustration. 
So I find it likely that all the damage was caused directly by the unsuccessful attempt to drive 
the car away. For that reason, I find that Aviva treated Mr S unfairly by declining his claim.
If Im wrong that all the damage was caused directly by the attempt to drive the car away,
then there is an alternative reason why I find that Aviva treated Mr S unfairly by
declining his claim. That reason is that, on the balance of probabilities, the criminals actions
met all the ingredients of the offence of theft  they dishonestly appropriated Mr Ss car with 
an intention permanently to deprive him of it. 
As I understand it, the Theft Act meaning of the verb appropriate requires an assumption of 
some of the rights of the owner. And that doesnt necessarily involve moving the property. 
The criminals broke into the car. Some of the damage was consistent with an attempt to take 
the car away. Overall the criminals destroyed all the usefulness and value of the car. So I 
consider that they dishonestly assumed some of the owners rights and appropriated it.
In thinking about intention I find it likely that the criminals intended the consequences of 
their actions. By deliberately damaging the car beyond repair, the criminals showed an 
intention permanently to deprive the owner of it.
Ive found that all the damage was caused directly by the unsuccessful attempt to drive the 
car away. So Aviva treated Mr S unfairly by declining his claim.
if Im wrong about that, Ive found that the criminals actions met all the ingredients of the 
offence of theft  they dishonestly appropriated Mr Ss car with an intention permanently to 
deprive him of it. Thats an alternative reason why Aviva treated Mr S unfairly by declining 
his claim.Putting things right
In an attempt to put things right, I find it fair and reasonable to direct Aviva to pay Mr S the 
market value of the car as it was before the damage on 25 May 2021, less the policy excess.
As hes been out of pocket since that date, I find it fair to direct Aviva to add interest at our 
usual rate.
Ive also thought about the non-financial impact on Mr S of Avivas decision to decline his
claim. As far as I know he still had the use of his van. But he has some issues with anxiety.
And I find it likely that Avivas decision made him feel disbelieved and more worried than
usual about the future. He has had to get his partner to help him pursue his complaint.
So I find it fair and reasonable to direct Aviva to pay Mr S £200.00 for distress and 
inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Aviva 
Insurance Limited to pay Mr S:
1. the market value of the car as it was before the damage on 25 May 2021, less the 
policy excess; and
2. simple interest on that payment at a yearly rate of 8% from 25 May 2021 to the date 
of payment. If Aviva considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should 
also give him a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate; and
3. £200.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman