DRN-3424083
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC has denied that in 2016 it granted her a five-year 
term extension to repay her interest-only mortgage. 
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. The history of the 
matter is set out in detail in correspondence between the parties, and in the investigators 
letter dated 23 February 2022. All parties have a copy of that letter, so there is no need for 
me to repeat the details here. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I 
dont include any information that might lead to Mrs S being identified.
Mrs S has a mortgage with Lloyds, under its residential lending business Cheltenham & 
Gloucester. It was originally in the joint names of Mrs S and her husband, Mr S, who I am 
very sorry to note has now passed away.
The mortgage was originally taken out in 1992, but was arranged onto a new product in 
January 2008. The mortgage was in three parts, which were due to expire in November 
2016, December 2016 and March 2017. In 2009 the mortgage was transferred onto an 
interest-only basis.
Sadly, Mr S became very ill and in 2010 Mrs S retired in order to provide full-time care for 
him. He passed away in December 2019. I have no doubt this has been an awful time for 
Mrs S.
Lloyds notes show that Mrs S contacted the bank in October 2016, just before two of the 
sub-accounts were due to reach their maturity date to ask for a term extension. What 
happened at this point is in dispute.
Mrs S says that she was told that she could have a five-year term extension on the 
mortgage, so it wouldnt need to be repaid until the end of 2021.
Lloyds disputes this, and says that it only offers temporary holds and maximum 12-month 
term extensions. The bank says the account was reviewed annually, when Mrs S contacted 
Lloyds to discuss her and Mr Ss situation. Lloyds says that, as a result of Mr Ss illness, 
further concessions were granted.
Mrs S contacted Lloyds after Mr S passed away in December 2019 and was told shed have 
a three-month extension. Lloyds wasnt able to offer any further term extension as there was 
no repayment vehicle in place (although thered originally been a level term assurance 
policy, the policy expired in 2017). Lloyds also didnt think the mortgage would be affordable 
and so wasnt able to offer either a formal term extension or a new loan.
Mrs S was very upset by this, as she believed shed been granted a five-year term extension 
in 2016. She complained to Lloyds, but the complaint wasnt upheld. Mrs S then brought her 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service where an investigator looked at what had 
happened.
After reviewing the contemporaneous notes recorded on Lloyds system, the investigator 
found no evidence Lloyds had agreed to a five-year term extension. He thought Lloyds had 
treated Mrs S sympathetically by granting further extensions in order to take account of her 
and Mr Ss difficult situation. But ultimately the investigator didnt think Lloyds had done 
anything wrong. He noted that more than five years had passed since 2016, but the 
mortgage had still not been repaid.
Mrs S disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She maintains that she was told in 2016 that shed been granted a five-year term 
extension and that this was Lloyds policy, but had later been told by Lloyds that its policy 
had changed. Mrs S says that the fact that more than five years has passed is irrelevant, 
because her complaint is about Lloyds overall conduct during that five-year period.
Mrs S is also unhappy that calls from 2016 and 2017 are no longer available.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said at the outset, Ive summarised the complaint, but I confirm Ive read and taken note 
of everything Mrs S and Lloyds have said. I have considerable sympathy for Mrs S, but I 
have to decide the complaint on the basis of the evidence before more and not be swayed 
by emotion.
The crux of the complaint is that Mrs S says she was told in October 2016 that she could 
have five years to repay the mortgage. She says that if the calls were available from 2016 
and 2017, these would prove that shed been told this. 
Theres no requirement for Lloyds to keep call recordings indefinitely, and so theres nothing 
suspicious in call recordings from 2016 and 2017 no longer being available. However, where 
the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive  as it is here  I have to reach my decision on 
the basis of what I think is fair and reasonable based on the evidence that is available.
In this case, we have Lloyds system notes, which recorded information about what was 
discussed between Mrs S and the bank. The value of these notes is that theyre 
contemporaneous, so they should reflect what was said and agreed at the relevant time. 
Theyre not fool-proof, of course; its always possible information might be recorded 
incorrectly; but its typically more reliable than peoples individual recollections  at a distance 
of time which, although given in good faith, can sometimes be inaccurate or contradictory. 
So unless theres a compelling reason to believe the contemporaneous information is 
inaccurate, well generally attach some weight to it.
I wont set out all the details of the calls between Mrs S and Lloyds  the investigator has 
already done that in his letter of 23 February 2022  but only the calls that are relevant. Im 
satisfied the contemporaneous notes do not suggest that Lloyds agreed a five-year 
extension. The notes are, in fact, clear that Lloyds was asking Mrs S for her proposals for 
repayment, including (October 2017) asking her to complete an Income & Expenditure form 
to allow Lloyds time to help her find a solution to repaying the mortgage. I can see from the notes that (through no fault of hers) it was difficult at times for Mrs S to 
stay on the phone for very long in order to complete a full mortgage review. It wasnt until the 
end of December 2017 that Lloyds was able to carry out a mortgage review. This showed 
there were unsecured debts of about £18,000, and Mr and Mrs S were on a limited income, 
with no savings or investments. During the call on 27 December 2017 it was recorded that 
Lloyds said it was likely it would extend the term for 12 months in order for Mr and Mrs S to 
speak to an Independent Financial Adviser (IFA) so they could review their pension position. 
In January 2018 Lloyds agreed to allow a grace period  not a term extension  of  a further 
12 months. During a conversation with Mrs S on 7 January 2019 Lloyds records that this 
grace period had expired. On 29 January 2019 the notes record that Lloyds explained to 
Mrs S that the bank couldnt keep looking into interest-only extensions indefinitely, as it 
would be treating the mortgage as a lifetime mortgage. 
By February 2019 Mrs S had spoken to an IFA through StepChange and, due to issues with 
the local council that had affected the property, a re-mortgage wasnt possible. A further 
12-month concessionary grace period was agreed up to February 2020. 
In February 2020 Mrs S explained that Mr S had passed away the previous December. A 
90-day grace period was applied to the account. Mrs S asked for a further interest-only 
extension, but the bank wasnt able to agree to this.
Taking everything into account, and particularly the contemporaneous notes, Im not 
persuaded Mrs S was told she had a five-year term extension, either in 2016 or 2017. Had 
that been the case, then there would have been no need for Mrs S to contact the bank each 
time the concessionary extensions had been due to expire to seek a further extension. 
The available notes also show that Lloyds took Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances into 
consideration when deciding whether or not to grant any further term extensions. Lenders 
are required to treat customers in financial difficulty sympathetically and Im satisfied that 
Lloyds did so in this case. 
Once an interest-only mortgage reaches the end of its term, it is due to be repaid, and I 
know Mrs S has never disputed this. Usually lenders will allow a concessionary period of no 
more than a few months to enable borrowers to put their repayment strategy in place, 
whether that is by selling the property or otherwise realising assets to repay the capital. But 
due to the very difficult circumstances Mr and Mrs S had found themselves in, it was correct 
and fair, in my opinion, for Lloyds to grant the various grace periods from 2016 onwards. I 
am satisfied, however, that Lloyds did not grant Mrs S a five-year term extension.
I know this isnt the outcome Mrs S was hoping for. I fully understand she has been through 
a very difficult time, but ultimately I think Lloyds did its best to help her by granting various 
short-term concessions after the mortgage expired to enable her to continue caring for Mr S 
during his illness. 
It is now more than two years since the last concession on the mortgage expired. I do 
understand that Mrs S wants to remain in the property, and that shes been looking at equity 
release as a way to repay the mortgage. I agree with the investigator that Lloyds should 
allow a further three months from the date of this decision for Mrs S to provide Lloyds with 
her repayment strategy before taking any action. 
However, I would be remiss if I did not draw to Mrs Ss attention that the mortgage is 
overdue to be repaid in full and if arrangements arent made to do so, Lloyds will be entitled, as a last resort, to seek a possession order through the courts. The extent to which the 
courts are able to suspend possession where the mortgage term has expired is extremely 
limited, so I cannot emphasise enough the seriousness of the position Mrs S is in. 
I am not saying this to alarm Mrs S, but without realistic repayment proposals within the next 
three months, it would not be unfair or unreasonable for Lloyds to start legal action to 
recover the outstanding mortgage debt. I must also explain that if Lloyds is left with no option 
but to begin legal action, the Financial Ombudsman Service will not be able to intervene any 
further and Mrs S would need to deal with the matter in court. I am sure all parties want to 
avoid that situation arising, so I must emphasise that it is crucial that Mrs S addresses the 
situation and puts forward realistic proposals for repaying the mortgage.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman