DRN-2768613
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with how Cofunds Limited handled a withdrawal from his Individual Savings 
Account (ISA). 
What happened
Mr W opened his ISA with Aegon in early 2018. Aegon is in a group of companies with 
Cofunds Limited so for ease I will refer to Aegon as thats who Mr W has been dealing with.
In September 2020 Mr W requested a withdrawal from his ISA to his bank account. Aegon 
were unable to electronically verify the bank account details so asked Mr W to provide some 
identification documents. Mr W was unhappy with this request and lodged a complaint.
Aegon said that whilst a request of that nature wasnt in the terms and conditions it was a 
regulatory check to combat financial crime. They said they followed their validation process 
correctly so didnt uphold the complaint.  
Mr W remained unhappy so brought this complaint to our service where one of our 
investigators looked into what happened. They thought Aegon acted reasonably in their 
request and in the options given to Mr W for providing the identification documents. Mr W 
disagreed so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear to me how strongly Mr W feels about what happened and hes also provided a lot of 
information about what happened and his reasons being unhappy. Ive read and considered 
everything Mr W has submitted. If I dont make reference to a particular point raised by Mr W 
its not because I havent read it, I can assure him that I have. Ive summarised the 
information which reflects the informal nature of our service. 
The reason Aegon needed to verify Mr Ws bank account details was because it was the first 
time a withdrawal was being made to that account. I think its reasonable and prudent for 
them to do so in those circumstances, and as they explained to Mr W this is a regulatory 
check to combat financial crime. 
Aegon agrees with Mr W that this type of check, and the request for documents, does not 
form part of the terms and conditions of the account. But I dont think this means Aegon were 
wrong to make the request. All financial businesses have a wider regulatory responsibility 
and this means that not every possible scenario is always covered in the terms and 
conditions of any account. So looking at their role as a whole Im happy the request for 
documents was a reasonable action and they acted fairly.
When the withdrawal was requested in September 2020 Aegon tried to verify Mr Ws bank 
account electronically. However the check failed and this was the reason for the request. In 
April 2021 Mr W again attempted the withdrawal and it was processed. This was because 
when Aegon electronically verified the bank account it passed the checks. Mr W says that 
because of this Aegon had no rational basis for refusing to process it the first time around. 
However looking at what happened I dont agree that was the case. 
The electronic verification check considers such things as the bank account and sort code 
and the consumers address. Looking at the information from the check in September 2020 
and the one in April 2021 the one difference is Mr Ws address. I cant say for sure that the 
address was the reason for the check failing, but Mr W updated his address with Aegon in 
February 2020 and then a few months later the check passed. So it seems possible that an 
incorrect address was why the first check failed. Even if this isnt the case, and I cant be 
sure of the reason the check failed, Im still happy that Aegon acted fairly with their request.
Aegon gave Mr W options of what type of documentation to provide. I know Mr W was 
unhappy with this, but I think Aegon gave reasonable options that he couldve met.
Mr W has said he feels the request from Aegon was a belated attempt to follow anti money 
laundering requirements which shouldve been completed when the account was first 
opened. However Im satisfied thats not the case. When the account was first opened Mr W 
provided Aegon with his passport and a utility bill, so the identification requirements for anti 
money laundering regulations were fulfilled at that time. This request for information was 
based on the failed verification of his bank account for the withdrawal. Mr W says the bank 
account was the one from which he made the initial deposit into his ISA. However that 
doesnt mean Aegon made any errors when a withdrawal was requested to that account for 
the first time. I think its natural that a check is conducted for the first withdrawal to a 
particular account regardless of where the funds in the account came from.
Mr Ws account remains open with a small balance. If he would like to close the account he 
should contact Aegon to take the necessary actions.
Having carefully considered everything Im satisfied Aegon acted fairly and reasonably when 
requesting verification documents to process Mr Ws withdrawal. Thats not to say that Mr W 
hasnt been inconvenienced by what happened; he clearly has. However Im happy that 
Aegon acted fairly to protect the funds when making their regulatory checks, and that they 
made reasonable requests for information.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman