DRN-3541181
The complaint
Mr P complained that Lookers Motor Group Limited mis-sold him a Minor Damage Protection 
insurance policy. 
What happened
When Mr P bought a car he took out a Minor Damage Protection insurance policy via 
Lookers, a broker. He said they told him that any repairs carried out under the policy would 
keep his car in showroom condition. But when he claimed on the policy, he discovered that 
the policy didnt require the damaged areas to be returned to the original pre-damage 
appearance. So he felt that Lookers had mis sold him the policy.
Lookers said they hadnt advised him on the sale. They said theyd done what they had to 
do, which was to give him information that was fair, clear, and not misleading so that he 
could make an informed decision as to whether to take out the policy.
The investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. They thought there 
was insufficient evidence to decide that Lookers had provided Mr P with inaccurate 
information about the policy. Mr P didnt agree and so his case has been passed to me to 
decide.
Mr P also complained about the quality of the repair work , but that has been dealt with by us 
as a separate complaint and so I dont comment on that here. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr P claimed on the policy , the repairers told him that the repair they could do might 
not return the damaged areas to the original pre-damage appearance and the touch up 
might still be visible. He said that wasnt showroom condition and he felt that Lookers had 
mis-sold him the policy. It seems that this repair matter was resolved in the end, but Mr P still 
felt that the policy wouldnt in future provide him with the cover hed been led to believe. 
I have seen the Statement of Demands and Needs which states the policys exclusions and 
benefits. I also see that Mr P signed that in March 2021 to acknowledge that Lookers were 
not giving advice on the sale of the policy and accepting that hed received from them the 
Insurance Product Information Document (IPID).  
They state that the policy covers accidental minor cosmetic damage to a cars bodywork, 
and that it is subject to the policy terms and conditions. 
Ive looked at his policy and it says: 
SMART Repair: Any Minor Cosmetic Damage to Your Vehicle which requires a repair 
that can be achieved within one hour that involves using a Small to Medium Area Repair 
Technique. Such techniques use specialised tools, paints and materials and avoid the need 
for a Bodyshop Repair.
Please note that these techniques will achieve results that vary from the original 
manufacturers finish and from a Bodyshop Repair, however all repairs are subject to the 
Approved Repairer discretion and Your acknowledgment that the repair may not return the 
damaged area to the original pre-damaged appearance. 
I think that this information is clear. Mr P also sent us a copy document which he says 
supports his claim as it refers to minor damage insurance which does refer to helping you 
maintain showroom condition. But Im satisfied that doesnt relate to his policy but to a 
different policy issued by the manufacturer. 
I do realise that Mr P will be disappointed, but on the basis of the information provided, I 
dont think that Lookers have done anything wrong, and so I dont require them to do 
anything else.  
My final decision
For the reason Ive given above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
