DRN-1678713
 
The complaint
Ms O complains that Allianz Insurance Plc mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
The policy was sold by Marks & Spencer. But Allianz has taken responsibility for the sale 
and by extension this complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to Allianz in this decision.
What happened
Ms O bought the PPI policy at the same time she took out a Marks & Spencer charge card 
by post in 1992. It gave her accident, sickness and unemployment protection and some life 
cover.
Our adjudicator didnt think Ms Os complaint should be upheld. Ms O disagreed with 
this view so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed 
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Os complaint. Ill explain why.
Allianz needed to make sure it gave Ms O an option to purchase the PPI and Ms O had to 
agree to buy it. Ms O says she doesnt recall taking it out and really doesnt think she ticked 
the box. She says she never takes out PPI. 
The sale was by post  so Ms O was sent a charge card application form to her home 
address that she completed and returned. Ive looked carefully at this form. I think it made 
clear PPI was optional. I say this as Ms O had to select the cover, and the form shows that 
Ms O ticked a box indicating that she wanted to take out PPI. She also had to print her name 
and date of birth in the PPI section. And whilst I am not a handwriting expert, it seems to me 
the way the PPI section is completed is consistent with the rest of the form. So overall I think 
its most likely she selected PPI, knowing she had a choice. I do understand she might not 
remember this given the time since the sale. 
I dont think Allianz recommended the PPI to Ms O. This means it didnt have to check if it 
was right for her. But it still needed to give Ms O enough clear information so that she could 
decide for herself whether or not she wanted the policy.
Its possible that the information Allianz gave Ms O wasnt as clear as it should have been. 
But even with better information I still think Ms O would have taken out the PPI.I say this because Ms O was eligible for the policy. And she doesnt seem to be affected by 
any of the main things the policy didnt cover and which might have made it more difficult to 
make a successful claim, such as unusual employment circumstances or a pre-existing 
medical condition. I dont know when the cost was made clear to Ms O but I think the policy 
was competitively priced and apparently affordable.
Ms O told us she would have received 12 months sick pay from her employer. But the PPI 
would have paid out in addition to this, covering 15% of the outstanding monthly balance on 
the account until Ms O returned to work, or the outstanding balance was cleared. So I think 
the PPI would have been useful for Ms O if she was sick or lost her job. 
So overall, I dont think better information would have changed Ms Os mind about the PPI.
It follows I dont think she lost out because of anything Allianz did wrong. Ms O also asked if 
the PPI was still active, Allianz has confirmed the policy was cancelled although it doesnt 
have a record of the cancellation date.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman