DRN-3132545
The complaint
Mrs T complains about the service she received from Lloyds Bank Plc when she visited one 
of their branches to deposit money. 
What happened
In June 2020 Mrs T visited a branch of Lloyds to deposit £2,230 in cash, and £116 in 
cheques (two cheques - each for £58). Due to Covid-19 she queued outside, and gave the 
cheques and the cash in an envelope to a staff member to pay in for her. The staff member 
confirmed the transactions had been processed. But following her visit, Mrs T was notified 
that one of the cheques couldnt be deposited as the payee had been amended. Lloyds also 
said that £2,330 had been written on the envelope containing cash in error, when there was 
only £2,230 in it. 
Mrs T called Lloyds to discuss this, but had trouble getting through. So Lloyds wrote to Mrs T 
and apologised for the trouble shed had contacting them, and for having written the wrong 
amount on the envelope. They also said that when they wrote to her telling her the cheque 
couldnt be paid in, they referred to the cheque as being for £50 rather than £58. So they 
paid her £25 to apologise. Unhappy with this, Mrs T complained. 
Mrs T accepts the correct amount was ultimately paid in (£2,230), but is upset Lloyds made 
this error. Shes also upset that she wasnt told at the time that the cheque couldnt be 
deposited. In addition, she said there was a lack of social distancing and, on one occasion, 
someone nearly bumped into her. And she complained that staff werent wearing masks 
outside where she was queueing; and some customers that were in the branch were also 
not wearing masks. She wants the £25 payment removed from her account. 
Lloyds responded and apologised for the issues shed experienced. They accepted the 
wrong amount had been written on the envelope, but were satisfied the correct amount had 
been paid in. They apologised that the cheque issue wasnt spotted at the time, but 
explained that cheque deposits were reviewed at the end of the day. They apologised for the 
typing error, and agreed the cheque was for £58 not £50. But they were satisfied their staff 
were adhering to social distancing measures inside the branch, and said they werent 
required to wear gloves or masks, especially outside. They said by the nature of the role, 
staff would at times be in close contact with customers, for instance, when taking physical 
payments from them. And, there may also be times where customers inside the branch 
werent wearing masks due to health conditions. So they removed the £25 from her account, 
but offered to pay an extra £50 to compensate her £75 in total.
Mrs T remained unhappy. So she brought her complaint to our service. 
An investigator considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She accepted 
there were errors on Lloyds part, but she felt Lloyds had taken sufficient steps to make 
Mrs T aware of these as soon as possible and had taken steps to put them right. She felt 
their offer of £75 was fair, so she didnt ask them to do anything further. But Mrs T remained 
unhappy, so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Looking at the first issue raised, it seems that Lloyds did write the incorrect figure on the 
cheque that Mrs T paid in. But Lloyds became aware of this on the same day, and wrote to 
Mrs T apologising. Equally, while they had written the wrong amount, the actual amount paid 
into Mrs Ts account was correct  as Mrs T herself acknowledged. So I dont think Lloyds 
needs to do anything further in respect of this. 
Turning to the issue with the cheque. Mrs T visited Lloyds to pay in two cheques, and left 
thinking that both had been credited. So I can imagine it must have been frustrating to later 
learn that one had not been credited as it required her neighbour to initial an amendment. 
But, equally, as this cheque wasnt written by Mrs T, she wouldnt have been able to initial 
the amendment while at the branch. So I think she wouldve always been inconvenienced to 
some degree, and wouldve had to either come back, or send in a further cheque once her 
neighbour had initialled the amendments. I can also see that Lloyds took proactive steps and 
wrote to Mrs T as soon as they realised the issue, and apologised. So I think theyve done 
enough here. 
Lloyds did however refer to the cheque being for £50, and not £58 when they wrote to her. I 
appreciate, following the issues so far, that this wouldve been frustrating. So I will consider 
this when looking at any overall compensation due. 
Mrs T complained that on one occasion when she visited, two customers that werent 
wearing masks nearly bumped into her. She also said the member of staff that was serving 
her in the car park was not wearing a mask. I appreciate Mrs T has said she is in a 
vulnerable category, so I can understand her anxieties around close contact with others 
during the pandemic and why she may want to take extra precautions as a result. 
But Lloyds have explained that while they cant speak for the customers who were in on that 
day, there may be valid reasons why they werent wearing masks. And theyve said theyre 
not able to fully control this, especially where someone tells them theyre exempt. Theyve 
also explained that staff were not required to wear masks when servicing customers outside 
of the branch. 
So while I appreciate why Mrs T may have felt uncomfortable, I dont think Lloyds can be 
held responsible for a member of the public almost bumping into her. And I think theyve 
provided adequate reasoning for why some people werent wearing masks at the time. Im 
also satisfied there was no requirement for the wearing of masks in outdoor spaces. So I 
dont hold Lloyds responsible for these issues. Lloyds have since explained other ways in 
which Mrs T can pay money in if she felt more comfortable not visiting a branch. 
Mrs T is also unhappy that she struggled to contact Lloyds to discuss the problems above. 
Lloyds have explained that due to the Covid-19 pandemic, many of their services were 
severely impacted, and they were focussing on serving their most vulnerable customers and 
those impacted financially. They agree Mrs T should have been able to speak with someone, 
but wouldve likely experienced extremely long wait times.
I appreciate it may have been inconvenient for Mrs T not to be able to contact Lloyds when 
she wanted to. But when Mrs T was experiencing the above issues, this was early on in the 
pandemic when banks were receiving a much higher volume of calls then theyre generally 
used to. This was also at a time where they were having to adapt to new working practices, 
with many staff working from home. So again, while frustrating, I dont think the issues Mrs T faced in contacting Lloyds were unique to Lloyds. And I think at this point, these were largely 
outside of Lloyds control. 
Lloyds initially paid Mrs T £25 to compensate her for any stress that their failings had caused 
her, and later offered to increase this to £75. But as Mrs T did not accept this, she asked for 
it to be removed from her account - Lloyds has since confirmed they have done so.
I appreciate Mrs T has found the overall position frustrating, and as Ive note above, there 
have been errors on Lloyds part. But on balance, I think the £75 compensation Lloyds has 
offered adequately compensates Mrs T for those failings. So, Im not instructing them to do 
anything further.
So, if Mrs T would like to accept the £75 on offer, she should contact Lloyds and request 
those monies be paid to her. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman