DRN-2802628
The complaint
Mr As complaint is about the amount hes been charged for motor insurance, which was 
arranged by BISL Limited. 
Mrs H has brought a complaint to this service on behalf of Mr A. 
What happened
The complaint is about a business called BISL. Theyre an insurance intermediary and were 
responsible for arranging and administering Mr As policy. 
There are two other businesses involved in this matter, albeit separately. One is a well-
known financial services group, who Mr A used to work for. I believe that businesss name 
was mainly used for policy branding purposes. 
The third business related to the matter is an insurance provider, or underwriter. Theyre the 
business thats responsible for claims and would ultimately be responsible for the price of the 
policy. 
This decision only covers BISLs role as the insurance intermediary. 
Mr A complains hes been overcharged for several years. He was unhappy his former 
employer hadnt acted in his best interests despite being a loyal customer for many years. 
Mrs H said Mr A couldnt shop around and switch providers as he didnt have access to a 
computer, smart phone or the internet, and was unable to navigate through call centres. She 
said Mr A is considered as vulnerable. 
Mrs H said shed found a comparable quote in 2019. She said this was cheaper than the 
premiums Mr A had paid for insurance between 2013 to 2019 and, she felt this meant Mr A 
had been treated unfairly. 
Mrs H logged a complaint on behalf of Mr A with the company that branded the policy. They 
offered a partial refund but didnt agree Mr A had been treated unfairly. They said Mr A 
accepted the renewals by telephone over the period he felt he was unfairly treated. They 
also said they werent aware Mr A should be considered vulnerable. 
Mr A remained unhappy and Mrs H brought the complaint to this service on his behalf. 
An investigator considered the complaint. She didnt think the complaint should be against 
the company that branded the policy because they arent responsible for setting the price of 
the insurance  which was the crux of Mr As complaint. Mr A didnt agree. Our investigator 
also said BISL were responsible for arranging and administering the policy as set out in the 
terms and conditions, so she contacted BISL for further information. 
Our investigator wrote to Mr A and BISL following this. She maintained the insurer sets the 
price of the policy and she couldnt hold the company that branded the policy responsible for 
this. She did consider whether BISL  as the insurance intermediary  treated Mr A fairly. 
And in doing so, she felt they did. So, she didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr A still felt the company that branded the policy should also be held responsible. As no 
resolution could be reached, the case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept why Mr A feels the company that branded the policy  who he used to work for  
should be held responsible for the complaint. Ive seen the documentation provided to Mr A 
and can see why the branding of it would imply that company are responsible. 
Having said that, the price of the insurance or  the premiums  are set by the insurer. The 
insurer sets a price based on several factors, including the information provided to them by 
the policyholder. And the policy premium is based on the risk Mr A presented. Whilst the 
policy is branded by a separate company, the party responsible for setting the price is the 
insurer, or underwriter. 
The document containing Mr As welcome pack says: 
The cost of your policy 
Your price has been calculated by US, which includes the cost of your cover from 
the underwriter selected by our panel.
Mr A entered two separate contracts when he renewed his policy. One was with the insurer 
and the other with BISL who arranged and administered the policy. Ive seen within the 
renewal documents from 2019 BISL set out the services they provide. This can be found 
under the heading Important Information about Our Insurance Intermediary Services. 
BISL offer a service whereby, amongst other things, they take Mr As information to a panel 
of insurers available to them at renewal and offer Mr A the best price theyve received from 
the insurers willing to offer cover. Mr A can then either accept the renewal at the price and 
terms offered or change providers. Usually, an insurance intermediary (in this case BISL) will 
have a longstanding relationship with several insurers which also can enable room for 
negotiation in price. 
Mrs H argued Mr A couldnt shop around as he didnt have access to a computer or smart 
phone and found it difficult to navigate through call centres. She said Mr A was a loyal 
customer and was reliant on receiving the best price due to this  rather than searching the 
market himself. 
I understand the argument Mrs H has made. But Mr A was effectively paying for a service 
from BISL to shop around on his behalf, and look for the best price, based on the panel of 
insurers available to them. And, from the information provided, I cant see BISL failed to 
provide the service expected of them. 
I can see the insurer changed over the period Mr A considers he was treated unfairly. To be 
clear this period is between 2009-2019. For the last few years, the same insurer was 
selected by BISL and in turn, Mr A accepted the insurance. Although only one insurer was 
used for the last few years, I can see how much Mr A was charged during this period. Its fair 
to say the cost of insurance remained at roughly the same amount and did both increase 
and decrease during that period. Having considered this, Im not persuaded Ive seen anything that demonstrates BISL werent providing the service expected of them to find Mr A 
the best price based on the panel of insurers available to them.  
Mrs H also said shed found a comparable quote for Mr A in 2019 for £604. This was lower 
than the amount Mr A had paid between 2013 to 2019. I should explain that, by BISL 
arranging the policy for Mr A, this doesnt necessarily mean he will always be provided with 
the cheapest policy on the open market. Mr A will be offered the best price available from the 
panel of insurers used by BISL. And, that will factor in BISLs remuneration for the services 
they provide. 
In fact, historically, insurers have offered policies to new customers for less than theyd 
charge existing customers. This was a way of attracting business but wouldnt necessarily be 
advertised. So, its possible thats why Mrs H was able to find a cheaper policy on the open 
market, than BISL was able to find through their panel. 
In any event, I dont think the price difference between the comparable quote Mrs H found, to 
the cost Mr A paid for insurance is significant enough to demonstrate BISL didnt perform the 
services theyre expected to provide, so I dont think they treated Mr A unfairly. 
I accept my decision will come to disappoint Mr A. But my decision ends what we  in 
attempting to resolve his dispute with BISL  can do for him. To be clear, Ive not considered 
the premiums charged to Mr A by the insurer in this decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman