DRN-3717371
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Revolut Ltd wont refund money that he lost as a result of a scam.
What happened
Mr G wished to purchase an item on the marketplace of a popular social media platform. 
Believing that he would be protected under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(Section 75), Mr G opened an account with Revolut and made the purchase using his new 
account. He sent £350 by bank transfer.
Unfortunately for Mr G, when he wasnt provided with a tracking number and the recipient 
claimed not to have received his payment, he began to suspect hed been the victim of a 
scam. He contacted Revolut but was frustrated with its response  particularly his inability to 
speak to a single person, the fact he had to complain through a third party and the fact he 
couldnt get an answer about whether his transaction was eligible for a refund.
When Revolut did respond to his complaint, it said that it had warned him about making the 
payment and even declined his first attempt to make it, but he had proceeded regardless  
so it couldnt be held responsible. It said that it had tried to recover his funds but had been 
unsuccessful.
Mr G referred the complaint to our service, but one of our investigators didnt uphold it. They 
were of the view that the actions Revolut took were fair considering the risk presented by the 
payment. The investigator explained that Mr G hadnt paid using a credit card (which might 
mean the payment was covered under Section 75) and they were otherwise satisfied with 
the service that Revolut had provided. 
Mr G disagreed. He said that he hadnt complained about Revoluts fraud prevention 
systems but rather its failure to abide by its terms and conditions and the mis-selling of their 
product. He said that he thought he may have applied for an upgraded account and believed 
that Revolut would protect him from fraud. He also questioned whether Revolut had acted as 
quickly as claimed in trying to recover his funds. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has specifically said that he hasnt complained about Revoluts failure to intervene 
before the transaction left his account. I therefore dont intend to comment on this in any 
detail, other than to say that as he made the transaction himself, the starting point in law is 
that he is liable for it and that given the size of the payment and Mr Gs non-existent account 
history, I dont think Revolut acted unfairly by ultimately letting the payment proceed without 
further intervention. 
I can see that Mr G opened his Revolut account just before he made this purchase. This 
does suggest to me that he did so in the belief that his payment would be protected or, at 
least, paying with Revolut would be preferable in some way. 
I can also see that Revolut does offer several different policies: Purchase Protection (an 
insurance covering the loss or theft of an item purchased through Revolut), Refund 
Protection (allowing users to return goods theyve received within 90 days) and Buyer 
Protection (for payments made to certain merchants which allow Pay with Revolut as a 
payment option) but none of these policies seem to cover private sales and none are 
applicable to Mr Gs circumstances (with several only being available with certain upgraded 
account types). 
I can appreciate why Mr G might have seen some of the above and drawn the conclusion 
that he would be protected should he make a purchase in the way he did, but this isnt 
enough for me to say Revolut misled him. Id need to see from Mr G something specific that 
suggests or, is at least ambiguous about, this type of payment being covered and, having 
reviewed those terms myself, I dont think there is any such term. I also note that Mr G 
doesnt appear to mention any protection other than Section 75 until several weeks after the 
scam took place, so its not clear that he did see any of the above policies until after the 
event. 
But, even if Mr G did see some or all of the above policies advertised before making the 
payment, I have to conclude that he simply assumed that the circumstances of his payment 
would be covered. 
As mentioned, Mr G seemed to be most adamant that his payment should be covered under 
Section 75. Mr G doesnt seem to have a good understanding of how he made this payment. 
It was a bank transfer from one account to another. It was not a card payment and certainly 
not a credit card payment, that might enjoy the protection of Section 75. Given that Mr G 
topped up the account before making the payment, I think he reasonably ought to have 
understood that he wasnt paying using a credit facility. And, when making the payment, I 
understand Mr G would have needed to put in the sort code and account number of the 
recipient, not provide a long card number, expiry date and security code. So, its not clear 
how Revolut misled him about this either.  
Overall, Mr G hasnt satisfied me that his account was mis-sold or that Revolut mis-led him 
about his transaction being protected. 
I would, however, expect Revolut to make reasonable efforts to try and recover Mr Gs 
funds. I cant see that it did this when he first reported the matter on the morning of 29 
November 2021. In fact, it didnt do this until 16 December 2021. While Revolut argue that 
Mr G wasnt actually reporting a scam on 29 November 2021, I think he provided enough 
information for it to be concerned and ask further questions. But, in any case, I can see that 
all of Mr Gs money was removed from the account which received it within minutes of the 
payment being made on 28 November 2021. So, even if Revolut had acted more quickly, it 
still wouldnt have been able to recover Mr Gs money.
Finally Ive considered the service provided to Mr G. I can see why he was frustrated. Mr G 
wanted to know whether hed be refunded and whether Section 75 applied to his transaction. 
As Ive explained, it didnt apply, but nobody at Revolut seems to have been able to tell him 
this or explain why. He also seems to have spoken to multiple different people. I think it 
would have been relatively straightforward to explain why Section 75 wasnt applicable. That 
said, I dont think this would have deterred Mr G from complaining nor would he have found 
it to be a satisfactory answer as he holds the view that he was led to believe such protection 
applied. I can also see that Revolut did inform Mr G how he could complain and Im afraid that I generally cant instruct Revolut to accept complaints in a particular way. So, while I 
think Revoluts service could have been better, I dont make any award of compensation. 
Im sorry that Mr G has lost money as a result of a scam, but I dont think Revolut has acted 
unfairly by declining to provide a refund to him. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman