DRN-2920160
The complaint
Mr A and Miss B complain about Aviva Insurance Limiteds decision to decline cover for a 
buildings insurance claim.  
What happened
Mr A and Miss B say, in October 2019 they had a leak and Aviva told them it was a relatively 
small job so they may want to consider arranging the repair themselves. Mr A and Miss B 
say they decided to arrange the repairs. They say they then noticed damage to their roof in 
June 2020 which was caused by a storm earlier in the year. They made a claim to Aviva but 
it was declined on the basis there was no evidence of storm conditions and the water ingress 
was down to poor workmanship.   
Mr A and Miss B complained and Aviva maintained their position to decline the claim. They 
said their contractor had inspected the roof and found the repairs which had been completed  
in October 2019 was done poorly and allowed further damage to occur. They said they 
couldnt find any storm conditions in October 2019 or June 2020. Mr A and Miss B remained 
unhappy with Avivas decision so they brought their complaint to our service. Mr A and Miss 
B told us the claim started in October 2019 when they reported a leak. They said the call 
handler they spoke to at Aviva told them it would be better for them to get a contractor 
themselves to carry out the repairs to avoid making a claim and increasing their premium. 
They then arranged for a contractor to carry out the repairs for £460. They said there were 
no further issues until June 2020 when they noticed a more serious leak. They said they 
believed this was caused by heavy winds and storm in March/April 2020. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr A and Miss B and thought Aviva hadnt acted 
unfairly in declining the claim. Mr A and Miss B disagreed so the matter has come to me for 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr A and Miss B will 
be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My starting point is Mr A and Miss Bs home insurance policy. This covers their property for 
loss or damage caused by storm. The policy also says Aviva wont cover damage caused by 
faulty or unsuitable materials or design, or poor workmanship. So, Im satisfied that Aviva 
shouldve looked into Mr A and Miss Bs claim because they reported the damage was 
caused by a storm. Ive then looked at whether Avivas decision to decline the claim, and 
their reason for doing so, is fair and reasonable.      
In order for us to consider whether the damage was caused by a storm, we ask three 
questions: 
 Did storm conditions occur on or around the date the damage was said to have happened? 
 Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes? 
 Were the storm conditions the main cause for the damage? 
If the answer is yes to all three questions, were likely to uphold the complaint. But if the 
answer to one of the questions is 'no' we're unlikely to conclude that the claim should be met 
due to storm conditions.
In weighing up the first question, I note Mr A and Miss Bs policy doesnt define storm. Our 
service generally considers wind speeds of 47mph or above to be consistent with a storm. I 
have looked at weather data around the time Mr A and Miss B discovered the damage in 
October 2019 and March/April 2020. In October there was a peak gust of 39mph. So, in 
relation to the leak which occurred in October 2019, I cant say this was down to storm 
damage as theres no evidence of storm conditions around this time. So, the answer to the 
first question, in relation to the damage identified in October 2019, is no. Claim notes 
provided by Aviva also say Mr A and Miss B have prejudiced their opportunity to claim as the 
contractor was unable to determine what caused the original damage. They say Mr A and 
Miss B havent provided any photos showing the roof pre-repair.   
In March 2020 there were peak gusts of 47mph and the weather data shows this affected 
the area where Mr A and Miss B live. So, Im satisfied there were storm conditions around 
the time Mr A and Miss B believe the damage occurred. That means the answer to the first 
question, in relation to the claim in June 2020, is yes.   
 
I can also answer yes to question two. Strong winds can damage property, so Im satisfied 
the damage claimed in this instance is consistent with damage typically caused by a storm.
Turning to the final question, I now need to consider whether the storm was the main cause 
of the damage in this instance. Insurers often appoint experts experienced in this type of 
work to look at the damage, and thats what Aviva did. I think its a fair thing to do  and its 
reasonable for Aviva to rely on the report when deciding whether to meet the claim. In this 
case, Aviva instructed building contractors. Ive seen the contractors report and this notes 
Miss Bs reported cause of damage as leaking from the roof. I [Miss B] have noticed this 
problem a year ago and it was leaking to my property. I [Miss B] have called someone during 
that period. We [Mr A and Miss B] got someone who fixed this and then this started again. 
About 1 -2 months ago. I [Miss B] think this happened in March. When we had lots of heavy 
winds.. 
The report notes how the contractor carried out the inspection and also contains photos of 
the affected area  this being a flat roof. The contractor notes On inspection of the roof 
there is no evidence of any storm or impact related damage to the roof however there is 
evidence of previous repairs which are of a poor quality and requires replacement. Your 
insured has requested that due to him paying for the repairs and not claiming last year we 
should honour his claim. Taking all details into account it is our considered opinion that the 
cause of the damage is not the result of a single incident storm event but due to poor 
workmanship The report says the contractor has declined the claim in full and informed 
Mr A and Miss B. 
Taking this into account, I cant say Aviva have acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining 
the claim. Aviva have instructed a suitable expert here to investigate the damage and they 
have relied on the experts findings to arrive at their decision. 
I can see Aviva email Mr A and Miss B and explain they cant consider the claim but 
recommend Mr A and Miss B contact the original roofer, as all works should carry a 12-
month warranty. Alternatively, they invite Mr A and Miss B to obtain a separate report from 
an independent roofer to see if there is any other information they can provide, which may alter Avivas decision. I cant see Mr A and Miss B have provided any evidence to Aviva or 
our service which challenges the opinion of the contractor appointed by Aviva. On the basis 
of the evidence before me I cant conclude that storm conditions was the main cause for the 
damage Mr A and Miss B are claiming for. That means the answer to the third question is 
no.   
 
I note Mr A and Miss B say, when Mr A called in October 2019 to report the first leak, he was 
told by the call handler to arrange repairs to stop further water entering their home. They say 
they are now being penalised for carrying out the works even though Aviva told them to 
arrange this. Ive listened to this call but I dont agree the call handler told Mr A and Miss B to 
carry out the repairs. During the call, Mr A explains weather conditions have moved a pipe 
which is located on his flat roof. The call handler asks Mr A if hes arranged for someone to 
have a look at the problem and he says he has spoken with a local roofer. The call handler 
then explains he would need to pay an excess of £100 so it might be worth getting a quote 
from someone to see what work is involved to repair this as it might not cost £100. Mr A 
agrees to this and says hell arrange to sort this out himself. I cant see Mr A and Miss B 
return to Aviva to provide a quote or to continue with this claim even though the repairs cost 
more than the excess of £100. System notes provided by Aviva show this claim was then 
closed. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr A and Miss B as I can see they firmly believe the damage to their 
home is as a direct result of storm conditions. I do want to reassure them that I have 
carefully considered their points and arguments and understand they arranged for the 
repairs following the call in October 2019 as they wanted to avoid their premium increasing. 
While the repairs might well have stopped the leaking at the time, the important point to 
consider is that the work wasnt carried out by Aviva or their agent  it was arranged by Mr A 
and Miss B. So, I cant hold Aviva responsible for any poor workmanship identified by 
Avivas contractor. My role is to consider whether Aviva have acted fairly and reasonably in 
declining the claim. And, for the reasons I have given, I think they have.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Miss B to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 August 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman