DRN-2095639
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Tesco Underwriting Limited unfairly declined his claim for damage 
to his roof made under a home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr R contacted Tesco in 2020 to claim for damage to his roof tiles following high winds. 
Tesco appointed a surveyor to inspect the property. The surveyor reported that the mortar 
holding down the tiles had de-bonded over time so that the tiles were no longer secured on 
the roof. Tescos conclusion was that the cause of the tiles coming away from the roof was 
this de-bonding, and that the damage was not covered under the policy.
Dissatisfied with Tescos decision to decline the claim, Mr R brought a complaint to this 
service.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint. His view was that there had been storm force 
winds around the time that the damage to the roof occurred. However he considered the 
main cause of the damage was the deterioration of the mortar. As such the adjudicators 
view was that Tesco acted fairly when declining the claim.
Mr R disagreed with the adjudicators findings, and so his complaint has been passed to me 
for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Rs claim was considered by Tesco under the cover provided by the policy for storm 
damage. When considering whether an insurer has fairly dealt with a storm claim, this 
service generally looks at the following questions: were there storm conditions at the time of 
the event claimed for, is the damage sustained consistent with storm damage, and was the 
identified storm the main cause of the damage? Where we conclude that all three apply, we 
would normally expect an insurer to cover the claim.
In this case, around the time of the claim, records from a weather station 6 miles from Mr Rs 
house showed wind speeds reaching up to 53mph. Overall, I consider it reasonable to 
conclude that Mr Rs property experienced storm force winds at this time.
Damage to roofs is consistent with what storm force winds can do. Consequently I need to 
determine whether in my view, storm force winds were the main cause of the damage to Mr 
Rs roof.
The surveyor who inspected the roof stated that the mortar underneath the ridge and hip 
tiles had deteriorated. His view was that this was the reason why the tiles had fallen from the 
roof. In assessing this matter, I consider it reasonable to place weight upon the expert 
evidence provided. On balance, my view is that the likely cause of the damage sustained to 
Mr Rs roof was the deterioration of the mortar. I consider therefore that storm force winds 
were not the main reason for the tiles becoming displaced.
I note that Mr Rs policy also included cover for accidental damage to buildings. But there 
are exclusions under this cover. Based on these, my view is that the gradual deterioration of 
the mortar would again result in the claim not being payable.
I appreciate Mr R will be disappointed with my findings. However, based on the weight of 
evidence provided, my view is that Tesco did not act unreasonably when it declined the 
claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021. 
John Swain
Ombudsman