DRN-3392770
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain about Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance PLC (RSA) handling of their 
claim, under their home emergency policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs A had a leak at their home. After they had tried to remedy the leak by initially 
attempting to turn off the stopcock (which didnt work as it was too stiff) and then attempted 
to relieve the pressure in the taps by turning on some taps. But, when they turned the taps 
off, the taps dripped. So, they called RSA and made a claim. 
During the call, Mr A made RSA aware that Mrs A was ill and vulnerable. So, RSA arranged 
for an engineer to attend as a priority. Mr A received a text message informing him that an 
engineer would call the next day between 12pm and 4pm. Unfortunately, this wasnt suitable 
for Mr and Mrs A, so an appointment was booked for the following day. 
The engineer attended and noted a few issues within their home. Essentially, he found that 
although there were a few issues, no damage had been caused. And the issues that were 
present werent classed as an emergency. RSA advised Mr and Mrs A to contact their home 
insurers or private tradesman to carry out the repairs. Mr A contacted RSA as he was 
unhappy with this assessment. RSA maintained its position. 
Mr and Mrs A then raised a complaint, as they said that the length of time it had taken for 
RSA to send an engineer was too long. And they were unhappy with the standard of work 
that the engineer did. They felt that RSA had sent them an unqualified engineer, as they said 
the engineer told them that he wasnt a plumber. 
Following on from this, Mr and Mrs A contacted RSA as they had found a leak in their home. 
They felt that the leak was due to the work that the engineer had carried out previously and 
this had caused damage to their flooring. RSA sent out another engineer who attended and 
replaced a valve and ensured there were no more leaks before he left. Mr and Mrs A felt that 
RSA was responsible for this additional damage and wanted this added to the complaint. 
RSA accepted that there had been service issues and offered Mr and Mrs A £100 for the 
delays caused. Mr and Mrs A did not accept this and escalated their complaint further. But 
RSA didnt respond within the required eight weeks and gave Mr and Mrs A their referral 
rights. 
Mr and Mrs A referred a complaint to our service. One of our investigators considered the 
complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. Her view was that the faults in Mr and Mrs As 
home didnt amount to an emergency as per their cover. RSA had explained that the issues 
would be classed as wear and tear and wouldnt be covered under the policy. So, she didnt 
think it hadnt been unreasonable to decline the claim. 
She further said that RSA recognised the failings due to the delays and offered £100 for this. 
She concluded that the £100 offered was fair and that she wouldve recommended this 
amount, had RSA not made the offer. 
RSA accepted the view. Mr and Mrs A did not. They said that our investigator was biased, 
and her view was inaccurate. They also said that our investigators job was to ask RSA why 
they should make a claim (on their household insurance) for something done by its engineer 
that caused damage to their property. And caused them inconvenience. So, they asked for a 
decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I realise this may be a disappointment to Mr and Mrs A, but I hope my findings 
go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
I note that Mr and Mrs A have made a number of detailed points, which I have read and 
considered. I hope the fact that I dont respond in similar detail here wont be taken as a 
discourtesy. As an informal dispute resolution service, we are tasked with reaching a fair and 
reasonable conclusion with the minimum of formality. In doing so, it isnt necessary for me to 
respond to every point made, but to concentrate on the crux of the issue.
When our service receives complaints like this, we look at the obligations of both parties 
under the policy. Mr and Mrs A said that they had a home emergency and during the first call 
in which they reported the emergency, they said that they had taps that were dripping and 
water was overflowing into a toilet. 
RSA informed Mr A (who made the call) that it would do its best to get someone there 
within four hours. And that two jobs would be raised one for the toilet and one for the taps, 
although only one engineer would be attending. Mr A confirmed, during the call that there 
was no leaking water going into any electrics or through ceilings. He also confirmed that 
there was no water leaking inside the property. 
Ive had a look at the policy terms and conditions, to see what was covered and what was 
excluded under the policy.  The policy provides cover for home emergencies to restore 
service or prevent damage to a policy holders property and RSAs obligations were to pay 
for the call out, the cost of repair and parts up to a policy limit of £200. But there are 
exclusions within the policy. These exclusions are as follows: Dripping taps or any other 
parts of the plumbing or drainage system where water is safely escaping down a drain. 
Escape of water outside of the home, which is not causing damage to the interior of the 
home or its contents.
With this in mind, I have looked at the report from the contractor who attended on the first 
occasion. I understand that Mr and Mrs A said that they didnt believe that he was a qualified 
contractor. But from the evidence, I havent seen any information that supports this 
contention. Indeed, RSA has confirmed that he was a qualified plumber. Further, Mr and Mrs 
A havent provided me with any expert evidence that either refutes what this contractor said 
or indeed shows that he wasnt suitably qualified. 
Nevertheless, the report from the plumber said the following:At arrival pH showed a lot of problem in the house. 1. Dripping taps on the handbasin in the 
downstairs toilet. If turns off strongly then is stops. Taps are old so better to replace them. It 
is not causing any damages. Only dripping into the handbasin. Also needs to be installed 
isolation valves. Under the basin. 2. One of the en-suite toilet is dripping from its neck when 
fills the toilet but only into the cistern so it not cause any damage. The fill valve needs to be 
replaced. It's a curved neck fill valve. 3.stop cock on the toilet mentioned in the 2. Problem is 
completely stuck. It needs to be replaced. 15mm size 4. Main stop cock in the garage is 
stuck. It has started to move with wrench but not closing properly. It needs to be replaced. 
21/15 mm size. 5. There is a completely stuck gate valve in the airing cupboard needs to be 
replaced too. All the problems due to wear and tear condition. Nothing is causing or caused 
any damage anywhere.
From this report, the contractor concludes that the taps were dripping into a handbasin, the 
toilet was dripping but only into the cistern and concluded that the issues in the home are 
due to wear and tear. Having reviewed the policy, I think it makes it clear that it does not 
provide cover for damage that is caused by wear and tear. It also doesnt provide cover for 
normal day-to-day maintenance. In addition, it doesnt provide cover for dripping taps nor 
leaks occurring outside of the home. Im satisfied that RSA could reasonably and fairly rely 
upon its expert report, that concluded that there was no damage caused and that the issues 
were due to wear and tear. And could rely on the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Consequently, I dont think RSA were unfair to decline to carry out the repairs, as they 
werent covered under the policy. 
Mr and Mrs A have also complained about a second leak that occurred at their home. They 
believed that this leak was caused because of the actions of the engineer who had 
previously attended. And who reported to RSA that the issues at Mr and Mrs As home were 
not classed as home emergencies but were maintenance issues. 
Mr and Mrs A reported to RSA that this leak had caused damage to their flooring and wanted 
RSA to cover the costs of repairing this. RSA has provided me with the call recordings, as 
well as a report following both its engineer visits. The report said: 
Ph has made an allegation that the 1st plumber who attended has made the leak worse and 
has now damaged the floor which he is making us liable for the replacement. On the first 
visit the toilet was overflowing too and it didnt cause damage. If the toilet was overflowing 
again then no damage could have happened either as the water escapes over the same 
overflow pipe. We must say that the overflowing caused damage after our visit is very 
unlikely. 
And the engineer confirmed the fill valve had no issue at all, its condition was very good and 
once set the water level it was working perfectly. Also confirmed that the fill valve was 
attempted to repair by the customer before. Tested the fill valve and replacement was not 
necessary as it was working.  The second engineer attended in the next evening as we 
received the re-attend the next day evening and he replaced the fill valve to prevent the 
complaint.  No leak was present when left the site. The customer tried to fix the fill valve 
themself, they might have tried again after the first visit. The toilet was overflowing through 
the same overflow pipe, how it caused damage if the previous overflow did not cause 
damage?
I have also listened to the call recording between Mr A and RSA and at no point did he 
mention that there was a leak inside his home. He did mention that there was a leak outside 
his home and that water was escaping into his foundations. And the advisor pointed out to 
him that any leaks outside of the property would not be covered. Indeed, at one point in the 
conversation Mr A reads this out from his policy. Further, the report from the first engineer confirms that there were no internal leaks. Consequently, Im satisfied that there were no 
leaks inside Mr As home, had there been I wouldve expected him to have mentioned this.
Mr and Mrs A said that the first engineer who attended caused the leak that damaged their 
flooring. But I havent been provided with any expert evidence from Mr and Mrs A showing 
that the actions of the first engineer, caused the leak that damaged the flooring. The expert 
evidence that I have been provided with, indicates that there were no leaks present and that 
the toilet was overflowing outside via the same pipe, so damage couldnt have been caused. 
As Mr and Mrs A havent provided any expert evidence to the contrary, I think there isnt 
enough evidence to show that the actions of the first plumber caused a leak. 
Mr and Mrs A also complained about the delay in RSA sending an engineer. They said that 
they were told that an engineer would be sent within four hours. I have listened to the call in 
which Mr A makes a claim. The advisor told Mr A that it would do its best to get an engineer 
within four hours. I accept that this wasnt done within four hours. But I note that Mr and Mrs 
A were offered an appointment for the next day. This wasnt suitable for them and so another 
appointment was offered for the following day. I have considered what this means and what 
actions RSA took. 
I think RSA didnt guarantee that it would be able to get an engineer to Mr and Mrs As home 
within four hours. It did offer an appointment the very next day, which wasnt suitable for Mr 
and Mrs A. But following on from this, it did send an engineer the following day. So, I think it 
did make efforts to attempt to get an engineer as quickly as possible to Mr and Mrs As 
home. 
Despite this, RSA did accept that there was some delay and for this failing, it offered £100 
compensation for the trouble and upset this caused. Based on the evidence, I think this offer 
is fair and reasonable, as it reflects the failings and compensates for the error RSA agreed it 
made. 
Overall, I think RSA was fair and reasonable to decline to carry out the repairs, as they were 
not covered under the policy. And was fair and reasonable to offer the £100 compensation 
for the delay. So, I wont be asking RSA to do anything more to resolve the complaint.
My final decision
Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance PLC has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance PLC should pay £100 (If it hasnt 
already done so).
Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance PLC must pay the compensation within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell it Mr and Mrs A accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it 
must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman