DRN-1137972
The complaint
Mr C and Miss T complain that Nationwide Building Society have removed their overdraft 
and passed the outstanding debt to a debt management company.
What happened
Nationwide removed the overdraft for Mr C and Miss Ts current account in June 2018. Miss 
T phoned Nationwide to find out why the overdraft had been removed. The call handler said 
Nationwide wrote to Mr C and Miss T in May 2018, explaining they were going to remove the 
overdraft based on a review of the account over a period of six months. 
The call handler said that Mr C and Miss T could make an arrangement to pay the 
outstanding debt in the branch but when they visited the branch they were told that the staff 
were unable to facilitate an arrangement. 
Miss T rang Nationwide on 27 July 2018 but was unable to come to an arrangement with the 
call handler. At the time she had health issues and didnt know how much her employer was 
going to pay her, so she couldnt complete her income and expenditure on the call. 
Nationwide agreed to waive contact until 7 August 2018 and they sent another copy of the 
May 2018 removal of overdraft notice to Mr C and Miss T. Nationwide said this would give 
Miss T time to find out how much her employer would pay her while she was ill. 
Miss T says she wrote to Nationwide with an offer to pay £100 a month to reduce the 
outstanding debt. As she didnt hear back from Nationwide she assumed the offer was 
accepted.
Nationwide say they didnt receive this offer. They say they tried to contact Mr C and Miss T 
by ringing them and sending five letters but received no response. As a result of this 
Nationwide continued with the collections process. A default notice was issued on 24 
October 2018 and as no action was taken by Mr C or Miss T, this led to the account 
defaulting and the debt was passed onto a debt management company.
In January 2019, Mr C and Miss T received a letter from the debt management company 
explaining that they were now managing the outstanding debt and not Nationwide. Miss T 
said she hadnt been notified that the debt was being passed to another company.
Mr C and Miss T complained to Nationwide regarding these issues and asked Nationwide to 
refund any charges from the removal of their overdraft facility. Nationwide explained why 
they removed the overdraft, as Mr C and Miss T were in a debit position for the entire last 
review period and the account hadnt been in credit once in that time. As Mr C and Miss T 
hadnt responded to attempts to contact them then Nationwide said their collections process 
was exhausted and thats why they passed the debt onto a debt management company. 
Nationwide said they wrote to Mr C and Miss T to inform them of this.
On the request to refund charges, Nationwide said there were three unarranged overdraft 
charges which were charged in line with the terms and conditions but agreed to re-credit the 
account with £44.24 (for direct debit reversal, arranged overdraft and some unarranged 
overdraft charges). 
Nationwide apologised for the call handler saying that an arrangement could be discussed in 
branch and explained that branch staff werent trained in this area so were unable to assist 
Mr C and Miss T to make an arrangement. Nationwide said they were going to send a 
cheque in the post for £75 to reflect the impact the wrong information had on Mr C and Miss 
T. But Mr C and Miss T didnt agree with Nationwides response - they didnt think this went 
far enough so they brought their complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr C and Miss Ts complaint. The investigator explained that 
Nationwide were within their rights to remove the overdraft and quoted the terms and 
conditions of the account allowing them to do this. The investigator also said that Nationwide 
had sent correspondence to Mr C and Miss Ts registered address, keeping them informed 
of actions they were taking step by step. The investigator concluded the redress Nationwide 
paid was fair.
Mr C and Miss T disagreed with the view of the investigator and wanted an Ombudsman to 
review the complaint. Miss T raised further questions regarding obtaining bank statements 
and transcripts of telephone calls.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by saying that Mr C and Miss T raised a couple of points during the review, such as 
asking for transcripts of calls and getting copies of bank statements. Ive asked the 
investigator to contact Miss T to see if there is anything in particular they wanted to see. 
Because we have copies of statements and some calls. However, Miss T didnt respond to 
the voicemail left or email the investigator sent. 
However, Id like to assure Mr C and Miss T that Ive looked at the bank statements in detail 
and listened to the calls we hold. The statements show that apart from a payment of £75 
made by a third party bank on 8 November 2018, there were no further payments credited 
between 11 July -12 November 2018. Nationwide stopped issuing statements for Mr C and 
Miss T when the default was registered so the last statement is dated 12 November 2018.
Im satisfied Nationwide acted fair by removing the overdraft. I say that as the current 
account wasnt in credit over the last review period. This could indicate that Mr C and Miss T 
couldnt sustain the overdraft, so I dont believe it was an unreasonable step for Nationwide 
to take, given the circumstances here. 
An overdraft is a form of borrowing and as section 28 of the account terms and conditions 
makes clear, it is repayable on demand. This is a point thats also confirmed in the overdraft 
agreement.  So Im satisfied Nationwide were entitled to cancel the arrangement and seek 
repayment of it in full.  
Ive also seen the correspondence Nationwide sent Mr C and Miss T. The letters were sent 
to the registered address of Mr C and Miss T. So, Im satisfied Nationwide fulfilled their duty 
to send the correspondence they were required to. These letters include informing Mr C and 
Miss T that the overdraft was going to be removed, notices about the outstanding debt and 
how to contact Nationwide to discuss the debt and the default notice.Nationwide accept they gave Miss T incorrect information on the phone regarding visiting the 
branch to make an arrangement to reduce the outstanding debt. It wouldve been frustrating 
for Mr C and Miss T to visit the branch, only to find out the staff couldnt help. So, what I 
would expect Nationwide to do here is to apologise and recognise the impact this had on Mr 
C and Miss T. This is what theyve done as Nationwide apologised and they sent a cheque 
for £75 to reflect the impact the wrong information had on Mr C and Miss T.
Miss T also asked Nationwide to refund charges from the removal of the overdraft. 
Nationwide agreed to refund £44.24 of charges. Although Nationwide didnt refund an 
additional £15 of charges this is because this related to unarranged overdraft interest which 
were charged in line with the terms and conditions so I believe Nationwide have acted fairly 
by refunding the £44.24 here as the £15 of charges they didnt refund related to the 
unarranged overdraft which was in place until the account defaulted. 
Ive considered that Miss T has said she wrote to Nationwide to make an offer of £100 and 
when Nationwide didnt respond to her letter she assumed they had accepted her offer. I 
asked Nationwide to provide me evidence of any correspondence theyve received from Mr 
C and Miss T. Nationwide provided me with a screenshot of their system which shows 
correspondence received from when Mr C and Miss T first became members but this didnt 
show any letters from Mr C or Miss T regarding their overdraft. While Miss T assumed her 
arrangement had been accepted, I wouldve expected a credit of at least £100 a month to be 
paid into the joint account and this didnt happen. So, I cant say that Nationwide were unfair 
for continuing the collections process.
Finally, as Mr C and Miss T didnt respond to any of the letters Nationwide sent, Im satisfied 
that it was fair for Nationwide to conclude theyd exhausted their collections process and 
passed the outstanding debt to a debt management company. Im also satisfied the £44.24 
paid to reduce the outstanding debt and the £75 Nationwide paid Mr C and Miss T for giving 
them incorrect information is fair and reasonable for the reasons given above. As Miss T has 
said on a call to our investigator that she hadnt banked the cheque yet, the cheque will likely 
have expired. So while it follows I wont be asking Nationwide to do anything further to 
resolve the complaint, if the cheque hasnt been successfully banked then Ill require them to 
send Mr C and Miss T a replacement cheque for £75. It would be advisable for Nationwide to 
cancel the original cheque.
My final decision
Nationwide Building Society has already made an offer to pay £75 to settle the complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Nationwide Building Society should pay £75 by cheque to Mr C and 
Miss T (if they havent already banked it). But I wont be requiring them to do anymore. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Miss T to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman