DRN-4107521
The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) failed to provide the proper notice and 
information regarding paying back his overdraft when he switched accounts before being 
penalised on his credit file.
What happened
Mr M had an account with Santander with a £2,000 arranged overdraft. In January 2022 Mr 
M closed his account and it was switched to another provider on 16 February 2022. At the 
time Mr M had an outstanding balance on his account of around £1,200. 
Santanders records show Mr M was sent a letter on 16 and 25 February 2022 confirming 
that the switch of his account was complete and that to close the account he needed to clear 
the outstanding balance. The letters outlined how he could make payment and told him not 
to transfer funds online as they would bounce back.
Mr M says he tried on several occasions to determine how to repay the overdraft on the 
closed account but wasnt provided with this information. As a result, when he attempted to 
make a payment on the account from his new account it was returned. 
In March 2022 Santander wrote to Mr M regarding the outstanding balance on the account. 
In the letter it explained if the balance remained outstanding, hed be contacted by its 
collections team and the information sent to credit reference agencies (CRAs). 
Following this a repayment plan was arranged during a call in April to settle the outstanding 
balance on the account over three repayments starting at the end of the month. 
Following Mr Ms first payment in April he received notice at the end of May 2022 that there 
was a change in his credit report showing missed payments on his Santander account. Mr M 
believed because hed arranged a repayment plan that his credit file wouldnt be affected. 
Mr M repaid the outstanding balance of his overdraft in June 2022.
Mr M complained to Santander about this. Santander says that no mistake had been made 
on its part and that he was never told his credit file wouldnt be effected when he set up a 
payment plan.
Mr M was dis-satisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ms concerns and reached the conclusion that 
Santander had provided him with the necessary information regarding the repayment of his 
overdraft and reporting the status to the CRAs. They thought Santander had correctly 
reported to the CRAs what had happened and hadnt acted unfairly.
Mr M disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I hope that Mr M wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint in the way 
that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint. Our rules allow me to do that. And the crux of Mr 
Ms complaint is that Santander failed to give him sufficient opportunity and information to 
pay the outstanding balance on his overdraft and that this resulted in adverse information 
being reported on his credit file - unfairly and disproportionately. 
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
My role is to look at problems that a consumer has experienced and see if the bank has 
done anything wrong. If it has, we seek to put the consumer back in the position they 
wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. 
Mr M closed his account with an outstanding balance and switched to another provider in 
February 2022. Santander has provided us with its internal screenshots which show that it 
sent correspondence to Mr M on 15 and 16 February and 10 March 2022. On review of the 
correspondence, I can see that it explains:
It cant close Mr Ms account until he clears the outstanding balance and that he can 
do that by visiting a local branch or sending a cheque;
Not to transfer funds into the account as they will be redirected back to his new 
account;
If the account remains outstanding to contact Santanders collections department;
Information about his account is sent to CRAs and this may affect his ability to get 
credit in the future; and
A record of the repayment arrangement may be sent to the credit reference agencies 
that the data is share with.
So Im satisfied Mr M was provided with information regarding the repayment of his overdraft 
and that Santander would report the management of his account to the CRAs it subscribes 
to in advance of Santander reporting on the management of his account. 
Mr M says he never received the letters at the time the CRAs were informed. But even if Mr 
M never received the information regarding the reporting on his credit file  while I agree this 
information would be helpful - Santander was under no obligation to provide him with this. 
Ultimately, Mr M is responsible for the management of his account and it would be 
reasonable to assume that any unpaid unauthorised debt would be reflected on his credit 
file. 
I understand Mr M is unhappy about the information recorded on his credit file when he was 
told his credit file wouldnt be affected when he set up the payment plan. But Ive listened to 
the phone call and Mr M was never told his credit file wouldnt be affected  so I cant say 
Santander made an error here. 
Mr M believes what was reported on his credit file is that he missed two payments. 
Santander does have a duty to make sure the information it reports on its customers affairs 
to the CRAs it subscribes to is factually accurate. From what Santander has told us the 
account shows as Mr M being in an arrangement in May and that his account was settled in 
June 2022 and that there is no other adverse data. And from what I understand this is an 
accurate reflection of what happened with Mr Ms account.I think its worth noting that while Santander can control what it reports to CRAs, it has no 
control over how CRAs present this information. So even though it informed the CRAs 
about the arrangement and when the account was settled its up to the CRA how and 
whether it shows this in its reports.
Mr M might be interested to know that he can place a Notice of Correction on his credit 
records. The purpose of such a notice is to allow someone the opportunity to add any 
explanatory circumstances that they would like prospective lenders to take into consideration 
when making lending decisions. If Mr M wishes to do this, he should contact the credit 
reference agencies directly. 
So it follows that I do not uphold this complaint as Santander has not made an error or done 
anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman