DRN-2368192
The complaint
Mr M complains about the advice he received to transfer his occupational pension 
scheme by Corinthian Pensions (Corinthian), who are part of Hub Financial Solutions 
Limited.
For ease of understanding I have referred to the business as Corinthian throughout 
my decision.
What happened
Mr M was a deferred member of an occupational pension scheme. In 2019, the 
schemes trustees appointed Corinthian Pensions to advise Mr M (along with 
other members of the scheme) whether it was in his interests to transfer out. The 
cost of advice was covered by the schemes trustees. Mr M was offered a cash 
equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £37,163 in return for transferring out. This 
value had been enhanced by £3,035  so effectively Mr M was offered an 
incentive to leave the scheme. The CETV was a time limited offer and to take 
advantage Mr M had to accept it no later than 5 July 2019.
On 21 May 2019, Mr M had a telephone consultation with Corinthian. During the call 
the broad details of the pension were discussed, Mr M noted differences between his 
figures and Corinthians figures. Corinthian established that although their CETV was 
correct, they had been using the wrong pension income values.
On 25 June 2019, Corinthian issued a suitability report detailing its advice to Mr M. It 
didnt advise him to transfer out of his occupational pension scheme for the following 
reasons:
He was a very cautious investor
He didnt plan on accessing his pension until age 60
He had no immediate requirement for cash
The report explained to accept the CETV, Mr M would be giving up an income for life in 
return for a lump sum. Corinthian calculated how much that lump sum would need to grow 
each year as a minimum, to pay the same income in retirement. This is known as the 
Critical Yield. It was calculated as 5.58%.
Corinthian assessed Mr Ms risk profile as Very Cautious. It calculated that Mr M would 
be worse off by transferring in every growth scenario. It went on to explain the Transfer 
Value Comparator (TVC). This shows the lump sum cost of buying the retirement income 
that was being given up. This cost was £57,809, this means this was the minimum value 
Mr Ms CETV would need to reach to achieve the same result.
Mr M didnt agree with the recommendation not to transfer his occupational pension out 
and so this was escalated to Corinthians review panel. Mr M said he wanted the panel to 
take into account his reasons for wanting the transfer to go ahead. He said he wanted to 
pay off the remaining balance on his mortgage and he was concerned there was no death 
benefit provision for his partner in his occupational scheme.
The review panel considered Mr Ms objections, but it didnt respond until after the CETV 
deadline had expired by several weeks. The review panel noted that Mr M had enough 
disposable income to pay off the mortgage within its 5-year term. It also pointed out there 
no real incentive to repay the loan early, as it was a Help to Buy loan and so interest free 
for the first five years. It said that death benefits for Mr Ms partner was not a good enough 
reason, in itself, for transfer, as Mr M had life cover through his current employer which 
could be used for this purpose, Mr M also said he was in good health.
Mr M complained about the service and advice from Corinthian. He said his objectives had 
not been fully considered, incorrect figures had been used in discussions and he was 
unaware he could have proceeded whatever the advice given. He said when he appealed it 
took over five weeks for Corinthian to reply and so he missed the deadline offering the 
incentive amount.
In its final response dated 18 December 2019, Corinthian didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
In summary. it said it was duty bound to meet its regulatory requirement s when advising 
clients. It said the role of its advisers is to identify the most suitable solution based on a 
clients personal financial circumstances, needs and objectives. This means that the 
adviser cant just accept a clients wishes but must ensure any recommendation is in the 
best interest of the client.
Dissatisfied, Mr M referred his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Mr M. He carefully considered all the information 
provided by both parties and issued a very detailed view of the case. In summary, he 
reviewed the advice given and checked the calculations that led Corinthian to recommend 
Mr M did not transfer out of his occupational pension scheme. He didnt find that Corinthian 
had done anything wrong here and as far as he could see there was no indication that a 
transfer out would have been in Mr Ms best interest. He acknowledged there had been 
delays in responding but given the advice was to remain within the scheme, he didnt find 
Mr M had suffered a financial loss as a result. Overall, he didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint 
and didnt ask Corinthian to do anything further.
Mr M disagreed. He remains disappointed with the recommendation and frustrated that his 
reasons for wanting to transfer were, in his opinion, not properly considered. He remains of 
the view the transfer was verbally agreed and then unfairly rejected. He feels strongly this 
is his money and he should have been able to decide what to do with it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked at all the information from both partied afresh. Having done so Ive reached 
the same conclusion as the investigator for much the same reasons. I appreciate this will 
come as a disappointment to Mr M. Ill explain why.
Firstly, my role is to look at is whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint. In doing so I take into account relevant laws and regulations; regulators 
rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and (where appropriate) what we 
consider having been good industry practice at the relevant time. If I find a business has 
done something wrong, Ill look to see if the consumer has suffered financial loss and/or 
non- financial loss, such as distress and inconvenience, in consequence.It is the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), which regulates the industry, and it has 
heavily regulated the transfer of occupational pension schemes to safeguard the best 
interests of the individuals considering such a transfer. The relevant rules can be found in 
COBS (Conduct of Business Sourcebook) 19.1, as the investigator has previously 
mentioned. In summary, these rules stipulate the case for giving up a guaranteed income 
for life must be very strong indeed.
The pension being considered here had extremely valuable, safeguarded benefits. It would 
pay Mr M an income for the rest of his life at a defined rate, however long he lived. As the 
investigator has already explained the purpose of a pension is to provide income in 
retirement. All other considerations, such as flexibility and death benefits, are generally 
secondary. When a financial adviser considers whether its in a members interests to give 
up something so valuable, it must follow the regulatory rules in place. COBS19.1.6G, says 
an adviser should start by assuming that the transfer of Mr Ms defined benefits in his 
former employers scheme wouldnt be suitable. The adviser is required to carry out a 
number of calculations to determine whether transferring out of an occupational scheme 
with guarantees is in the best financial interest of the client. The findings of these 
calculations are recorded within a suitability report.
Ive looked carefully at the suitability report and the recommendations within it. The 
investigator has explained in detail the calculations carried out by Corinthian I dont intend 
to repeat them again but the reason for doing so is to determine if a transfer out of the 
scheme was beneficial to Mr M. All the calculations within the report showed Mr M would 
have been worse off by transferring.
The investigator explained the critical yield calculation and how these can be sense 
checked against the projections held by this service and also the upper and middle 
projections provided by the regulator, so I wont repeat that again. But, in real terms Mr M 
would need his CETV, to achieve a growth rate of 5.58% just to achieve the same income 
as his occupational scheme would provide. If that rate wasnt achieved even for one year, 
Mr M would be in a worse financial position. Because Mr Ms attitude to risk was cautious, 
the returns from a suitable investment matching his attitude to risk would typically be lower. 
This is because such investments focus on preserving value rather than achieving gains. If 
one also takes into account the term left for Mr Ms preferred retirement date, of only five 
years along with the asset mix of a suitable investment, this would mean it would be very 
difficult to achieve a return of 5.58% as a cautious investor.
When considering the TVC, this also showed Mr M would be made £20,000 worse off by 
transferring his pension. In real terms he would need an investment to make £20,000 back 
before retirement just to be where he started. This again would have been unlikely given 
his cautious attitude towards investing.
I appreciate Mr M appealed to a review panel and doesnt think it fairly considered 
his reasons for wanting to transfer out of the scheme, but Im afraid I dont agree.
Ive looked at the outcome provided by the review panel, it clearly details why the 
reasons Mr M put forward for wanting to transfer his pension were not suitable 
reasons for overriding the original recommendation. Mr M wanted to repay his 
mortgage, but the review panel found that the mortgage was affordable, was set up 
on a repayment basis and the term was only five years. In these circumstances, 
there would have had to be an emergency such as a looming repossession for 
Corinthian to recommend a transfer for this reason, and Im not aware this was the 
case. I understand this an action Mr M wanted to take but that doesnt mean 
Corinthian were able to recommend this action to him, as Ive said previously it is bound by the regulatory rules in place and based on his circumstances this wouldnt 
have given rise to change in recommendation.
Similarly, Mr M argued his occupational pension provided no death benefits for his 
partner, this again is a secondary consideration and Mr Ms financial position was such 
that other provision could have been made for this. I havent found anything to suggest 
Corinthian acted unfairly, it revisited the recommendation and reached the same 
conclusion which in my view was not only correct but also clearly explained.
Ive looked at Mr Ms concerns around the advice process and I can understand why he felt 
frustrated. There was an initial error with the figures, but these were corrected by 5 June 
2019. The review panel took around five weeks to review and issue an outcome to Mr M. 
But again, given the advice was to remain in the scheme, I dont find there was any 
financial loss to Mr M.
Mr M has also complained Corinthian should have told him he could proceed whatever their 
advice. I can accept this was frustrating, but Corinthians remit was to provide the best 
advice and in my view it did. Mr M was advised to stay in the scheme, and all the evidence I 
have looked at concurs with that recommendation. I dont agree it also had a responsibility 
to provide Mr M with instruction on how to override that advice, especially when doing so 
would lead to a financial loss.
I can understand Mr M when he says he feels his money is not his money. His 
investment does of course belong to him but investing in an occupational pension 
scheme provides great advantages and the regulator sets the bar very high in terms of 
what circumstances must be met for a recommendation to transfer out of such a 
scheme.
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied the recommendation not to transfer his occupational 
pension was the right outcome and Im not going to ask Hub Financial Solutions Limited 
to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2021.
Wendy Steele
 
Ombudsman