DRN-2845726
The complaint
Mr J complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC blocked his account. He says this caused him 
unnecessary stress and worry. And made running his business difficult for which he should 
be compensated.
What happened
In June 2020, Barclays blocked Mr Js account. The bank removed the balance of just over 
£350,000 and showed the account as overdrawn.
Mr J discovered that his account was overdrawn when he received a text message from 
Barclays. Mr J went into branch and rang the bank on several occasions to try and find out 
what was happening with his account and where his money had gone. Barclays told Mr J 
that it had placed his account under review. But wouldnt give Mr J much information. 
Barclays completed its review on 13 July 2020 and removed the block and released Mr Js 
balance to him the same day. 
Mr J complained to the bank. He said he wasnt able to pay his rent and bills. And because 
of the block his business was pushed to near collapse. He explained that the banks actions 
caused him anxiety, stress, and impacted his mental health so much so that his doctor gave 
him strong sleeping pills to help him sleep. Barclays said it hadnt done anything wrong and 
had blocked Mr Js account to comply with its legal and regulatory obligations. 
Mr J asked us to investigate his complaint. He said the block on his account and removal of 
his funds had impacted his business and his mental health. He wants the bank to provide a 
proper explanation about why it blocked his account. And says the review caused him 
financial difficulties  as he was unable to pay his bills from his account as the bank blocked 
his direct debits So, he wants Barclays to pay him compensation.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Js complaint. She thought Barclays hadnt done 
anything wrong. She said theyd acted in line with their legal and regulatory obligations and  
had done so in line with the account terms.
Mr J disagreed. He said the bank didnt tell him what it was doing and never got back to him 
despite telling him it would. He says several of his direct debits werent paid which made 
things difficult for him and the whole situation caused him a great deal of stress. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from what Mr J has told us and the bank that he feels very strongly about his 
complaint. And Im sorry to hear that Mr J has been unwell because of what happened. Ive 
read and considered all of Mr Js submissions regarding his complaint, but Ill concentrate on 
what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on a specific point, its not because Ive failed to 
take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order 
to reach what I think it is the right outcome.
 
I appreciate that Mr J is upset that Barclays blocked his account. I can also understand that 
this was no doubt stressful for him especially as the banks actions made it difficult for him to 
manage his finances. But for me to uphold this complaint, I must be satisfied that the bank 
has done something wrong. And in this case, I dont think it has. Ill explain why.
Mr J feels Barclays should have told him that his account was being reviewed and explained 
why his account was blocked  instead of Mr J discovering his account was overdrawn and 
all his money was missing. And I want to make it clear that I understand why what happened 
concerned Mr J. Ive no doubt it wouldve come as quite a shock to Mr J, and he wouldve 
been very worried to find out his money had been removed from his account and it had been 
blocked.  But Barclays has extensive legal and regulatory responsibilities they must meet 
when providing account services to customers. And to fulfil these obligations they may need 
to review activity taking place on accounts  by not doing so they could risk serious 
sanctions and penalties.
Barclays has said that Mr Js access to his account was blocked to meet these 
requirements. Having looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied that Barclays was within its 
rights to review Mr Js account and that it was entitled to block it while it carried out that 
review. So, I cant say the bank did anything wrong. The bank also wasnt obliged to tell Mr J 
why it was carrying out a review, and I dont believe it would be appropriate for me to require 
it to do so as much as hed like to know. 
Looking at the terms of the account they permit Barclays to restrict access to accounts. So, 
although I understand not having access to his account caused Mr J trouble and upset it 
wouldnt be appropriate for me to award Mr J compensation since I dont believe Barclays 
acted inappropriately in taking the actions that it did when it blocked and reviewed Mr Js 
account.  
I acknowledge that Mr J made several trips into a branch to try and find out what was 
happening with his account. And that he says was promised call backs to let him know what 
was happening and how long things might take. But I havent seen any evidence that 
Barclays promised Mr J a call back. I can see that the bank updated him on 15 June 2020 to 
let him know it was still reviewing his account giving him an estimated time frame for 
completion of 28 days. I can also see that once it had completed its review the bank 
released Mr Js funds and removed the block. This happened on 13 July 2020, which was 
within the timeframe the bank had given Mr J. Ive also noted that at the time Mr J had 
access to funds in at least one other bank account to pay direct debits. So, whilst Ive no 
doubt the banks actions caused Mr J worry and stress, from the evidence Ive seen, overall,  
Im satisfied that the bank completed its review in a timely manner.
In summary, I appreciate that it was upsetting and stressful for Mr J when Barclays blocked 
his account and removed his money. So, I realise Mr J will be disappointed by my decision. 
But it wouldnt be appropriate to make an award of compensation for that, since I dont 
believe Barclays acted inappropriately in taking the actions it did.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Js complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman