DRN-2641911
The complaint
Miss H has complained about the way that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) handled
her mortgage when she was experiencing financial difficulty.
What happened
I made a provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 13 January 2021 and I asked 
the parties to let me have their comments and any additional evidence. A copy of my 
provisional decision is set out, below:
In January 2018 Miss H contacted Halifax about her mortgage payments. She explained that she 
had given up her job because of a tragedy in her personal life and, as a result of the resulting 
reduction in her income, she was unable to make her full monthly mortgage payments. She offered 
to make reduced payments and she made these payments until August 2019 when the mortgaged 
property was sold and the mortgage was repaid in full.
Miss H then experienced difficulty taking out another mortgage and found that Halifax had reported 
adverse information about her mortgage to Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) and this had affected 
her credit score. She complained to Halifax about this. She said it shouldnt have recorded adverse 
information because she had made an arrangement to pay the reduced amounts.
Halifax said Miss H didnt have a formal arrangement and the information it had given CRAs was, 
therefore correct. But it accepted it hadnt explained to Miss H that there wasnt a formal 
arrangement in place and the effect this would have on her credit file. It paid Miss H
£300 compensation and said it would request an amendment to her credit file so that Miss H was 
shown to have been in a payment arrangement. It said it couldnt promise the amendment would be 
applied as this was out of its control.
Miss Hs credit file wasnt amended and she wasnt happy with Halifaxs response to her complaint. 
Consequently, she referred her complaint to this service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. They thought Halifax should amend 
some of the information on Miss Hs credit file but they didnt think Halifax should pay her any more 
compensation.
Neither Miss H nor Halifax accepted our investigators recommendation.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been able to listen to a recording of the call Miss H made to Halifax in January 2018. At the 
time of the call, Miss H had overpaid her mortgage repayments. She said she was intending to sell 
the property. Halifax said it couldnt set up a formal arrangement because the account was in 
credit. It said Miss H could make reduced payments to give her time to sell the property. It said 
Miss Hs credit file could be affected if the account went into arrears and she should make a 
payment that was affordable for her.
In February 2018 Miss H wrote to Halifax and gave it information about her financial situation. She 
provided details of her income and other loans she had in addition to her mortgage. The letter 
appears to be from a template that Miss H sent to all her lenders asking them to accept reduced 
payments and freeze interest and charges on her accounts.
Halifax replied to Miss Hs letter saying it was unable to freeze interest and couldnt deal with an 
underpayment arrangement request by telephone. It asked Miss H to contact its Payment 
Assistance Line. Miss H wrote to Halifax in March 2018 saying her personal circumstances made it 
difficult for her to talk on the telephone and asking if she could correspond another way. I havent 
seen any response from Halifax to this letter or to a third letter Miss H sent to Halifax repeating her 
request a month later.
In August 2018 Miss H had used up the overpayments on her mortgage and it went into arrears. 
Halifax sent her an arrears letter asking her to telephone to discuss her options. Several telephone 
conversations then took place between Miss H and Halifax and, in March 2019, Halifax wrote to 
her saying it had set up a payment arrangement on her account for a reduced payment.
Up to September 2018 Halifax told CRAs that Miss Hs mortgage was OK meaning that 
payments had been made on time. In October, November and December 2018 it reported the 
payments as AA, meaning Missed payment, status 1 to 2, up to 2 payments late.
From January 2019 until the mortgage was repaid its status was shown as BB, meaning More 
serious arrears, status 3 to 6, meaning the payments are 3 to 6 months late. The mortgage has 
been shown as settled/closed since August 2019.
I havent been able to listen to recordings of telephone calls between Miss H and Halifax apart from 
two calls in January 2018. Halifax says it cant locate recordings of the other calls although its 
provided contact notes for the calls.
Having listened to the two calls and read the contact notes, Im not persuaded that Halifax 
explained to Miss H during the calls that her credit file was being affected. The possible effect on 
her credit file was only mentioned briefly during the first call. None of the contact notes refer 
specifically to information that Halifax would give to CRAs. Some of the contact notes say Miss H 
was given DOC (duty of care). I dont think that, by itself, is sufficient to show that Halifax told 
Miss H it intended to report adverse information to CRAs.
The arrears letter Halifax sent to Miss H in August 2018 says we may report this information to the 
credit reference agencies. I think the use of the word may rather than will creates uncertainty 
and was insufficient to inform Miss H that adverse information was actually being provided. The 
letter Halifax sent to Miss H in March 2019 refers to a payment arrangement being agreed and 
goes on to say if you fall behind with your payments, your credit file will be updated to show that 
your account is in arrears. I think Miss H was entitled to believe that payments meant the agreed 
payments not the full monthly payment and that, if she made the agreed payments, her credit file 
wouldnt be affected. Im not persuaded the letters Halifax sent to Miss H would necessarily have 
alerted her to the fact adverse information
was being recorded on her credit file.
Given the above, Im currently satisfied Halifax was correct to tell Miss H in its response to her 
complaint that it would amend her credit file. Halifax said it couldnt promise this would happen as it 
was outside its control. However, the evidence Ive seen shows that it was an internal decision by 
Halifax not to request the removal of the adverse information rather than a decision by a third party. 
My provisional finding is that I would require Halifax to amend Miss Hs credit file so that the 
payments she made from October 2018 to July 2019 are shown as made pursuant to a payment 
arrangement.
I now need to consider the compensation that Halifax has paid to Miss H and whether it adequately 
compensates her for any losses and the trouble and upset shes suffered as a result of Halifaxs 
actions. Miss H thinks the £300 payment shes received is derisory. She says, if shed known Halifax 
would record adverse information on her credit file she wouldnt have made the reduced payments. She says this would have enabled her to pay the full amounts due to her other creditors so her credit 
rating wouldnt have been affected.
I dont think its realistic for Miss H to think she could have maintained a good credit score in her 
circumstances. The information she gave to Halifax in February 2018 about her financial situation 
shows that her net income was barely enough to cover the repayments on her loans not including 
her mortgage. She was asking her other lenders to accept reduced payments. I havent seen a full 
copy of Miss Hs credit file so I dont know what information has been recorded by other lenders. It 
seems to me that it was inevitable that adverse information would be recorded by some of the 
lenders given Miss Hs financial situation.
I think it was reasonable for Halifax to say it couldnt freeze interest on Miss Hs mortgage. The bulk 
of her monthly payment was made up of capital repayment and the interest wasnt the cause of her 
financial difficulty. Its possible Halifax could have agreed that Miss H didnt have to make any 
payments at all towards her mortgage until shed used up her overpayment and while she was 
trying to sell the property. But the property wasnt sold for a year after the overpayment had been 
used up and I dont think I could reasonably say Halifax shouldnt have required Miss H to make 
any payment for that length of time.
I do, however, think Halifax could have been clearer in its communications with Miss H. Im 
concerned by its failure to respond to the letters she sent in March and April 2018. Its possible that 
it couldnt have done anything more to help her but I think Miss H was entitled to an explanation of 
what could and couldnt be done.
I currently think Miss H should receive additional compensation for Halifaxs failure to make the 
amendments to her credit file that it offered to her and the additional trouble and upset it caused her 
at a very difficult time. Im minded to require Halifax to pay her another £300 in addition to what its 
already paid.
My provisional decision
Subject to any additional comments and evidence I get from the parties, my provisional decision 
is I would uphold this complaint. I would require Bank of Scotland plc to amend Miss Hs credit 
file to show that she was in a payment arrangement from October 2018 to July 2019 and pay her 
£300.
Miss H responded to my provisional decision by emphasising the nature of the traumatic 
event that she experienced and the effect this had on her. She said that Halifax had lent her 
money well beyond her means to repay if she lost her job. She thinks Halifax should be 
thoroughly sanctioned so that its behaviours arent allowed to continue and its processes 
take account of real hardship.
Halifax accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I completely understand that Miss H suffered a tragedy that affected her enormously. But 
Halifax wasnt responsible for that event or Miss Hs consequent loss of income. I can only 
look at the action taken by Halifax and the way that contributed to Miss Hs difficulties. I 
explained in my provisional decision the action I think Halifax could have taken and what it 
should do to put things right. I havent been persuaded to change my decision.
Ive noted Miss Hs comments about Halifax lending her money she says was beyond her 
means to repay if she lost her job. This isnt something shes complained about to Halifax so 
I cant consider it in my decision.Ive also noted Miss Hs comments about Halifaxs processes. My role is limited to looking at 
the individual circumstances of Miss Hs complaint and deciding if she ought to be 
compensated for the action Halifax took in relation to her mortgage. Im not a regulator so 
Im unable to sanction Halifax or require it to change its processes, generally.
Putting things right
I remain of the view that Halifax should pay Miss H £300 and amend her credit file.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given my final decision is I uphold this complaint. I require Bank of 
Scotland plc to amend Miss Hs credit file to show that she was in a payment arrangement 
from October 2018 to July 2019 and pay her £300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Charles Bacon
Ombudsman