DRN-2042319
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has dealt 
with a claim made under his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H brought a claim for subsidence damage to a property which belonged to his late 
mother, after he was made aware of cracks and sloping floors at the property. RSA began 
investigating the claim at the start of 2019 and initially identified the cause of the subsidence 
as clay shrinkage caused by a defective drain.
RSA commenced remedial work to rectify the problem with the drain in June 2019. They also 
paid Mr H a cash settlement at his request, so that he could arrange for internal repairs to be 
carried out. 
Mr H then marketed the property for sale, but became concerned about there still being 
some movement, in part due to comments made by the surveyor of some potential buyers. 
He contacted RSA which sent a contractor out to inspect the problem. The contractor said 
the drain repair had been carried out properly and that the property was now stable.
Unhappy with RSAs response, Mr H raised a complaint. RSA said the cash settlement it had 
offered Mr H was fair and represented the cost of returning the property to its prior cosmetic 
condition. Mr H remained dissatisfied with RSAs response and so he referred his complaint 
to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues and said he didnt think RSA needed to do anything 
further. He explained that this was because hed taken into account the opinions of the 
experts and reached the conclusion that the drains were the main cause of the subsidence 
at the property. And as he believed an effective repair had been carried out, he thought 
RSAs cash settlement offer was reasonable.
Mr H disagreed with our investigators opinion, saying that the expert reports hed provided 
were more reliable than those submitted by RSA. And that those had shown there was 
recent and continued movement which warranted an increased settlement offer. As Mr H 
didnt agree with our investigator, the complaint has now come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. But I should also 
clarify that as our investigator said, were not building or surveying experts. And as this 
service operates as an informal alternative to the courts, we often rely on expert evidence in 
order to inform our opinion of whats fair  much like courtroom judges, who also wont be 
experts themselves in building or surveying. What we do have in this particular department 
of the ombudsman service, is years of experience in considering cases about buildings 
insurance disputes and complaints involving subsidence. So I want to reassure the parties 
that I have the necessary experience to look into a case like this, and that Ive considered 
everything thats been provided by both sides. 
The evidence that the parties have submitted in support of their respective positions includes 
investigation reports from the loss adjuster, a site note of a visit conducted by a subsidence 
consultant, a structural engineers report, a letter from an estate agent and an email from a 
property surveyor. Ive not referred to all the evidence Ive seen and I mean no discourtesy 
to the parties in doing so. Rather, it reflects the informal nature of this service, and instead 
Ive focused my decision on the most relevant evidence and information.
In January the loss adjuster visited the property and a report was issued which detailed the 
damage and the likely cause of it as subsidence, caused by either clay shrinkage or subsoil 
erosion due to leakage of drains. It recommended further investigation.
In April 2019 a subsidence investigation company visited the property to take samples and 
determine the work required to stabilise the property.
In June 2019 the loss adjuster provided an update to the work, confirming that nearby 
vegetation was unlikely to have caused the subsidence as tree roots werent found. And 
confirming that a CCTV survey of the drainage system showed a grease blockage was 
present which was what had caused the drain leakage. 
RSA and its contractors then arranged for the drains to be repaired, in order to fix the 
underlying cause of the subsidence. Im satisfied that they did this. The required internal 
repairs were also determined and the letter explains that RSA would monitor the property for 
a few months before commencing repair work  which is what we would expect. But 
because Mr H wanted a cash settlement for these, RSA offered him £1,865.84, which it says 
represented the cost to return the property back to its pre-incident cosmetic condition.
A site visit was then undertaken on 14 June 2019, during which a surveyor confirmed that 
the property had been stabilised and that all the floors were level. It refers to the policyholder 
being present at the time of the visit and being satisfied with the use of a spirit level to check 
whether the floors were still sloping. Mr H has now said he isnt satisfied with the way the 
floors were checked during this site visit, in part because the spirit level was used on carpet 
and the site visit was conducted by a junior surveyor. But Im more persuaded by the 
contemporaneous notes from the time, which suggest Mr H was satisfied with the checks  
and I havent seen anything from that time which would suggest Mr H was unhappy with the 
way the property was inspected, or that the inspection itself was inadequate.
Mr H has given us a structural engineers report dated February 2020, and while I appreciate 
the effort hes gone to in order to provide such evidence, I dont think it tells us what he 
would like it to. For example, Mr H says the reports hes provided are from more senior, and 
more qualified, experts. And that these show theres evidence of recent movement which 
would have required further work to straighten up the property and level floors. But the report 
from the structural engineer says there were only minor undulations and that the rest of the 
external elevations were reasonably level and free from damage as a result of recent 
movement. 
The report also says that internal damage couldnt be inspected properly, and that again 
there were minor undulations but the rest of the internal surfaces were reasonably level 
and free from damage as a result of recent movement. It says there is cracking from past 
movement, but doesnt offer much in the way of reasoning to support its conclusion that 
there has also been recent movement  apart from mentioning new wall tiling which had 
started to crack. The report is based on a visual inspection and no monitoring was carried out to confirm whether the soil hadnt returned to its original state. So Im afraid there isnt 
enough in the report to confirm whether the issues were from recent ongoing movement or 
from previous episodes of subsidence.
The follow up email from the structural engineer dated April 2020, which Mr H has also 
provided, confirms theres been long standing movement at the property. But this isnt in 
dispute. He also says in the email that theres been recent movement, but I cant say that 
this email is as persuasive as other testimony Ive been presented with. Its not very detailed 
and doesnt include any supporting evidence. It also includes a list of recommended works to 
help realise the full value of the property. And thats not what Mr Hs insurance policy 
provides for. So while Ive considered the engineers comments carefully, I dont think these 
are as compelling as Mr H believes them to be. 
Based on the comments in the structural engineers report I dont think I can safely say there 
was new movement at the property. It seems more likely that any issues were as a result of 
historic movement. And the policy isnt designed to put right historical issues with a property, 
nor is it intended to make up loss of value due to a property having suffered from 
subsidence.
Mr H has now sold the property, so I need to consider whether RSA can reasonably be held 
responsible for what Mr H says was a reduction in value of the property due to RSA not 
handling the claim appropriately. 
Ive considered the letter from the estate agents, but I also dont consider the estate agents 
to be experts in the relevant matters here. They will be able to comment on property values 
and their ability to sell the house, but they wont have detailed knowledge of subsidence and 
the requirements of the insurer under this policy. So Im afraid I cant rely on their view that 
these issues have affected the value of the property, when I think its just as likely that the 
property value may have been affected as a result of subsidence occurring, or by other 
factors.
Under the claim RSA had an obligation to complete an effective and lasting repair. And Ive 
not seen anything which makes me think it didnt identify and repair the main underlying 
cause of the subsidence effectively  as its required to under the policy. 
And I think RSA was right to have told Mr H it isnt required to fix historic issues or ensure 
that the property value goes up to what it mightve been had the subsidence never occurred. 
The policy itself says under Significant Policy exclusions that a customer wont be covered 
for Any reduction in the market value of any property following its repair or reinstatement. 
So I dont think it would be fair for RSA to have to pay any more due to the property having 
decreased in value since the subsidence occurred.
I recognise that Mr Hs late mothers house was very important to him and I can appreciate 
why. Im therefore sorry that based on everything Ive seen, Ive decided not to ask RSA to 
do anything further here. But I hope Ive clearly explained why Ive reached this decision.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr H, but my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2021.
 
Ifrah MalikOmbudsman