DRN-4436726
The complaint
Miss B complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Clydesdale) wont 
refund payments that she says she made as the result of a scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some of the key events here. Miss B says that shes been the victim of a 
romance scam. She was befriended by an individual online who she says took advantage of 
her vulnerable state and persuaded her to send money to him. 
As a result of the scam, between June 2019 and February 2023 Miss B used her Clydesdale 
debit card to make a series of payments to W. W offer a money remittance service and this 
is how Miss B says she sent the money to the scammer. 
In 2023 Miss B reported to Clydesdale that the payments had been made as the result of a 
scam. In May 2023 Clydesdale declined Miss Bs claim for reimbursement. Following the 
involvement of our service, Miss B complained and Clydesdale maintained their position on 
the disputed payments. They did however accept that there had been some delays in giving 
Miss B an answer on her fraud claim and so they credited her account with £75 
compensation. Miss B asked our service to investigate. 
One of our Investigators didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt 
think the payments were so unusual that Clydesdale ought to have done more before 
processing them. And he wasnt persuaded that Clydesdale would have been able to 
recover the funds. He also thought the compensation offered was fair. He forwarded 
Miss Bs request that Clydesdale consider making a gesture of goodwill due to her personal 
circumstances, but Clydesdale declined to do so. Miss B asked for an Ombudsman to review 
her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator and for largely the same 
reasons. I know this will be incredibly disappointing for Miss B, so Ill explain why. 
Id like to start by acknowledging all Miss B has told us about her personal circumstances. It 
does seem that she has been through some very difficult times and continues to face 
challenges in her life. But that being said, my role requires that I remain impartial. So despite 
my natural sympathy for Miss Bs circumstances and situation, I can only direct Clydesdale 
to refund the payments she made towards the scam if they are responsible for errors that 
otherwise would have prevented them. 
Miss B made over 20 debit card payments to W and these took place over an extended 
period of time. There were times when the activity was more frequent and other times when 
it was less so. And the largest individual payment she made was for around £471.
Clydesdales primary obligation is to follow the instructions Miss B provides and to promptly 
execute payments shes authorised. Miss B accepts she made the payments, but says she 
was tricked into doing so as a result of the scam and her being vulnerable. As well as their 
obligation to process payments, Clydesdale should also be alert to potential fraud, scams 
and the misappropriation of funds. But with thousands of payments being made each day, 
its not possible or reasonable to expect Clydesdale to be involved in every payment. There 
is a balance to be struck between stopping and checking payments and allowing customers 
ready access to their funds. 
And in the circumstances of this complaint, with the sums involved and the prior activity on 
Miss Bs account, I dont think it was unreasonable for Clydesdale to not do more than they 
did before processing each payment. I appreciate Miss B thinks Clydesdale should have 
called her and provided warnings, but Im not persuaded that is a reasonable or 
proportionate expectation in the circumstances here. I cant say Clydesdale have acted 
unfairly by processing the payments without doing more than they did first. 
Once Miss B had informed Clydesdale that her payment had been made as the result of a 
scam, I can see that Clydesdale attempted to contact W but didnt get a response. The only 
possible avenue for recovery would be the chargeback scheme. But here, there is no 
suggestion that W didnt do what was expected of them. That being sending on the funds as 
requested by Miss B at the time. So I dont think there was any reasonable prospect of 
Clydesdale making a successful recovery. 
Ive also seen nothing to suggest that Miss B had informed Clydesdale of her vulnerabilities 
and difficult personal circumstances prior to raising her claim. And as I dont think this is 
something that I could reasonably have expected them to have ascertained themselves, I 
dont think Clydesdale should have done anything differently. 
I appreciate Miss B says other banks that she made payments from (towards the same 
scam) have refunded her as a gesture of goodwill. So, I can understand why shed like 
Clydesdale to do the same. But Clydesdale arent obliged to follow the decisions made by 
other banks. And as Ive mentioned above, I can only make an award where I think it is fair 
and reasonable to do so. And whilst I sympathise with Miss Bs situation, being a victim of a 
scam doesnt automatically entitle her to a refund from Clydesdale. 
Ive also considered the £75 compensation that Clydesdale paid to Miss B. In the context 
that this was for some delays in answering her fraud claim, I think this is fair. Any 
investigation will always take some time. And I can see that some of this was due to 
Clydesdale awaiting a response from W. I can also see that Clydesdale provided updates 
when Miss B chased. So I dont think the investigation taking longer than otherwise might 
have been expected had a significant impact on Miss B and I think the £75 is a fair way to 
put things right. 
Im sorry this isnt the outcome Miss B was hoping for. But I hope the fact that this has been 
independently reviewed is of at least some reassurance to her. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 January 2024.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman