DRN-3430887
The complaint
Mr G complains that Aviva Insurance Limited has unfairly declined a claim for damage to 
his property under his commercial property insurance policy.
For ease, any reference to Mr G and Aviva includes things said and done by their 
respective agents.
What happened
The history of this claim and the events pertinent to it are well known to both parties, so 
Ive summarised whats happened.
The property
Mr G is a landlord and has a commercial property insurance policy for a property he 
owns. The property sits at the end of a terrace of houses and is located near a valley. 
Following Storm Doris in February 2017, a landslip occurred at the rear of Mr Gs 
property. It caused damage to a sewer to which the propertys (and those in the terrace) 
drains were connected.
In August 2017, the local council issued an Emergency Prohibition Order (EPO) for Mr Gs 
property. The EPO said that following the councils monitoring and investigations relating 
to the landslip, hazards existed which posed an imminent risk to the health and safety of 
occupiers and visitors, and so immediate emergency action had to be taken and the 
property vacated.
Several property owners from the terrace appealed the EPO order, but it was dismissed 
by the Residential Property Tribunal because the works required to remove the hazards  
as outlined in the EPO - hadnt been undertaken. The Council subsequently served a 
Demolition Order for all the properties in the terrace in March 2020. As of January 2022, 
the property had not been demolished but the demolition order remains in force.
-2016 policy
In 2016, when the policy renewed, cover was provided on an all-risk basis with an 
additional contingency for subsidence and landslip included. Following the landslip - and 
the property being untenanted - a mid-term amendment was made in December 2017. 
Cover was restricted to damage caused by fire, lightning, earthquake, and aircraft 
(FLEA).
-Storm damage
In September 2019, Mr G notified Aviva that he wanted to make a claim. He said the 
damage to his property was caused by Storm Doris in 2017. Mr G provided a 
surveyors report to support his position. Aviva considered the claim under the 2016 
policy  which provided all risk cover. It inspected the property in October 2019 but 
couldnt identify damage caused by a storm.
-Subsidence / landslip
The claim was reconsidered to determine if the damage had occurred because of landslip 
or subsidence. But when Aviva inspected the property in October 2019 and January 2020 
it said there wasnt damage attributable to either. A crack was determined to have been 
most likely caused by normal thermal expansion of the property.
In April 2020, Aviva declined the claim having not identified damage to the property 
caused by storm, subsidence, or landslip.
In August 2020, Mr G challenged Avivas decision on the basis that Aviva hadnt been 
able to fully inspect his property. He said Avivas findings were, therefore, incomplete. Mr 
G provided his own surveyors report, which he said evidenced the damage was covered 
under the 2016 policy. Mr G contended:
- the landslip caused cracking to the rear of his house, and displacement and 
cracking to the foul and surface water drain which runs under the rear garden.
- the 2016 policy includes accidental loss - which he says he experienced due 
to not being able to use his property because of the EPO.
In September 2020, Aviva returned to Mr Gs property to complete a further 
inspection. It again concluded the damage was not attributable to subsidence. The 
report said:
"We have found no evidence to suggest subsidence (downward) movement 
affecting the main dwelling. Weconsider the movement of the slab away from 
the rear elevation main wall, where the open canopy structure abuts the main 
wall, is considered as normal settlement and to some degree is to be expected 
and not unusual, given it would not have the same foundation detail as the 
foundations for the original building and main load bearing walls."
"we have found no crack damage consistent with subsidence resulting from 
the landslip and the crack damage inspected on all internal and external 
aspects, both from our initial and subsequent survey on 30th September 2020 
do not appear to implicate subsidence as operative."
With regards to the drain survey report  carried out by a third party in July 2020 - 
Aviva said:
"the displacement and cracking damage to the drains has not been caused 
by subsidence or landslip. Instead, the defects are consistent with the 
normal settlement which would be expected in terrain of this nature and 
exposure of the drains to damage caused over a period of time by invasive 
roots from the overgrown vegetation in the rear garden of the Property."
So, in summary, Aviva said the damage to the building and drains wasnt covered 
because damage caused by gradual deterioration, wear and tear, normal settlement of 
new structures, or the buildings / structures own cracking or collapse is specifically 
excluded under the policy.
Aviva said being deprived of using the property does not itself constitute damage. It 
said the policy requires damage to be physical loss, destruction or damage and so Mr 
B does not have cover under accidental loss.
-2020 policyIn 2020 when the policy renewed, reinstatement was removed from the basis of 
claim settlement section and replaced by debris removal costs only.
Aviva said that because the cover was for FLEA only, there was no cover for any loss 
arising from the obligation to demolish the house at the property in compliance with the 
Councils demolition order. It added that even if cover wasnt restricted to FLEA, exception 
1b provides that no indemnity is payable in respect of any loss which is the direct or 
indirect result of destruction by or by order of any.Local or public authority.
Mr G complains that Aviva hasnt taken a consistent approach in deciding claims 
regarding the 2017 landslip. He said hes aware that neighbours in the terrace - who are 
also insured by Aviva, and whose properties were affected  have had their claims 
upheld.
Mr G brought his complaint to our service. In addition to the above, Mr G said Aviva hasnt 
treated him fairly because it failed to provide reports it relied on and only gave him 
extracts of these after he complained. He thinks its unfair that Aviva said in a report that 
subsidence was the apparent cause of the damage and that it shouldnt be allowed to go 
back on its word, even if it was said in error. And he wants this service to review how 
Aviva has handled neighbours claims.
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt uphold it and so the complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision.
I set out my thoughts in a provisional decision, in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I intend 
to reach a different outcome to our investigator, and Ill explain why.
In 2016, Mr Gs policy included an additional contingency for subsidence and 
landslip. Put simply, because this was an all risks policy (up until December 2017 
when it changed to cover on a FLEA basis) which included cover for subsidence and 
landslip, it covered any damage to the property, subject to the policy terms and 
exclusions.
Mr G has shown theres damage to his property. For Aviva to fairly decline the claim, it 
must show that all the damage is either excluded from the policy, happened prior to the 
policy being taken out or before the policy changed to FLEA only.
Mr G considers there to be overwhelming evidence  most notably the existence of an 
EPO - to support his position that landslides in 2017 diminished the structural stability of 
his property. Aviva has declined Mr Gs claim on the basis it hasnt been able to identify 
physical damage to Mr Gs property which can be attributed to storm, subsidence or 
landslip.
But the relevant question here, is not whether the damage was caused by storm, 
subsidence, or landslip, its whether Aviva has shown the damage was caused by 
something excluded under the policy. So, Ive considered this in respect of the building 
and drains.
The building
Both parties agree there is crack damage to the property. Aviva identified crack damage in the rear, first floor, bedroom and to the drainage pipes.
Mr Gs surveyors identified this damage, as well as:
Crack damage at the junction where the external concrete slab meets the 
rear wall
External crack damage between the upper and middle windows on the 
rear elevation
Internal crack damage visible to rear wall / adjacent ceiling in upper flat
Crack damage over floor into the ground floor rear door
Aviva says the damage is excluded because its caused by [the propertys] own 
cracking or collapse. It says even if the damage was caused by subsidence  which it 
says it wasnt  the additional contingency excludes damage caused by the normal 
settlement, shrinking and cracking of any building.
In other words, Aviva needs to show the building cracked without something having 
acted upon it during the relevant period. It is difficult for me to be persuaded that this 
was the case when Ive seen two expert reports which show a landslide occurred 
during the period in the vicinity of the property.
For example, Mr Gs surveyor said:
On the balance of probabilities I consider that a significant amount of the 
cracking and displacements to structural elements that I saw and recorded on 7 
July 2020 at [Mr Gs property] are indicative of ground movement at or below 
foundation level and accordingly it is reasonable to attribute these to the landslip 
event that occurred in 2017
On the other hand, Avivas reports focus on whether the damage was caused by 
subsidence, which its said it wasnt. While I can accept the damage wasnt caused by 
subsidence, thats not actually relevant here. Whats key is whether Aviva has shown 
that the damage occurred as a result of the buildings own cracking or collapse but from 
what Ive seen, Im not persuaded it has. I say this because its reports focus on whether 
subsidence was the operating cause as opposed to detailing how the damage occurred 
if it wasnt as a result of something happening to the building.
Aviva said we consider that both the crack damage and distortions are historic. It is 
likely that movement has now stabilised. It has provided pictures which show the 
windowsills and kitchen unit as level, but this was to evidence that subsidence wasnt 
the cause. Im not satisfied this alone shows the cracks occurred because of the 
buildings own cracking or collapse. Theres also no explanation as to why the damage 
was considered to be pre-existing.
Similar to this, the January 2020 report identifies a crack in the first-floor rear bedroom 
which simply says, vertical crack, not subs. But again, theres no explanation as to 
why this is evidence of the buildings own cracking or normal settlement, shrinking 
and cracking.
If Mr G couldnt point to an event  whatever that might be - then it might be reasonable 
to conclude the cracking was due to the buildings own cracking or collapse, but thats 
not the case here  there was a landslip in the vicinity of Mr Gs property. Aviva, 
therefore, needs to persuade me that despite the landslip, the landslip had no impact on 
the house, or the damage was pre-existing. And when I balance Mr Gs expert reports with the findings of Aviva, I think its more likely the damage occurred because of 
something happening to
Mr Gs house, as opposed it being due to the buildings own degradation. And its for 
these reasons, I dont think Aviva has demonstrated that the exclusions its seeking to 
rely on apply.
Malicious damage
Avivas expert report includes pictures of internal damage to Mr Gs property. It 
says it considers this to be malicious damage or vandalism and that it was caused 
by previous tenants.
I cant see that Aviva has said this damage is excluded. In the absence of this, it would 
be responsible for covering this damage  provided it occurred before the property 
changed to a FLEA policy.
Underground pipes
Under the policy the definition of a building includes underground pipes. Mr G 
argues the landslide caused damage to the propertys underground services and is 
therefore, covered under the policy. Aviva appear to accept Mr G is the owner of these 
pipes as they lie within the land immediately surrounding his property.
Both parties agree the pipes are damaged, but whats in dispute is how the damage 
came to be. Mr G has shown theres damage  and thats all he needs to do. Its for 
Aviva to demonstrate exclusions apply. Aviva has said the damage to the drains is 
excluded because its:
caused by [the propertys] own cracking or collapse
consistent with normal settlement which would be expected in terrain 
of this nature
caused by gradual deterioration due to overgrown vegetation.
So, I need to decide whether its shown the exclusion likely applies.  Ive looked at the 
drains survey which was carried out in July 2020. The report says the structural defects 
and service / operational condition of the drains is a grade 5 meaning:
the pipe is at risk of collapse at any time. Urgent consideration should be 
given to repairs to avoid total failure and the pipe is at high risk of backing 
up or causing flooding.
Its apparent there are numerous displaced joints and that the pipe is collapsed or 
broken in various places.
I note Aviva has said the drains do exhibit damage, [but] we cannot say with any 
certainty whether the drainage was damaged either before, during or since the event.  
Avivas opinion is that if the drains had been surveyed shortly before the landslip, they 
would have been found to have defects as is often the case with pipes. It has also relied 
on the gradual deterioration exclusion  stating that overgrown vegetation at the rear of 
the property caused damage to the pipes and so the damage isnt covered.
Whilst I accept the drain report shows roots were present, Im not persuaded Aviva has 
substantiated its position on this. I say this for a few reasons. First, roots arent 
ordinarily able to penetrate sealed pipes  it would be unusual for roots to break into the 
pipe without there being an access point. Second, given the report shows the pipe as having collapsed or broken in a number of places, its plausible the roots instead 
exposed gaps in the pipes, as opposed to creating them. Third, as the drain report took 
place three years after the landslip occurred, there would have been sufficient time for 
roots to have gained access to the pipe (via broken parts) and grow in and around it.
In light of this - and because I havent been provided with evidence from Aviva to 
persuade me how the damage occurred before the landslip or after the policy 
changed to FLEA - I dont think its reasonable for it to decline cover on the basis of 
the damage having been caused as a result of gradual deterioration caused by 
overgrown vegetation.
Accidental loss argument in respect of EPO and DO
Mr G argues that as the 2016 policy included cover for accidental loss, his inability to 
physically use his property because of the EPO, is akin to a loss. I sympathise with Mr G 
that he wasnt able to use or lease his property following the order, but whats key here 
is that the policy excludes cover for damage or loss which occurs by order of any 
government or any local or public authority.
Ive looked at the policy wording applicable to when both claims were made, and in 
each policy, it states:
we will not indemnify you in respect of [] damage or destruction by or by 
order of any government or any local or public authority.
As the local authority served the EPO  and subsequent demolition order  whether Mr 
Gs loss of use can be considered accidental or physical damage (as required by 
the policy definition) becomes irrelevant. As ultimately, cover is excluded where the 
order was made by the local authority.
Claims handling
Given Mr Gs neighbours properties have been subject to similar events, I understand 
why he has an interest in how those claims (where Aviva was the insurer) were settled. 
But, as our investigator explained, each claim is looked at on an individual basis. There 
are likely to be things that differentiate Mr Gs policy and circumstances from that of his 
neighbours  and so, it wouldnt be reasonable to decide his claim based on how other 
claims were handled.
Our investigator explained that Aviva isnt required to share its surveyor reports with its 
customers. However, it is best practice to share survey findings relevant to the 
customer. So, whilst we may not expect Aviva to share any internally focused reports, 
the findings about the damage itself would usually be routinely shared. I note Aviva did 
share extracts with Mr G but only after he complained, which is disappointing. 
Ultimately, however, I dont think Mr G has been prejudiced by not having received the 
reports in their entirety.
Mr G has said that because Aviva made a typographical error in an email to him  in 
which it said subsidence was the cause of the damage  his claim should be covered. 
Ive read the relevant document and can see the word does was typed rather than 
does not. Its unfortunate the error was made in respect of a word upon which the 
claim hinged, but when read in the context of the paragraph, document and report from 
which it was extracted  its apparent this was a mistake, and not what Aviva intended 
to say. So, Im not persuaded by Mr Gs argument that Aviva should cover the claim 
because of this mistake.Putting things right
Mr G says his claim was unfairly declined. Mr G has shown damage occurred but from 
what Ive seen, Im not satisfied Aviva has demonstrated the exclusions it seeks to rely 
on apply. And so, I think it should accept the claim.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Aviva Insurance 
Limited to accept the claim.
Mr G didnt reply to my provisional decision, but Aviva provided additional information  
some of which was new - for my consideration. This new information was shared with Mr G 
along with my revised thoughts, where I said:
In my provisional decision I said Aviva hadnt sufficiently substantiated the exclusions it is 
seeking rely on, but its since provided evidence which does persuade me that parts of the 
claim shouldnt be upheld. Ill address each in turn.
1. Movement of concrete slab to the rear of the property
Aviva has said there is no cover in respect of the concrete slab to the rear of the 
property because even if it was covered by the additional contingency (i.e. if 
subsidence or landslip was found to be the operating cause), the slab (patio/terrace) 
would be excluded as it wasnt specifically stated in the Schedule (which the 
additional contingency condition requires) and there also needed to be subsidence or 
landslip damage to the main building  which it says there wasnt. Ive accepted the 
latter (having read Avivas latest expert findings) under point 2 below. So Im more 
persuaded the slab has either moved because it has undergone normal settlement 
under its own weight or because of defective design or inadequate construction of its 
foundations. It follows therefore, that I wont be recommending Aviva accept this part 
of the claim.
2. Cracking to the building
In my provisional decision, I said although Aviva had focussed on why it considered 
subsidence not to be the operative cause, it hadnt suitably demonstrated which 
policy exclusion(s) applied and why. In response to this, Aviva said  Sedgwicks 
report focusses upon identifying whether the cracks have been caused by 
subsidence because that is how the claim was presented by the Insured. It went on 
provide further commentary from the expert who inspected the property and 
produced Sedgewicks report. Its this commentary which I find persuasive, and in the 
interest of natural justice, Ive attached it for Mr G to review. Of note is the experts 
findings regarding the shape and pattern of the cracks  how these can more 
reasonably be attributed to general age and deterioration as they dont tally with how 
subsidence cracks ordinarily appears, nor are they mirrored internally and externally 
(as would be expected with subsidence), and that cracks around doors and windows 
are likely due to a lintel failure - this being a common point of weakness. This coupled 
with the buildings age, general poor condition and the distance from Mr Gs property 
to the landslip site, persuades me that its reasonable for Aviva to decline this part of 
the claim based on the damage being by its own cracking or settlement.3. Drains
In my provisional decision, I said I wasnt persuaded by Avivas argument that the 
damage to drains wasnt caused by the landslip. In response Aviva has accepted that 
it cant show when the damage occurred. But it has suggested that in the absence of 
a complaint being made by the tenants that the drains were not performing 
adequately, its reasonable to say the damage to the drains occurred after the 
property had been vacated because of the EPO. I dont consider this to be a 
persuasive argument. The drains are underground and so it wouldnt necessarily be 
apparent to the tenants (if tenants were in situ) that there was an issue. 
In any event, the nature of the cracking and joint displacement appears to be more 
likely caused by something having been done to the pipes, rather than being 
caused by overgrown vegetation as suggested by Aviva. I explained in my 
provisional decision why I considered that to be unlikely so I wont reiterate it here. 
Furthermore, even if the drains had remained functional  that in itself, doesnt mean 
there isnt damage which needs to be repaired. My position remains unchanged that I 
think Aviva should accept this part of the claim.
4. Accidental Loss argument in respect of EPO and DO
When setting out my provisional thoughts, I explained I didnt think Mr G had a valid 
argument in respect of loss of rent / loss of use of his property because the policy 
excluded damage or loss which occurs by order of any government or local or public 
authority  as is the case here. Aviva agreed. My position remains unchanged in 
respect of this.
5. Malicious damage
In my provisional decision I said that as Aviva hadnt identified an exclusion in respect 
of the malicious damage, it ought to be covered. Aviva has said it didnt address this 
aspect because it didnt understand that any claim was being advanced in respect of 
this damage. Aviva goes on to cite Policy Condition (4) Claims Procedure which 
provides that if in relation to any claim you have failed to fulfil any of the following 
conditions, you will lose your right to indemnity or payment for that claim. 
In summary the condition requires the policy holder to notify the police of the 
malicious damage, provide a written claim containing details of the damage and the 
amount of the claim within seven days of the damage. Aviva has said it wasnt 
notified of a claim for malicious damage and so the policy condition hasnt been met. I 
havent been provided with evidence which shows such a claim was made and in 
time. In the absence of this evidence, it wouldnt be fair to ask Aviva to cover this 
element of the claim  and so I dont intend to uphold this part.
6. Claims handling
In my provisional decision I acknowledged that although Avivas handling of the 
claim could have been better at times (i.e. it could have shared the survey findings 
with Mr G earlier on), I wasnt persuaded Mr G had been prejudiced. Aviva didnt 
provide a response to this. My position remains unchanged.
So my current position is that Aviva only needs to accept the claim in respect of 
the damaged pipes. Because Im now intending to depart  in part  from my initial 
findings, the above will also be shared with Aviva. Id appreciate both parties 
comments by 11 May 2022. After which time, Ill issue my final decision.In response Mr G provided further expert testimony which explained why the damage to the 
property was most likely attributable to landslip. Having considered this, I revised my position 
and sent both parties my thoughts. I said:
I issued my provisional decision on 9 March 2022. I considered Avivas response to it  
following which I revised my position. This was shared with Aviva and Mr G on 4 May 
2022. Mr G has provided a response to this setting out why he and his expert disagree 
with parts of the outcome Id reached. Having considered this  along with the information 
provided by Aviva - I am minded to reach a different conclusion to that set out in my email 
of 4 May 2022. And Ive set out my thoughts below.
Both parties will have until 22 June 2022 to provide any final comments. After which date 
I will issue my final decision.
1. Movement of the concrete slab
Aviva has said the concrete slab isnt covered under the policy because it wasnt 
specified in the policy schedule. Ive looked at the policy document which says under 
the subsidence additional contingency section: We will indemnify you in respect of 
damage at the premises caused by subsidence or ground heave of the site of the 
property insured, or landslip. We will only indemnify in respect of damage to (1) 
forecourts, car parks, driveways, roads, pavements, gangways, pedestrian malls, 
pedestrian access bridges, paths, patios, terraces, ornaments or statues [] if (a) 
such property is specifically insured by this Section and damage also occurs to the 
building to which such property applies and that building is insured by this section.
Im satisfied the concrete slab can reasonably be considered either as pavement, a 
path or patio given its proximity to the main building and so, falls within the policy 
definition. However, the policy goes on to say that in order for damage (which is 
caused by landslip) to be covered it must be specified in the policy schedule. Ive 
looked at the policy schedule from 2016  when the additional contingency was 
included  and I cant see that the concrete slab was specified. So, Im not 
persuaded Mr G has a valid claim in respect of damage to the slab because the 
policy condition hasnt been met. So I dont need to go on to consider whether the 
damage to the building was caused by landslip in respect of this element of the 
claim.
2. Crack damage to the building
Ive considered Mr Gs experts response. In it he reiterates that the damage to the 
building is caused by landslip. He says I am firmly of the view that the pattern of 
the crack damage visible to structural elements at the rear [] is consistent with 
the lateral displacement of underlying ground as it responds to the 2017 landslip 
events which occurred downslope of [Mr Gs property]. 
He goes on to say As the ground moves it tries to take the rear wall with it and it 
is this outward displacement that accounts for the vertical cracking visible where 
internal partition walling / ceilings abut the rear wall at right angles.
Mr Gs experts findings (including those already provided) are thorough, detailed, 
and given the experts extensive experience in his field of work, particularly 
persuasive. Whilst the property looks to be in a poor state due to both the passage 
of time and uninsured malicious damage, this doesnt mean there wasnt damage 
attributable to landslip. Having considered all the evidence, Im more persuaded by that provided by Mr G and so, am likely to say in my final decision that Aviva needs 
to pay the cost for putting right the damage to the building which is caused by 
landslip.
3. Drains
I dont intend to depart from my previous reasoning in respect of this. In summary, 
Im not persuaded by Avivas argument that overgrown vegetation is the cause of 
the damage to the underground pipes. In the absence of evidence to show how the 
damage occurred  which Aviva has said it cant provide - Im more persuaded that 
it was attributable to landslip. So Im likely to say in my final decision that Aviva 
should pay Mr G the cost to repair damage to the underground pipes which is 
attributable to landslip.
4. Accidental Loss argument
My position remains unchanged in respect of this.
5. Malicious damage
Aviva said Mr G didnt raise a claim for malicious damage and so its not covered 
under the policy. Mr G hasnt provided evidence to show that he did, and so Im 
satisfied there isnt cover in respect of this.
6. Claims handling
My decision remains unchanged in respect of this.
In light of the above, my final decision is likely to say that Aviva needs to pay Mr G for the 
cost of putting right the damage to the building (excluding the concrete slab) and 
underground pipes caused by landslip.
Ill consider any final submissions I receive by 22 June 2022, after which time Ill issue my 
final decision".
Both parties responded to my findings. Aviva reiterated the propertys proximity to the 
landslip meant the damage was unlikely to have been caused by landslip. Mr G responded 
and said the property was not in a poor state at the time of the landslip and provided 
information regarding the propertys renovation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the final submissions, my decision remains the same as that set out in 
my provisional findings of 15 June 2022. Whilst I note Aviva has said the location of the 
property is too remote for landslip to be considered the likely cause of the damage, I am 
more persuaded by Mr Gs expert who said the evidence shows soil from the terrace  which 
was found to have moved downhill  also extended under Mr Gs property. And so, Im not 
persuaded his property was too remote for landslip to be considered the most likely cause of 
damage to his property. 
For completeness, the claim should be accepted as follows:
Crack damage to the property caused by landslip  Aviva should accept the claim in respect of this.
Concrete slab  the slab wasnt specified in the policy schedule meaning the policy 
condition hasnt been met. And so, Aviva isnt responsible for landslip damage 
caused to it. 
Underground pipes  Aviva should accept the claim in respect of damage which was 
caused by landslip.
Malicious damage  Mr G did not submit a claim to Aviva in respect of this, so Aviva 
isnt responsible for putting right this damage.
Claims handling  Im not persuaded Avivas handling of the claim has prejudiced           
Mr Gs position, and so I wont be directing Aviva to pay him compensation.
The parties will need to work together to agree how to settle the claim. I wont be 
commenting on how that figure should be calculated as part of this complaint.  If agreement 
cant be reached, Mr G is entitled to go through the complaint process again regarding the 
settlement figure. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint and direct Aviva Insurance Limited to 
accept the claim as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman