DRN-3214611
Complaint
Ms D has complained that Zopa Bank Limited (Zopa) irresponsibly provided an 
unaffordable loan to her. 
Background
Zopa provided Ms D with a loan in November 2020. The loan was for £3,000.00. The loan 
had a 24-month term and an APR of 26.5%. This meant that the total amount of £3,798.50, 
including interest and other charges of £798.50, was due to be repaid by 24 monthly 
instalments of just under £160.
Ms Ds complaint was reviewed by one of our investigators. She thought Zopa hadnt done 
anything wrong or treated Ms D unfairly. So she didnt recommend Ms Ds complaint be 
upheld. Ms D disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Ms Ds complaint.
Zopa needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Ms D could 
afford to make the loan payments before lending to her. Our website sets out what we 
typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, 
we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
As I understand it, Zopas check suggested that Ms D was employed with an annual salary 
of just under £80,000.00. I also understand that Zopa carried out a credit check which 
showed that Ms D had a number of credit cards and a couple of loans, which shed had no 
significant previous repayment issues with. 
It also looks as though the purpose of this loan was recorded as debt consolidation which 
suggests Ms D was intending to settle, at least, some of the outstanding balances she had 
with some of the proceeds from this loan. Zopa also obtained some information on Ms Ds 
living expenses from her too. 
As there wasnt anything to contradict what Ms D had declared and this was her first loan 
with Zopa, I dont think that it was unreasonable for Zopa to rely on the information it was 
provided with. Furthermore even allowing for this there appears to have been a reasonable 
margin left over to make the loan payments  especially if she did settle some of her other 
commitments as she indicated she would.
I accept that Ms D may well have had difficulty making the payments to this loan. Im sorry to 
hear this and Ive seen that Ms D went on to take a number of loans with other lenders after 
this one. But Im satisfied that Zopas checks before providing this loan were proportionate. 
Id also add that while I think Zopas checks were proportionate in this instance and so it 
didnt need to do more to verify Ms Ds income in the way shes said, Ive not been provided 
with anything that clearly shows that Ms D was earning a lot less than she declared anyway. 
So, in any event, I cant reasonably say that further checks on Ms Ds income would have 
prevented Zopa from lending here either. 
I also think that I should explain that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a 
complaint in circumstances where a lender did something wrong. And, in this case, I dont 
think that Zopa did anything wrong when lending to Ms D. The key thing here is that it 
carried out proportionate checks which suggested the repayments would be affordable for 
her. 
I appreciate that Ms D believes this complaint shouldnt be looked at in isolation and that it 
should be considered in the context of her other complaints. But I have to look at whether 
Zopa acted fairly and reasonably when providing this loan in these circumstances rather 
than reach a conclusion based on factors Zopa wasnt aware of and cant reasonably be 
expected to have been aware of either. And having done so, Im satisfied that Zopa was 
reasonably entitled to believe that this loan was affordable for Ms D.
So overall I dont think that Zopa treated Ms D unfairly or unreasonably when lending to       
Ms D. As this is the case and while I sympathise with Ms D as a result of any difficulties she 
might have gone on to have, Im afraid that Im not upholding her complaint. I appreciate this 
will be very disappointing for Ms D. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision 
and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman