DRN-3607304
The complaint
Mrs K has complained about the way Aviva Insurance Limited handled a sickness claim that 
she made on her mortgage payment protection insurance policy and the amount of 
compensation it has offered her.
What happened
Mrs K made the claim in January 2020. Due to poor communication and failing to follow up 
promised actions, she had to regularly contact Aviva to chase progress on the claim and the 
continuing monthly payments, causing her to raise a number of complaints. Aviva addressed 
these complaints at the time, paying Mrs K a total of £225 in compensation. Having returned 
to work in September 2020, Mrs K then had to stop work again in November 2020 due to the 
impact of the treatment she was still receiving. When she contacted Aviva again to continue 
the claim, she faced further communication issues and delays, resulting in her making 
another final complaint. My understanding is that Mrs K has now received the full benefit 
available under the policy and the claim has closed.
In its final response to her complaint on 18 June 2021, Aviva upheld Mrs Ks complaint and 
acknowledged a series of failings throughout the claims process. To address the further 
problems that continued when Mrs K tried to re-open the claim, Aviva apologized and offered 
an additional sum of £200 in compensation.
Our adjudicator looked at what had happened and didnt think that £425 was enough to 
compensate Mrs K for the distress and inconvenience shed been caused. He therefore 
recommended that Aviva should increase its offer to £500, to which Aviva agreed.
Mrs K disagrees with the adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me 
for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that Avivas handling of Mrs Ks claim was poor. Aviva has itself fully 
acknowledged that its service wasnt up to the standard that Mrs K should have been able to 
expect. The question is what the appropriate level of compensation should be.
Mrs K made the claim because she was suffering from a serious illness that involved having 
major life-changing surgery and debilitating follow up treatment. This was a distressing 
enough situation by itself, but on top of that Mrs K was having to try and deal with Aviva to 
ensure that her claim payments would be made each month. Mrs K has said that this added 
stress and confusion to the situation which impacted on her mental and physical health.
I have no doubt that Mrs K has been through the most harrowing time which was 
compounded by the poor service she received from Aviva. However, as our adjudicator has 
already mentioned, it is not our role to punish the business. Instead, our role is to make an 
award that recognizes the impact that Avivas errors had on Mrs K.
This service tries to be consistent when awarding compensation and our approach is set out 
on our website. I appreciate Mrs K feels very strongly that Aviva should pay her more. 
However, £500 is within the range that we would award where the impact of a mistake has 
caused considerable distress, upset and worry. As such, I agree with our adjudicator that 
£500 is a fair and reasonable amount for the impact that Avivas errors and delays had on 
Mrs K. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ks complaint and require Aviva Insurance Limited to 
pay Mrs K £500 compensation in total. I understand that it has already paid £225 so it should 
now pay Mrs K the balance of £275.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman