DRN-2917759
The complaint
Mr G complained that Bamboo Limited trading as Bamboo Loans irresponsibly 
provided him with unaffordable loans.
What happened
Bamboo provided Mr G with loans as follows:
Date AmountTerm 
(months)Monthly 
repaymentLoan status
Loan one 31/07/2019 £2,000 24 £145.15 Paid February 
2020
Loan two 13/03/2020 £1,200 36 £63.27 Outstanding 
When Mr G complained to Bamboo it didnt agree it had done anything wrong. But, as a 
gesture of goodwill, it offered to reduce the outstanding balance on loan 2 by an amount 
equal to six months payments on the outstanding loan, in full and final settlement of his 
complaint.
Mr G didnt feel this went far enough and so he brought his complaint to this Service.
Our investigator upheld Mr Gs complaint and he set out the steps Bamboo needed to take 
to put things right.
Bamboo disagreed with our investigators view. In brief summary, it said:
it carried out proportionate checks before lending 
Mr G had good affordability and no active adverse information on his credit file at the 
time of either application
there was no evidence that he was struggling financially 
both loans were paid perfectly and Bamboo saw no evidence of detriment  a more 
recent credit report shows his debt balances had decreased and no defaults
Mr G had less debt overall when he took out loan 2 
generally Mr G seemed to manage his credit well.
Bamboo asked for an ombudsman to review the case so the complaint comes to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. Like our investigator, 
and for broadly similar reasons, I dont think Bamboo shouldve provided the loans. 
Ill explain why I say this.
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think 
about when deciding whether to uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan 
repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This 
should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the 
borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable 
and proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were 
done and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there 
was any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. 
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Gs case, I have considered 
the following questions:
did Bamboo complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Gs 
loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? If so, did Bamboo then make a fair lending decision?
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
Did Bamboo act unfairly or unreasonably in any other way?
Bamboo asked Mr G some questions about his income and did its own checks, which 
included taking steps to verify his salary and obtaining information about his credit history. 
Bamboo also relied on statistical information about how much someone in Mr Gs position 
typically spent each month on living costs.For both loans, Bamboo recorded a figure of £2,548 for Mr Gs take home pay. Bamboo 
worked out that Mr G should have had around £1,600 spare cash left in order to make the 
monthly repayments for loan 1 and just over £1,900 disposable income per month 
available to pay loan 2. So it was satisfied that both loans looked comfortably affordable.
I've taken into account what Bamboo has said about how it calculated the affordability 
of these loans before it agreed to lend to Mr G. But, I dont think Bamboo made fair 
lending decisions when it lent to Mr G based on the information it had gathered 
because I dont think its checks were proportionate.
I say this because I think Bamboo shouldve realised that it most likely didnt have a proper 
understanding of Mr Gs financial situation as his use credit looked to be very substantially at 
odds with the amount of disposable income that Bamboo thought he should have. Bamboos 
affordability calculations suggested he could have saved up the amount of loan 1 within a 
couple of months and used this to repay other debt - which shouldve raised a question 
about why he needed to borrow it and whether this expensive loan was in Mr Gs interests. 
And it wasnt obvious why he wanted to borrow loan 2 when Bamboos affordability 
assessment suggested he should already have had significantly more spare cash than this 
available to him out of his normal net income. 
Bamboo could see on its credit checks that Mr G had a long established record of using 
expensive credit, including in the months running up to these loan applications, and hed had 
evident financial difficulty previously. I think this was worrying information, especially bearing 
in mind that Mr G had been in his relatively well paid job for more than 2 years and living 
with his parents throughout. 
So, even though these were relatively small loans, I still think Bamboo needed to do more to 
understand why Mr G was actively taking out expensive credit when this wasnt something 
its affordability assessments suggested he should need to do. In particular, I think Bamboo 
should have done more in-depth checks into whether his borrowing was a sign that he was 
facing problems managing his money. 
I think reasonable and proportionate checks before each loan wouldve involved Bamboo 
obtaining a thorough knowledge of Mr Gs financial circumstances, including evidence. 
Thats because, to my mind, the monthly cost presented a high risk of becoming 
unaffordable or unsustainable over the terms of the loans. Keeping in mind that Bamboos 
checks needed to be borrower-focused, I think it needed to do more to obtain a thorough 
understanding of Mr Gs overall financial situation to be satisfied he could afford these loans, 
particularly bearing in mind that Bamboo had relied on third party data to establish Mr Gs 
income and expenditure but seen no direct evidence. And it hadnt particularly enquired or 
checked, as far as I can see, if he had any costs over and above what would be typical for 
someone in his financial situation.
So, Ive looked at what I think proportionate checks would likely have shown.A more recent credit report shows that Mr G was taking out and repaying multiple loans from 
other high cost providers in the run up to taking out these loans with Bamboo. I think, had 
Bamboo done proportionate checks it wouldve likely seen the full extent of Mr Gs reliance 
on using expensive credit and realised that his pattern of lending showed that it looked like 
he was borrowing in order to maintain his debt repayments to other creditors. And thats 
borne out by the fact that he continued this pattern of borrowing after taking out his Bamboo 
loans as he was stuck in a cycle of unaffordable debt. So Bamboo shouldve realised it was 
unfair to lend to him and it shouldnt have provided either loan 1 or loan 2.
Whilst I've taken into account everything Bamboo has said, including comments made in 
response to our investigators view, the fact that Mr G was able to make his loan repayments 
on time doesnt mean that he was able to do so in a way that was sustainable. And nothing 
else it has said makes me think that its loans were fairly provided  given the evidence it 
shouldve seen showing that Mr G was already in serious financial difficulty when it provided 
these loans. 
The fact that Bamboo understood loan 1 was intended for debt consolidation  in other 
words, Mr G said he would use the loan to repay other debt, doesnt affect the outcome. 
Having seen the extent of Mr Gs money problems, I think it shouldve been apparent that 
there was a real risk he would use the loan instead to meet his immediate financial demands 
rather than apply the money as part of a planned restructuring of his finances. And I dont 
think Bamboo had sufficient reason to think its loan wouldve improved Mr Gs overall 
position sufficiently to achieve a significant and sustainable improvement in his financial 
situation given his outstanding indebtedness overall and his record of repeatedly taking out 
new credit. 
Had more in-depth checks been done, as I think ought to have happened bearing in mind 
the information Bamboo was aware of when it provided these loans, it would have seen that 
Mr Gs actual financial situation showed that these loans were unaffordable on any 
sustainable basis. 
So I cant fairly say that I've seen enough to make me think that Bamboos loans helped 
Mr G to improve his financial situation. And I dont think Bamboo should have agreed to give 
either of these loans to Mr G.
As Mr G has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on loans that 
he shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of what 
Bamboo did wrong. So, I think Bamboo needs to put things right.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Bamboo should pay any additional redress. Mr G 
hasnt commented on that and I havent seen anything which makes me think Bamboo acted 
unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr G in any other way. So Im not awarding any additional 
redress over and above what I've set out below.I appreciate that Bamboo takes a different view and Im grateful to Bamboo for its detailed 
responses to this complaint. If I havent commented on everything thats been mentioned, 
thats because Ive concentrated on dealing with the things that are directly relevant to the 
reasons why Im upholding this complaint and theres nothing more I can usefully add to 
what our investigator has said already.
 
For all the reasons I have explained above, I think it is fair and reasonable for Bamboo to 
take the following steps to put things right.
Putting things right
When this complaint was first brought to us there was still a balance owing on loan 2. If 
Bamboo has sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then take 
the following steps. Otherwise, Bamboo should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the 
results outlined below:
add up the total amount of money Mr G received as a result of being given the 
loans. The payments Mr G made should be deducted from this amount
if this results in Mr G having paid more than he received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement)
if any capital balance remains outstanding, then Bamboo should attempt to arrange 
an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr G.
remove any adverse information placed on Mr Gs credit file regarding these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo to take off tax from this interest. Bamboo must 
give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax it takes off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Gs complaint and direct Bamboo Limited trading as Bamboo Loans to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman