DRN-3785804
Complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) closed his account and recorded a 
fraud prevention marker against him.
Background
In September 2021, Mr Ks account received two payments of £2,100.00 and a further 
payment of £1,850.00. The vast majority of these funds were immediately transferred to an 
account with a crypto-currency platform. 
Barclays subsequently received notifications from the banks sending these payments stating 
that the customers who had made the transfers of these funds had reported being victims of 
fraud. Barclays carried out a review and as a result of its investigation, it decided to close   
Mr Ks account and record a fraud prevention marker.
Mr K subsequently complained about Barclays actions. Barclays didnt uphold Mr Ks 
complaint. As Mr K remained dissatisfied, Mr K referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ks concerns. She didnt think that Barclays had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr K unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr K disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Barclays has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr K is guilty of fraud or a 
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Barclays must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Mr Ks account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Barclays also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr K was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Mr K allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an illegitimate 
payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr Ks complaint, I need to decide whether I think Barclays had 
enough evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr Ks account and that his actions 
suggest he was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Barclays did 
have enough to record a fraud prevention marker here. Id like to explain why in a little more 
detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Mr Ks 
account in September 2021, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Mr K was complicit in this activity. 
Mr K has said that he knows nothing about these transfers as they werent authorised by 
him. He also said that he carried around his bank details on a sheet of paper in a folder and 
this must have been taken by someone else. He also says that the first he knew of these 
transactions was when he received mobile banking notifications on his phone while he was 
having pizza with his friends. 
Ive thought about what Mr K has said. But Im afraid that the available evidence calls into 
question his version of events. Firstly, there were payments to and from the crypto-currency 
platform that the funds were transferred to for almost two weeks in the period leading up to 
the fraudulent activity. Given Mr K received mobile banking notifications and his usual device 
logged in to the mobile banking app regularly during this period, I have to question why he 
didnt report these transactions if they werent carried out by him. The sheer number of these 
transactions during this two-week period means that I cant accept Mr K wouldnt have 
noticed them at the time. 
Furthermore, while Mr K now says that it might have been one of the friends that he was 
having pizza with who carried out this activity, this doesnt explain how this friend, or any 
other opportunistic fraudster, would have transferred the funds to the same platform Mr K 
was transferring funds too. In these circumstances, an opportunistic fraudster wouldnt have 
been able to access the funds once theyd moved on and this calls any possible motivation 
for this into question.   
So Im afraid that there are a number of factors which call into question the plausibility of 
what Mr K has said. And given the implausibility of Mr Ks version of events, Im satisfied that 
Barclays was reasonably entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not that Mr K was 
complicit in the fraudulent activity. As this is the case, I dont think that it was unfair for 
Barclays record a fraud prevention marker in the circumstances that it did.
I now turn to the closure of Mr Ks account. The terms and conditions of Mr Ks account state 
Barclays could close an account, without providing notice, in certain circumstances. These 
included where it had reasonable grounds for thinking a customer commit(ted) (or attempt) 
fraud against us or someone else. 
Ive already explained why I think Barclays was reasonably entitled to conclude that Mr Ks 
account had been used for fraudulent purposes when explaining why it didnt act unfairly in 
recording the fraud prevention marker. As this is the case, Im also satisfied that, for much 
the same reasons, the terms and conditions permitted Barclays to close Mr Ks account in 
the way that it did. 
 So overall I dont think that Barclays acted unfairly towards Mr K and Im not upholding this 
complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr K. But I hope hell understand 
the reasons for my decision and that hell appreciate why a fraud marker has been recorded 
against him. Mr K might find that hes able to open an account with another bank as long as 
he applies for a Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or any such 
equivalent.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman