DRN-3314801
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) failed to offer him proper
support during the pandemic when he experienced financial difficulties and was no longer
able to make monthly payments to his Barclaycard credit card account.
Background
Mr S has said that in March 2020 he tried to contact Barclays to ask for help as he is self-
employed, and his income had been impacted by the pandemic. Hes said he tried multiple
times between March and June 2020 to get through to Barclays on the phone but was
unable to due to long waiting times.
By the time Mr S managed to speak to a Barclays representative in early June 2020 he had
missed multiple payments. He wanted to apply for the Covid payment holidays as set out by
the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) guidance but was told he wasnt eligible as there
were now arrears on his account and the Covid payment holiday was only available to
customers who were up to date with their payments at the point of application. Mr S was
unhappy with that as he felt it wasnt his fault he hadnt applied before the arrears started to
build up on his account. He had tried multiple times to call the business and was unable to
get through.
Barclays accept that its phone lines were extremely busy and wait times were exceptionally
long at the start of the first lockdown. It has said that when its advisor spoke to Mr S in June
2020, they did offer him alternative support, offering to put him on a repayment plan and
freeze the interest from accruing on his account. However, Mr S refused to this option as it
would mean markers for late payments would be registered on his credit file and he didnt
want that to happen.
Mr S continued to miss payments on his account until August 2020, when he made a single
large payment to clear the arrears. However, by this stage there were several months of
missed payment markers on Mr S credit file. Unhappy with the support he had been offered,
and the impact of the markers on his credit file, Mr S complained to Barclays.
Barclays responded saying it hadnt done anything wrong in how it had handled Mr S
request for help. It noted that the FCA guidance for Covid holidays said customers had to be
up to date with their payments in order to qualify for that specific type of relief. Mr S was
three months in arrears by the time he spoke to its representative in June 2020 and while it
accepted that the wait times on its phone lines prior to that were exceptionally long, it said
Mr S couldve also applied for the payment holiday online. It also noted that when Mr S did
contact the bank in June 2020 he was offered alternative support, which he refused to take.
Unhappy with Barclays response Mr S brought his complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision on 14 January 2022. Prior to that Barclays had agreed to 
retrospectively apply a payment holiday between March and August 2020 and remove the 
markers from Mr S credit file relating to these missed payments. As both parties were 
satisfied with this element of the complaint I didnt comment on it directly.
Instead I considered whether or not Barclays had acted fairly when it added the default to Mr 
S credit file in March 2021 and whether or not the amount of compensation suggested by 
our adjudicator was reasonable. 
On these two issues I found that Barclays were entitled to add the default and had followed 
the relevant guidance correctly when doing so. I also found that the award of £50 
compensation by the adjudicator who considered Mr S complaint before me was also 
reasonable. 
Barclays accepted the findings of the provisional decision.
Mr S didnt reply to the provisional decision.
My findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has raised any additional points for me to consider following the provisional
decision, my opinion on the complaint remains the same. For the sake of clarity, I will include
a summary of those findings again
As both parties agreed with the adjudicators recommendation that the Covid payment
holiday be retrospectively applied between March and August 2020, and all markers relating
to missed payments during this time period removed from Mr S credit file, those points were 
not considered in the provisional decision and wont be commented on here. 
Instead I will focus on the two outstanding issues, that is the default that was added to Mr S
credit file in March 2021, and whether or not the business needs to pay him a higher amount
of compensation than that suggested by the adjudicator.
In regard to the default that has now been registered against Mr S; Mr S has confirmed that
he didnt make any payments after August 2020 when he cleared the arrears with a lump
sum payment. He has said that this was because he was still struggling financially as a
result of both the impact of the pandemic and other personal matters outside of work.
He agrees that Barclays did offer to put him on a repayment plan when he rang to make the
payment in August 2020, but he refused this support as the plan that was suggested would
result in markers being added to his credit file which he wanted to protect. He refused to fill
in an income and expenditure form and ended the call.
Ive listened to that call and the representative did make it clear to Mr S that if he didnt make
his contractual repayments his account could end up being defaulted. Mr S was of the
opinion that as he had an outstanding complaint with this service and was waiting to hear
back from us, he shouldnt be defaulted. However, he also confirmed he was unable to make
the required monthly repayments due to the impact of Covid and other personal matters.
Barclays have clarified that it sent Mr S a number of letters in regard to the arrears on his
account after August 2020, including a default notice in February 2021 before the account
was eventually defaulted in March 2021, a year after the first missed payment.
Ive reviewed all of the information regarding the default and how it was applied, and while I
do have sympathy for Mr S situation at the time, Im unable to say Barclays have done
anything wrong in how it has applied the default to his account.
I say this because the Payment of Reporting Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults (PRAAD)guidance as set by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) the Principles for the
Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies document,
says the following:
4. If you fall into arrears on your account, or you do not keep to the revised terms of an
arrangement, a default may be recorded to show that the relationship has broken down.
As a general guide, this may occur when you are 3 months in arrears, and normally by the
time you are 6 months in arrears.
There are exceptions to this which may result in a default being recorded at a later stage,
such as a secured or long term loans, e.g. mortgages, or if the product operates in a more
flexible way e.g. current accounts, student loans, home credit.
If an arrangement is agreed, a default would not normally be registered unless the terms of
that arrangement are broken.
While I understand Mr S feels his account went into arrears for reasons beyond his control,
and that prior to March 2020 it had been properly maintained, there is no obligation on the
part of the business to provide him with the type of support he was requesting. That is, an
ongoing payment freeze which wouldnt impact his credit file, until such a time as his
business recovered from the pandemic. As the rules cited above set out, there is an
obligation on Barclays to report missed payments and to apply defaults within six months of
arrears building up. Which is what it did on Mr S account.
And having listened to the phone call from August 2020, Im also of the opinion that the
representative he spoke to clearly explained to Mr S what would happen if he refused to go
on a repayment plan and continued to miss payments. While I appreciate Mr S was waiting
for his complaint to be reviewed by this service during this time, that review didnt stop or
negate the contractual obligations he had in regard to his credit card agreement with
Barclays. So, I am unable to find Barclays have behaved unreasonably or unfairly in regard
to the type of support offered to Mr S in August 2020 or in how it applied the default in March
2021. And so Im unable to ask it to remove the default marker from Mr S credit file.
Mr S has also said that he doesnt think £50 is enough compensation for the distress and
inconvenience caused by Barclays. Compensation is a personal thing. What is seen as
reasonable by one party may not be considered so by another. Mr S did experience some
inconvenience when he couldnt contact the business. But it has since added the payment
holiday retrospectively and removed the markers from his credit file for the months between
March and August 2020. So I think the amount suggested by the adjudicator feels fair in the
circumstances here. I appreciate that Mr S doesnt agree. But it isnt the role of this service
to make awards in order to penalise businesses for their mistakes and Im satisfied the
business has done enough to rectify the problems caused by the issues experienced by
Mr S in March 2020.
Putting things right
Therefore, Barclays should:
1. Apply the payment holiday retrospectively, backdating it to cover the first missed
payment in March 2020 until August 2020
2. Remove any adverse information reported to the Credit Reference Agencies between
March 2020 and August 2020 inclusive, and3.Pay Mr S £50 compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I partially uphold Mr S complaint against Barclays Bank UK 
PLC
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman