DRN-4048869
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Fortegra Europe Insurance Company Ltd (Fortegra) declined her claim 
for staining damage to her sofa, under her furniture warranty insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs J completed an online form to claim for staining damage to her sofa. She says she 
followed the same process she had done for a successful claim she made the previous year. 
However, this time her claim was declined. Mrs J says Fortegra declined the claim because 
she didnt report each stain individually. But in her claim in 2022 she had reported a number 
of stains at the same time. 
Mrs J says she was told her claim in 2022 had been accepted in error. She queries how she 
was supposed to know that her later claim wouldnt be successful, as she had followed the 
same process as before. She also says Fortegras claim form allows more than one area of 
stain to be added. Mrs J thinks Fortegras actions were misleading and resulted in the 
declined claim. 
In its complaint response Fortegra says its policy terms dont cover damage that occurred 
over a period of time. It says a previous claim was accepted in error, but this doesnt change 
the terms of its policy or obligate it to accept Mrs Js most recent claim. 
Mrs J thought this was unfair and referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold her complaint. She says Mrs J made a claim for multiple stains on her sofa 
caused by her pet dog. This isnt something that is covered by her policy terms. She says 
Mrs J benefitted from the error Fortegra made when accepting her claim in 2022. But didnt 
think this meant it should cover her later claim. 
Mrs J didnt accept this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mrs Js complaint. Im sorry to disappoint her, but I will 
explain why I think my decision is fair. 
The terms of Mrs Js policy say:
Important  The Intention of the cover
The intention of this Plan is to provide cover for individual incidents of accidental staining to 
the outer cover of the item and accidental damage
And:
SECTION 4 - WHAT IS NOT COVERED
Your product is not covered for:
19. an accumulation of multiple different stain types across multiple areas of the item
In her submissions Mrs J doesnt dispute that there were multiple stains on her sofa caused 
by her pet dog over a period of time. I acknowledge her comments that a previous claim had 
been accepted that also involved multiple stains over a period of time. But I dont think 
Fortegra acted unreasonably when relying on its policy terms on this occasion to decline the 
claim. 
The Insurance Product Information Document that was sent to Mrs J makes clear that full 
information relating to this product is set out in the policy terms and conditions. Mrs J doesnt 
dispute having sight of this information when taking out her policy. The terms are clearly 
stated that an accumulation of multiple stains across different areas of the sofa are not 
covered by the policy. 
Having considered all of this, I dont think Fortegra was obliged to accept Mrs Js latest claim 
because its wrongly accepted a claim in 2022. She has benefitted from the claim that 
shouldve been declined. But I dont think Fortegra treated her unfairly in declining to cover 
Mrs Js most recent claim. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do any more.      
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman