DRN-3471202
The complaint
Mr S complained that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans lent to him 
irresponsibly and provided unaffordable loans. 
What happened
Mr S took out two loans with Everyday Loans as follows:
Date 
takenAmount Term Monthly 
repaymentTotal 
amount 
repayableLoan 
status
Loan one 2/11/17 £4,000 24 months £271.15 £6,507.60 Settled 
using 
loan 2 
Loan two 29/9/18 £7,000 60 months £339.91 £20,394.60 active
When Mr S complained to Everyday Loans it didnt uphold the complaint so he brought his 
complaint to us. One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and didnt think Everyday 
Loans should have provided either of the loans. Our adjudicator set out directions indicating 
what Everyday Loans should do to put things right. 
Everyday Loans agreed to uphold Mr Ss complaint about loan 2  but it disagreed that it had 
done anything wrong when it provided loan 1. It mainly said that the loan purpose was debt 
consolidation  in other words, Mr S said he would use the loan to repay other debt  and 
doing this wouldve reduced his monthly spending on credit to around £102, leaving him with 
more than £2,000 disposable income.
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved, it comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website. Having thought about everything, I agree with the conclusion our adjudicator came 
to. Ill explain why I say this. 
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also 
require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify 
the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
As Everyday Loans has agreed to uphold Mr Ss complaint about loan 2, I dont need to 
consider this loan further save to include it in the redress. So Ive concentrated on loan 1.
Before agreeing to provide loan 1, Everyday Loans asked Mr S about his income and 
expenses  including what he spent on his credit commitments. It also did its own credit 
check to understand his credit history and find out about his existing credit commitments and 
it reviewed bank statements provided by Mr S. 
Everyday Loans recorded Mr Ss average monthly take home pay was around £2,046  this 
seems reasonable to me and reflects the information it saw on his payslips and in his bank 
statements. Mr S didnt have to pay rent or mortgage. Everyday Loans took into account 
nationally available statistics when thinking about Mr Ss likely spending. In addition, it 
allowed for a buffer to account for any change in circumstances or one-off additional 
expenses. 
Based on this, Everyday Loans affordability assessment showed that Mr S likely needed to 
spend approximately £2,123 each month  which was more than his income. But it took into 
account that Mr S said he planned to use the loan provided by Everyday Loans to repay 
outstanding borrowing with five named creditors and help with a couple of utility payments. 
Everyday Loans worked out this should save him more than £1,300 each month and so put 
him in a position where he would have around £956 spare cash left after paying for 
everything instead of a monthly shortfall.
This led Everyday Loans to conclude that the loan would be sustainably affordable for Mr S. Like our adjudicator, I think Everyday Loans checks were broadly proportionate. But, despite 
its affordability calculation appearing to show that Mr S should have had enough disposable 
income each month to cover the loan repayments, I think Everyday Loans shouldve realised 
this was unlikely, given the picture painted overall by the other information it had gathered. 
I think Everyday Loans saw that Mr S wasnt managing his money well and he was already 
struggling financially, often in overdraft despite several thousands of pounds extra money 
being paid into his account on top of his salary by other payday and high cost lenders. He 
had, for instance, taken out multiple loans - more than £2,000 worth - from one lender during 
the two months or so prior to applying for this loan. And I think, looking at his borrowing 
record, Everyday Loans could see that he was already over-reliant on credit he couldnt 
afford without borrowing further to pay for it.  
Ive taken carefully into account everything Everyday Loans has said in response to our 
adjudicators assessment about the way it assessed affordability but this doesnt affect my 
overall view that its lending decision on this occasion was irresponsible. 
In its affordability assessment, Everyday Loans had allowed for Mr S repaying a loan 
balance of just £201.56 with the lender he had borrowed more than £2,000 from in recent 
weeks  and hed been borrowing elsewhere as well. As far as I can see the bulk of this 
lending remained outstanding. So I dont think Everyday Loans had sufficient reason to think 
that using this £4,000 loan to repay the debt Mr S had identified was enough to improve his 
overall position sufficiently to achieve a significant and sustainable improvement in his 
financial situation, given his total outstanding indebtedness and reliance on using credit. 
I think its also fair to say that, even with the planned debt consolidation, in reality, it looked 
like Mr S would still need to pay such a significant portion of his income towards credit that 
Everyday Loans shouldve realised that Mr S would likely struggle to repay this loan 
sustainably over the loan term.
So all the indications were that he would most likely remain in serious financial trouble 
regardless. Thinking about all the information Everyday Loans had gathered, I cant 
reasonably say that it made a fair lending decision based on the information in front of it. 
I dont think Everyday Loans was able to safely conclude that loan 1 would be sustainably 
affordable for Mr S. 
And I think thats borne out by the fact that, less than half way into the loan term, Mr S 
returned to Everyday Loans and took out an even bigger loan which he used partly to settle 
the outstanding balance on loan 1 as well as providing him with extra cash.  
I believe that Everyday Loans ought reasonably to have been aware that loan 1 was likely to 
be detrimental to Mr S and recognised that it shouldnt have provided it. So Everyday Loans 
needs to put things right. Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr S to repay the capital amounts that he borrowed 
because he had the benefit of that lending - but he shouldnt repay any more than this. 
Everyday Loans should do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr S received as a result of having been given 
loans 1 and 2. The repayments Mr S made should be deducted from this amount. 
If this results in Mr S having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
if there is still a balance outstanding then Everyday Loans should agree a suitable 
repayment plan with Mr S.
Whilst its fair that Mr Ss credit file is an accurate reflection of his financial history, its 
unfair that he should be disadvantaged by any decision to lend a loan that was 
unfairly provided. So Everyday Loans should remove any negative information 
recorded on Mr Ss credit file regarding loans 1 and 2. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans should give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if 
he ask for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ss complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans to 
take the steps I've set out above to put things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman