DRN-4001296
The complaint
H, a limited company, complains about Starling Bank Limiteds actions when closing its 
business current account and using the money left in the account to repay its Bounce Back 
Loan (BBL).
What happened
H held a business current account with Starling. H also held a loan under the BBL Scheme 
with Starling.
In February 2021, Starling blocked Hs business current account while they carried out a 
review. They asked H questions relating to different cash deposits which had been made 
into the account, and asked H to provide evidence of what the money was for. Hs director 
explained that H accepted cash payments from its overseas customers for deposits to rent 
properties in the UK. H provided invoices to show the transactions which had taken place.
Starling completed their review in August 2021 and wrote to H to inform it they would be 
closing its business accounts and gave 60 days notice. It appears Hs account remained 
blocked  and the accounts closed in October 2021. 
Starling issued a cheque to H for the remaining balance held however, when Hs director 
went to cash the cheque, he realised they had been cancelled. Starling explained they had 
initially decided to repay the money held in the account to H, but then decided to offset the 
money held from the BBL loan H held with them. Hs director complained.
Our investigator reviewed things and didnt think Starling had acted fairly. Initially she said 
Starling were entitled to restrict the account and close it but she thought Starling should 
return the money held in the account to H as she hadnt seen anything to show they were 
entitled to pay the outstanding money from the current account to the BBL. Based on the 
information she had seen, our investigator thought the amount held in the account was 
£61.95  she also asked Starling to include 8% simple interest on this amount.
Starling responded and offered £150 compensation to recognise the distress the 
miscommunication about the cheque payments would have caused. It doesnt appear this 
offer, however, was passed on to H.
H responded and said the cheque it had received was for £1,464.80  not £61.95  so it 
wanted the full money back. H also confirmed it had received an additional cheque for 
£880.22 from Starling.
Our investigator reviewed things again  she found that the £880.22 was a refund H had 
received into its account from one of its customers in June 2022 and the additional missing 
money H was referring to was money held in the dollar and euros account. Our investigator 
asked Starling to provide an up to date statement showing the total amount held in all 
accounts and what had been transferred to the BBL. Starling wasnt forthcoming with this 
information and our investigator chased for a response suggesting that it was likely she 
would ask them to repay H the following:
$1,735.89 plus 8% simple interest
€169.12 plus 8% simple interest
£61.95 plus 8% simple interest.
As no response was received, and H remained unhappy, the complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
In February 2023, I issued a provisional decision. In it, I said;
Ive noted that there is a lot of information which has been shared by H  and a lot of
statements have been provided, albeit, its not entirely clear where the money has been
transferred to when it has left Hs accounts. Like the investigator, Ive considered everything,
but I dont believe its necessary to address each and every point. Im required to meet my
statutory duty to determine this complaint with minimum formality, and so Ill address the
issues that I consider to be the most important. I do stress however that Ive considered
everything that H and Starling have said before reaching my decision.
The main issue to address is that Starling has provided us with very little evidence. We dont
have evidence of:
Why the review took from February 2021  August 2021 and what actions Starling
were taking for this period of time.
Why two months notice was given to close the account, but it appears the account
remained blocked  therefore, resulting in an immediate closure.
Where the money from Hs accounts has been sent to after it left the current
accounts  albeit Starling have confirmed they have offset it against the BBL.
The current or remaining balance of the BBL.
I respect that Starling has internal policies and processes to follow along with legal and
regulatory obligations. But they are also aware of our rules. DISP 3.5.2 states, amongst
other things, that an Ombudsman can reach a decision on the basis of what has been
supplied and take account of the failure by a complainant or a firm to provide information that
an Ombudsman has requested; and.
Therefore, Ive made my findings based on the evidence and information I have received.
The account block, review, and closure
Starling are entitled to review the account under the account terms and conditions. And a
bank isnt generally obliged to provide an explanation as to why funds are generally not
accessible. Having looked at the evidence, Im satisfied that Starling acted in line with their
legal and regulatory obligations when they blocked and reviewed Hs accounts. I recognise
this caused H significant distress as it couldnt access its money or continue with its
business, but I cant fairly conclude that Starling did anything wrong. And therefore, I cant
reasonably uphold the complaint for this reason.
We wouldnt usually confirm a timeframe in which a bank has to carry out a review  but we
would always consider if there were any unavoidable delays. I appreciate H is unaware of
why Starling took the actions they did. Starling has shared information with our service and
while Im unable to pass that information on to H, Id like to reassure it that Im satisfied
Starling had reasonable cause to carry out a review. When financial institutions carry out
reviews, its common practice across the banking industry that the review will require
additional information from the account holder. Often, the information required is related to
the consumers identity, proof of entitlement to recent payments or more details on what the
account is used for. Im pleased to see Starling included H in their review by askingadditional questions relating to recent payments before finalising their review and making the
decision to close the accounts.
At times, following a review, banks sometimes choose to end their relationship with
customers. This can be due to a number of reasons and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason
to the customer. Just the same as if H decided to stop banking with Starling, it wouldnt have
to explain why.
However, Starling can only close accounts in certain circumstances and if its in the terms
and conditions of the account. Starling have relied on the terms and conditions when closing
Hs account. The business account terms explain that the bank can close the account
immediately  or give notice of at least two months. I appreciate Starling did give the notice 
but it appears the account remained blocked, and therefore, H couldnt use it so I have
treated this as an immediate closure. Ive considered the full circumstances of this complaint
and I dont consider Starling has supplied enough evidence to satisfy me that H breached
any of the terms listed to warrant an immediate closure.
Ive thought carefully about the impact Hs accounts being closed on the same day had
compared to if it had been given two months notice. I think the required notice period would
have allowed H to switch its accounts and inform its business clients of alternative account
details. So, to recognise this inconvenience, I think Starling should pay H compensation.
The subscription fees
During the months Hs account was blocked, Ive seen Starling still charged it a monthly
subscription fee of £7 per month. I dont consider this to be fair in the circumstances as H
couldnt use its account; and therefore, it isnt fair that it continued to pay for the service. So,
I think Starling should refund the subscription fee for the seven months H couldnt access its
accounts.
Withholding the funds and offsetting the debt
Im aware Starling used the money held in Hs accounts to repay part of the BBL loan 
albeit I havent seen any evidence of this. Our investigator didnt think Starling were entitled
to do that, and thought Starling should repay the money, including interest, back to H
directly. Ive reviewed the BBL terms.
Term 14 states;
14. SET-OFF
Starling may at its election and at any time set off liabilities of the Borrower to Starling
against any liability of Starling to the Borrower, whether either liability is present or
future, liquidated or unliquidated, and whether or not either liability arises under this
Agreement.
While I dont consider this point to be the clearest, Im satisfied that Starling are entitled to
use the funds H held in its current accounts to settle the debt owed on its BBL account. I do,
however, consider that Starling need to provide an up to date statement to H to show what
amount has been offset against the BBL and ensure this is correct alongside the amounts
held in the current accounts.
I cant reasonably say Starling should give the monies in question back to H directly. I do,
however, recognise Starling caused confusion by sending H a cheque and then cancelling it
without any thorough explanation so I think compensation should be paid to recognise this
inconvenience.Compensation
Im aware Starling have offered £150 compensation, and I think this fairly reflects the
distress and inconvenience caused by closing the account immediately and the confusion 
around the cheques being sent and then cancelled.
So, in summary, I thought it was likely appropriate for Starling to:
Provide clear, up to date statements to show what money has been transferred and
where it has been offset against the BBL debt.
Refund H £49 subscription fees, plus 8% from the date each subscription fee was
taken, up to the date they refund it.
Pay £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Starling responded and accepted the provisional decision.
H responded. In summary, it questioned a refund which was received into its account in 
June 2022, and the amount held in the account at the time Starling closed it. H remained 
unhappy and didnt think the £150 compensation fairly reflected what had happened.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate H feels very strongly about this. Ive thought carefully about the extra points it 
has raised, and agree Starling need to do more to put things right.
The refund of £880.22
Starling confirmed H received a refund into its account in June 2022 for £880.22. Starling 
sent a cheque for this amount to H in November 2022  and Starling confirmed the cheque 
has been cashed. So, Im satisfied H has this money.
I recognise there was a delay in sending the refund amount from June 2022 to 
November 2022. Ive seen nothing to satisfy me that Starling couldnt have sent the refund to 
H when it was received in the account in June 2022. Therefore, I consider interest should be 
paid on this amount to recognise Hs loss of use of the funds.
The money left in the account at the time of closure
H doesnt agree that Starling should be allowed to keep the money it held in its account at 
the time of the closure. Ive explained in my provisional decision why the terms of the BBL 
allow Starling to offset any remaining balance from the loan. So, while I recognise H hasnt 
received this money directly, Im satisfied it has been paid against Hs BBL account, and 
therefore reduced the balance H owes to Starling on this loan. I appreciate H isnt happy this 
has happened, but the terms allow it and therefore I cant fairly say Starling have done 
anything wrong in this regard.
The compensation amount
H has said it doesnt think £150 compensation is fair. While I can award compensation for 
any distress or inconvenience caused by Starlings actions, this isnt intended to punish the 
business but to reflect the impact their actions had on H. Here, Starling closed Hs account 
immediately and then caused confusion with issuing cheques and then deciding to offset the 
balance from the BBL. Having considered everything thats happened, I am satisfied £150 is 
a fair figure in the circumstances.Putting things right
Overall, I consider Starling should have given H two months notice to close its accounts. I 
also think they shouldnt have continued to charge H a subscription fee for a service it 
couldnt use. And I think Starling caused delays when sending H a refund of £880.22 in 
November 2022  so they should pay 8% simple interest on this amount.
I do, however, consider Starling were fair in offsetting the remaining amount held in Hs 
account to the BBL loan so while I wont be asking Starling to pay this to H directly, they 
should provide clear, up to date statements to show the money which has been transferred 
to the BBL. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this 
complaint. To put things right, Starling Bank Limited should do the following:
Provide clear, up to date statements to show what money has been transferred and
where it has been offset against the BBL debt.
Refund H £49 subscription fees, plus 8% from the date each subscription fee was
taken, up to the date they refund it.
Pay 8% simple interest on the £880.22 refund from the date it was received into the 
account, up to the date Starling issued the cheque.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Starling to withhold income tax from the above-
mentioned interest. Starling should give H a certificate showing how much tax is 
taken off if H asks for one.
Pay £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman