DRN-3189263
The complaint
Mr Q complains that he should have received an enhanced annuity when he wanted to take 
his Occupational Pension Scheme benefits in 2011. He said he suffered from a number of 
underlying medical conditions which should have been taken into account when Hargreaves 
Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAM) approached a number of providers to get the 
best annuity for him after he retired. He says he doesnt understand why HLAM became 
involved and thinks this has cost him money as well as not receiving the appropriate annuity 
terms. 
What happened
Mr Q was a member of Joint Industrial Board (JIB) pension scheme until he retired in 
May 2011. Administrators of the pension scheme assisted members on their retirement 
journey and collected all the information required to obtain the most appropriate external 
annuity from the OPS benefits. The information was then provided to HLAM who were 
responsible for contacting various providers for illustrations of the available annuities  
including any enhanced or impaired life options.
HLAM says that in Mr Qs case the providers all declined to offer an enhanced annuity and 
he was presented with an illustration for a standard quote  from the provider that he had 
specifically requested in the application form. 
On 20 July 2011, after the withdrawal of a tax free lump sum, £43,857.17 was transferred 
from the JIB pension scheme to the annuity provider and Mr Qs annual annuity of £1,617.96 
was set up soon afterwards to be paid monthly in arrears.
 
In 2019 Mr Q says he contacted the provider about the value of his pension and, when 
asking it some other health related questions, established that he didnt have the enhanced 
annuity he assumed he held. The provider said Mr Q should contact HLAM to discuss the 
matter further  so he did, asking for an explanation of why his medical conditions hadnt 
resulted in him receiving an enhanced annuity. He also said that, as a comparison, he was 
now receiving an enhanced annuity from a personal pension plan hed recently taken 
benefits from  so didnt understand why he wasnt receiving enhanced terms when hed 
drawn the benefits from the original OPS. 
HLAM didnt uphold Mr Qs complaint. It said that it requested quotations based upon the 
information Mr Q supplied in 2011 and this led to the providers involved confirming that Mr Q 
didnt qualify for an enhanced annuity. It said Mr Q later accepted the annuity quotation 
issued by his preferred provider and that HLAM hadnt given him any advice. HLAM also 
noted that the additional medical conditions Mr Q said he suffered from werent included in 
the 2011 questionnaire, so it confirmed they werent reviewed by the various providers as 
part of the process at that time. 
 
Mr Q said he didnt suffer from the high blood pressure that HLAM referred to within the 
questionnaire. He also provided a list of operations and medical problems hed had within 
the previous 20 years. He said he didnt understand how HLAM had got involved with his 
pension and would have saved himself money if hed shopped around for the best annuity 
himself.
HLAM reiterated its previous response and, as Mr Q remained unhappy, he brought his 
complaint to us where one of investigators looked into the matter and concluded that this 
wasnt a complaint we should uphold. He said that, from what he could see, HLAM sent 
Mr Qs completed medical questionnaire to a number of providers and, following further 
investigation, each provider said Mr Q didnt qualify for an enhanced annuity. So he thought 
HLAM had fulfilled its requirements and, as it was acting on a non-advised basis, simply 
completed an application for the provider that Mr Q chose. 
He said that while he accepted Mr Q had subsequently received an enhanced annuity from 
his personal pension this didnt automatically mean he should have qualified for one from his 
OPS, as the requirements for enhanced annuities change over time. But in any case, the 
decision had been made based on the information Mr Q provided to HLAM in 2011. He also 
confirmed that HLAM had provided a free service so it was unclear to him how Mr Q could 
have saved money.
Mr Q didnt agree with the outcome and so as no resolution could be found the complaint 
has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to learn of the various medical procedures Mr Q has undergone within the last 15 
years or so, and I can understand why he thinks these conditions should have led to him 
qualifying for an enhanced annuity from his JIB pension benefits, similar to the position he 
finds himself in with his personal pension plan. But I agree with the conclusion the 
investigator has reached  which I know will disappoint Mr Q given how strongly I can see he 
feels about this matter, so Ill explain my reasons.
HLAM was appointed by Mr Qs employer to provide information about the annuity options 
available to scheme members when drawing their benefits. The service was provided free of 
charge to members and on a non advised basis  which meant that in this case HLAM 
would simply provide all the information needed for Mr Q to make an informed choice about 
what type of annuity he wanted and which provider he wanted to use. 
HLAMs Key Features Document confirmed the service it would usually have offered Mr Q 
as, we offer products from the whole market. You will not receive advice or a 
recommendation from us. We may ask some questions to narrow down the selection of 
products that we will provide details on. You will then need to make your own choice about 
how to proceed. 
Although HLAM didnt receive payment from Mr Q and no advice was given, we would 
usually still consider whether it did enough to ensure Mr Q understood his options - including 
the types of annuities available. However, in this case HLAM has explained that its role was 
simply to approach various annuity providers on the scheme administrators behalf, using the 
information Mr Q had provided in its annuity questionnaire, to obtain annuity quotations  
including where possible enhanced or impaired life annuities. 
Qualification for these types of annuities would have been determined by lifestyle or medical 
reasons that might have led the providers to offer Mr Q more favourable terms.So HLAM didnt provide Mr Q with his retirement pack or deal with him directly, and this 
situation has been supported by Mr Qs statement to us that he didnt know why HLAM had 
become involved in the process and that hed had no direct dealings with them. So Ive 
looked at the role HLAM did play in this process and whether it acted fairly and treated Mr Q 
reasonably  albeit with no direct contact between them.
I understand that Mr Qs pension scheme administrator was responsible for his retirement 
journey which involved sending him a retirement pack setting out all the options he had 
when drawing his benefits. In May 2011 a completed annuity medical questionnaire, which 
acted as a conduit for at least nine different providers according to the front page, was 
returned to HLAM. Under the section entitled could you be entitled to an enhanced income? 
it said that, on receipt of the completed questionnaire, we will check whether you are eligible 
for special rates. It can take several weeks for a formal quotation to be confirmed, 
particularly if a doctors report is required. 
And the instruction for how to complete this questionnaire, said that complete the full 
medical questionnaire if you or your partner suffer from one or more medical conditions. We 
may be able to obtain special rates for you. So, assuming that Mr Q completed the 
questionnaire as requested, he ought to have been aware that, as part of the service, HLAM 
would check to see if he qualified for a higher income payment  based on his medical 
history. I also think that ought to have made Mr Q aware of the importance of completing the 
questionnaire fully and accurately.
 
I note Mr Q ticked boxes relating to high blood pressure or high cholesterol and kidney or 
liver disease. He explained more fully that I would have to catheteris (sic) 5-6 times a day 
and gave further details around the condition  such as when he last received treatment for 
the condition and when it was first diagnosed. So I think at this point in the process HLAM 
had asked Mr Q to provide details of his medical history  which Mr Q did, before an 
application was submitted to three providers to provide enhanced annuity quotes along with 
a request for an illustration from the provider Mr Q had indicated he would prefer to use.   
Ive seen copies of the replies from those providers dated 19 and 20 May and 17 June 2011, 
stating that Mr Q didnt qualify for an enhanced annuity and that none of those providers 
were able to provide standard quotations. This information was then submitted to the 
scheme administrators along with a standard quotation from Mr Qs preferred provider.
So its not clear to me that HLAM did anything wrong during this process as it simply passed 
on Mr Qs information to a number of providers who were all equally clear that his medical 
conditions didnt warrant enhanced annuity terms. I know Mr Q says he should have been 
offered  and indeed qualified for an enhanced or impaired life annuity, but theres no 
evidence to support such a claim within the correspondence from the providers that HLAM 
approached.
Mr Q has referred to his personal medical history within his complaint to us and has made 
reference to a number of operations and other medical conditions that werent mentioned 
within his annuity medical questionnaire. Im unable to say whether these conditions would 
have meant that Mr Q would have qualified for an enhanced annuity in 2011, but in any case 
they werent disclosed within the questionnaire and I cant hold HLAM responsible for 
medical conditions that werent included within the form  particularly when HLAM didnt deal 
directly with Mr Q and relied on the information he provided at the time.
 
But Ive also looked carefully at an email one of the providers sent HLAM declining the 
application for an enhanced annuity quote for Mr Q. The provider attached a copy of its 
guide to qualifying medical conditions booklet which contained a list of the various 
conditions which may or may not have qualified for an enhanced annuity. Whilst the list wasnt definitive, Ive looked at the conditions for which enhanced terms might be available. 
The list noted chronic kidney failure and high blood pressure, although the second 
condition was only likely to qualify for enhanced rates in conjunction with other medical 
conditions. These were the closest references to the conditions disclosed by Mr Q in his 
questionnaire.
So based upon the information that Mr Q supplied, its not unreasonable to conclude that his 
conditions wouldnt have qualified for enhanced terms in any case. Of course it was the role 
of the underwriter to make that definitive decision and I cant say for sure that Mr Q wouldnt 
have qualified  but I hope Mr Q can take some comfort from the conclusion that the 
evidence would suggest it was more likely than not that he didnt qualify for an enhanced 
annuity based on the information in the questionnaire.
Of course its not possible to know whether the other medical conditions Mr Q said he 
suffered from at the time would have entitled him to enhanced terms  and I note Mr Q says 
that he is receiving an enhanced annuity from the benefits of another personal pension that 
he held. But the providers would have decided about any possible enhancement of terms 
based on the conditions that Mr Q disclosed in the annuity questionnaire to HLAM in 2011. 
Ultimately HLAMs role in that part of process was simply to forward Mr Qs completed 
questionnaire to those providers. It wasnt required to check the information before 
submission, and it was for Mr Q to make his decision based on the responses he received. I 
would have expected him to question whether he was being offered enhanced terms, based 
on the initial questionnaire and its reference to his potential eligibility for special rates 
based on medical conditions.
Ive also looked carefully at the illustration and policy schedule Mr Q received from the 
provider and I note there isnt a reference to an enhanced annuity or even that the annuity 
wasnt standard. I know Mr Q says he simply expected to receive enhanced terms based 
on the medical information he provided but I havent seen any evidence to support his claim 
that he received enhanced terms.
In summary, I cant reasonably say that HLAM did anything wrong here  I think it simply 
carried out the tasks it was asked to do by the scheme administrator and wasnt involved in 
completing Mr Qs medical information within the questionnaire, or deciding if that 
information warranted the enhancement of any annuity terms that were to be offered. 
If Mr Q didnt disclose all of his medical history and conditions at that time, I cant hold HLAM 
responsible for those omissions or the impact that may have had on the underwriting 
process. But overall, I dont think HLAM is responsible for Mr Q not receiving an enhanced 
annuity  if indeed he would have qualified for such terms in any case.  
  
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Mr Qs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman