DRN-3780556
The complaint
Mr G complains that CIGNA Europe Insurance Company SA-NV has unfairly declined a 
claim under his personal accident insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G holds a personal accident insurance policy which provides a list of benefits if he should 
be injured in an accident. This policy is underwritten by CIGNA.
In March 2019, Mr G was involved in an accident when he hit a parked car with his vehicle. 
The police were called, and Mr G was taken to hospital. Mr G was diagnosed with a stroke 
and remained in hospital for approximately two weeks. 
Mr G made a claim to CIGNA under his personal accident policy. CIGNA declined the claim 
as it said the policy only provided cover for bodily injuries suffered as a direct result of the 
accident. It said that there was no medical evidence to show Mr Gs stroke was caused by 
the accident. CIGNA also pointed out that the personal total disablement benefit had an 
upper age limit of 65 years and, as a result Mr G couldnt claim this benefit in any event. And 
it said that the weaknesses Mr G was suffering from didnt meet the requirements for claims 
for the loss of limb either. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr G complained to CIGNA and brought his complaint to this 
service. Our investigator looked into the matter but didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. She found that the medical evidence supplied showed that Mr G had suffered a 
stroke and there was no evidence to suggest that the accident caused his disability. She 
said this would be considered a naturally occurring condition or process, which isnt covered 
by the policy. 
Mr G disagreed with the investigators view. As no agreement could be reached, the matter 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is important to point out that were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free 
alternative to the courts for consumers. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I 
consider to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting on every issue or point made 
in turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mr G. Rather it reflects the informal nature of 
our service, its remit and my role in it.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Gs complaint.
The policy terms and conditions
Insurers are entitled to decide what risks they will accept (in return for the premium). The 
events they will and wont cover just need to be clearly set out in the terms and conditions of 
the policy.
Mr Gs personal accident insurance policy provides cover for several different benefits. In the 
policy wording it describes how the policy will make payment as below:
We will pay you the appropriate benefit shown in the Table of Benefits in your 
schedule if, during any period of insurance, an insured person sustains a bodily injury 
which, within 52 weeks, is the only cause of the condition for which benefit is 
payable. The benefit we pay will be the amount that applied at the date the insured 
person was injured.
The policy provides a definition of the term bodily injury, described as:
A bodily injury which is the direct result of an accidental, external, violent and visible 
cause, including accidental injury as a direct result of being exposed to the elements. 
This does not include an injury caused by sickness, disease or any naturally 
occurring condition or process.
The terms and conditions above state that for any claim to be payable, for any benefit, Mr G 
needs to show he has suffered a bodily injury as defined. And Im satisfied that CIGNA has 
clearly set out the reasons it will accept a claim within the policy terms provided to Mr G.
Medical evidence
Mr G was taken to hospital after the accident, where he remained as an inpatient for 
approximately two weeks. The patient discharge summary from April 2019 gives the main 
diagnosis for his condition as Cerebral Infarction  Left MCA territory infarct, which is more 
commonly known as a stroke. The report shows that Mr G had been treated in the hyper 
acute stroke unit at the hospital after being admitted following the accident. 
Ive also seen a letter from Mr Gs GP from June 2021 in which it says Mr G was found to 
have had a left MCA territory stroke which caused right sided inattention meaning he was 
unaware of things to his right which had caused him to crash. 
Has the claim been declined unfairly?
CIGNA has declined the claim as it says Mr G didnt suffer a bodily injury as a direct result of 
an accident as required by the policy. It said there isnt any medical evidence to show that 
Mr Gs accident caused the stroke. CIGNA says the policy definition excludes naturally 
occurring conditions and that a stroke would be considered as naturally occurring.
Im not a medical professional. In order to reach any decision on the cause of Mr Gs medical 
condition, it is necessary for me to rely on the information provided from those experts who 
have seen and treated him. And in all of the medical evidence Ive seen, including that 
detailed above, the cause of his admittance to hospital has been detailed as a stroke. Ive 
not seen any evidence which says that Mr Gs stroke and the weaknesses he now suffers in 
his leg and arm are as a direct result of the car accident. The GP letter actually suggests that 
it was the stroke which caused him to have the accident. 
None of the medical reports have indicated that Mr G has suffered any injuries in the 
accident and so Im persuaded it is more likely the stroke, which is a naturally occurring 
condition, that was the cause of his current disabilities. Im therefore satisfied that the medical evidence detailed above is insufficient to show that 
Mr G condition meets the definition of a bodily injury as required by the policy. Based on this 
medical evidence, I think it is reasonable for CIGNA to decline Mr Gs claim. 
Mr G has provided detailed accounts of various instances, mainly from his childhood, where 
he has suffered head injuries. From what Mr G has told us it certainly appears that he has 
had to deal with a number of traumatic experiences in his lifetime which may have impacted 
his health. He also has said that he takes blood pressure medication and so he doesnt think 
it is possible for him to have had a stroke. He believes it was the impact of hitting the 
steering wheel following the crash that caused him to black out. 
I would like to thank Mr G for providing this information and reassure him that Ive 
considered his comments carefully. While I appreciate his thoughts on what happened on 
the day of the accident, the medical evidence currently supplied doesnt provide any details 
of any previous brain injury nor does it refer to any injury caused as a result of any impact 
during the crash. Without medical evidence to support his belief about the circumstances, 
Im not satisfied there are reasonable grounds upon which it would be fair for me to ask 
CIGNA to reconsider this claim. Im therefore not persuaded that CIGNA needs to do 
anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman