DRN-2855567
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs E complain that in respect of their home insurance, esure Services Limited 
failed to adequately notify them of a change to the policy limit for Family Legal Protection in 
respect of employment disputes. As a result Mr M hasnt got sufficient cover for employment 
tribunal proceedings he is involved in.
What happened
Mr M and Mrs E bought a policy online through esure in January 2019. This provided 
complimentary Family Legal Protection with a limit of £50,000. On renewal of the policy for 
2020, the limit for employment disputes was reduced to £10,000. Mr M made a claim under 
this section of the policy in December 2020 in respect of an employment dispute.
Mr M says the reduction in the cover for employment disputes wasnt adequately drawn to 
his attention, as the new limit only appeared on page 5 of the Schedule. He would have 
been required to compare the policies for the respective years line by line to find out about 
the change. He has been told there is a likely shortfall in costs of some £25-30,000
Mr M complained to esure, asking that his policy limit be increased to cover his costs. esure 
said that with his renewal documents he was given notification of changes to the policy and 
was advised to read through the document. It said that it had delayed in answering his 
complaint and paid him £50 as compensation for this, but it couldnt agree that the change in 
policy limit wasnt notified to him..
On referral to this service our investigator ultimately found that esure had acted reasonably 
and had adequately advised Mr M of the change in the policy limit.
Mr M didnt agree pointing out that in his renewal invitation letter it said that he had to read 
the renewal update. This document was marked in his online account as Renewal Notice 
Policy Endorsements, and the amendment to the limit is on page 9 of a 28 page document 
and not highlighted. 
The matter has been referred to me for further consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Family Legal Protection is underwritten by a different insurer. It was that insurer who made 
the decision to change the limit. As administrators of the policy it was up to esure to notify 
Mr M of changes to the policy and to sufficiently draw attention to those changes. I also have 
to consider whether, if Mr M had noted the change to the policy limit at renewal, he would 
have decided to buy a different policy.
Mr M received his policy documents for renewal in December 2019. On page one of the 
renewal documents Mr M was invited to read the Renewal update which tells you about the 
changes to your cover that will apply from your renewal date. Following the new policy 
schedule there is then a document headed Renewal update and at the top of that 
document is a box which says: Please read this. It tells you about the changes to your cover 
that will apply from your policy renewal date. The changes are listed in the order in which 
they are set out in the policy, which means the change to Family Legal Protection appears 
towards the end of this document. 
There are also separate product information documents for each of the covers under the 
policy. The Family Legal Protection document sets out under What is insured? that it 
Covers you and your household up to £50,000 (£10,000 for employment disputes) for legal 
assistance in a wide range of disputes.
Mr M has pointed out that the fact the cover has changed is mentioned only once in the 
renewal pack and that the renewal update is referred to in his online account, in the index, 
as Renewal Notice Policy endorsements. I think the documents do adequately warn the 
reader that there are policy changes and though the Family Protection cover is referred to 
towards the end of the renewal update document this is because thats where it appears in 
the policy booklet. So I think the change was adequately brought to Mr Ms attention. And 
though the online index may give this document a different name online, nevertheless the 
document is there and correctly headed and referred to in the renewal invite letter.
As regards the product information document, this sets out to the reader at a glance what 
cover is available. It refers to the limit in cover and if this was important to Mr M I would have 
expected him to read it and decide whether the limit was sufficient.
Even if the change wasnt adequately highlighted I still have to decide what Mr M and Mrs E 
would have done had they spotted the reduction in cover for employment disputes. Given 
that Mr M didnt make a claim under the Legal Expenses cover until almost a year after 
renewal and that the first year was a complimentary offer, I doubt that he would have 
decided to buy a policy from another insurer that offered more legal expenses cover for 
employment disputes.. And, as Ive said if Family Legal Protection was important to him the 
product information leaflet gave all the necessary information about the cover provided and 
in a clear way.
Ive noted that esure paid Mr M £50 in respect of the delay in considering his complaint. As 
complaints handling by a business isnt a regulated activity I dont have any power to 
consider this further.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 July 2021. 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman