DRN-3736006
The complaint
Mr M complains about Allianz Insurance Plcs handling of a claim made under a Complete
Property Owner insurance policy. Mr M also complains about Allianzs subsequent decision
to avoid the policy.
All references to Allianz include its appointed agents.
What happened
Mr M held a Complete Property Owner Insurance policy with Allianz which insured several
properties.
Around March 2020, Mr M made a claim for a fire at one property. Allianz accepted the
claim. As part of its enquires Allianz asked Mr M if hed ever received any County Court
Judgements (CCJs) or criminal convictions. Mr M didnt respond, and Allianz proceeded
with validating the repair costs of the claim.
There followed some discussion around the scope and cost of repairs and the claim
increased in value. So, Allianz referred the claim to a major loss team. The team carried out
searches and Allianz discovered Mr M had received CCJs and a court fine.
Allianz said Mr M shouldve disclosed both the CCJs and fine as a fair presentation of risk
when he took out the policy. So, it said hed misrepresented his circumstances. And Allianz
said that if it had been aware of this information, it wouldnt have offered cover in the first
instance. Allianz therefore avoided Mr Ms policy, returned the premium, and stopped
dealing with his claim.
Mr M was unhappy with Allianzs position and complained. He said Allianz had plenty of
opportunity to vet his circumstances; at the point of application and when he claimed. Allianz
responded and maintained its position to avoid the policy. Allianz offered Mr M £750
compensation for the delays in the claim.
Mr M referred the complaint to our service and said, in summary:
Hed always given Allianz permission to carry out checks on his circumstances, so
why was this only done when he claimed?
Hes a property landlord and CCJs are registered against landlords all the time for
things such as utility bills.
He was unhappy at the delays throughout the claim and ultimately, Allianzs decision
to turn down the claim and avoid his policy.
Due to the delay, the cost of building materials required to repair the property had
increased significantly.
Allianzs actions had caused him and his family a great deal of distress and
inconvenience.
Our investigator looked at everything and recommended the complaint be upheld. They
concluded Allianz had acted fairly in avoiding the policy. But they concluded that the delay
had impacted Mr M because of the increased cost of building materials. So, they
recommended Allianz should calculate how much it wouldve cost Mr M to repair the damage
when he claimed in April 2020 and refund him the difference, plus interest.
Allianz disagreed. It said the fact remained that Mr M hadnt disclosed material facts when
taking out the policy. And had he done so he wouldve known his insurance position at the
time of the loss.
Allianz added it simply hadnt realised Mr M had ignored their initial enquiries, and it didnt
come to light until further checks were done triggered by the increased claim costs.
Our investigator then issued a second opinion and recommended the complaint be upheld.
They concluded that Allianz had affirmed the contract by accepting the claim. And they didnt
think it was fair for Allianz to use the referral to a new team as another opportunity to carry
out the enquiries it made at the start of the claim. So, they concluded Allianz had unfairly
avoided the policy and recommended it now settle the claim.
Allianz disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said that it hadnt affirmed the
contract, as it had acted swiftly once it was aware of the correct information. And it said that
once it had actual knowledge of the true position it didnt take any actions which could be
seen as affirming the contract; instead it halted and withheld a claim payment which was due
to be made and took steps in line with its right to avoid the policy.
The complaint was passed to me and on 7 September 2022 I set out my provisional findings 
where I concluded that I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint. Ive attached an extract 
below.
The relevant law which applies to Mr Ms policy is the Insurance Act 2015 (the Act). And it
says that before a contract of insurance is entered into, the insured (Mr M) must make a fair
presentation of risk to the insurer (Allianz).
This means Mr M was required to volunteer information about his circumstances. And the
Act states that Mr M ought to know what should reasonably have been revealed by a
reasonable search of information available to him.
So I think its clear that in line with the Act, it wasnt for Allianz to conduct the searches as
Mr M says, but rather for Mr M to fairly present the risk in line with what a reasonable search
of his information would show. And it was also Mr Ms responsibility to give Allianz sufficient
information to alert it to the need to make enquiries about his circumstances. I cant see that
he did so.
If a policyholder fails to fairly present the risk, the insurer has certain remedies if the failure is
 what the Act describes as  a qualifying breach. For it to be a qualifying breach the insurer
must show it would have offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the policyholder
had made a fair presentation.
The Act sets out the considerations to decide whether the policyholder failed to fairly present
the risk. And the remedy available to the insurer depends on whether the breach was
deliberate or reckless, or neither deliberate nor reckless.
Allianz thinks Mr M failed to fairly present the risk as he didnt mention any of the CCJs or
the court fine when he took the policy, or at each subsequent renewal. And it says Mr M and
his broker failed to respond to its enquiry about CCJs near the start of the claims process.The terms of General Acceptance in Mr Ms Statement of Fact (which formed part of his
contract with Allianz) state:
This insurance contract is based on neither you nor your director(s) or partner(s) having:- 
any convictions that are unspent under the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974 for a
criminal offence other than (road traffic) motor offencesbeen the subject of any county
court judgement (CCJ)
And:
If any of the facts, statements and information set out in this form are incomplete or
inaccurate, you must contact us immediately. Failure to do so could invalidate your policy or
lead to a claim not being paid.
Having considered the terms, I agree that Mr M failed to fairly present the risk to Allianz
here.
Allianz has provided evidence in the form of an explanation from its underwriter which shows
it wouldve acted differently and not offered the policy renewal in 2020 had it been made
aware of Mr Ms true position.
This means Im satisfied Mr Ms failure to make a fair presentation of the risk constitutes a
qualifying breach of the Act.
Allianz says Mr M deliberately withheld this information. It therefore avoided Mr Ms policy
and returned the premiums as set out in its letter around May 2021. The remedy for a
deliberate breach of the Act doesnt require Allianz to return the premiums, but as Allianz is
entitled to avoid the policy whether the breach was deliberate or not, I consider returning
Mr Ms premiums a fair and reasonable approach in the circumstances.
Therefore, in line with the Act, Im satisfied Allianz was entitled to avoid Mr Ms policy. And,
as this means that  in effect  his policy never existed, Allianz does not have to deal with
his claim. And I think allowing Allianz to rely on the Insurance Act to avoid Mr Ms policy
produces the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint.
Did Allianz affirm the contract?
Our services general approach is that when an insurer finds out that information a customer
provided was incorrect, it can either retrospectively amend the terms of the policy or carry on
with the contract it entered into.
However, if an insurer chooses to carry on with the contract, but then later discovers the
incorrect information, we say an insurer still has the option to retrospectively amend the
terms of the policy. This is because it wasnt aware the information was incorrect when it
decided to carry on with the contract and did so based on the actual information it held about
the customer.
In the circumstances of this complaint, Im not persuaded that the contract was affirmed.
Simply put, the actual information Allianz held about Mr M, up to the point its large loss team
ran a search, was that he had no CCJs or convictions. And so, it proceeded on that basis.
I asked Allianz why it decided to proceed with the claim when it didnt get a response to its
initial enquiries. Allianz said that a decision was taken to go ahead with the claim based on
the information previously provided when the policy was taken out and at subsequent
renewals  that Mr M had no CCJs. And it added to the best of its knowledge it was dealingwith the claim in full until it was made aware Mr M did in fact have CCJs. Allianz added that
it didnt consider this as information it ought to have known, rather information that Mr M
ought to have presented to it.
I accept Allianzs position here. And I agree that its actions dont amount to affirming the
contract.
Delays
Ive next considered whether Allianzs delay in avoiding the policy means it needs to do
anything further on a fair and reasonable basis.
The main arguments to consider here are the increased cost of building materials from the
time of the claim to the time Allianz avoided the policy, and any distress or inconvenience
caused to Mr M because of the delay.
Im not persuaded Allianz should pay for any increased cost in building materials. As Ive
concluded, Allianz is entitled to treat the policy as it never existed, and this includes any
further dealing with the claim. Given Allianzs decision to avoid the policy was based on a
failure to fairly present material information, I dont find there to be a direct causation as to
when Allianz discovered Mr Ms true position and the overall cost of repairs.
And the same logic applies to any compensation payment for the distress and inconvenience
caused. Allianz isnt responsible for either the presentation of the risk or when it ultimately
became apparent. So, the only compensation relevant would be for its handling of the claim
up to the point it avoided the policy. And having reviewed everything, I find Allianzs offer of
£750 fairly and reasonably covers the delays that did occur.
I accept this leaves Mr M in a very difficult situation. But in the circumstances, I cannot fairly
or reasonably require Allianz to do anything differently. So, it follows that I dont intend to
uphold this complaint.
Developments
Allianz didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr M responded and said in summary:
He firmly believed Allianzs actions did amount to affirming the contract; Allianz 
expressed concerns he was underinsured but proceeded to make payments towards 
the claim.
He says Allianz lost its ability to void the policy because it did not act swiftly. Instead 
their actions took place 12-13 months after he claimed. So, he says that this inaction 
by Allianz must be inferred as it choosing to affirm the contract.
Allianz didnt act upon its initial suspicion of underinsurance or CCJs. He says 
Allianz was on notice to act when it enquired about CCJs in April 2020.
That I accepted he had acted deliberately and recklessly based on Allianzs 
comments, but theres no evidence to support this.His CCJs and fines relate to planning law, so he questions why these would affect 
the decision of a prudent insurer? Hes been able to get insurance elsewhere at a 
similar premium, which takes this information into account.
He maintains he fairly presented the risk to Allianz upon taking out the policy.
That if I find the risk wasnt fairly presented, the Enterprise Act 2016 has legislated 
for what should happen in light of the full facts, and that the delays were entirely 
caused by Allianz and its agents.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully reconsidered everything, including the additional comments and evidence 
provided by Mr M, I see no reason to depart from my initial conclusion; that Allianz acted 
fairly and reasonably in relying on the Insurance Act 2015 to avoid Mr Ms policy.
Ill explain why Mr Ms additional information hasnt changed my mind about what Ive seen 
below.
Much of Mr Ms response is based on his assertion that Allianz affirmed the contract. I 
previously set out our services approach to this in my provisional findings (my emphasis in 
bold):
if an insurer chooses to carry on with the contract, but then later discovers the
incorrect information, we say an insurer still has the option to retrospectively amend the
terms of the policy. This is because it wasnt aware the information was incorrect when it
decided to carry on with the contract and did so based on the actual information it held 
about the customer.
Mr M says Allianz affirmed the contract based on its failure to act on the concerns he says it 
held about underinsurance and CCJs. Mr M also says that the courts have stated that 
inaction by the innocent party (in this case Allianz) must be inferred as it choosing to affirm 
the contract. 
But theres an additional consideration which I set out in my provisional decision, which is 
that Allianzs failure to act requires knowledge of the relevant facts. Or in other words, a 
failure to act on the actual information it held. And Im satisfied that in the circumstances of 
this complaint the relevant facts were whether Mr M had any CCJs or convictions.
I accept Mr Ms comment that Allianz had concerns about underinsurance of the property, 
and these continued through the claim. But based on everything Ive seen; I dont find the 
issue of underinsurance a relevant fact linked to the qualifying misrepresentation of the 
policy. 
I say this because in Allianzs letter to Mr Ms broker, where it sets out its intention to avoid 
the policy and the reasons why, theres no mention of underinsurance, rather, the reasons 
given are linked to the non-disclosure of CCJs and convictions. So, I cannot fairly conclude 
that any delay in Allianz acting on concerns for underinsurance were linked to its subsequent 
decision to avoid the policy.
So, in order to uphold Mr Ms complaint, Id need to see firm evidence that Allianz had 
concerns about his CCJs or convictions and didnt act on those concerns.The emails Ive seen show that upon receipt of the claim, amongst other things Allianz asked 
Mr Ms broker, Has [Mr M] received any CCJs, criminal convictions or been declared 
bankrupt?
Mr Ms broker responded and said, With regards to the information you are seeking 
clarification on, can I ask the relevance please? I can understand the question re CCJs as I 
presume this is in order to validate the claim 
Allianz responded and said The background questions are standard questions asked on all 
claims
Im persuaded therefore that this exchange shows two things; that Allianz asked Mr Ms 
broker a standard question about CCJs and convictions as opposed to highlighting it as a 
specific concern. And Mr Ms broker showed they understood why Allianz was asking but 
failed to respond in any event.
I havent seen anything in the correspondence provided by both parties to show Allianz 
highlighted concerns about CCJs or convictions, so I dont agree with Mr M that the 
timescale for any delay in avoiding the policy starts here. Or that Allianz was on notice for 
asking about CCJs and convictions. Instead Im more persuaded Allianz was conducting a 
standard enquiry which wasnt responded to. 
Therefore, Im satisfied that Allianz didnt have knowledge of the relevant facts for two 
reasons. Firstly, Mr M didnt disclose them when he took out the policy, and when Allianz 
asked the question, Mr Ms broker didnt respond, even though they acknowledged they 
understood why the question was being asked.
Having reviewed everything again, Im satisfied the evidence shows that Allianz acted 
promptly when the relevant facts became apparent. Allianz didnt delay in considering how to 
proceed and communicated this clearly to Mr Ms broker. So, I dont agree that Allianzs 
actions prior to this amount to an affirmation of the policy.
Mr M has questioned why his CCJs and conviction should be relevant to a prudent insurer. 
Its not for our service to decide on what risk an individual insurer chooses to undertake. Nor 
is it for me to determine why the risk is acceptable to one insurer but not another. 
In the circumstances of this complaint, it was for Allianz to show that the risk wasnt 
acceptable if it had been fairly presented. And Im satisfied it did so. I can see it explained to 
Mr M exactly how each CCJ and the conviction affected its acceptability of the risk and why 
it wouldnt offer cover. 
Further, the relevant extract of the Statement of Fact set out in my provisional findings isnt 
specific about the type of CCJ or conviction it relates to. It simply says any in both cases. 
So, I think this was sufficient to show that any CCJs or convictions should have been fairly 
presented to Allianz.
Ive considered Mr Ms comments about acting deliberately or recklessly. My provisional 
findings didnt decide whether he had done so, nor did I intend to. I appreciate I referenced 
Allianzs comments here, but the test I set out was whether Allianzs actions in relying on the 
Insurance Act 2015 produced a fair and reasonable outcome. The Explanatory Notes published and to be read alongside the Insurance Act 2015 state, 
In non-consumer insurance, breaches do not have to be careless or deliberate/reckless in 
order to be actionable. Innocent breaches of the duty will also give an insurer a remedy if 
the insurer can show inducement. [that it wouldve acted differently]
So, the finding of whether Mr M acted deliberately or recklessly, or not, doesnt produce a 
different outcome in the circumstances of this complaint. Allianz was still entitled to the 
remedies available under the Insurance Act 2015 in any event. And as I previously 
concluded, Im satisfied that the remedy Allianz chose to apply produced a fair and 
reasonable outcome in the circumstances. 
Ive considered Mr Ms comments about other legislation such as the Enterprise Act 2016, 
but I dont agree that this means Allianzs actions were unfair or unreasonable. Ive already 
determined Allianz was entitled to rely on the Insurance Act 2015 in the circumstances. And 
Ive also concluded there werent any avoidable delays once Allianz became aware of the 
relevant facts linked to the qualifying misrepresentation.
Ive reconsidered my findings on the remaining delays in the claim and compensation offered 
by Allianz. Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as I reached in my 
provisional decision, and for the same reasons.
It therefore follows that I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Allianz Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman