DRN-3444597
The complaint
Miss B complained that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) provided her with 
unaffordable loans.
What happened
Miss B complained about five instalment loans she took out with Lending Stream as follows:
Loan 
No:Date Taken Date Repaid Loan Term Loan 
AmountHighest Total Monthly 
Repayment
1 10-Mar-2021 12-Mar-2021 6 months £400 £123.35
2 15-Mar-2021 23-Mar-2021 6 months £350 £110.12
3 7-Apr-2021 17-Sep-2021 6 months £380 £117.97
4 6-Jul-2021 17-Oct-2021 6 months £120 £35.75
5 2-Nov-2021 4-Mar-2022 6 months £230 £68.53
When Miss B complained to Lending Stream it upheld her complaint about loan 5 and 
offered to put things right in respect of that loan, but didnt feel it had done anything wrong 
when it provided loans1-4. 
Miss B didnt feel this response went far enough so she brought her complaint to us. One of 
our adjudicators reviewed what Miss B and Lending Stream told us about these loans. 
After carefully considering the loan amounts, what was apparent about Miss Bs 
circumstances at the time and her history with the lender, our adjudicator didnt recommend 
upholding Miss Bs complaint about loans 1-4 and he felt that Lending Streams offer in 
respect of loan 5 was a fair way to resolve the complaint overall.   
Miss B disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint. 
Miss B mainly said that Lending Stream failed to conduct proportionate checks before 
agreeing the loans and it could have done more prior to providing the additional finance. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website and Ive used this 
approach to help me decide this complaint. Having carefully thought about everything, I am 
not upholding Miss Bs complaint for broadly the same reasons as our adjudicator but Ill 
explain my reasons in a bit more detail which I hope will help Miss B understand why Ive 
reached this conclusion. 
As Lending Stream has already agreed to refund all interest and charges in relation to loan 5 
and to amend Miss Bs credit file in line with what we would expect a lender to do in these 
circumstances, I havent considered this loan further. Lending Stream has said it will do 
everything that we would tell it to do if we upheld the complaint about loan 5  so theres 
nothing further for me to do in this situation. If Miss B hasnt yet done so and she would like 
to take up this offer then she should contact Lending Stream direct to make the 
arrangements.
I will focus on loans 1, 2, 3 and 4.
Lending Stream provided Miss B with high-interest loans intended for short-term use so it 
needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. Lending Stream was required 
to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any lending was 
sustainable for Miss B before providing it. Our website sets out what we typically think about 
when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its 
reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it 
gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income 
was low or the amount lent was high. 
And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming 
unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Lending Stream asked Miss B for information about her financial situation. This included 
asking Miss B to declare her income (which it took steps to check if required) and obtaining 
information from her about her normal expenses. Lending Stream compared the information 
Miss B provided against national averages and adjusted the figures she provided 
accordingly to ensure that as far as possible it relied on information that was likely reflect her 
actual financial situation as realistically as possible. 
Lending Stream also asked Miss B about any other credit expenses and did its own credit 
checks to gain an understanding of Miss Bs credit history and find out about her current 
credit commitments. 
Lending Stream says the information it gathered about Miss B showed that loans1-4 
shouldve been affordable for her as she would have had disposable income left after paying 
for everything. So it was satisfied that in these circumstances it was reasonable to lend.  
Ive looked at each loan in turn.
loan 1
Lending Stream boosted the amount Miss B had said she normally spent when it considered 
her loan application to ensure it relied on figures that properly reflected the costs the lender 
thought she might typically have to meet. But generally, as this was Miss Bs first loan with 
Lending Stream, I think the lender was entitled to rely on the information Miss B provided in 
the absence of any contradictory information. The information Lending Stream gathered at the time suggested that she was well able to 
afford this borrowing. There doesnt seem to have been anything else shown in the checks 
Lending Stream did that suggested otherwise. At this early stage, Miss B didn't have any 
track record with the lender that shouldve alerted Lending Stream to any underlying money 
problems. And I cant see that there was anything in the information Miss B provided or the 
information Lending Stream shouldve been aware of, which meant that Lending Stream 
shouldve taken steps to verify the information Miss B had declared. 
So I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint about loan 1.
loan 2
Miss B repaid loan 1 early and took out the second loan a few days later, when she 
borrowed a smaller amount than the loan she had just repaid. So I dont think Lending 
Stream wouldve had any particular reason to think that Miss B was having money problems 
at this stage or that it shouldnt have provided this loan. 
Lending Stream asked Miss B to update the information she provided about her finances 
each time she applied for a new loan and the loan repayments still looked to be affordable 
for Miss B. Lending Stream didnt think the credit checks it acquired highlighted anything 
adverse that shouldve put off a responsible lender from lending or make it think it needed 
more information before providing any further credit. I dont think that was an unreasonable 
view for the lender to take based on what I've seen. There wasnt anything at that stage to 
indicate to Lending Stream that Miss B had found it hard to manage the loan repayments for 
loan 1  or that paying for this loan was likely to become a problem. 
So I dont feel I've seen enough to be able to uphold Miss Bs complaint about loan 2.
loan 3
Miss B repaid loan 2 only a few days after taking it out and a couple of weeks later she took 
out loan 3. There was no significant jump in the amount she borrowed that mightve 
concerned a responsible lender  the loan amount was still smaller than the first loan she 
had taken out. Lending Streams affordability assessment suggested that the loan shouldve 
been comfortably affordable for her and nothing in its credit checks seemed to suggest 
otherwise. The loan monthly repayments fell somewhere in-between the repayments owed 
on the first two loans and Miss B hadnt shown any signs that it had been a struggle for her 
finding the money to make those repayments. All in all, I think the checks done were 
sufficient for Lending Stream to agree to lend and its lending decision was supported by the 
information it had gathered. So I cant fairly uphold Miss Bs complaint about loan 3. 
loan 4
I think that Lending Stream ought to have done more in-depth checks before providing 
loan 4. Miss B hadnt yet repaid loan 3 and it looked like shed had a drop in her typical 
monthly income since shed started borrowing from Lending Stream. So I think Lending 
Stream ought to have have taken steps to verify what Miss B was saying about her financial 
circumstances to make sure it properly understood her financial situation before agreeing 
this loan. Lending Stream hasnt shown me it did this. 
So I cant fairly say that it carried out a proportionate check before agreeing to lend to Miss B 
this time. 
But that isnt enough of a reason on its own for me to be able to uphold this complaint. In 
order to uphold Miss Bs complaint about loan 4, I would need to be able to say that if Lending Stream had done a proportionate check before lending it would likely have found 
out information that wouldve made it realise that the loan wasnt likely to be sustainably 
affordable for her. 
So I need to be able to see what I think a proportionate check is likely to have revealed at 
the time.
To help me understand Miss Bs circumstances when she took out loan 4 our adjudicator 
asked her to provide us with her bank statements from around that time to give me some 
insight into her overall finances when she applied to borrow loan 4. 
I havent however been provided with any further information to enable me to say what 
Lending Stream would have most likely seen if it had carried out proportionate checks. So, 
because of this, I am unable to safely conclude that Miss B was given a loan that was 
unaffordable for her and this is why Im not upholding her complaint about loan 4.
To sum up, for loans 1-3, I think its reasonable to say that Lending Stream was entitled to 
decide Miss Bs lending applications based on the information it had available at the time. 
And its lending decisions dont seem unreasonable to me looking at the information it relied 
on when deciding whether to provide these loans. And by the time she took out loan 4, 
although I dont think the lenders checks went far enough, I havent seen enough to make 
me think that a proportionate check, if done at the time, wouldve revealed enough to 
suggest to Lending Stream that this loan was unlikely to be sustainably affordable for Miss B 
and so it shouldnt have provided it. I appreciate this is a disappointing outcome for Miss B 
but hope setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my 
conclusions. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman