DRN-1589591
 
The complaint
Mr D has complained that U K Insurance Limited refused to deal with a claim he made 
under the legal expenses cover of his landlord insurance policy.
All references to the UKI include its agents.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint earlier this year. An extract from that 
decision follows:
"In June 2018 Mr D with the assistance of his wife, Mrs D, made a claim under 
the repossession and rent guarantee section of his legal expenses policy after the tenants in 
a property they own went into arrears. Theyd already served a repossession notice on 
the tenants in May 2018 but as the tenants were still in the property, they needed 
assistance with the eviction. The tenants left the property in June 2018 with rent arrears of 
around £5,000.
UKI referred the claim to one of its panel solicitors to assess but ultimately turned it 
down because it said the arrears started before the policy was taken out in September 2017 
and, therefore, the event that lead to the claim took place before the policy started.Mr 
and  Mrs D didnt agree and said that the tenants only went into financial difficulty in 
late 2017, while UKI was providing cover. But UKI didnt agree.
Mr and Mrs D complained to UKI and said that it had tried not to assist them at every step 
of the process. Among other things they said:
That UKI passed the claim to a firm of solicitors and told them the solicitors 
were acting for them, which they found confusing at the start.
The solicitor who assessed the claim rejected it based on an incorrect 
conclusion which he later withdrew. The solicitor said that Mr and Mrs D hadnt 
obtained certain documentation when the tenancy started but, Mr and Mrs D said this 
wasnt true and that because of the passage of time it was impossible to retrieve 
those documents. The solicitor then changed his opinion but UKI still wouldnt 
provide cover.
They were also unhappy with the quality of the reports the solicitor had relied on.
UKI told them that if they had already taken the tenants to a small claims court 
they wouldnt be covered and the same would also apply if theyd already had a 
solicitor.
UKI also told them that any interest on the rent arrears claim should be removed.
UKI also used the wrong email address to contact them.
UKI regularly offered to help with the eviction even after the tenants had left 
and caused long delays.UKIs representative said they could potentially claim under the property 
damage section of the policy when they mentioned the tenants caused smoking 
damage but it later didnt allow this.
UKI responded to say that any dissatisfaction with the solicitors would have to be directed 
at them as they act solely for Mr D. But it said it was reasonable for it to rely on legal advice 
it had received. UKI also said, under the policy, the date of occurrence had to be within 
the period of cover and as the tenant fell into arrears in May 2017 this meant the date 
of occurrence was before the period of cover. UKI also apologised for emailing Mr D at 
the wrong address and offered him £50 in compensation.
Mr D didnt agree and complained to us. He said the rent arrears didnt start until 
January 2018, which was after the policy was taken out. He said he wanted UKI to pay the 
rent arrears either directly or by paying compensation for the smoking damage caused by 
the tenants. He also wanted compensation for the effort required to make the claim.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld for the reasons UKI gave 
and said that UKIs offer of £50 was fair and reasonable.
 Mr D didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He repeated some of the 
points hed raised earlier and stressed that a UKI employee told him that he could be 
covered for the damage the tenants caused to the property. UKI told us it wasnt aware of 
this but even if that was the case, the solicitors had already advised there was no prospect 
of recovering this. But Mr D said, despite what UKI told us, the solicitor wasnt involved in the 
property damage decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Im not 
considering upholding this complaint.
Mr and Mrs D have raised a number of points that they want our service to take into 
account when considering the complaint. I have reviewed them all, but in this decision I will 
focus on the ones I consider to be the most important.
The policy
Broadly, the legal expenses policy says:
The date of occurrence must be during the period of insurance or during 
the period of cover of a previous equivalent legal expenses policy provided that 
among other things, the insured could not have notified a claim previously as they 
couldnt have reasonably been aware of the insured incident. Also UKI wont cover a 
claim that should have been covered under a previous legal expenses policy.
The period of insurance is part of the general definitions and says this is the 
period between the effective date and the expiry date and any subsequent period for 
which the insured pays premium i.e. the policy year.
The date of occurrence for civil cases is the date of the event that leads to a claim.If 
there is more than one event arising at different times from the same 
originating cause it is the date of the first of these events.
UKI will provide cover under the policy if, among other things, there are 
reasonable chances of success. Reasonable chances/prospects of success means 
that the chances of insured will recover losses or damages must be at least 51%.Rent arrears is defined as unpaid rent that is owed to the insured under a 
tenancy agreement where UKI accepted the claim under the repossession section of 
the policy.
Under the repossession section of the policy UKI will cover costs and expenses 
to obtain repossession of the premises provided that all relevant notices have 
been served correctly on the tenant.
Under the rent recovery section the policy covers costs and expenses to 
recover money and interest due from a tenancy including enforcement of judgment 
subject to certain conditions.
Under the rent guarantee section the policy provides cover for rent arrears while 
the tenant is still in the property subject to certain conditions. Also if the property 
needs to be repaired to enable it to be re-let, UKI will pay 50% of the rent arrears up 
to a maximum of three months or until the property is re-let.
The date of occurrence
I will firstly consider whether the date of occurrence was during the period of 
cover, because if I dont think it was, this means there is no cover under the legal expenses 
section of the policy.
UKI and Mr D agree that the policy started in September 2017. So this is the start of 
the period of cover. This means, for UKI to provide cover the date of occurrence must 
be between September 2017 and the end of the policy year. And, as far as Im aware, Mr 
D hasnt mentioned that he had previous equivalent legal expenses cover.
As I said above, the date of occurrence is the date of the event that lead to a claim. And 
if there is more than one event it is the first of those events if they have the same 
originating cause. I think the event that led to this particular claim (for repossession and rent 
guarantee cover) is the fact that the tenants went into arrears. This is what led to Mr D 
wanting repossession of the property and recovery of his loss of rent. The policy says rent 
arrears are unpaid rent that is owed to the insured. From what Ive seen there were 
several instances when the tenants owed rent to Mr D so, under the policy the date of 
occurrence is the first of those instances.
Mr D has provided a great deal of information in relation to his claim which I 
have considered. He has provided copies of correspondence with his tenants over the 
years, copies of the tenancy agreement, the notice of eviction etc.
Mr D says that the tenants didnt go into arrears until January 2018, when they werent able 
to pay the rent at all. The tenants signed a letter saying that it was only from December 
2017 or January 2018 that they were unable to pay their monthly rent. But as I said above, 
the policy doesnt define rent arrears as the inability to pay rent but as unpaid rent that is 
owed to the insured.
UKI said the arrears were in May 2017 which is what was stated in the schedule that Mr 
D provided. From what Ive seen as far back as February 2017, the tenants were paying 
their rent three months in arrears with the February payment being for December, January 
as well as February. And I also saw that a payment made in December 2016 covered June, 
July and September 2016. And even in September 2017, when the policy was taken out Mr 
D had written to the tenants to say that they were still in arrears from June to September 
2017. But I see that, according to Mr Ds schedule that the tenants caught up with the 
payments by May 2017. Based on this, I think the date of occurrence pre-dates the start of 
the policy and is outside the period of cover. It follows that I think UKI has acted fairly and 
reasonably in saying the claims under the legal expenses policy are not covered.
The appointment of the solicitorsMr D said the appointment of the solicitors was initially confusing as was UKI telling him 
the solicitors were acting for him.
As I mentioned above, for legal expenses cover to be provided, a claim has to 
enjoy reasonable prospects of success. This is a common term and is in most legal 
expenses policies I am aware of. The prospects of success are assessed by solicitors so I 
think it was reasonable for UKI to appoint solicitors when it did.
I dont necessarily consider that a solicitor is acting for the insured at the point when they 
are still assessing the prospects of a claims success. But this doesnt mean that I think the 
insurer is responsible for all the solicitors actions at that stage. Mr D said the reports 
the solicitors relied on which looked into the tenants means and the chances of making 
a recovery against them were poor. I dont think these were UKIs responsibility as I dont 
think it had any control over them but in any event I have seen that Mr D complained to 
the solicitors directly and I think this was the right course of action.
Delays
From what Ive seen Mr D got in touch with UKI in June 2018. UKI wrote to Mr D not 
long after that and asked for certain information and documentation which he provided 
without delay. Mr D said UKI hadnt acknowledged these but by the time he chased UKI it 
had already instructed solicitors to assess the matter.
UKI instructed the solicitors in late June 2018 and chased them on 2 July and on 18 
July 2018. I see that the solicitors asked for a copy of the policy documents on 18 July 2018 
and that UKI provided them two days later. The solicitors called Mr D on 19 July 2018 and 
wrote to him on 31 July 2018 to confirm that they were considering the claim under 
the repossession and rent recovery sections. They said they would be assessing his 
claims chances of success before proceeding.
The solicitors provided their advice in September 2018 and said the claim for 
repossession had no reasonable prospects and that they also couldnt recommend that UKI 
pay the rent guarantee claim. From what Ive seen UKI got in touch with the solicitors shortly 
thereafter when Mr D complained about the quality of the advice and the reports. UKI 
confirmed with the solicitors that the solicitors would be treating this as a complaint against 
them and responding to Mr D- which they did. After Mr D disputed the solicitors advice and 
provided further information, they changed their view in October 2018 and said that the rent 
guarantee cover should apply but stressed it was up to UKI.
UKI then asked Mr D for further documentation so it could consider the rent guarantee 
claim. When it considered the schedule Mr D provided it said that the rent arears started in 
May 2017 which was before the policy was taken out and rejected the claim under the 
rentguarantee cover. Based on the above, I dont think UKI caused any unavoidable delays 
in dealing with the claim.
Property damage
In relation to Mr Ds comments to us regarding a property damage claim, UKI says it has 
no notes supporting what Mr D said. But it said that the damages assessment was within 
the solicitors remit and they advised there were no reasonable prospects of success. 
However, I cant see that the solicitors provided advice in relation to property damage. And 
Ive also seen a letter from Mr D to UKI in November 2018 asking about whether it would 
cover the damage the tenant did to the property in particular smoking damage to the walls so 
I think he made UKI aware of his intention to claim for this.As I said above, I dont think Mr D is able to claim under the legal expenses cover of 
his policy because I think the date of occurrence isnt within the period of cover. But I note 
Mr Ds claim was only assessed under his legal expenses cover. If he believes he has a 
claim under another section of his landlord insurance he may raise this with UKI.
 Finally, UKI has accepted that it was writing to the wrong address and I cant see that 
this has prejudiced Mr D and I think the £50 it offered was fair and reasonable.
 My provisional decision
 For the reasons above, Im not considering upholding this complaint."
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to change any of the findings I made in my provisional 
decision.
UKI accepted my provisional decision and made no further comments. 
Mr D didnt agree with my provisional decision. He said he was disappointed with the 
process and that neither we nor UKI considered the possibility of making a goodwill gesture. 
He said UKI told him it would pay for the painting costs for the property damage if we asked 
it to.
As neither party has raised any new points for me to consider I'm not changing any of the 
findings I made in my provisional decision. If UKI wishes to make a goodwill payment to Mr 
D it is a matter for it to decide. But, in my provisional decision I did say that Mr Ds claim was 
only considered under the legal expenses section of his policy. If he feels that he should be 
covered under a different section of his landlord policy then he is free to raise this with UKI.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2020.
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman