DRN-4363215
The complaint
Mr H complains that AWP P&C SA unfairly reduced a claim settlement under his bicycle 
insurance policy due to underinsurance. It subsequently declined the claim and cancelled 
the policy, retaining the premiums, based on allegations of fraud. 
Where I refer to AWP, this includes the actions of its agents and claims handlers for which it 
takes responsibility.
What happened
In 2022, Mr H was taking part in a race abroad when his bike was damaged. He made a 
claim on his bicycle insurance policy underwritten by AWP. 
AWP said Mr H had underinsured his bike because hed declared the bikes value as £3,000 
when he took out the policy, but hed actually brought it for £3,299. It also became aware 
that Mr H had a set of power meter pedals which he hadnt declared on his policy. Because 
of this, AWP said it would settle the claim using the average clause set out in the policy 
terms. 
Whilst Mr H accepts that he got the purchase price of his bike wrong, he says this was an 
accident. He also says the power meter pedals werent used during the race, hed put the 
original set back on, and hes not claiming for the pedals in any event. So he didnt think his 
claim settlement should be impacted. 
AWP found the official photographers photos of the race online and had them reviewed by a 
third-party expert. Based on this, it said the power meter pedals were on Mr Hs bike during 
the race. As it believed Mr H had been fraudulent in his answers to the enquiries about his 
pedals in order to personally gain something he wasnt entitled to, it declined the claim and 
cancelled the policy on the basis of fraud, retaining the policy premiums paid. 
Mr H raised a complaint which he brought to our service. And our Investigator upheld it as 
she wasnt satisfied AWP had proven, on the balance of probabilities, that Mr H had acted 
fraudulently. She recommended that AWP settle the claim with interest and pay 
compensation.
Mr H agreed but AWP didnt, so the complaint was passed to me to decide. And I issued the 
following provisional decision.
Provisional decision
Underinsurance
Mr H took his insurance policy out online for a period of ten days. AWP has provided us with 
screenshots of the online sales process, and Ive also viewed this myself on the website that 
Mr H wouldve used. 
I can see that when obtaining an insurance quote, Mr H wouldve been asked to add the 
details of his bike in a grey box. Immediately above this, in bold, it says you must include 
power meters & upgrades in the value of your bike.
One of the questions asked in the grey box is whether the bike has been purchased new, 
second hand, or hired. When purchased new is selected, a pop-up box appears which sets 
out the following bullet points:
You must value the bike at the price paid for it.
You cannot choose the price based on what you think it's worth today.
You must include power meters and upgrades in the value of your bike: e.g. pedals and 
saddles.
You must have proof of purchase for this bike e.g. paper or electronic receipt
To move forward with the quote, you must click on a button under the bullet points which 
says, I understand. The website doesnt allow you to click anywhere else on the screen, as 
the website is greyed out behind the pop-up box. 
The last question asks for the bikes value, and then you must add the bike to the quote. 
After this, it asks for the total price of all accessories to be insured. Below the question, it 
says power meters must be included in the bike value.
Im satisfied the question asked is clear. Its set out several times that power meter pedals 
must be included in the value. And that the value is the purchase price of the bike, not what 
Mr H may consider it to be worth. The obligation was on Mr H to provide accurate answers to 
these questions.
Mr H entered £3,000 as the bike value, but hed purchased it for £3,299. Whilst this may 
have been an unintentional mistake, AWP has used this information to determine whether to 
offer a policy, on what terms, and at what premium based on the level of risk Mr Hs bike 
represents. 
Furthermore, the power meter pedals werent included in the bikes value. And as its clear 
Mr H took these pedals abroad with him and they were on the bike at times during the ten 
days of insurance cover  although exactly when is disputed  these shouldve been added 
to the value. Whilst Mr H may not have wanted to insure them, the website was clear they 
werent additional accessories that he could choose whether or not to insure, but rather 
theyre considered to be part of the bikes value and needed to be included within it.
Mr H had an opportunity to notice and rectify his mistake when he received his policy 
documents. The covering letter asks Mr H in bold capital letters to read all information and 
check its correct. And on the next page, the statement of fact shows the bikes value at 
£3,000. 
As the information given was incorrect, Mr H has misrepresented his risk. AWP addressed 
this by applying the policy terms for underinsurance, which says:
Underinsurance 
If the sum insured isnt enough to cover the pedal cycle value, we will reduce any 
payment in line with the reduction in insured value.Accidental damage example
You buy your pedal cycle for £2,000 but insure it for £1,000. If suffers £500 worth of 
damage in an accident. We would only pay £250 towards the cost, in line with your 
underinsurance of 50%.
AWP are entitled to apply the policy terms. But our service would look at misrepresentation 
under the relevant law, which is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA)  which I consider to be a more appropriate approach here. This requires 
consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a 
consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable 
consumer. 
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies it can take provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation, the insurer has to show that, had it been provided with the 
correct and accurate information and no misrepresentation had been made, it would have 
offered the policy on different terms or not at all.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate, reckless, or careless.
In this case, if AWP were able to show that it wouldve done something differently when 
given the correct value of Mr Hs bike, this would be considered as a qualifying 
misrepresentation. So for example, it may have charged a higher premium on the basis that 
a higher value bike with power meter pedals might be at higher risk of theft and any claim for 
loss or damage would be more expensive. In those circumstances, wed consider whether 
Mr H had deliberately or recklessly misrepresented the value of his bike or if it was just a 
careless mistake. 
In either scenario, Mr H wouldnt have had his claim paid in full, if at all. If it was paid, it 
wouldve been settled proportionately based on the difference between the premiums he 
paid and shouldve paid. 
In any event, the policy went on to be cancelled  which Ill address below. 
Fraud
Part of the reason Mr H felt AWPs claim decision was unfair was because the power meter 
pedals werent fitted to his bike at the time of the incident, and he wasnt claiming for them. 
This prompted AWP to do further investigations. It reviewed the post-accident photos 
submitted by Mr H showing the damage to his bike. In one particular photo showing the 
broken chain, the pedal is in shot and the brand name is shown clearly as being the power 
meter pedal. AWP asked Mr H on a call whether hed switched the pedals post-accident, to 
which he answered, of course not. 
Further photos were reviewed from the race including ones taken by the races official 
photographer. These were sent to a third-party bike specialist who said, based on the 
photos, which arent great unfortunately, we would say it would be the [power meter pedals].
AWP asked Mr H why the power meter pedals were in the photos, and he initially didnt 
provide an answer. When questioned again, he said hed used the power meter pedals both 
pre and post-race in the vicinity of where the race took place and hed been photographed doing so. He felt AWP had made assumptions of when the photos were taken but AWP say 
the professionals photographs were time and date stamped and that they were taken during 
the race.
Based on its investigations, AWP considered Mr H had acted fraudulently during his claim. It 
referred to the policy terms which says, If you or anyone acting on your behalf gives us false 
or inaccurate information and we suspect fraud, all benefits under this policy will be void. 
The matter will be recorded with the above Agencies and pursued in accordance with the 
law.
Ive considered whether AWP has acted fairly and reasonably when concluding that Mr H 
has been fraudulent in his claim, based on the evidence available.
Ive reviewed the photos alongside stock photos of the two relevant pedals. There are clear 
distinctions between the two  the power meter pedal is more curved and has a silver axle 
and internal metal ring whereas the original pedals are black plastic. And its these 
distinctions that can be seen in the photos, with the silver parts of the pedal evident. In 
addition, the head unit can be seen on the handlebars in the photos, which connects to the 
power meter pedals. 
I can see that AWP queried the pedals being used on five occasions with Mr H and his 
version of events hasnt always been forthcoming or consistent. This would understandably 
give AWP cause for concern, and I have no clear testimony from Mr H about why the power 
meter pedals are showing in the photos when he insists they werent on the bike at the time 
of the incident. Its also not clear why he would opt not to use these in a race when theyre 
designed to help with performance, but that he would choose to use them before and 
afterwards.
Based on the information available, I can understand why AWP has reached its conclusion 
that Mr H hasnt been truthful in his claim. I dont think its an unreasonable concern given 
the photo evidence and the lack of a consistent testimony from Mr H. It has acted in line with 
the policy terms by cancelling the policy. And it has acted in line with the relevant law  the 
Insurance Act 2015 (s.12)  when retaining the policy premiums. 
Neither Mr H nor AWP responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further submissions for my consideration, I see no reason to 
deviate from the outcome explained in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman