DRN-3044495
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Santander UK Plc failed to account for the full amount of cash she 
deposited using a branch cash machine.
What happened
Mrs D visited a branch of Santander to make a cash deposit. She was directed to use the 
Automated Teller Machine (ATM) by the branch staff and when she put the notes into the 
ATM there was an error. The ATM took the money but didnt confirm the deposit.
Mrs D immediately notified the branch staff about the problem who later checked the 
machine. It was found that the notes deposited by Mrs D were trapped before they could be 
counted by the machine. The cash was put into the purge bin by the staff and the machine 
brought back into service. The next morning, branch staff carried out an audit of the contents 
of the machine to check all the other deposits to see if funds had been credited to another 
account by mistake.
The records indicated that the rest of the deposits matched the entries to the other accounts. 
The trapped money, which was Mrs Ds amounted to £250 and not £500 as shes said.
Mrs D disagreed that shed only deposited £250 and asked Santander for a refund of £250. 
Santander declined to refund this, and Mrs D complained to them about the loss and how 
she was dealt with in the branch. Santander investigated the complaint and accepted that 
the service provided to Mrs D was below their normal standards and paid £50 into her 
account as compensation. They didnt change their position regarding the deposit, so Mrs D 
brought her complaint to our service for an independent review.
It was looked at by one of our investigators who thought the records Santander had provided 
showed that only £250 had been deposited. He did note that the ATM used by Mrs D had 
several errors associated with it but didnt think this was sufficient to change his opinion. Mrs 
D disagreed with the outcome and asked for a further review of the complaint.
Mrs Ds representative made several points about the investigation that he wanted 
considered, including evidence that theyd regularly deposited similar amounts into the 
account, that the ATM had been broken at other times when theyd visited, and the ATM 
machine problems could have resulted in the missing £250 being given to other users of the 
ATM.
The complaint has now been passed to me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs D and NatWests versions of events differ greatly. Where thats the case and where 
evidence is contradictory or incomplete, then I have to consider whats more likely than not 
to have happened on the balance of probabilities. Here the evidence strongly suggests that 
its more likely than not that only £250 was deposited into the ATM.
Mrs Ds representative told us that Mrs D regularly deposited £500 into her accounts and this 
is evidence that when Mrs D deposited funds on the day in question, it was also £500. 
Evidence was sent in of previous cash deposits, but they were for various amounts and not 
consistently £500. So, whilst I appreciate the point made, theres no evidence that £500 was 
always paid in and previous cash deposits arent necessarily evidence of current or future 
deposits. 
It was also argued that the machine at Santander was regularly breaking down and this 
could account for the missing money. Ive examined the service log for the machine that took 
Mrs Ds money and there is evidence of other faults, but theres nothing to indicate that 
previous faults were responsible for the difference in the money Mrs D said she paid in and 
what Santander counted from the machine.
I asked Santander some more questions after the points raised by Mrs Ds representative 
because I wanted to know what happened to the cash once the branch were made aware of 
the problem.
Santander have explained that staff opened the machine and removed the jammed money 
from Mrs Ds deposit. The money was placed into the purge bin inside the machine and the 
machine brought back into service. The next morning the cash in the purge bin was counted, 
which amounted to £250. The purge bin collects cash that hasnt been properly dealt with 
inside the machine, for example damaged notes. So, the jammed cash was kept securely in 
a separate area and counted the next morning. I dont think its likely that an additional £250 
was lost when this procedure happened. Its also unlikely that it wasnt removed from the 
jammed section of the machine because it probably wouldnt have worked if additional cash 
was still left in it.
A further point was raised about Mrs Ds cash being re-issued to other account holders, 
which could account for the lost money. Santander explained that deposited cash from 
customers is not mixed with cash that is paid out of the machine. I dont think its likely that 
Mrs Ds cash was re-issued to other users of the ATM as theyre not designed to work that 
way. The ATM records show that the cash in the machine matched all the other transactions 
and this leads me to conclude that apart from the jammed deposit suffered by Mrs D, the 
other deposits were accounted for correctly. From the evidence Ive examined, I think its 
more likely than not, that Mrs D deposited £250 when she used the ATM, and not £500.
Mrs D argued that because she wasnt dealt with at the counter and had to use the ATM, this 
caused the loss of her funds because the ATM was faulty. Unfortunately, the evidence Ive 
reviewed doesnt support Mrs Ds case. Ive already determined that it was more than likely 
that the cash deposited was £250, so whether it was paid in at the counter or the ATM  it 
would have amounted to the same total, which was the £250 deposited into Mrs Ds account.
Mrs Ds complaint also concerned how she was dealt with at the counter when she reported 
the jammed money. Santander looked into what had happened and recognised that Mrs D 
had to wait too long and wasnt provided with a clear explanation of what was to happen 
next. Santander paid £50 as a goodwill gesture and I think this was an appropriate way to 
deal with the service received at the counter as it would have been a worrying time for Mrs 
D, and she didnt receive the information which would have helped her understand what was 
to happen next. I think this was a reasonable amount of compensation to pay Mrs D and I 
wont be asking Santander to increase this amount. Taking everything into account, I think its more likely than not that only £250 was deposited 
by Mrs D when the machine jammed. The evidence from Santander shows that the other 
deposits matched what had been paid into the machine by other users. The jammed cash 
paid in by Mrs D was put into the purge bin and when counted amounted to £250, which was 
then credited to her account and I wont be asking Santander to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman