DRN-2234569
The complaint
Miss W complains that a car that was supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with 
Startline Motor Finance Limited wasnt of satisfactory.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and have been set out by the 
investigator so I wont repeat them again here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Startline, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss W - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
the car that was supplied to Miss W was about eight and a half years old, had been 
driven for 92,980 miles and had a price of £3,890;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
the car was supplied to Miss W in April 2019 and she experienced issues with its 
diesel particulate filter which led to the dealer regenerating the filter at its cost in July 
2019;
Miss W continued to have issues with the cars diesel particulate filter and she paid 
£300 for it to be regenerated again in August 2019, £25 for a diagnostic report and 
£72 for the filter to be cleaned  she also had to pay £60 for an additional oil change;
the car was recovered by a third party after it broke down and the third party has 
identified issues with the cars electrical system  those issues were investigated by 
a manufacturers dealer which said that the car has non-standard wiring and that, 
because of the issues with it, the car only had a part-exchange value of between 
£1,000 and £1,500;
I consider that the issues with the diesel particulate filter and the electrics are enough 
to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss W  
and the regeneration of the filter in July 2019 didnt properly remedy those issues; 
and
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Startline to allow 
Miss W to reject the car.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Startline to end the hire purchase agreement 
and to arrange for the car to be collected from Miss W  both at no cost to her. I also 
consider that it should remove any information about the agreement that its recorded on her 
credit file.
The invoice for the car shows that Miss W part-exchanged a car which was given a value of 
£390 and also made a deposit contribution of £200. I find that it would be fair and reasonable 
for Startline to refund those amounts to her, with interest. Miss W has paid £300 for the filter 
to be regenerated, £72 for it to be cleaned, £35 for a diagnostic report and £60 for an 
additional oil change  I find that Startline should also reimburse Miss W for those costs, with 
interest.
Miss W has been able to use the car so I consider that its fair and reasonable for Startline to 
keep the monthly payments that shes made under the agreement as payment for that use. 
But these events have caused Miss W considerable distress and inconvenience. I find that it 
would be fair and reasonable for Startline to also pay her £200 to compensate her for that 
distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Miss Ws complaint and I order Startline Motor Finance Limited 
to:
1. End the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from 
Miss W  both at no cost to her.
2. Refund to Miss W the £390 part-exchange value and £200 deposit that she 
contributed towards the cost of the car.
3. Pay to Miss W the following amounts to reimburse her for the costs that shes 
incurred: £300 for the regeneration, £72 for the cleaning, £35 for the diagnostic 
report and £60 for the additional oil change. 
4. Pay interest on the amounts at 2 and 3 above at an annual rate of 8% simple 
from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
5. Remove any information about the hire purchase agreement that its recorded on 
Miss Ws credit file.
6. Pay £200 to Miss W to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience that 
shes been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Startline to deduct tax from the interest payment referred 
to at 4 above. Startline must give Miss W a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if 
she asks it for one.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 December 2020.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman