DRN-1467116
 
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Bank of Scotland Plc (Halifax) mis-sold him a fee-paying 
Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA), which was sold to him in July 2010.
Mr W says he initially went to a Halifax branch to discuss mortgages but ended up being 
sold a fee-paying URCA. 
He says he felt pushed into taking the account and was told that the URCA would bring extra 
benefits such as better interest rates and further discounts but says he couldve got cheaper 
interest rates and products elsewhere. Hes said that he didnt need the benefits provided by 
the URCA as he had the relevant cover elsewhere. 
Mr W is also unhappy that when disclosing a medical condition to the complaint handler at 
Halifax, they laughed at him.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and didnt think the URCA had been mis-
sold. She also explained that our service is unable to look into his concerns about complaint 
handling, but did explain that Halifax has since offered Mr W £50 as an apology due to a 
complaint handler laughing during a call.
Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so asked for an ombudsman to review 
his complaint.
As outlined by my colleague, our service is unable to look into complaints about how a 
financial business has handled a complaint. I therefore wont address that aspect of his 
complaint in this decision. If Mr W would like to accept Halifaxs offer of £50, he should 
contact Halifax directly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve explained our approach to 
complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website and Ive used that to help me 
deicide this case.
Ive started by considering whether Mr W was given a fair choice in upgrading his account to 
a fee-paying URCA. I can see that Mr W had held a fee-free account with Halifax for some 
time. So I think he was aware that he didnt have to agree to it. And hes not said anything to 
make me think he thought he was no longer able to keep his account as a fee-free one 
either. 
Mr W has also said that he was pushed into the account. But looking at Mr Ws comments 
about this, Ive not seen anything to indicate that he was pressured into agreeing to it. On 
the contrary, Mr Ws testimony appears to suggest that Halifax persuaded him to agree to the URCA, and perhaps with the benefit of hindsight, he now believes the account to have 
been poor value for money. However, that in itself does not mean that it was mis-sold or that 
Halifax was wrong to have sold the account to him when it did.
Therefore, I am satisfied that Mr W was given a fair choice when the URCA was sold to him.
Halifax says that the account was sold on a non-advised basis. Whereas Mr W believes that 
he was advised to take out the account. However, for a packaged account to be advised, the 
bank would generally need to assess the consumers demands and needs and then provide 
a personalised recommendation based on those needs. 
Mr Ws recollections suggest that he went in to discuss mortgages, and during that 
conversation it was pointed out to him that a benefit of the URCA was that it provided 
reduced interest rates on mortgages, and so he agreed to it on that basis. Therefore, based 
on what both Halifax and Mr W have said Im satisfied that it was sold on a non-advised 
basis.
This means Halifax didnt have to check if the individual benefits were right for him. But it did 
have to give him the important information about the account and the benefits, so that he 
could decide for himself whether to upgrade.
Mr W says he went in to discuss mortgages and ended up with an URCA, which was 
something he did not intend to take out when he went to the branch. However, just because 
Mr W may not have initially intended to take out an URCA does not mean that Halifax should 
not have, or was wrong to have, discussed one with him. And I understand one of the 
benefits of the URCA was that it provided access to preferential interest rates on its range of 
mortgages. So I cant say that Mr W was misled on that basis. And although Mr W says that 
he couldve got various products (including the mortgage) cheaper elsewhere, Halifax can 
only reasonably be expected to provide information on the products it provides.
Its clear that Mr W was given information about the account benefits and how to use them. 
For example, he went on to register mobile phones under the mobile phone insurance; he 
made multiple claims under the breakdown cover and home emergency cover; and made an 
enquiry with the travel insurance provider.
Mr W says that he already had the cover elsewhere, so felt that the URCA was not 
necessary. But it was up to Mr W, rather than Halifax, to decide whether to keep the existing 
policies or whether to rely on the ones provided by the account. And given the extent of use 
over the years hes had it, its clear that Mr W was, at least initially, happy to rely on the 
benefits provided by his URCA.
I appreciate that Halifax may not have given Mr W all of the important information it 
shouldve during the sale. But looking at Mr Ws circumstances, Ive not seen anything that 
makes me think he wouldve been put off from agreeing to it, had he been given even more 
information about the account and the associated benefits. Therefore I dont think that the 
URCA was mis-sold. 
Mr W has said that Halifax shouldve regularly reviewed whether the URCA continued to 
meet his needs. But it was not obliged to do that. So I cant say it has failed to do something 
that it shouldve done. 
Due to a change in the rules in 2013, Halifax was required to send annual eligibility 
statements to Mr W. These were to remind account holders of the insurance benefits they 
had and the eligibility criteria that applied to each one. And they prompted account holders to 
contact Halifax if they felt the account no longer met their needs. And from what Halifax has provided, I can see that it did send these to Mr W. So I think it took reasonable steps to 
remind Mr W of his benefits and eligibility and provided him with ample opportunity to 
downgrade his account if he felt it was no longer suitable for him.
Finally, Mr W has said that he has a long-standing medical condition which has meant he 
has, until raising this complaint, been unable to downgrade his account. Im sorry to hear 
about Mr Ws condition and based on what hes said about it, I appreciate that it mayve had 
an impact on his ability to deal with his financial affairs. However, I can also see that Mr W 
has made a number of claims, registrations and queries, and even raised a complaint about 
the home emergency cover. So I think there were times when he was in contact with Halifax 
where he couldve requested a downgrade if he wanted to. But even if he was unable to ask 
for the account to be downgraded because of his medical condition, I cant reasonably say 
that was because of something that Halifax had done wrong. 
So overall, I dont think it would be appropriate in the circumstances to require Halifax to 
refund Mr Ws account fees.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2020.
Thomas White
Ombudsman