DRN-4057459
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain about poor advice and service from an appointed representative of 
First Complete Ltd (trading as PRIMIS Mortgage Network) when they re-mortgaged. This 
resulted in them receiving about £6,000 of additional borrowing instead of the £10,000 they 
wanted. They ask that PRIMIS makes up the shortfall. Mr and Mrs P also complain that 
PRIMIS made errors which meant they missed out on lower interest rate products and left 
them on their previous lenders standard variable rate for longer than necessary.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P wanted to re-mortgage and take out additional borrowing of £10,000 for home 
improvements. They took mortgage advice from PRIMIS in late 2021. They say PRIMIS 
failed to submit their mortgage application, which meant they missed out on the lower 
interest rates available at that time.
Mr and Mrs Ps re-mortgage completed in mid-2022. Mr and Mrs P only received about 
£6,000 of additional borrowing, which isnt enough for the work they want to do. They say 
this was because PRIMIS mis-calculated their previous mortgage balance. Mr and Mr P say 
there were delays in the re-mortgage completing, during which time they were on their 
lenders standard variable rate, and PRIMIS service and communication was poor. 
I sent a provisional decision to the parties explaining why I intended to uphold this complaint, 
and what PRIMIS should do to put matters right. Both parties agreed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
PRIMIS recommended a mortgage to Mr and Mrs P in late November 2021 with a five-year 
1.56% fixed interest rate product. PRIMIS asked Mr and Mrs P for the documents it needed 
to support the application to the lender. The adviser said he was away from work with Covid-
19, he had a full diary on his return and was then on annual leave. By the time the 
application was submitted in January 2022 the lender had withdrawn the product.
PRIMIS made an application on behalf of Mr and Mrs P to another lender in February 2022. 
The lender issued an agreement in principle, but declined the application in early March 
2022 due to documents not being provided. Mr and Mrs P say they didnt know any of this 
until they contacted PRIMIS for an update in March 2022. Theyd assumed the application 
for the mortgage recommended to them in November 2021 was going ahead.
A third application was made at the end of March 2022. This lender assessed Mr and 
Mrs Ps application as affordable and offered a mortgage in mid-April 2022. This has a five- 
year product with an interest rate of 2.34%.
Should PRIMIS compensate Mr and Mrs P for the higher interest rate?
PRIMIS didnt submit a full mortgage application on behalf of Mr and Mrs P until late March 
2022  four months after meeting with them. This was at a time when interest rates were 
increasing.
PRIMIS reviewed the application details after the complaint came to us. It said Mr and Mrs P 
wouldnt have met lenders affordability requirements in late 2021. This was because Mrs P 
was employed on a temporary contract in late 2021 with less than six months remaining. 
PRIMIS says some lenders would have excluded Mrs Ps income entirely, while others might 
have asked for evidence her contract would be renewed (which Mrs P might not have been 
able to provide). PRIMIS said Mr Ps income was not sufficient on its own to meet lenders 
affordability tests.
PRIMIS says Mr and Mrs P wouldnt have met lenders affordability tests until mid-2022, 
when Mrs P moved onto a permanent employment contact. PRIMIS says Mr and Mrs P 
would have encountered the same issues with affordability, due to Mrs P being on a 
temporary contract, if theyd asked their lender for additional borrowing in late 2021 or early 
2022.
PRIMIS said Had the correct advice been given (unable to obtain a mortgage at that time) 
we believe Mr and Mrs P are likely to have completed a product transfer with their current 
lender and had to postpone their home improvements until the additional borrowing was 
available which with the benefit of hindsight we now know would have been May 2022.
Having considered what PRIMIS has said and the evidence it provided, I think what it says is 
likely to be right. So what ought to have happened in October 2021 is that PRIMIS should 
have told Mr and Mrs P that they wouldnt be able to re-mortgage or raise additional 
mortgage borrowing at that time.
I think its likely that, if PRIMIS had given Mr and Mrs P this advice in late 2021, theyd have 
stayed with their lender and taken out a new product from their lenders range. Theyd have 
looked for other ways to raise the additional funds, or waited until mid-2022 to ask their 
lender for additional borrowing.
Mr and Mrs Ps previous lender offered a five-year product with a lower interest rate than Mr 
and Mrs P secured when they re-mortgaged. I think PRIMIS should compensate them for 
missing out on this better rate.
Should PRIMIS compensate Mr and Mrs P for delays with the re-mortgage completing?
PRIMIS says the re-mortgage couldnt have completed before 3 May 2022 without Mr and 
Mrs P incurring an early repayment charge. It says the delay in completing the re-mortgage 
was due to a legal issue that came to light immediately before completion, and it isnt 
responsible for delays between 3 and 25 May 2022 while the legal issue was sorted out. 
I think, on balance, this is right. However, had Mr and Mrs P been given correct advice, 
theyd have stayed with their existing lender and taken out a new product when their 
previous product expired. So PRIMIS should compensate them for being on their lenders 
standard variable rate while the issue with the re-mortgage was sorted out.
The additional borrowingMr and Mrs P say when they met with PRIMISs adviser in November 2021 he checked his 
records and calculated the amount theyd need to raise to repay their existing mortgage. 
This was based on the application for their previous re-mortgage (which PRIMIS had also 
advised them about).
To ensure Mr and Mrs P borrowed enough to repay their existing mortgage and have 
£10,000 for home improvements a more accurate figure was needed. Mr and Mrs P were 
taking advice from PRIMIS. I think it ought to have told them they needed to get an accurate 
figure from their lender. Mr and Mrs P say they thought the adviser was able to calculate 
what theyd need to repay in May 2022 and didnt question this.
Unfortunately, the advisers estimate was nearly £4,000 less than the amount needed. I dont 
think its fair to require PRIMIS to make up the shortfall. This isnt money Mr and Mrs P lost. 
They simply borrowed less than they wanted. 
PRIMIS should have advised Mr and Mrs P in late 2021 they were unlikely to be able to take 
out the additional borrowing while Mrs P was on a temporary employment contract. But 
PRIMIS recommended a mortgage to Mr and Mrs P, and they provided the documents and 
information necessary to re-mortgage. One of their aims was to raise additional funds to 
carry out work to the property. Mr and Mrs P say they had to put this work on hold. They will 
have to make an application for further borrowing to their lender or raise the money another 
way. I think PRIMIS should pay compensation to Mr and Mrs P for their disappointment and 
inconvenience.
Communication and service
I think PRIMISs service here was poor. Mr and Mrs P provided information and documents 
for a mortgage application which PRIMIS should have known couldnt succeed. They werent 
told the first application hadnt gone ahead, or that a second application had been made and 
declined. They had to chase PRIMIS in March 2022 to find out what was happening.
Mr and Mrs P were then led to believe the applications had failed due to problems with the 
lenders when, in fact, PRIMIS didnt submit the applications and supporting documents.
When the third application was made Mr and Mrs P say they were unable to contact the 
adviser to check on progress. This was particularly stressful as they were unable to access 
the lenders portal and Mrs P didnt receive messages from the lender and solicitor as her 
number had been recorded incorrectly. Mr and Mrs P say they were unable to get in contact 
with the adviser after completion to ask why theyd only received £6,000.
Almost all of this worry and inconvenience would have been avoided if Mr and Mrs P had 
been given correct advice at the outset  that they should take out a new product with their 
existing lender.
Putting things right
If Mr and Mrs P hadnt re-mortgaged, they would have avoided the trouble, inconvenience 
and worry involved in their re-mortgage process. And I think theyd have secured a lower 
interest rate product. I think its fair and reasonable to require PRIMIS to pay compensation 
to them for this.
We asked Mr and Mrs Ps lender when theyd have been able to book a new product and 
what products would have been available to them. It sent a copy of the letter it sent to Mr 
and Mrs P on 10 January 2022 reminding them that their product was due to expire on 30 
April 2022 and setting out what products were available. This included a five-year fixed interest rate product with no product fee. This product had an interest rate of 1.45% and 
expires on 30 April 2027.
Mr and Mrs P chose a five-year fixed rate product (with no product fee) when they re- 
mortgaged. So, of the products available, I think this is the one theyd have chosen if theyd 
stayed with their lender. Mr and Mrs P had until 2 February 2022 to accept the product and it 
would have taken effect when their previous product ended.
It's unlikely Mr and Mrs P would have been able to take out additional borrowing with their 
previous lender until mid-2022, so any additional borrowing would have been on a different 
product rate.
PRIMIS should calculate the amount of additional interest Mr and Mrs P will pay as a result 
of missing out on the five-year product offered by their previous lender, due to its errors and 
poor advice. For the calculation, it should use:
the balance of Mr and Mrs Ps account as set out on their previous lenders redemption 
statement (that is, without the additional borrowing).
the interest rate for the five-year fixed rate product Mr and Mrs P could have taken out 
with their previous lender (1.45%) as compared to the interest rates they have and will 
pay. That is, their previous lenders standard variable rate (4.99%) from 1 May 2022 until 
the re-mortgage completed. And from then until 30 April 2027 the interest rate for the 
product Mr and Mrs P actually took out with their new lender (2.34%).
In response to my provisional decision, PRIMIS said if Mr and Mrs P had waited until May 
2022 to take out the additional borrowing this would have been at a higher rate. PRIMIS said 
Mr and Mrs P were about £50 better off as a result of the additional borrowing being at the 
rate secured in March 2022 and this should be deducted from the compensation. Mr and 
Mrs P agreed. 
I dont think theres any dispute that PRIMISs service here was poor. Mr and Mrs P were 
given incorrect advice and misled about what was happening with their mortgage 
applications.
PRIMIS waived its £250 brokers fee. I think in the circumstances it was right to do so. Ive 
taken this into account when considering what compensation is fair and reasonable for the 
upset and inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs P by its errors and poor communication.
Mr and Mrs P had to chase PRIMIS to find out what was happening. They had to provide 
documents in late 2021, and updated bank statements for the third mortgage application. 
They were worried about the re-mortgage completing in time for when their existing product 
was due to expire at the end of April 2022 and were unable to contact their adviser to check 
it was progressing.
Mr and Mrs P say they had to put work on their property on hold as they cant pay the 
contractors, due to the additional borrowing being less than they expected. They had 
difficulty contacting the mortgage adviser after completion to ask why they hadnt received 
the £10,000 additional borrowing. And they will now need to look into ways to raise the 
shortfall.
By taking out the mortgage recommended by PRIMIS, Mr and Mrs P did take out some 
additional borrowing  albeit not as much as theyd wanted and expected. On the other 
hand, if theyd known at the outset that they wouldnt get additional mortgage borrowing they 
could have planned differently. As it was, they went to the trouble of re-mortgaging without raising all of the additional borrowing they wanted and were left having to look for ways to 
raise the shortfall.
This whole matter caused upset and inconvenience to Mr and Mrs P over more than six 
months  which would have been almost entirely avoided if PRIMIS had given Mr and Mrs P 
correct advice at the outset. I think its fair for PRIMIS to pay compensation of £500 (in 
addition to waiving its brokers fee) for this.
My final decision
My decision is that First Complete Ltd trading as PRIMIS Mortgage Network should pay the 
compensation as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman