DRN-1548234
The complaint
Mr As complaint is that the vehicle he acquired under a conditional sale agreement with 
Close Brothers Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr A entered into a conditional sale agreement with Close Brothers in early July 2019 
to acquire a used vehicle. Under the regulations, specifically the Consumer Rights 
Act 2015 (CRA 2015), Close Brothers can be held liable if the vehicle wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Satisfactory quality takes into account 
factors such as the age and mileage of the vehicle and what a reasonable person 
would expect taking into account all the circumstances. 
Mr As vehicle was over six years old at acquisition and had been driven around 
108,800 miles. Given the age and mileage of the vehicle, wear and tear would be 
expected. It is possible with older, higher mileage, vehicles that issues can arise 
shortly after acquisition even if they weren't present at supply.
In this case the diesel particle filter (DPF) light came on after Mr A had driven around 
3,000 miles. At this time, he had had use of the vehicle for less than two months. He 
said he drove the vehicle in line with the guidance but after pulling into a car park 
there was a loud noise and the vehicle wouldnt then start. The dealer commented 
that Mr A had said he had driven the vehicle for longer with the DPF light on, but 
Mr A has said this isnt true. Without further evidence that Mr A continued to drive 
with the DPF light on, I have assessed this case on the basis that Mr A acted when 
the DPF light appeared. 
Given how soon after acquisition the issue arose, I find it reasonable that Close 
Brothers paid for the issue to be investigated. The vehicle engine was stripped, and 
following the issues identified, Close Brothers arranged for an independent 
inspection to take place. This happened on 13 September 2019.
The independent inspection report noted that the vehicle had been initially presented 
with a seized engine but after investigation the engine had been freed but there had 
been consequential damage to the crankshaft due to the number 3 shell spinning in 
situ. The inspector examined the dismantled engine and said they were advised the 
oil had been heavily diluted with fuel. They noted the scoring on the number 3 big 
end shell and confirmed the consequential scoring and damage to the crankshaft and 
number 3 big end cap. The inspector noted this was likely due to deterioration in the 
engine oil quality and content.
The inspection report concluded that the damage appeared to be due to deterioration 
of the engine oil quality which it said does occur when dilution occurs due to diesel 
contamination which generally occurs due to failure of the operators regenerating the 
diesel particulate filter. It then said that taking into consideration the time and mileage 
elapsed since acquisition on the balance of probability the faults identified would not 
have been present at that time. Based on the outcome of the independent inspection 
report, I do not find it unreasonable that Close Brothers didnt uphold Mr As 
complaint. 
Mr A didnt accept the findings of the inspection report and provided further evidence. 
I have looked through the report carried out on 21 October after the engine had been 
stripped. This confirms the damage to the crankshaft, and I note it records damage to 
the big end number 4 rather than number 3. It also states that the damage is caused 
by a deterioration in engine oil quality. Parts were sent away for testing and the DPF 
passed.
I note the differences in the October and September reports and the confirmation 
regarding the DPF. However, the reports are consistent regarding the damage being 
caused by issues with the engine oil quality. The October report doesnt state 
whether the issues were present at the point of supply and, on balance, I have put 
weight on the assessment made by the independent inspector in regard whether the 
issues were present at acquisition.
Mr A has provided evidence showing that the MOT in 2018 recorded advisory notes 
for the DPF light and engine oil levels. I understand that he believes this means the 
necessary levels of checks werent carried out before the vehicle was supplied. I note 
these comments but also that the vehicle passed a MOT in July 2019. The vehicle 
did initially fail the MOT at that time but not due to the issues noted in the 2018 MOT. 
The vehicle passed a MOT and the garage that undertook the MOT has said that the 
vehicle was road tested and that no faults or fault codes were recorded. Therefore, I 
do not find I can say that based on the MOT information the issues that caused 
Mr As vehicle to fail were present at the point of supply.
Mr A had the engine rebuilt but said the issues remained and it wasnt until he had a 
further issue addressed, which he says was a serviceable item, that the issue was 
resolved. Mr A said that had the proper service taken place before he acquired the 
vehicle then the issue he experienced could have been avoided. I have looked 
through the service check list from the time of acquisition and this suggests a full 
service check took place. The MOT was also carried out at that time. And on 
balance, I find it more likely than not that the service check did take place and didnt 
raise the issue that subsequently caused Mr As vehicle to break down.
I understand how upsetting this must be for Mr A. He experienced a major issue 
shortly after acquisition and had to undergo an engine rebuild and further repair. 
However, given the age and mileage of the vehicle at acquisition, the subsequent 
mileage Mr A was able to drive before the vehicle broke down, and having weighed 
up the evince provided from the experts, I do not find that I have enough to say the 
vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Mr A also said that he was told his case was being reviewed and that errors had 
occurred. I have listened to the call and Mr A is told that information has been 
missed. It is explained the case will be revisited. Close Brothers confirmed that the case was reviewed by a senior case handler but its view on the case didnt change. 
While I can see that Mr A was given information suggesting that mistakes had been 
made, as a further review took place and this didnt change the outcome, I do not find 
that I can say the misleading information given on the call means that further action 
must be taken.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about with Close Brothers Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 October 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman