DRN-1847681
 
The complaint
Miss P complains that MYJAR Limited lent her money that she couldnt afford to repay.
Background
Miss P took out six short term loans with MYJAR between June 2014 and September 2014. 
Details of these loans are given below:
Loan Date applied Date repaid Capital amount Amount repaid
1 30/06/2014 21/07/2014 £300 £395
2 21/07/2014 11/08/2014 £300 £395
3 11/08/2014 01/09/2014 £300 £360
4 01/09/2014 22/09/2014 £300 £395
5 22/09/2014 06/10/2014 £300 £360
6 06/10/2014 outstanding £300 £200
 
Miss P agreed a repayment plan for loan 6 and has repaid £200 so far. There is an amount 
still outstanding to repay for that loan.
Miss P says MYJAR should have seen she couldnt afford to repay the loans it gave her. 
MYJAR disagrees with Miss P and says it carried out proportionate checks and from that 
could see the loans were affordable. That said, it offered to pay compensation to Miss P for 
loans 3-6.
The adjudicator recommended that Miss Ps complaint should be upheld. In summary, she 
thought that MYJAR should not have agreed any of the loans. She reached this conclusion 
as she felt the repayment that Miss P had to make for loan 1 was a significant proportion of 
her income at that time. 
The adjudicator asked MYJAR to remove any negative information about all of the loans 
from Miss Ps credit file. The adjudicator also recommended that MYJAR refund the interest 
and charges that Miss P had paid on the loans too.
MYJAR disagreed with the adjudicators view. It says based on checks it carried out, while it 
may have been a large proportion of Miss Ps income, this is not an indicator of the loans being unaffordable or sustainable. It reiterated that the offer to compensate Miss P for loans 
3-6 still stands.
As both parties are still not in agreement, Miss Ps complaint has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to make a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure     
Miss P could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish whether 
Miss P could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. 
So it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if they will need to borrow 
more money to afford the repayments.Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ps complaint.
Miss P took out loan 1 on 30 June 2014 for £300. Miss P declared her income to MYJAR at 
this time as £900. The repayment that she would need to make a month later would be, 
including interest, for £395. I can see in this case, the monthly repayment that MYJAR 
required for loan 1 took up a significant proportion of Miss Ps monthly income. 
In the circumstances and despite the checks that MYJAR carried out, there was a significant 
risk that Miss P wouldnt have been able to repay the loan without undue difficulty or 
borrowing further. I dont consider it was reasonable to MYJAR to agree to lend based on 
what it knew about Miss P. It follows that I uphold Miss Ps complaint about loan 1 and for 
every loan it granted after this point.
Putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do
 
refund all interest and charges that Miss P paid on loans 1-6;
 
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*; and
 
remove any negative information about loans 1-6 from Miss Ps credit file
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Miss P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
It is my understanding that Miss P still owes MYJAR some of the principal balance she 
borrowed on her final loan (loan 6). MYJAR may deduct this from the compensation that is 
due to her. But, to be clear, that outstanding balance should be recalculated to remove any 
interest and charges, taking account of any repayments Miss P has made on that loan as 
though they were applied against the principal sum borrowed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ps complaint and direct MYJAR Limited to put things 
right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 July 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman