DRN-3273282
The complaint
Mr Z complains about the poor service and communication he received from Barclays Bank 
UK PLC when contacting it online.  
What happened
Mr Z contacted Barclays to request a copy of his mortgage statement. He says he was 
unable to use the usual secure messaging system as it wasnt working so he had to contact 
Barclays via the online chat function. 
Mr Z says that he was unable to get the information requested via the chat function and he 
had to make a number of requests for the statement. In the end he was able to raise a 
complaint and was redirected to someone who could deal with this request by email.
Barclays responded and upheld Mr Zs complaint. It said the requested documents had now 
been sent to Mr Z. It apologised for the issues Mr Z had with the secure messaging system 
and the online chats and said it would provide feedback accordingly. Barclays credited       
Mr Zs account with £100 compensation for the stress and frustration caused. 
But Mr Z remained unhappy with the response from Barclays  while Barclays had dealt with 
his request for the statement, he felt it hadnt addressed his complaint about problems with 
the secure messaging system and the online chat. And Barclays hadnt provided copies of 
the online chats hed requested. He was also unhappy that Barclays had paid him £100 
compensation directly to his account without notifying him. He had concerns that this could 
have an adverse effect on his tax bill.
Mr Z says he wasnt able to get a satisfactory response from Barclays, so he referred the 
complaint to our service. 
Our investigator considered Mr Zs complaint. She said Barclays didnt need to do anything 
further because Barclays had provided Mr Z with the information to be able to request his 
chats, and although there were possibly issues with the secure messaging system it wasnt 
for our service to tell Barclays how to put this right. She also asked Barclays to remove the 
£100 compensation as requested by Mr Z. 
Barclays accepted the view but Mr Z didnt agree. He said the chat option provided by 
Barclays as an alternative to the secure message system wasnt suitable. He felt our service 
should be able to ensure financial institutions communicate with its customers with respect 
rather than forcing them to make instant decisions. Mr Z was also unhappy that Barclays had 
stopped communicating with him on his complaint.
As Mr Z didnt agree the complaint was passed to me to make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator for largely the same 
reasons. Ill explain why. 
Mr Z made a number of requests to get his statement sent to him and despite being told it 
would be, he had to continue to chase this with Barclays via the online chat function. He also 
wasnt sent the online chats that hed requested. I understand this must have been 
frustrating for him especially as hed used the secure messaging system previously with little 
or no issue. Barclays has acknowledged the poor service provided to him and it upheld his 
complaint which I think was right in the circumstances. It paid him £100 compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused to him. 
Mr Z remained unhappy that he wasnt provided copies of the online chats as hed 
requested. Barclays has provided us with a copy of its email to Mr Z on 4 June 2021 which 
set out how he could request the online chats. So it was then for Mr Z to request these from 
Barclays as it had suggested. Mr Z didnt request the chats until 4 January 2022, so Im 
satisfied Barclays did what it needed to by providing Mr Z with the information needed to 
make his request for copies of the online chats and it was then for him to make the request. 
I note Mr Z has told us that despite making his request Barclays still hasnt sent him the 
online chats directly (although the chats have been provided to Mr Z by this service following 
our request to Barclays). Whilst I appreciate this relates to the same online chats, I dont 
think we can look at this part of Mr Zs complaint. I say this because this part of the 
complaint could only have come to light after Mr Z made the request for the online chats and 
this was after he had referred the initial complaint to us. And as hes now unhappy that 
Barclays havent provided this information as Barclays said it would via the link he will firstly 
need to give Barclays the opportunity to respond to this before this service can consider it. 
Mr Z feels this should be considered in the scope of the initial complaint and is related to the 
IT issues with Barclays systems, but I dont agree. This is because Mr Z couldnt have 
complained about the delays Barclays caused in completing his request via the link Barclays 
provided, as he hadnt made the request until after the initial complaint was referred to us. 
Further Mr Z doesnt feel the online chat option offered to him, when the secure messaging 
system was not working, was an adequate replacement. He felt it didnt give customers 
enough time to consider their responses before replying. I can understand Mr Zs concerns, 
but we arent here to tell a business how to fix its IT issues or tell it what processes or 
communication methods it must use to connect with its customers, that is a commercial 
decision for Barclays to make. Barclays have told us that the secure messaging system, is 
still available and if Mr Z is having issues using it, he can contact it directly to address any 
problems.  
What I can consider is the impact that Barclays choices might have on its customers and 
compensate them for any trouble and upset caused to them. As mentioned above Barclays 
paid Mr Z compensation of £100 which I think is fair. So I dont think Barclays need to do 
anything further in this regard.  
I also understand that Mr Z wasnt happy that Barclays had paid the compensation directly 
into his account without letting him know first. Mr Z told us he was concerned about the 
impact this could have had on his tax bill. Whilst this isnt uncommon practice, I do think it 
would have been better for Barclays to speak to Mr Z first. But as I havent been provided 
any evidence that this had a negative impact on his tax bill I dont think Barclays need to do 
anything further. And I note that Barclays has now removed this as requested by Mr Z. 
Mr Z is also unhappy that Barclays had stopped communicating with him before coming to 
an agreed conclusion on the complaint and he felt it had ended the complaint in an uncivilised way. DISP (Dispute Resolution Rules) sets out the jurisdiction of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. In broad terms, a person needs to be a customer of the business and 
be complaining about something in relation to what is called a regulated activity. Regulated 
activities are defined by the Regulated Activities Order (the RAO) and incorporated into 
DISP. The activity of handling a complaint isnt amongst them. As a result, a complaint about 
the way a business has responded to a complaint isnt something that falls within the scope 
of our rules.
That means that, under our rules, we have no power to consider how Barclays addressed 
the complaint. I dont want Mr Z to think thats down to a technicality. I can only work with the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, and if I were to decide the merits of this aspect 
of his complaint, Id be acting outside my statutory powers. Any decision I reached on it 
would have no standing and Barclays could quite legitimately disregard it.
Overall, I find the offer made by Barclays to be fair and reasonable and in line with what I 
would have awarded in similar circumstances. I therefore make no further award against it. I 
note Barclays removed the £100 compensation at Mr Zs request, but should he now decide 
to accept it Barclays should contact him directly to arrange for it to be paid to him.  
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman