DRN-3123202
The complaint
Mrs A acquired a used car in July 2020, by means of a hire purchase agreement over 
60 months with Advantage Finance Ltd. Her car was written off in a no-fault accident in May 
2021. An insurance claim was raised, and Advantage gave her a settlement figure to 
terminate her agreement. She complains that the settlement figure is incorrectly calculated.
What happened
Mrs A is represented in this complaint by a family member. But, for ease of presentation in 
this decision, I shall refer to Mrs A as if she is not represented.
Mrs A complained to Advantage in June 2021. She said that it had used an incorrect figure 
for the rebate of financing charges payable under her agreement, to determine the amount 
required to settle her agreement account.
Mrs A added that the settlement figure was more than she had borrowed  which could not 
be correct. She asked for a breakdown of how the rebate had been calculated.
Advantage responded to Mrs A saying:
The rebate had been calculated in line with the relevant regulations, and according to 
the mathematical formula set out in its letter to her
It had no discretion over the amount of rebate that she should receive, because the 
method of calculation was set out in statute
The method of calculation was extremely complicated, and her rebate had been 
computer calculated  but it had used a spreadsheet calculator to double-check the 
accuracy of these calculations, and it was able to confirm their accuracy
She could also obtain verification of the rebate calculation by an independent 
organisation, if she wished
It was unable to uphold her complaint
Mrs A then referred her complaint to us. Our investigator did not think it should be upheld. 
Our investigator noted that:
Advantage had provided to Mrs A both the formula used to calculate her rebate, and 
a guide to how the calculations were made
Advantage had also double-checked the calculations
Mrs A had not provided to us the results of an independent calculation of the rebate 
to which she was entitled
 
Our investigator felt that Advantage had been frank and open in its response. Our 
investigator concluded that the settlement figure was correct, and consistent with the terms 
and conditions of Mrs As agreement. 
Mrs A disagreed with our investigator, and so this complaint was referred for review by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs A acquired a car the cash price of which was just under £8,400. But the additional 
financing charges she agreed to pay under her hire purchase agreement were just under 
£8,400. So, the total amount that would be repayable over her agreements 60-month term 
was just under £16,800.
Mrs As agreement was terminated after 10 months, during which she made 10 monthly 
repayments (as required by the agreement). Because of this early termination, some of the 
financing charges no longer applied, and a formula (set out in statute) was used to calculate 
the rebate to which she was entitled.   
Mrs As monthly repayments had reduced her account balance to a little over £14,000. 
Advantage applied the rebate (just over £5,600) to her account. This reduced the settlement 
figure to a little over £8,400.
Advantage also applied to Mrs As account a payment of a little over £7,300, made by her 
cars insurer because it had been written off. This left an outstanding balance of a little over 
£1,100, as the amount she is required to pay Advantage. 
Mrs A pointed out that the settlement figure (a little over £8,400) amounted to more than she 
had borrowed (just under £8,400), And, individually, the cars cash price and the financing 
charges were both marginally less than the settlement figure. 
I sympathise with Mrs A. But her outstanding balance arose from a combination of:
The way in which the price of goods acquired (the principal) and financing charges 
are repaid in a hire purchase agreement  the monthly repayments do not change, 
but the balance within each repayment between paying back the principal and the 
finance charges does change
The write-off value of her car (car depreciation is affected by market forces)
I have reviewed the available evidence, and I cannot see anything to suggest that the 
settlement figure has been incorrectly calculated. So, I have come to the same conclusion as 
our investigator, for similar reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Roy Mawford
Ombudsman