DRN-2430677
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited unreasonably refused to pay his claim for 
the loss of some belongings under his travel policy.
What happened
Mr T was on holiday abroad in September 2018. He has travel insurance through his bank 
account which is underwritten by Aviva. He lost a bag at the end of his trip which he said 
contained personal belongings and cash worth around £2,500. 
He said he reported the loss to Aviva when he returned home to the UK. He initially said he 
thought he lost it in a shop or a restaurant, but he wasnt sure as he was in a rush to get to 
the airport. However, he said he had contact details of the shops he went to. Later in 
January 2019 he told Aviva he didnt know where he lost it. But he had been in contact with 
one of the shop owners via social media. 
On this basis, Aviva asked for further information in order to validate his claim. Mr D 
produced the screen shots of the conversation he had with the shop owner, which said the 
shop owner didnt find the bag in the shop. Aviva tried to contact the shop owner, but the 
telephone number wasnt valid.
So, Aviva didnt think there was sufficient validation of Mr Ds claim, so it refused to pay it in 
May 2019. Mr D complained but Aviva wouldnt change its stance, so Mr D brought his 
complaint to is.
The investigator ultimately didnt think Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. Mr D didnt agree 
so his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why. 
Its not clear to me that there is sufficient evidence that Mr D lost his bag with his belongings 
in this shop. This is because Mr D said initially said he wasnt sure where he lost it, it could 
have been in this shop or other shops or a restaurant. He said he was in a rush to get to the 
airport because he had got mixed up in the timings of his flight.
He later thought he lost his bag in this one shop where he was able to contact the owner via 
social media, who said his bag wasnt found in his shop. He gave the address of the shop to 
Aviva along with the contact details of the owner. I consider Aviva has used its very best 
endeavours (and indeed put itself at some considerable cost in doing so, given it had to 
engage agents in the country where Mr D had been on holiday) to find the shop. It couldnt 
do that because the shop wasnt at the address Mr D had given to Aviva. It also attempted to 
contact the shop owner to no avail because the number Mr D had given it for the shop owner 
didnt work and indeed appeared to be disconnected.
However, even if Aviva had been able to contact the shop owner, I consider it very unlikely 
indeed that it would have been able to gain sufficient verification that Mr D did lose his bag 
containing around £2,500 worth of goods including £500 cash in the shop, as not even Mr D 
was completely sure he did lose this bag in this shop. I consider the issue over contacting 
this shop owner to be something of a red herring, as I dont know how that would have 
helped Aviva validate Mr Ds claim. 
Avivas policy is clear on Mr D had to do validate his claim and it is as follows:
You must report any loss or theft to the police within 24 hours or as soon as 
reasonably possible following discovery, and get a written report (where it is not 
possible to obtain a police report, you must provide other independent proof of the 
loss or theft, such as a letter from your transport company, hotel, vehicle hire 
company or repairer).
Mr D didnt do any of this because he said he didnt have time because he only discovered 
the loss of his bag containing £500 plus the other items making the claim worth around 
£2,500 at the airport. Other than what Mr D has said about the matter, there is no 
corroborating evidence before me that shows Mr D lost this bag.
There are cogent reasons why travel insurers dont pay out claims of loss of theft without the 
policyholder complying with the requirements of the terms concerning such loss. They 
obviously need to be sure at least on the balance of probability, that the loss actually 
occurred.
Im not satisfied here, that Mr D has met the requirements of Avivas policy for the loss of his 
bag containing items to include the bag of £2,500. Therefore, I dont consider that Aviva 
needs to do anything more. And I dont consider Aviva did anything wrong in refusing to pay 
Mr Ds claim.
My final decision
For these reasons, it my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman