DRN-3137647
The complaint
Mrs W and Mr W complain that Clydesdale Bank Plc failed to make them aware of an 
outstanding security release fee to release the deeds for their property. 
Mr W has corresponded with this service throughout the complaint, so for ease Ill refer to 
him throughout my decision. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide a brief 
overview of some of the key events here. 
In 2015 Mr W paid off his mortgage. In 2021 he was in the process of selling his property 
when he was told there was a hold on his property by the Land Registry. Mr W spoke to 
Clydesdale who told him it still held the deeds and a charge of £195 needed to be paid to 
release them. 
Mr W was unhappy that the fee was not requested in 2015 when the mortgage was 
redeemed, so he made a complaint. Clydesdale then sent Mr W the deeds and sent letters 
asking him to pay the £195 fee. At the same time Clydesdale reviewed Mr Ws complaint. It 
sent him a final response letter, in August 2021, which said the £195 fee was still payable 
because it doesnt release mortgage deeds until its asked to do so. But it accepted it 
shouldve handled this matter better and paid £50 into Mr Ws account for any confusion it 
caused.  
Mr W remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to this service. He said he didnt think 
it was fair that Clydesdale was now requesting £195 six years after the mortgage was 
redeemed. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said that the mortgage offer 
in 2006 that was sent to Mr W mentioned the £195 and when it would need to be paid. And 
that he didnt think it was unreasonable for Clydesdale not to contact Mr W about the deeds 
when the mortgage was redeemed because it would only do this if the deeds were 
requested. 
Mr W disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said he wanted to know why it 
took so long to make him aware of the fee and it wasnt fair to request this six-years after the 
mortgage had been redeemed. He said his mortgage statements clearly said no further 
payment was outstanding in 2015 after it was redeemed so he didnt think there was 
anything else to pay. Mr W asked why Clydesdale sent the deeds in the post and then 
demanded the fee in writing afterwards. As a result, he feels he has been misled by 
Clydesdale. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr W feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
The issues for me to consider here are whether Clydesdale are entitled to charge Mr W the 
security release fee and whether its treated him fairly in asking for this to be paid so long 
after the mortgage was redeemed. 
I understand the points Mr W has raised here and having considered what hes said 
carefully, I dont think Clydesdale has treated him unfairly. 
Ive seen in the mortgage offer that was sent to Mr W in 2006 that the security release fee 
was clearly mentioned and that this was a separate fee which wasnt added to the mortgage. 
This means it had to be paid separately from the monthly mortgage payments. So, Im 
satisfied Clydesdale did make Mr W aware of the fee in 2006.  
But this isnt the end of the matter. Mr W is unhappy about the time it took for Clydesdale to 
let him know it holds the deeds. Ive thought about what Mr W has said but I dont think it 
was unreasonable for Clydesdale not to make Mr W aware of this in 2015. Clydesdale has 
provided evidence that it will release the deeds upon payment of the security release fee 
when Mr W requests them. So, Im satisfied it was up to Mr W to request the deeds and if he 
had done so in 2015 Clydesdale wouldve released them. 
I note Clydesdale sent Mr W a statement confirming no further payments were outstanding 
on his mortgage. But this was in relation to his monthly mortgage payments to clear the 
secured lending he took out in 2006. And Ive already mentioned above that the fee wasnt 
added to the mortgage here  so it was separate to the monthly payments Mr W was 
making. 
Clydesdale has offered £50 for the confusion it caused when it sent the deeds to Mr W 
without him paying the fee, and for the way it communicated with him. I can understand why 
it wouldve been confusing for Mr W to suddenly receive the deeds without any explanation 
and no fee being paid. Clydesdale have said this shouldnt have happened and said in its 
final response letter this was the result of a miscommunication internally. Ive considered the 
£50 offer, and this seems reasonable to me and in line with what Id expect in similar cases.
So, Im not satisfied Mr W has been treated unfairly here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman