DRN-3097330
The complaint
Mrs M has complained about how Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) dealt with a claim under 
her home insurance policy.
Mrs M is represented in this case but, for ease, I will only refer to Mrs M as she is the 
policyholder.
What happened
Mrs M contacted Aviva to make a claim when someone drove into her garden wall causing 
damage. Aviva assessed the damage and offered to repair the wall or a cash settlement. 
Mrs M didnt want to accept the settlement offered because it was only for part of the wall 
being replaced. She wanted the whole wall replaced.
When Mrs M complained about this, Aviva said it had offered to do the work and the bricks 
would match as near as possible and they would blend over time. It could also try and age 
the bricks, an exact match wasnt guaranteed. Aviva had also agreed to replace more than 
just the damaged area by rebuilding up to the first pillar. But both this offer and the cash 
settlement offer were refused. Aviva had also said Mrs M could provide her own quote but 
when this was submitted, it was to replace the whole wall. 
So, Mrs M complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said 
Aviva had acted fairly in how it settled the claim.
As Mrs M didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Following an assessment of the damage, Aviva offered to repair the damage or to provide a 
cash settlement. Mrs M declined both offers because she wanted the whole wall to be 
replaced. This seemed to be for two reasons. First was that Mrs M was concerned that the 
damage was more extensive than Aviva had identified and second was that the replacement 
bricks wouldnt be an exact match because the original ones were no longer made. So, Ive 
thought about this. 
The policy covered damage, which meant Aviva only needed to deal with the parts of the 
wall that had sustained damage. Ive looked at Avivas surveyors photos and assessment of 
the damage to the wall. The photos showed a range of cracks, including to a wall pillar. 
Aviva assessed that parts of the wall needed to be replaced but not all of it and a scope of 
works was drawn up on the basis of the parts of the wall that required repair. 
Ive also looked at a surveyors report provided by Mrs M. This identified damage to two 
piers and the cracking of the first panel. The surveyor also said Impact caused by vehicles 
often shocks the brickwork and causing a fracture along the mortar bed line far beyond the 
signs of impact, although I didnt see anything to show that this had been specifically 
identified as an issue in this instance. He said the first two sections of the wall should be 
rebuilt. The surveyor also said:
The owner has expressed his frustration that the vehicle impact damage was not of his 
making and he should have the wall replaced to the same appearance as it was before the 
accident. This results in the whole wall being rebuilt.
So, the surveyors comments on the whole wall being replaced seemed to be in the context 
of Mrs Ms representative wanting the whole wall to have the same appearance, rather than 
because of anything structural. Based on what Ive seen, Im not persuaded that Aviva 
needed to carry out more work on the wall for structural reasons. Aviva has also said it 
would look at any issues while the wall was being rebuilt to see if this formed part of the 
claim, which I think is reasonable in the circumstances. 
Ive also looked at Mrs Ms concerns about the bricks not matching. The original bricks are 
no longer made, so it isnt possible to use those exact bricks. However, Aviva has offered to 
age the bricks, although it cant guarantee an exact match. I think this was a reasonable 
offer in the circumstances and Im not persuaded that Aviva needs to replace the whole wall.
Mrs M also wanted a higher cash settlement. As Mrs Ms quote was to replace the whole 
wall, I wouldnt expect the amount Aviva offered to match. However, under the terms of the 
policy, where Aviva offered to do the work, but instead agreed to make a cash settlement, 
the policy said it would only pay the amount it would have cost Aviva. Aviva also offered to 
review the cash settlement for the repairs, but this was refused. Based on what Ive seen, 
Aviva offered to settle the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. So, I think 
the cash settlement Aviva offered was reasonable in the circumstances.
So, thinking about all of the above, I dont uphold this complaint or require Aviva to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman