DRN-1554398
 
The complaint
Mr O complains that PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA closed his account and wouldnt allow 
him to withdraw a payment made to his business.
What happened
Mr O received a payment of £3,610 for his business on 4 June 2019. PayPal wrote to him 
the following day and said it needed a copy of his identification and for details about the 
payment. It decided to close his account and said it would be holding the funds for 180 days. 
The account balance was paid to him on 7 December 2019.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that PayPal had 
decided to make checks following the receipt of the payment. It had received a copy of       
Mr Os passport. He was satisfied that it had acted in line with the terms and conditions in 
restricting the account. He referred Mr O to the relevant terms about holding funds and said 
that PayPal was entitled to do this. The sender could have requested a refund.
Mr O didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said that his complaint was 
really about his funds being withheld - not that his account was closed. He didnt think 
PayPal had a genuine fear that the payment might be reversed, and it hadnt communicated 
this to him at the time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
PayPal undertook a review of Mr Os account when he received this payment. It asked him 
for a copy of his passport and for information about the transaction in its email of 5 June 
2019. Under the terms and conditions of his agreement it was able to restrict his account in 
certain circumstances. Im satisfied based on what Ive seen that it acted fairly in doing so. I 
dont think it had to explain its rational to Mr O or specifically why it was holding the money. 
Our investigators drawn him to the relevant part of the terms and conditions and given an 
example of where the funds might have been returned had there been a dispute.
Mr Os money was returned to him and I dont have a basis to require PayPal to do anything 
further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman