DRN-3766360
The complaint
Mr K complains about delays following withdrawal requests he made to National Savings 
and Investments (NS&I) at the end of 2020.
What happened
The background to his complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said:
Mr K sent NS&I forms to cash in income bonds in November 2020. But there were delays 
processing the withdrawal and Mr Ks funds werent made available for around a month. 
Mr K says that the delays meant his funds were held on a lower interest rate of 0.01% for 
an extended period. And Mr K has also told us that delays by NS&I restricted his options 
to reinvest his funds.
Mr K complained to NS&I and later referred the matter to this service. An investigator uphold 
Mr Ks complaint and NS&I agreed to pay 0.25% interest on Mr Ks funds for a period of one 
year, totalling £315. NS&I also agreed to pay Mr K £125 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Mr K asked to appeal and provided further calculations to show the nature of his losses. As 
a result, Mr Ks complaint was passed to me to make a decision. I reviewed Mr Ks response 
and agreed with the points he raised. As a result, I contacted NS&I and asked it to consider 
increasing the award in line with the calculations Mr K provided. I havent heard back from 
NS&I so Im taking the step of issuing a provisional decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been brief in setting out the background to Mr Ks complaint as all parties broadly 
agree with the timeline. NS&I accepts there were delays processing Mr Ks instructions. 
Mr K has told us the delays meant withdrawals for the main part of his funds were subject 
to an interest rate reduction from 1.16% to 0.01% between 27 November 2020 and 
2 January 2021 (the date of release). The funds had been placed in a holding account 
while NS&I processed Mr Ks instructions. I agree with Mr K that the settlement should 
take into account the reduced interest his funds received.
Im satisfied there were delays in processing Mr Ks withdrawal request that impacted the 
amount of interest he went on to receive. So I intend to uphold Mr Ks complaint broadly in 
line with the settlement the investigator reached in their view of his complaint  a 
settlement NS&I agreed to pay. But I also intend to tell NS&I to pay the additional interest 
as set out above, to cover the period between 27 November 2021 and 2 January 2022.
I gave the calculations in full in my email to NS&I dated 6 September 2022. They were in 
line with those submitted by Mr K in his letter dated 15 July 2022. NS&I had already agreed 
to pay Mr K £321.56 but I asked it to increase the award to £468.75 to take into account the 
reduced interest rate Mr K received. As I didnt receive a response from NS&I Ive looked 
over Mr Ks case again. I still think the fairest approach is for NS&I to compensate Mr K 
with £468.75 in missed interest, so I intend to proceed on that basis.
NS&I also agreed to make a payment of £125 to reflect the distress and inconvenience
caused to Mr K. Im satisfied that fairly reflects the impact of the issues raised on Mr K.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional points or information they wanted me to 
consider before I made my final decision. NS&I confirmed it accepts. We didnt hear back 
from Mr K.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided new information for me to consider, I see no reason to change 
the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I still think Mr Ks complaint should be 
upheld, for the same reasons. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ks complaint and direct National Savings and Investments to 
pay him a total of £468.75 in interest and £125 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman