DRN-3962844
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as G has complained that Society of Lloyds unfairly turned down its 
business interruption insurance claim after its business was impacted by Covid-19. 
Mr T, a director of G, has brought the complaint on Gs behalf through a representative. For 
ease, Ill refer to all submissions as being from G. 
My references to Lloyds include its underwriting syndicate and the agent it used to look into 
the claim.
What happened
G operates a restaurant business. G held a business interruption policy with Lloyds and 
claimed on its policy after its business was impacted by Covid-19. 
Lloyds said the policy did not cover Gs claim. Lloyds said there was no evidence of an 
infectious disease manifesting at the premises or that this was the specific cause of the 
closure of Gs business, as required for successful claim under the policy. 
G sent Lloyds a statement from its customer (Mr E). The statement said that he had felt 
unwell while having dinner at Gs restaurant on 18 March 2020, and within a few days had 
developed symptoms - including the loss of his sense of taste and smell - that he believed 
were due to Covid-19. Mr E thought that he had since developed long Covid. Mr E included 
an email hed sent on 24 March 2020 to two people hed seen on 22 March 2020, in which 
he mentioned the loss of his sense of taste and smell and his concern that he might have 
symptoms of Covid-19. 
Lloyds reviewed its position, following the Supreme Courts judgment in the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) business interruption test case. Lloyds said that it could find no 
evidence of an infectious disease at Gs premises. It went on to say:
That said, however, during my investigation I noted within the correspondence the 
potential implication of a customer who attended the restaurant on 18 March 2020 
who may be exhibiting the signs of Covid-19 infection. Underwriters would be 
prepared to give this further consideration providing the reason for that closure dated 
24 March 2020 was the symptoms of the customer mentioned, and not the 
government-imposed restrictions referenced earlier. It would be for your client, 
however, to substantiate such an incident appropriately. 
G sent Lloyds a signed copy of Mr Es statement in support of Gs position that it had shown 
Covid-19 had manifested at the premises. G referred to the Supreme Courts judgment 
(paragraph 212). G said that it was enough that it had shown one occurrence of illness 
resulting from Covid-19 (at the premises) to prove the business interruption within the 
geographical area covered by the policy clause. Lloyds did not change its position and so 
G brought its complaint to our service. 
G referred to a decision issued by one of my Ombudsman colleagues (DRN 3389466), 
which said that at the premises claims should be treated the same as radius clauses in 
that a manifestation of Covid-19 at the premises was an equally effective concurrent cause 
of the Governments decision to introduce the March Regulations as the manifestations 
beyond the limits of the premises. G said that the approach taken by my Ombudsman 
colleague had been reinforced by the decision in the case of Corbin & King v AXA Insurance 
UK Plc [2022] EWHC 409 (Comm) (Corbin & King). Also, G had notified Lloyds that it would 
also now add to its claims the losses G had suffered in the two subsequent lockdown 
periods of 24 September 2020 and 5 November 2020. 
Our Investigator looked into the complaint but she did not uphold it. In brief summary, she 
said that G had provided evidence from Mr E saying he had Covid-19 symptoms four days 
after visiting the premises. But she had not seen evidence that Mr E was actually at the 
premises. She directed G to the published decisions on our website, including one about 
Covid-19 manifesting itself at the premises. 
G asked for an ombudsmans decision. G pointed out that Mr E had had symptoms at the 
restaurant on 18 March 2020, saying hed felt unwell, and had further symptoms in the days 
after that. G said it had provided sufficient evidence to show, on the balance of probabilities, 
that a case of Covid-19 had manifested at the premises. Indeed, Lloyds itself had accepted 
there might have been a case of Covid-19 at the premises. 
Lloyds reason for rejecting the claim was that any such case of Covid-19 had not resulted in 
the closure of Gs business. G said that this argument was neither fair nor reasonable, and 
made some further arguments in support of its position.
My provisional decisions
I reviewed the complaint and issued two provisional decisions explaining that I did not intend 
to uphold the complaint but for different reasons from the Investigator. 
In my first provisional decision I said that I did not intend to uphold the complaint for the 
following main reasons:
The policy terms required a case of Covid-19 to have manifested at the premises. 
For a case of Covid-19 to have manifested at the premises, I thought that someone 
would either need to have been diagnosed with Covid-19 or have displayed 
symptoms while at Gs premises. 
I reviewed the evidence that G had provided in support of its claim including 
Mr Es statement. I also considered the Supreme Courts judgment in the FCA test 
case and the FCAs Final Guidance to which G had referred. 
I didnt consider the evidence I had received was enough to persuade me, on the 
balance of probabilities, that it was more likely than not that a case of Covid-19 had 
manifested at Gs premises. 
Mr E had not given us any additional evidence about his symptoms, having said he 
felt unwell at Gs restaurant on Wednesday 18 March 2020.  
I thought that from Mr Es description of his symptoms that it was possible he had 
symptoms of Covid-19 on Tuesday 24 March 2020. But the evidence did not support 
Covid-19 manifesting at Gs premises on Wednesday 18 March 2020. There was 
also no supporting evidence to show that he had felt unwell at the restaurant that 
day. So, I did not consider the weight of evidence was enough to persuade me, on 
balance, that Covid-19 manifested at the premises on 18 March 2020. 
I said that I was willing to consider any additional evidence that G wished to supply in 
support of its complaint. 
If I received evidence to persuade me that a case of Covid-19 had manifested at the 
premises, then I would then go on to consider whether that case was an equally 
concurrent reason for the Government to introduce the March 2020 lockdown 
restrictions.
I received additional information and comments from G in response to my first provisional 
decision. Having considered that information I explained, in my second provisional decision 
that I did not intend to uphold the complaint.
I explained that I had an inquisitorial remit and I was able to decide what I considered to be 
the central issues in determining the complaint. 
I was persuaded that Mr E had dined at Gs restaurant on 18 March 2020. But I was not 
persuaded that Covid-19 had manifested at Gs restaurant on 18 March 2020 as required for 
a successful claim under the policy terms. For ease, I have copied below my findings from 
my provisional decision:
Mr E dining at the premises on 18 March 2020 
G has supplied additional evidence that persuades me that Mr E dined at Gs restaurant on 
18 March 2020: 
The booking register for Gs restaurant on 18 March 2020 supported by 
contemporaneous text messages between Mr E and Mr T to confirm the booking and 
then to confirm that Mr E was running late. 
The above evidence is supported by the testimony of Mr T, Mr E and Mrs E. 
I consider the weight of evidence to be persuasive to show that it is more likely than not that 
Mr E dined at Gs restaurant on 18 March 2020. 
I have gone on to consider the evidence for manifestation of Covid-19 at the premises on 
18 March 2020. 
Manifestation of Covid-19 
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in the 
policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see if 
Lloyds has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy 
when declining Gs claim. 
The relevant part of the extension within Gs policy covers: 
murder, disease or public health closure loss resulting from interruption of or 
interference with the Business by the following contingencies: 
b) contagious and/or infectious human disease, an outbreak of which a competent 
Public Authority has stipulated shall be notified to them manifested by any person whilst at the Premises 
The phrases contagious and/or infectious human disease and Public Authority are not 
specifically defined in the policy. 
Covid-19 is a contagious and/or infectious human disease. So, for this extension to provide 
cover for Gs claim, the closure of the premises would need to be as a result of a 
manifestation of Covid-19 at the premises. For a case to have manifested at the premises, I 
think that someone would either need to have been diagnosed with Covid-19 or have 
displayed symptoms while at the premises. 
G has referred to decisions made by my ombudsman colleagues, in particular where we 
have taken a pragmatic approach in determining the presence of Covid-19, given that 
widespread testing was not available in March 2020. I agree that I should fairly take a 
pragmatic approach and indeed I did refer to such an approach in my earlier decision. 
I have considered all the evidence that G has been able to provide to support its claim that 
Covid-19 manifested at its premises. The burden of proof is on G to show that it has suffered 
a loss which the policy covers. 
As with any assessment of evidence, several aspects mean that more weight can be placed 
on certain evidence as opposed to others. For example, a document produced 
contemporaneously for a purpose unconnected to the matter in hand is likely to be more 
persuasive than testimony produced some time after the events for the express purpose of 
the claim. That is not to say testimony is not useful. But it is recognised that memories can 
and do change over the course of time. 
I consider the weight of evidence that G has supplied supports, on the balance of 
probabilities, that it is more likely than not that Mr E had Covid-19 in March 2020. But even 
so, I still need to see that Covid-19 manifested at Gs premises before the Government 
introduced its lockdown restrictions on 20 March 2020. 
Mr E was not formally diagnosed with having Covid-19 on 18 March 2020. I do not consider 
his self diagnosis to satisfactorily meet the requirement of Covid-19 being diagnosed at the 
premises. And whilst I note the later comments from his GP and Consultant, I am not 
persuaded that these demonstrate Mr E had manifested Covid-19 on 18 March 2020. I do 
appreciate the difficulties Mr E, and many individuals, would have with receiving a formal 
diagnosis in March 2020. But without this diagnosis, I need to consider the second part of 
what I think necessary  that symptoms be displayed at the relevant time. 
There is no contemporaneous evidence to show that Mr E had any symptoms at the 
premises on 18 March 2020. Mr E said he felt unwell on 18 March 2020. In response to my 
first provisional decision has expanded his first statement to explain his symptoms:
I felt heady as if I was getting a cold. By 20 March 2020 these symptoms had 
developed into a bad cold with severe nasal congestion and a headache. 
The closest contemporaneous evidence of Mr Es symptoms is his WhatsApp message sent 
two days later at 17:32 on 20 March 2020 when he says Ive got a cold. It is not clear that 
he acted on those symptoms, for example by self-isolating. I note he says he was feeling 
better when he played golf on 22 March 2020. 
Mrs E says that I do not recall that my husband was feeling unwell during the course of that 
[18 March 2020] evening, but I can confirm that within 36 hours of attending [G] he was 
suffering from severe congestion and a headache. So, I have only Mr Es testimony that he felt unwell and heady as if he were getting a cold on 
18 March 2020. There is no additional supporting or contemporaneous evidence.
I do not consider Mr Es testimony alone is enough to persuade me, on balance of 
probabilities, that it was more likely than not that Covid-19 manifested at Gs restaurant on 
18 March 2020. G has made detailed arguments about manifestation.
G essentially argues that it is not necessary for Mr E to have had symptoms at the 
restaurant; G says that it is enough to show it is more likely than not that Mr E would have 
been diagnosed with Covid-19 on 18 March 2020 and in the days that followed, had testing 
been readily available. 
I have considered all the arguments that G has made, but I consider that it was necessary 
for Mr E to have had symptoms of Covid-19 at Gs premises or have been diagnosed with 
Covid-19 while at the Gs premises in order for Covid-19 to have manifested at the premises. 
In making this finding I have taken into account the relevant law, to which G has also 
referred. 
G has referred to the High Courts decision in the FCA business interruption test case and in 
particular paragraph 224, which discussed the wording of one of the sample policies (QBE1) 
examined in the test case. The High Court said: 
One minor issue of construction should be addressed at the outset. This is what is 
meant by manifested as used within Clause 7.3.9(a). Clearly someone who is 
displaying symptoms of a disease can be said to manifest it. We consider that it 
would also be the case that a person manifested the disease if, though superficially 
asymptomatic, he or she was diagnosed with the disease, because the disease 
would have manifested itself to the diagnoser. We do not consider that it is possible 
to speak of someone who is asymptomatic and has not been diagnosed as having 
manifested it. 
As G says, the High Courts decision about what is meant by manifested was not appealed 
to the Supreme Court.
I have reviewed paragraph 5 of the Supreme Courts Declarations of 13 July 2021. The 
Supreme Court declared that Covid-19 was sustained or occurred within a given radius of 
the premises, wherever a person or persons contracted Covid-19 so that: 
it could be diagnosed whether or not it was verified by medical testing or a medical 
professional and/or formally confirmed or reported to the PHE and whether or not it 
was symptomatic and was/were within the radius of the premises at the time when 
they could be diagnosed as having Covid-19. 
I have also reviewed my Ombudsman colleagues decision to which G has referred. But I do 
not consider the Declarations or the decision assist G in its claim. This is because they both 
referred to different policy wording where it was necessary that Covid-19 was sustained or 
had occurred within a given radius of the premises. The wording in Gs policy is different, 
requiring manifestation of the disease. 
If the wording of Gs policy required Covid-19 to have occurred at the premises, then Gs 
arguments about Mr E being asymptomatic and about the likely incubation period for the 
disease might well have supported the claim. But where, as here, the wording is that the 
disease must have manifested at the premises, Mr E would have had to have displayed 
symptoms of Covid-19 or been diagnosed with Covid-19 at the premises. The fact that Mr E might have been capable of being diagnosed with Covid-19 had he been 
tested at the premises on 18 March 2020 does not, of itself, mean that Covid-19 manifested 
at the premises. In line with the High Courts decision in the FCA test case, it would have 
been necessary for that testing to have occurred at the premises for the disease to have 
manifested at Gs restaurant. 
I am aware of the other decisions issued by my Ombudsman colleagues and referred to in 
Gs submissions. But the circumstances of those complaints were different from Gs case 
and I dont think the decisions reached in those cases would mean an inconsistent or unfair 
outcome in Gs case. 
I have reviewed the FCA Final Guidance and the evidence requirements noted by G. Gs 
policy wording required G to show that Covid-19 manifested at the premises. Testing 
positive within seven days of being at the premises (had testing been available) is not 
enough based on Gs policy wording. For the reasons Ive explained, G would need to show 
that Covid-19 manifested at the premises. 
Because I am not persuaded that G has shown it is more likely than not that Covid-19 
manifested at its premises, I have not gone on to consider the causation issue. 
I am sorry to disappoint G again but I dont consider I can fairly require Lloyds to pay Gs 
claim.
Responses to my second provisional decision
Lloyds responded to say that it had nothing further to add. 
G responded to explain why it did not agree with the findings I had reached in my second 
provisional decision. G said that I was mistaken in believing that Mr E cannot be described 
as manifesting Covid-19 either because his symptoms were not displayed to third parties 
during his visit to Gs restaurant on 18 March 2020 or because he did not receive a formal 
diagnosis with Covid-19 while present at Gs restaurant. In summary, G said:
It is enough that Mr Es symptoms were evident to Mr E himself (where those 
symptoms were likely Covid-19) to satisfy the test that symptoms were manifested at 
the premises. At the time the symptoms did not require testing or self-isolation. 
I am mistaken in saying that Mr E would have had to be tested and diagnosed at the 
premises to show that Covid-19 had been manifested by any person at the premises. 
This is not in line with the pragmatic approach that both I and my colleagues have 
said would meet the standard of fairness where a diagnosis or test was not available 
in March 2020.
G has never suggested Mr E was asymptomatic. But the courts, supported by the 
FCA in the Final Guidance, have established that a person who is asymptomatic and 
is diagnosed with Covid-19 can still be described as manifesting Covid-19. 
Therefore, it is irrelevant whether or not I believe that Mr E feeling unwell was or was 
not a symptom of Covid-19.
It is highly unlikely the Supreme Court intended to classify an asymptomatic person 
as manifesting Covid-19 only if he was diagnosed with Covid-19 at the time when he 
was present on the insured premises because it is unrealistic to imagine any 
circumstances in which an asymptomatic person would contemplate being diagnosed 
while at the insured premises. It is, however, conceivable that an asymptomatic 
person might have a positive test within days of attending the premises.Based on my interpretation, someone who feels unwell at a restaurant and tests 
positive at home could not be described as manifesting Covid-19 at the restaurant. 
This is both absurd and inconsistent with the Courts findings and the FCAs position. 
The occurrence of a disease and the manifestation of a disease by a person are 
not mutually exclusive as I have suggested. I had accepted that it is most likely there 
had been an occurrence of Covid-19 at the premises because, on balance, 
Mr E was infected with Covid-19 at the time. There is no reason why this finding 
should not satisfy the requirement that it is more likely than not that Covid-19 was 
manifested by Mr E when he attended Gs restaurant on 18 March 2020.
The FCAs Final Guidance encourages insurers to voluntarily adopt a more 
transparent and facilitative approach to claims handling that helps policyholders to 
prove the presence of Covid-19 by particular dates. In view of the failure of Lloyds 
to act in line with this Guidance, G hopes that the particular facts and evidence in this 
case mean it would be fair and reasonable for me to require Lloyds to pay Gs claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully considered all the evidence again, including Gs detailed arguments in 
response to my provisional decisions. Having done so I do not uphold this complaint. I will 
explain my reasons, focusing on what I see to be the central issues.
G says that displaying symptoms is synonymous with having symptoms and does not 
require symptoms to be visible to third parties to prove they exist. Ive noted Gs comments 
that Mr E would not have been required to self-isolate or test at that time, given his 
symptoms.
I did not suggest that Mr Es symptoms had to be witnessed by a third party to establish that 
Covid-19 had been manifested by him at the premises. The difficulty is that I have only 
Mr Es testimony to say that he was feeling unwell at Gs restaurant on 18 March 2020. His 
first statement was made some considerable time after the event and his feeling unwell on 
18 March 2020 is not supported by any contemporaneous evidence. For the reasons given 
here and as set out in more detail in my second provisional decision, I dont consider that the 
weight of evidence is enough for me fairly to require Lloyds to pay Gs claim. 
I earlier found that it is more likely than not that Mr E did have Covid-19 due to the symptoms 
he has said he developed after 18 March 2020. In doing so, I took the pragmatic approach to 
which G has referred given the absence of widespread testing in March 2020. Had Gs policy 
required Covid-19 to have occurred at the premises the outcome might have been 
different. This is because in the FCA test case, the court said that in order for there to have 
been an occurrence of Covid-19, the individual in question needs to have been diagnosable 
as having the disease. 
But I do not consider I can properly extend this pragmatic approach to find that Covid-19 was 
manifested by Mr E at the premises based on the likelihood of his being diagnosed with 
Covid-19 after his visit to Gs restaurant. 
In saying this I have reviewed again and considered the High Courts judgment, supported 
by the Supreme Court in the FCA test case. I find that I do not agree with Gs construction 
that evidence to show a person was later diagnosed with Covid-19 (or would later have been 
diagnosed with Covid-19 had testing been available) can reasonably be capable of supporting a claim that Covid-19 had been manifested by that person at the premises at an 
earlier point in time. The testing of itself would be evidence that Covid-19 had been 
manifested by a person at the premises on the day in question. 
My view is not changed by the FCA Guidance to which G has again referred. I do not 
consider that G has discharged the burden of proof to show that it has a claim that the policy 
covers. 
For the reasons given here and in my second provisional decision I find that the evidence 
does not support, on balance, that it is more likely than not that Covid-19 was manifested by 
Mr E at Gs premises on 18 March 2020. 
It follows that I do not consider that I can fairly uphold this complaint or require Lloyds to pay 
Gs claim. 
Because I am not persuaded that it is more likely than not that Covid-19 was manifested by 
Mr E at Gs premises I have not gone on to consider the causation issue.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given in my provisional decisions and in this final decision, I do not 
uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Amanda Maycock
Ombudsman