DRN-2473219
The complaint
Mr B complains that Hastings Insurance Services Limited automatically renewed his motor 
insurance policy without his consent. Hes also unhappy with its level of service when he 
tried to contact it about this. He wants a refund of the premium he paid. 
What happened
Mr B took out a policy through Hastings which auto-renewed. But Mr B said he didnt 
discover this until three months later, and hed already sold the car. Hastings wanted Mr B to 
pay his premiums up to the date it cancelled the policy. Mr B said hed tried to call and email 
Hastings, but it hadnt responded.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought 
Hastings had sent Mr B warning about the renewal and also told Mr B about this in a call. 
The first premium payment had been made. She couldnt see evidence that Mr B had sold 
his car. And she thought Hastings was entitled to charge Mr B for his time on cover up to the 
point the policy was cancelled. 
Mr B replied that hed never agreed to automatic renewal but always shopped around at 
renewal. Mr B asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear that Mr B has been unwell. I can understand that it has been a frustrating 
business trying to get this matter resolved. 
Mr B told us that he never automatically renews his policies, but always shops around at 
renewal. He told us that when hed taken this policy hed ticked a box saying that he didnt 
want his policy with Hastings to auto-renew. But I think Mr B has mis-remembered this. This 
is because Hastings doesnt provide this feature. To prevent auto-renewal, the consumer is 
told that he has to contact Hastings. But I havent seen evidence that Mr B told Hastings that 
he didnt want to auto-renew. 
Hastings Welcome Pack told Mr B that it would send his renewal invitation to him at least 21 
days before his policy expired. And I can see that it did this. I can also see that Mr B called 
Hastings on another matter after this date and he was told by the agent that hed been sent 
the renewal invitation. Mr B then had the option to contact Hastings if he didnt want to renew 
his policy. But I cant see that he did this, and the first months premium was taken. So I think 
Hastings made it clear to Mr H that his policy would auto-renew, but he didnt contact it to 
prevent this. 
Hastings wasnt able to collect the second months premium and it emailed Mr B warning 
him that the policy would cancel. Mr B said he found an email in his junk folder and tried to 
call Hastings, but without success. From Hastings records, Mr B called it twice and he was 
kept on hold before he hung up. Mr B also replied to Hastings emails, but they went to an 
unmonitored inbox. But I dont think this made any difference to the outcome as Mr B still 
owed Hastings for his time on cover until the policy cancelled. 
So I think Hastings made Mr B reasonably aware that his policy would auto-renew unless he 
contacted it to change this. I think in the call before renewal, Hastings made Mr B aware that 
it had sent him its renewal invitation. I think Mr B could then have checked his junk folder for 
the email. The first payment was taken, and Mr B didnt raise any concern about this with 
Hastings. 
I havent seen evidence that Mr B sold his car before renewal. Instead, Ive seen that six 
weeks after renewal Mr B complained to Hastings that the payment app wouldnt then allow 
him to pay. Mr B hasnt explained why he would want to make a payment for a policy for a 
car that hed already sold.
So I cant say that Hastings has done anything wrong in auto-renewing Mr Bs policy. And I 
think its entitled to charge Mr B for his time on cover and its fees. So I dont require it to 
waive or refund any charges.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman