DRN-1054994
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Clydesdale Bank Plc declined to accept a deposit into their joint 
current account as it said it was being used for business purposes.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S have a joint current account with Clydesdale Bank. Mr S visited his local 
branch to deposit some money into it to pay his credit card bill. But the branch staff refused 
to accept the deposit into their personal current account as they believed they were earnings 
from Mr Ss business. 
Clydesdale Bank said the branch staff considered that Mr S had been using the personal 
account for business purposes for some time, and it was a breach of the account terms and 
conditions to use it like this. Mr S had a separate business account and the staff had 
suggested the money should be paid into that account instead, but Mr S hadnt wanted this.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and thought Clydesdale Bank had acted 
reasonably. She said that she could understand why Clydesdale Bank would be cautious in 
accepting a large deposit from Mr S when comparing the activity on the personal and 
business accounts. She said the terms and conditions of the personal account didnt allow 
for it to be used for business purposes. In summary, the investigator didnt think Clydesdale 
Bank had acted unfairly and said it was at its discretion whether it would accept the funds 
into the account.
Mr and Mrs S didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed. Mr S said that the money was from his business, but hed drawn it as his salary. 
He said Clydesdale Bank had been relying on information from previous years, when he 
hadnt taken any private drawing from his business. He says this is the way he pays all his 
staff  in cash. He said he receives other income in cash, which is declared for tax purposes 
and is not money from his business. Mr S said his accountant is happy with the way he 
conducts his business and financial affairs. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do understand what Mr S has told us about how he has historically used this joint personal 
current account, and that he considers the deposits he makes into it to be his own salary 
drawings, rather than proceeds from the business itself.
The terms and conditions of the joint personal current account Mr and Mrs S hold with 
Clydesdale Bank say: A Personal account must not be used for business purposes or 
business transactions. If we find out that you are using this account for business purposes, 
then we will require that you open a separate business account.And Clydesdale Banks branch staff considered that the regular large deposits Mr S had 
been making into this personal account were from the proceeds of his business, and so said 
that they should be paid into the separate business account he has.
Clydesdale Bank has told us that Mr S had been previously told that he shouldnt pay money 
from his business trading into his and Mrs Ss personal account. But the branch staff felt that 
hed continued to use the personal account rather than his business account for paying in 
business proceeds; based on the continuation of the large, regular deposits being made into 
it, in comparison with those made into the business account. 
Ive looked through the statements for both Mr and Mrs Ss personal account, and the 
business account, and these do show regular large deposits being made directly into the 
joint personal account. The majority of the credits to the business account appear to be 
direct transfers from the joint personal account. So I can see why Clydesdale Bank reached 
the decision it did based upon the historic usage of the personal account, and considering 
that using it for business purposes goes against the account terms and conditions.
Although I appreciate why Mr S considers the cash deposits to be his own salary drawing 
from his business, I dont think Clydesdale Bank has been unreasonable or unfair in the way 
it had dealt with Mr S and the accounts. I say this because it doesnt appear that he was 
refused service. Instead, he was told that the cash deposit should be paid into his business 
account and then transferred to the personal account from there. I think this is a reasonable 
suggestion in the circumstances.
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2020.
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman