DRN-2056081
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has turned down a claim they 
made on their buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ls neighbour built/extended an animal exercise area next to a 
retaining concrete block wall, close to Mr and Mrs Ls land in late 2009/early 2010. In June 
2010, the wall on Mr and Mrs Ls land collapsed. Their neighbour built a new replacement 
structure on Mr and Mrs Ls land while they were away to shore things up.
In June 2016, Mr and Mrs L made a claim on their buildings insurance policy after 
their garage became flooded. UKI appointed a surveyor to investigate the cause of the 
damage.
The surveyor found the damage was down to how the neighbours animal training area 
had been built  it had caused rainfall to run off their land onto Mr and Mrs Ls land. The 
surveyor thought the run-off had become worse after the neighbour replaced the retaining 
wall with their own structure. They also found that the failure of the retaining wall was down 
to faulty construction and a gradually operating cause. Both of these things were 
specifically excluded by Mr and Mrs Ls policy terms.
UKI turned down Mr and Mrs Ls claim, based on the surveyors report. It didnt think 
the claim was covered by the policy terms.
In 2019, Mr and Mrs L got back in touch with UKI about the collapsed wall. Theyd 
had ongoing mediation with their neighbour to try to resolve things. They sent UKI a copy of 
a report which had been prepared by their surveyor ahead of potential legal action 
against their neighbour. They felt this report showed the collapse of the original wall in 2010 
had been sudden and had been caused by the neighbour building the animal exercise area.
UKI asked its surveyor to look at the claim again in light of the independent 
surveyors report. But it maintained its decision. It said the wall had collapsed because of the 
faulty workmanship of the replacement wall Mr and Mrs Ls neighbour had built. It told Mr 
and Mrs L their policy simply didnt cover the cause of the damage.
Mr and Mrs L werent happy with UKIs decision. They asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ls complaint should be upheld. He thought Mr 
and Mrs Ls surveyors report suggested water run-off from their neighbours property had 
been ongoing for a number of years before theyd made a claim. So the investigator thought 
it was fair to say that water-run off damage had occurred gradually. He thought photos of the 
area of land showed the replacement wall was accessible. So he thought UKI wouldve been 
able to deal with the damage if itd been notified about it sooner. Overall, he felt it was fair for UKI to turn down the claim based on the term excluding claims for damage which happens 
over time.
Mr and Mrs L disagreed with the investigator. They made detailed submissions and 
Ive summarised their main points:
-The wall collapsed shortly after their neighbour had built the training area with raised levels 
and using rubber crumb. It hadnt been down to a gradually operating cause and thered 
been no neglect on their part.
-The collapsed wall was behind the replacement structure their neighbour had built.Theyd 
tried to resolve issues with their neighbour and had involved the council and the police to 
sort things out as a priority before dealing with the wall.
-UKIs surveyor had assumed Mr and Mrs L were claiming for the replacement structure built 
by their neighbour, rather than the collapsed wall. UKIs surveyor had been correct in finding 
this structure had been built in a faulty way. This had been confirmed by the local council 
and Mr and Mrs Ls surveyor. But they werent claiming for the replacement structure  their 
claim was for the original concrete wall.
-The investigator hadnt correctly considered the complaint. Hed looked at water-run off 
rather than the claim for the collapsed wall.
-Mr and Mrs L had taken mediation action and come to an agreement to bear the cost of 
replacing the original concrete wall, but their neighbour needed to remove the replacement 
structure. This agreement had been ratified in court, but their neighbour still hadnt taken any 
action.
-They couldnt have taken action to prevent the loss happening. The original wall had been 
in a good condition and had collapsed due to the load of the neighbours animal training area 
shortly after the training area had been built.
-They cant access the wall to rebuild it until the replacement structure has been removed.
I issued my provisional decision on 27 May 2020. In my provisional decision, I explained why 
I wasnt planning to uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. I said:
Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs L that while Ive summarised the circumstances of 
their complaint and their submissions, I have read and considered everything in detail. The 
wall collapsed around a decade ago now and theyve been involved in actions with a number 
of third party agencies, including mediators and the courts to try to get things resolved 
with their neighbour. So I can appreciate how frustrating this situation mustve been.
Its important for me to make clear that my decisions about whether its fair for UKI to 
turn down Mr and Mrs Ls claim for their collapsed wall. Their claim is for the costs of 
replacing the wall that collapsed. Im not considering water run-off or water damage to their 
property. I can see UKIs surveyor originally assessed this as an escape of water claim. Mr 
and Mrs Ls surveyor has also referred to water and rubber crumb escaping from the 
neighbours land periodically since the original wall collapsed, causing ingress into their 
garage. So it appears thats why there was a focus on water ingress by the investigator.
I appreciate the wall collapse was a sudden and unexpected event for Mr and Mrs L. 
The wall collapsed back in 2010, but Mr and Mrs L didnt go on to make a claim for the costs 
of it until 2016. That was after repeated flooding from the property next door.For me to decide UKI needs to meet the costs of rebuilding the wall, I need to be 
satisfied that it happened because of something thats covered by Mr and Mrs Ls policy. UKI 
sets out what it does (and doesnt) want to cover in the policy terms. It lists the insured 
events it covers.
UKI believes the damage was down to faulty workmanship of the replacement wall. 
Faulty workmanship isnt covered by the policy terms and is a fairly standard exclusion in 
buildings insurance policies. So Ive considered the expert evidence I have to decide what I 
currently think is most likely to have caused the damage and whether I think this was 
covered by the policy.
Ive carefully considered the expert evidence provided by both UKIs surveyor and Mr 
and Mrs Ls surveyor. Because of the length of time between the wall collapsing and Mr and 
L making a claim, there was little of the original wall left.
It isnt clear exactly why Mr and Mrs L didnt make a claim in 2010 and waited for around 
six years to let UKI know about the damage. I think it wouldve been reasonable for them 
to make a claim sooner than they did. It meant UKI didnt have the opportunity to inspect 
the wall in the immediate aftermath of it collapsing and establish a likely cause of damage. 
So in assessing the claim, its had to rely on the reports of inspections that took place 
several years later. These reports were by necessity based on inspecting the replacement 
structure and the remains of the original wall.
UKIs report dates back to 2016. The surveyor states that Mr and Mrs L told him they felt 
the damage was due to their neighbour building/extending the animal training area. He went 
on to find:
This construction has caused excessive surface water to run off and flow onto (the) 
property following heavy rainfallWe have declined this claim in full as the failure of the 
boundary retaining wall is due to faulty construction and also a gradually operating cause.
It isnt clear whether the surveyor was referring to the original concrete wall, or 
the replacement structure. So while this evidence is useful in looking at the most likely cause 
of the damage, I dont think its definitive as a stand-alone report.
Ive gone on to consider Mr and Mrs Ls surveyors report. This is very detailed and its 
clear the surveyor inspected Mr and Mrs Ls property in depth. The surveyor noted that the 
animal training area was higher than Mr and Mrs Ls land. Mr and Mrs L attribute this 
difference to the rubber crumb that was used in constructing the animal training area. The 
surveyor found that water draining from the training area could only travel towards the area 
of the retaining wall.
The surveyor said that the design indicates that the design and installation of the 
surface water drainage from the (training area) is defective. He also considered the 
drawings that formed part of the planning permission documents. He stated:
The surface of the (training area) is all towards the boundary with (Mr and Mrs Ls 
property and if the soakaway drainage has been installed in accordance with the submitted 
drawing, it will be ineffective as it would have to drain uphill and more likely than not the 
reverse will be the case that it will drain back towardsthe corner of the (training area) that 
is closest to the boundary wall.
The report also referred to a finding by a local council officer which said:Part of the (training area) appears to be structurally unsound and the cause of landslip 
to part of the neighbouring property, whereby a wall apparently installedhas all 
but disintegrated.
Also, the surveyor found that the animal training area needed to be a self-supporting area. 
It shouldnt rely on a retaining wall to support its structure. He said the retaining wall 
shouldnt be required to carry the additional lateral pressure of the training area. He also 
stated it shouldnt be a dam against the surface water coming from the training area due to 
its unsatisfactory drainage design.
Its clear from the report that the surveyor felt Mr and Mrs L had kept their property in a 
good state of repair. It doesnt seem to me as if there was much they couldve done to 
prevent the wall collapsing. Its important for me to make this clear.
But it seems to me that Mr and Mrs Ls surveyor thought the damage was caused by the 
way the animal training area had been built. It appears he believed the drainage system 
hadnt been built properly, which led to periodic landslip and water damage to Mr and Mrs 
Ls land.
And it also seems he thought the training area had been built in such a way that it relied 
on being supported by the retaining wall. He found the wall hadnt been designed to 
withstand this sort of pressure. It isnt clear which of these issues he thought had caused the 
original wall to collapse. But I dont think this makes a difference.
Overall, I think the surveyor thought the damage was down to faulty design or 
poor workmanship on the part of the neighbour when they built/extended the training area. 
This ties-in with what UKIs surveyor said. And when UKI reviewed the report itself, it too felt 
the outcomes of both reports were consistent with one another.
Ive looked closely at the terms of Mr and Mrs Ls policy. The buildings section of the 
policy lists the insured events it covers. These include storm, fire and theft amongst other 
areas.
None of the insured events listed in the standard cover would seem to cover the cause 
of damage here. I think the applicable section of the policy would be the accidental 
damage section of the policy. Thats because this section covers damage which is sudden 
and unintentional physical damage which happens unexpectedly. Its clear the collapse of 
the wall was sudden and unexpected.
But I need to bear in mind the things the policy doesnt cover. Under the This policy 
doesnt cover section, the policy states:
Faulty workmanship, faulty design or the use of faulty materials.
In this case, all of the available expert evidence suggests the wall collapsed because 
of faulty design and faulty workmanship. The collapse seems to be down to the way the 
animal training area was designed.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs L werent responsible for building the animal training area and 
that theyve been in ongoing dispute with their neighbour for several years now about it. But 
their situation is simply specifically excluded by the terms of their insurance policy.
Even if I felt though that the cause of the damage had been covered, I think Mr and Mrs 
L have prejudiced UKIs position with regards to their claim. Ive seen the mediated 
agreement and the court ratification of it. Mr and Mrs L have agreed to bear the costs of rebuilding the wall as part of the settlement, provided the replacement structure is taken 
down by their neighbour. This means theyve accepted full financial liability for doing so.
In a claim where the damage was due to a third partys actions or omissions, an 
insurer would usually have the right to try and recover what its paid out from the third party 
or their insurer. In this case, Mr and Mrs L have denied UKI the opportunity to try to recover 
these funds from their neighbour/their insurer because theyve agreed to pay for the wall. 
This means UKI would have no legal right to try to recover what theyd paid out.
In summary, I accept Mr and Mrs L have suffered an unexpected loss which wasnt 
their fault. And I sympathise with their position. But I think it wouldve been reasonable for 
them to make a claim much sooner than they did. I think UKIs ability to properly assess the 
cause of damage was affected by the delay between the collapse of the wall and the 
notification of the claim. The evidence I do have suggests the claim wasnt covered. And I 
think by accepting liability for the costs of repairing the wall, theyve prejudiced UKIs 
position.
So overall, while I sympathise with Mr and Mrs L, I cant fairly find UKI is responsible 
for covering the costs of rebuilding their wall.
This means I currently think it was fair for UKI to turn down their claim.
I asked both parties to send me anything further they wanted me to consider before I 
reconsidered the case.
UKI had nothing further to add  although it explained Mr and Mrs L had had a policy in 
2010, which theyd cancelled before taking out their current policy in 2013.
Mr and Mrs L disagreed with my provisional decision. They sent me very detailed responses 
to my provisional findings, which I havent included in full here, although Ive considered 
everything theyve sent me. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key points I need to 
address:
They didnt feel, given their surveyors evidence and evidence from their local 
planning officer, that UKI had relied on expert information to rely on exclusion 
clauses;
UKI shouldve applied the 2010 policy terms to their claim, given the date of the walls 
collapse. They said these terms covered subsidence, heave or landslip of the site a 
policyholders home stands on, unless it was due to faulty workmanship, materials or 
design. They argued that because the animal exercise area wasnt on the site their 
home and the original wall stood on, the faulty design or workmanship clause 
shouldnt apply to their claim.
The delay in notifying UKI about the claim was because theyd tried to resolve things 
with their neighbour; the relationship had seriously broken down and outside 
agencies had been involved to try to resolve the matter. The actions of third parties 
had been slow and inconclusive. Dealing with the neighbour had been the priority 
rather than dealing with the collapsed wall.
It was following the deterioration of and partial collapse of the replacement wall, 
together with flooding, which had led them to make a claim in 2016.
The faulty design and materials were of the animal training area, not the original wall.
The mediation agreement was drawn up by a barrister and Mr and Mrs L were 
represented by members of the legal profession. They hadnt considered UKIs loss 
of the rights of recovery as an issue. And this right isnt set out in the policy terms.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, while Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr and Mrs L, I still think it was fair for UKI to turn down their claim. Ill explain 
why.
Delay in making the claim
Mr and Mrs L have explained in some detail why they didnt contact UKI to make a claim 
until around six years after the original wall collapsed. I appreciate this was a stressful time 
for them and that they needed to engage the help of outside agencies to try to sort things 
out. I can understand that trying to resolve things with their neighbour mayve seemed like a 
priority at that point.
But I need to consider whats fair and reasonable to both parties. Given the time thatd 
passed since the collapse and replacement of the wall, I dont think UKI had a fair chance to 
assess whatd actually caused the damage in the first place. It had no opportunity to inspect 
how the wall had been constructed, undertake analysis of the materials or what forces had 
been acting on it while it was standing. Had the claim been made when the wall actually 
collapsed, I think UKI wouldve been able to appoint a loss adjuster to inspect the damage 
Mr and Mrs L say they were claiming for. 
Instead, when the claim was made, there was very little of the original wall remaining. I dont 
think a loss adjuster couldve made a definitive finding on whatd caused it to collapse. 
Effectively, given the wall had been replaced, even with a substandard structure and that 
structure itself was causing flooding, UKI was being asked to deal with a claim for the costs 
of replacing the substandard new structure. Assessing the new structure and the damage 
flowing from it was really all it had to go on. 
So I dont think the loss adjuster was unreasonable in drawing the conclusions he did, back 
in 2016. Theres no dispute that the replacement wall was poorly constructed and unable to 
deal with the run-off. This isnt covered by the policy. Ive seen nothing to suggest UKI was 
simply relying on exclusion clauses without any evidence to suggest they should apply.
In my view, the delay between the wall collapsing and the claim being made was simply too 
great for UKI to be in a position to effectively assess the cause of damage. I dont think I 
could fairly direct UKI to pay for the original wall to be rebuilt when it had no chance to 
investigate whether the collapse was a one-off event covered by the policy.
Ive also noted that it doesnt seem Mr and Mrs L continued to challenge UKIs decision in 
2016. If theyd felt the loss adjuster hadnt understood their claim or had incorrectly assessed 
it, it wouldve been reasonable for them to potentially pursue the claim further at that point. 
But from the notes Ive seen, Mr and Mrs L didnt get in touch with UKI after August 2016 
until 27 February 2019 (although I acknowledge theyd made a claim on their legal expenses 
cover attached to this policy to fund legal action against their neighbour). Mr and Mrs L also 
received their surveyors report after February 2017, so again, if they felt the loss adjusters 
conclusions had been wrong, it was open to them to get in touch with the claims team then, 
a few months after the first claim had been turned down. Given the delay between the claim 
being turned down and Mr and Mrs L getting back in touch, I think UKI couldve reasonably 
concluded that Mr and Mrs L had accepted its initial decision.
The policy termsMr and Mrs L have pointed to slightly different terms which they say applied in 2010. Given 
UKI was told about the claim in 2016 and inspected the damage flowing from the failure of 
the replacement wall, I dont think it was unreasonable for it to apply the 2015 policy terms to 
the claim. The fact of the matter is that Mr and Mrs L were asking for the cost of replacing 
the new wall, the original wall had already been replaced.
But even taking the slightly differing wording into account, I dont think it makes a difference 
to the outcome of the claim. Subsidence, heave and landslip on the site a policyholders 
home stands on is covered  assuming this is the clause the collapse of the wall wouldve 
been assessed under.
If I accept that its reasonable that Mr and Mrs L were claiming for the cost of replacing a wall 
that had fallen down six years earlier and had already been replaced, UKI still wasnt given 
the opportunity to assess the original wall and ascertain what condition it was in before it 
collapsed in 2010 and whether any other exclusions applied.
But the fact is, they are really claiming for the costs of replacing the new wall, which they 
accept was poorly constructed. I appreciate Mr and Mrs L feel that the faulty workmanship 
exclusion shouldnt apply to their claim. They feel their original wall hadnt been poorly 
designed and had been properly constructed, but I remain of the view that it wasnt 
reasonable for them to wait six years and until the replacement wall began to substantially 
deteriorate before making a claim for the original wall.
Rights of recovery
As I explained in my provisional decision, insurers generally have the right of subrogation  
the process of recovering their claims outlay from the party they consider to be at fault. This 
would usually be the third-party insurer. This right is standard across the insurance industry.
In this case, the right of subrogation would mean that if UKI had paid the claim, it wouldve 
likely sought to recover the monies from Mr and Mrs Ls neighbour. But in this case, Mr and 
Mrs L had signed the mediation agreement (which was court ratified) to accept liability for 
the costs of rebuilding the wall. This immediately meant UKI had no right of recovery. Mr and 
Mrs L didnt get back in touch with UKI to ask it to reassess the claim based on their 
surveyors report until 27 February 2019, after theyd already reached the mediated 
agreement on 25 February 2019. 
So it seems UKI would never have been in a position to use its right of subrogation if itd 
agreed to settle the claim at this point. And I also think it would be unfair for me to direct UKI 
to pay out for rebuilding a wall when Mr and Mrs L had also agreed, via mediation and in 
court, that they would bear the costs of doing so.
UKI isnt responsible for the legal advice its preferred solicitors give. It simply funds legal 
expenses claims. Ive also noted Mr and Mrs Ls comments about their legal professionals 
and the fact they hadnt appeared to consider recovery rights. As I wasnt involved in the 
legal action or the discussions, I cant comment on the advice that was given. And it isnt 
within my powers to do so. But its worth mentioning that Mr and Mrs Ls claim had been 
turned down over two years before the mediated settlement was reached. Theres nothing to 
suggest the legal team were aware Mr and Mrs L would then seek to have the claim 
reassessed to recoup their losses.
Summary
I accept this has been a lengthy, frustrating and upsetting process for Mr and Mrs L. Theyve 
mentioned their neighbour hasnt complied with the court order. While Im sorry to hear things still havent been resolved, that simply isnt something Im able to look at. 
Overall, I think Mr and Mrs L made their claim too late to allow UKI a reasonable chance of 
assessing it. So I think UKIs position was prejudiced. And I think UKIs position in 2019 was 
also unfairly prejudiced by the mediated agreement which meant it would have no right of 
recovery if the claim was accepted. This means I cant fairly or reasonably direct UKI to pay 
this claim. So it remains the case that I think it was fair for UKI to turn down Mr and Mrs Ls 
claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 August 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman