DRN-3404260
The complaint
Miss S has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (Nat West) unfairly closed her 
bank account and failed to tell her theyd recorded a default on her credit file.  And, when Nat 
West sold her debt on to another business, the default details recorded didnt tally  which 
Miss S says made her credit file inaccurate.
What happened
In 2016, Nat West wrote to Miss S, telling her theyd decided they could no longer provide 
her with banking services, and intended to close her account in 60 days time.  They advised 
Miss S that, if the account was in credit at that time, she should contact them about 
arrangements to collect the balance.  But, if it was overdrawn, the overdraft facility would be 
withdrawn.  Nat Wests letter invited Miss S to contact them if she wasnt going to be in a 
position to repay any overdraft by the end of the 60 day period.
When she received the letter, Miss S complained to Nat West about their decision to close 
the account.  Nat West rejected her complaint and said their decision had been made in line 
with their terms and conditions.
The account was closed at the end of the 60 day period.  At this point, it was overdrawn.  
Nat West registered a default in respect of the debt in February 2017.  
In September 2019, Nat West sold the debt to another business, which Ill call C.  C made its 
own entry on Miss Ss credit file.  This showed shed defaulted in November 2016.
At some point between February 2017 and January 2021, Miss S became aware of the 
entries on her credit file and made another complaint to Nat West.  She complained that a 
default had been entered on her credit file and said shed not been sent a default notice to 
warn her this might happen.  
Nat West investigated and wrote to Miss S with their response.  They said they didnt send 
her a default notice as theyd already told her they were withdrawing banking services and 
the default was entered because shed not repaid her overdraft.  
Miss S wasnt satisfied with Nat Wests response and brought her complaint to us.  She told 
us that, if shed known she was at risk of a default being added to her credit records, she 
would have repaid the debt.  But she says she wasnt given that opportunity before a default 
was registered.  And she expressed her concerns at Nat Wests decision to close the file in 
the first place.
Our investigator considered Miss Ss complaint and concluded that we couldnt investigate 
any concerns about the account closure, because Miss S hadnt referred the complaint to us 
in time.  She noted that Nat West had sent their final response to Miss S in September 2016 
 which included telling her shed need to refer her complaint to our service within six 
months from then.  So that aspect of the complaint was out of time.
In respect of the default, the investigator said Nat West had given Miss S reasonable notice 
of their intention to close her account and withdraw the overdraft facility and it was open to 
her to have brought the account into credit during that period.  
She said that, although Nat West hadnt sent a default notice, this wasnt by itself enough for 
her to say the default shouldnt have occurred and been reported.  The investigator noted 
that, despite saying she had funds to repay the overdraft, Miss Ss account didnt show shed 
tried to do that  so she thought it likely the default would have happened anyway.
As to the discrepancy between the default dates recorded by Nat West and C, the 
investigator said its not usual for a default to be recorded immediately a payment is missed, 
but when payments have been missed for between three and six months.  She noted Nat 
West had recorded the default in February 2017, three months after the account had been 
closed.  But she noted that the record has now been changed and both businesses have 
now recorded the default as occurring in November 2016.  So the investigator concluded 
there was no need for Nat West to do any more to resolve Miss Ss complaint.  
Miss S didnt agree with the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Miss Ss complaint.  Ill explain why.
Nat Wests decision to close the account
I know Miss S is still unhappy her account was closed.  In some of her more recent emails to 
the investigator, she states Nat Wests final response on this was not in 2016, but in June 
2021  the last time she corresponded with Nat West on the subject.
While I understand why Miss S may take that view, final response has a specific meaning.  
This is set out at paragraph 1.6.2R of the Dispute Resolution: Complaints section of the FCA 
Handbook (DISP).
DISP 1.6.2R says a final response is:
a written response from the respondent which: 39
(a) accepts the complaint and, where appropriate, offers redress or remedial action; or
(b) offers redress or remedial action without accepting the complaint; or
(c) rejects the complaint and gives reasons for doing so;
and which:
(d) encloses a copy of the Financial Ombudsman Service's standard explanatory leaflet; (da) 
provides the website address of the Financial Ombudsman Service; 410
(e) informs the complainant that if he remains dissatisfied with the respondent's response, he 
may now refer his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service; and 410
(f) indicates whether or not the respondent consents to waive the relevant time limits in DISP 
2.8.2 R or DISP 2.8.7 R (Was the complaint referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service in 
time?) by including the appropriate wording set out in DISP 1 Annex 3R. Ive looked at Nat Wests September 2016 response to Miss Ss complaint.  It fulfils these 
requirements.  And, although the complaint is referred to in later correspondence, Nat West 
hasnt changed their response.  So I think its fair to say this element of Miss Ss complaint 
wasnt brought to us in time.
The default notice
Its not disputed Nat West didnt send a default notice.  Theyve said thats because theyd 
already told Miss S they were closing the account and withdrawing overdraft facilities.     
Miss S has told us she thinks that means no default should be registered.
But not sending a notice doesnt mean a default cant be registered.  Rather, it stops a 
business from taking starting proceedings to recover what its owed.  Ive seen nothing here 
to suggest Nat West ever did that.  But Ive thought about whether Miss S knew she owed 
money  and about her testimony that, if shed known the consequences, shed have paid off 
the overdraft.
Miss S doesnt dispute she owed the money.  So she would have known shed have to repay 
it.  Im satisfied that was confirmed in the letter from Nat West, giving her notice theyd be 
closing the account.  And Im satisfied Miss S was aware of the contents of the notice letter 
because she complained to Nat West about it.  
The letter is clear that Miss S has to repay the overdraft by the end of the 60 day notice 
period.  I think its reasonable to say receiving a letter in these terms would prompt someone 
able to pay off their overdraft to do that.  Or, if they couldnt repay, to contact Nat West (as 
the letter invites Miss S to do) to discuss their options.  
Miss S did neither of these things.  So Im not persuaded by Miss Ss testimony that she 
would have paid it off if shed known the consequences.  And I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Nat West to start the process to register a default against her when they 
received no payments.      
Ive read Nat Wests contact notes.  These show Miss S contacted them in February 2017 
asking whether closing the account would result in a default.  And she contacted them in 
early April that year to say shed make arrangements to pay if the default was removed.  So 
Im satisfied that, even without a notice being sent to her, Miss S was aware both of the 
possibility of a default being recorded, and that one was, in the first half of 2017.  
Inconsistency in recorded default dates
I can see from the information weve received Miss S is concerned that Nat West and C 
recorded different dates for the default.  Im satisfied from the evidence she provided that 
was the case  although it isnt now.
I cant look here at anything C did  only at Nat Wests actions.  From what Ive seen, Nat 
West registered the default in February 2017  after not receiving any payments to reduce 
the overdraft for three months.  Thats in line with guidance that a default should be entered 
when payments havent been made for between three and six months.
So I cant say Nat West were wrong to register the default as February 2017  even though I 
appreciate C registered a different date.  But I can see that Nat West have changed the date 
to match Cs entry.
So Im satisfied the dates now match  and, as a consequence, the default will be removed 
from Miss Ss record earlier than it might have been.   I note Miss S has said that the entries having different dates impacted on her ability to 
successfully apply for financial products.  Ive thought about this.  Miss S has provided a 
great deal of information in support of her complaint.  But it doesnt detail specific difficulties 
shes had.  And I cant say that any difficulties are the fault of Nat West because  as 
mentioned above  I dont think the information they registered was wrong.  So I dont think 
Nat West need to do any more to resolve Miss Ss complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Ss complaint about National 
Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman