DRN-3506014
The complaint
Mr C says Barclays Bank UK PLC closed his current account without his instructions and 
has not paid out the balance.
What happened
Barclays wrote to Mr C on 17 February 2017 saying as his account had not been used for a 
while and had a zero balance it would be closed on or shortly after 17 May 2017. It set out 
what to do if Mr C wanted to keep the account open. Mr C says he did not receive that letter, 
but Barclays sent it to the last address it held for Mr C. It seems he had not updated the 
bank with his new address. Mr C says the account had a balance in excess of £10,000 that 
he did not withdraw. Barclays says it records show £10,658 was transferred out on 5 
October 2012 and from that point the account had a zero balance.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Cs complaint. He said the bank provided the necessary 
notice of account closure to the address it held for Mr C. And it has evidenced that the last 
transaction on the account was on 5 October 2012, after which it had a zero balance. So 
there were no missing funds. He explained that as the account has been dormant for over 
six years the bank cannot provide statements.
Unhappy with this assessment, Mr C said there must be an investigation into the missing 
funds and the bank must provide for statements for the account. He explained how stressful 
this has been for him. So the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am not upholding Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Barclays has shown it sent Mr C the required notice of account closure. This also set out 
what Mr C should do if he wanted to keep the account open. I note he says he never 
received this letter but as he had not updated the bank with his new address I cant hold the 
bank liable for non-receipt.
Whilst Barclays cannot provide standard statements due to the age of the account I can see 
it sent Mr C copy statements from 20 April 2015 to 16 June 2017 on 23 September 2019. 
These showed that the account had a zero balance and the last previous entry was dated 5 
October 2012. As part of our investigation Barclays submitted a print-out of the ledger 
entries for Mr Cs account. These have now been shared with Mr C. They show that £10,658 
was transferred out on 5 October 2012 so I am satisfied that when the account was closed 
there were no funds in it to be paid out to Mr C. I also find that the ledger entries should 
largely satisfy Mr Cs request for account statements. 
It follows I dont find Barclays made any errors in the management of Mr Cs account. I dont 
doubt it is his honest recollection that he never withdrew the funds, but I have to take into 
account that this happened over ten years ago, and that the documentary evidence from the 
time (the ledger) shows the money was withdrawn. 
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman