DRN-3604991
The complaint
Miss R complained about AXA Insurance UK Plc s handling of her repair claim under her
motor insurance policy.
What happened
 After Miss Rs car was hit by another car, AXA paid for her cars damage to be repaired by
their approved repairer( AXAs garage). But Miss R said they took too long to take her car
to AXAs garage and repair it, gave her poor service, and didnt give her a courtesy car. 
AXA agreed that in some areas theyd not provided acceptable service but said theyd acted 
in line with their policy re the lack of hire car and offered her £100 as an apology.
But Miss R wanted AXA to compensate her for her actual travel costs and loss of income
from her employment and her own business, and for the stress theyd caused her.
The investigator didnt recommend that her complaint should be upheld. She thought that
AXA hadnt acted unfairly as theyd offered a reasonable level of compensation for their
mistakes and offered travel costs under the policy when the courtesy car couldnt be
provided. Miss R didnt agree and so her case was passed to me to decide. I issued my 
provisional decision on 14 June 2022, with responses required by 12 July.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said as follows:
Miss R said that she was without her car for too long and no one took accountability for this.
She said she didnt get her car back until mid-January and was told it was because of lack of
parts, but AXA and their garage were blaming each other.
Ive looked at AXAs file and can see that there was some time between the incident in which
her car was damaged on about 16 October, and her car being taken to AXAs garage on
about 9 December. But AXAs files show that it wasnt until about 23 November that Miss R
first told AXA that her car was at a garage shed chosen, as it had stopped working a couple
of weeks after the incident. AXA hadnt known about that before then. Miss R told them that
garages address on 24 November and AXA that day asked their recovery agents to collect it
and take it to AXAs garage. But there was then a delay when the recovery agents couldnt
contact the garage from the details Miss R had given and AXA didnt tell them what to do
next until about 6 December 2021. They then got her garages contact information from
Miss R and by 9 December the car was with AXAs garage. I dont think this was all AXAs
fault, but they did contribute to the delays.
Miss R got her car back in mid-January but I can see from their garages invoice that almost
£2,000 of parts were used in the repair work, and I dont think that about a month in the
garage is an unreasonably long delay particularly over the Christmas holiday period and
during the pandemic. AXA accepted that they could have communicated with her better
throughout her claim, but I think what they have offered in compensation is reasonable for
that.
Miss R was also unhappy that AXA didnt give her a courtesy car although shed paid extra
for an upgraded one. She said that this was very inconvenient as she needed a car for her
work and not having one affected her health and also meant she lost income as she could
not do night shifts or deliver her own business products to customers. She said shed had
chased AXA for the hire car and it was January before they told her none were available.
They said this was due to a national shortage of hire cars and they offered her a daily rate of
£10 for her travel costs instead. She sent us screen shots of her taxi fares, but said shed
incurred more than that.
Ive looked at Miss Rs policy. It says on page 7 that if a courtesy car cannot be arranged,
we will repay your alternative travelling costs up to a maximum of £15 per day. It also says
that the maximum period they would pay for is 14 days. According to AXAs file notes, they
told her about the hire car shortage on 17 December and then offered her £15 a day for 14
days, and I think thats reasonable as its what the policy requires. But Miss R didnt accept
that. And although she says she paid extra under her policy for a courtesy car upgrade, and
for business insurance, her policy schedule says that she had not selected the car upgrade
option, and her insurance certificate states that  the policy does not cover use for business
purposes. So I think that the policy is clear that business loss is not covered.
As the investigator explained, its not our role to punish insurers when things go wrong, but
to ensure theyve addressed her complaint in a fair way. I see that it must have been
frustrating for her that AXA didnt get her a hire car and that it did cause her difficulty. But the
policy is clear that a hire car cant be guaranteed, that AXA could offer her money instead
and that it is capped. I can see that they offered this to her about a week after it was in their
garage, so thats not an unreasonable delay, but she didnt want to accept it. 
I also think that £100 compensation payment is reasonable compensation for AXAs 
admitted service failures. I would still expect AXA to pay her that if they havent already. I 
also expect them to pay her the 14 days travel at £15 per day that she is entitled to under 
her policy and that they have already offered her. But I think that they did otherwise act fairly 
and in line with their policy and so I dont require them to do any more.
Since I issued my above provisional decision, the response deadline has passed and we 
have received no comments. So I see no reason to change my decision.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, its my final decision that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
