DRN-2586788
The complaint 
Mr O complains that the vehicle he acquired through a hire purchase agreement financed by 
Mi Vehicle Finance Limited was not of satisfactory quality. He wants it to cover the cost of 
repairs and end the agreement.
What happened
Mr O is represented in this complaint by Miss D. But for ease of reading Ill just refer to him.
Mr O tells us that in September 2018 he acquired the vehicle from a dealer Ill call P. He 
says that there were some initial minor issues with the vehicle such as a missing washer cap 
and chipped alloys but that P ignored his complaints. In July 2019, Mr O states that whilst 
driving, the vehicle experienced a total breakdown with white plumes of smoke and an oil 
leak. After recovery he said he contacted P but was told the vehicle was out of warranty. Mr 
O says he subsequently had the vehicle repaired by a specialist garage R, at a cost of over 
£8,000. He says R diagnosed issues with the oil supply and has provided an inspection 
report.
MIVF told us that it didnt accept the report by R. It felt that it wasnt independent as R had a 
vested interest in finding faults, having completed the repairs and submitted a bill. And that 
Mr O hadnt shown that the faults with the vehicle were present at the point of supply. It also 
said that MIVF hadnt authorised the repairs.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 5 January 2021. I said that I wasnt 
satisfied that it had been shown that the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply. I said that there were a number of reasons why I felt Rs report wasnt reliable. This 
included statements which appeared to be inconsistent with known facts. And that parts of 
the report appeared to have been copied from other sources and werent the result of an 
inspection of this vehicle.
Ive now had replies from both parties  for which I thank them. MIVF had nothing to add. 
And Mr O has provided some further information from R regarding the matters Id raised 
about the previous report. Ive considered this but the additional information doesnt 
substantially address the concerns Id expressed, for reasons Ill explain. 
I see no reason to change my provisional view which is largely repeated in my final decision 
set out below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Os hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and our service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. MIVF supplied the vehicle so its responsible for 
complaints about the quality of the vehicle.
I understand that Mr O would be disappointed and upset that an expensive vehicle would 
suffer such a catastrophic breakdown after hed only had the vehicle about nine months.
I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account. Relevant law here includes the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). The CRA states that in order to conform to contract 
goods must be of satisfactory quality when supplied. Satisfactory quality is defined as being 
what a reasonable person would consider to be satisfactory. And this would include aspects 
of price, previous use and durability.
The vehicle here cost Mr O almost £46,000 and had covered around 39,000 miles when he 
acquired it. The invoice provided by R shows an odometer reading at the time of repair in 
August 2019 as 43,938 miles. So it wouldnt ordinarily be expected to suffer a major engine 
failure after only this amount of mileage.
The CRA contains a presumption that where goods dont conform to contract within six 
months of the date of supply that they didnt do so at that time. But after six months its up to 
the consumer - if they wish to seek redress for the goods not being of satisfactory quality - to 
show that this was the case at the point of supply. 
Here theres no doubt that the vehicle suffered a mechanical failure which led to the engine 
needing to be rebuilt. But there is a clear dispute as to whether or not this was due to it not 
being of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Modern vehicle engines are usually 
reliable and durable. But things can still go wrong.
Mr O has provided a report from R  which carried out the repairs on the vehicle  and these 
included stripping down the engine. So R was potentially in the best position to determine 
what had caused the engine failure and if this was due to issues which were present at the 
point of supply.
I made the following comments about the report in my provisional decision:
Unfortunately, there are reasons why I doubt that Rs report is as reliable as it may appear 
on first reading. Theres no doubting that superficially it provides an explanation about the 
issues which related to the engine failure. Broadly speaking, this was due to the failure of the 
oil supply to properly lubricate the engine.
 
But there are several reasons why Im not satisfied that I can rely on the report. Firstly, the 
author is not identified and therefore Ive no way of knowing what level of experience and 
expertise he or she may have had. The original report failed to identify that the faults were 
present at the point of supply. Whilst our investigator later received a further reply to the 
effect that Rs engineer believed this to be the case the only justification was that it was said 
this a common problem with vehicles of this type. Ive seen no other information which 
supports this.
Further the reports states, in the first paragraph: 
We can also clarify at no point was any warning lights illuminated on the dashboard to warn 
the driver to stop driving the vehicle or to top up the oil level.
Ive seen no information to show how such a conclusion could be reached. Its not explained 
how the engineer would know if any warning lights had been illuminated prior to the 
breakdown as presumably he wasnt in the vehicle.
Perhaps most disturbingly of all, large parts of the report appear to have been cut and 
pasted from articles which have appeared online. No acknowledgement of this is made. And so the report reads as if many of the comments and findings are those of the author of Rs 
report, based on the inspection of this vehicle. But clearly that cannot be the case.
Where information is unclear - as some of it is here - I reach my conclusions on the balance 
of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Ive now had further information from R. Although the supplier of this latest information is not 
the author of the report. That individual has left the business.
Ive been told the original report writer had seven years experience with similar vehicles. I 
accept this would have meant he was probably qualified to offer an informed opinion on the 
causes of the faults identified.
But its been confirmed that the statement made about the warning lights not illuminating 
was based  not on this vehicle  but on what had occurred with other vehicles. So any 
conclusions drawn from this must be viewed with caution.
And whilst the latest provider of information is not aware if parts of the previous report were 
cut and pasted, hes not been able to show that this didnt happen. And given that Ive 
viewed the relevant material from which the quotations appear to have been copied, Ive no 
reason to change my view that they were not the original report writers own findings.
Ive considered the new information but in my opinion it doesnt alter things. The new 
information is provided by someone who accepts they didnt write the first report and 
presumably has no direct knowledge of the inspection of this vehicle. And whilst they can 
explain what might prevent oil from lubricating the engine (low oil pressure leading to the 
pump not to pump enough pressure to the turbo chargers  main bearings, crankshaft, oil 
jets etc). They are unable to confirm that the issues were present at the point of supply.
Ive already explained why I found the belated comment from the original report author, 
regarding whether or not the faults wouldve been present at the point of supply, to be 
unreliable. Irrespective of if it was a common problem  about which Ive seen no plausible 
information in support  it wouldnt necessarily apply to this individual vehicle.
If there was an issue from the date when Mr O acquired the vehicle, with the oil supply failing 
to lubricate the engine, then its not unreasonable to question why it would have taken nine 
months and 5,000 miles to become apparent. Also it would be strange that no previous 
warning signs were exhibited. 
For the reasons Ive explained, Im unable to rely upon the conclusions in the original 
inspection report by R.  The lack of other plausible information means Im unable to say that 
Mr O has shown the vehicle didnt conform to contract and wasnt of satisfactory quality at 
the point of supply.
In those circumstances it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to require MIVF to refund the cost 
of the repairs. Accordingly Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman