DRN-1751609
The complaint
Mrs A says Barclays Bank UK Plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
Mrs A bought the policy in 2004 sometime after she took out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs As case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs As complaint for the following reasons.
From what we know about how Barclays sold PPI at the time, I think its likely that Barclays 
made Mrs A aware that she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take 
it. I appreciate she doesnt remember this, but thats understandable given how long ago it 
was. 
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mrs A, and it seems to have been right for her based on 
what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. She was only entitled to statutory sick pay 
and had no other guaranteed way to keep up with her repayments if she couldnt work. 
Although her husband may have helped, his ability to do so wouldve depended on his 
circumstances at the time, which could change. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Mrs A doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things 
the policy didnt cover  and based on what I know about her circumstances it looks like the 
policy couldve been useful to her. So, I dont think better information wouldve stopped her 
buying it. 
The regulator's rules on high levels of commission and profit share don't apply to this 
complaint, as it doesn't fall within the relevant dates. So I don't think Barclays needs to 
refund any of the commission and profit share it received for selling this policy.
Ive taken into account Mrs As comments. But these points dont change my conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs As complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman