DRN-2101494
The complaint
Mr L complains about his mortgage with TSB Bank plc. He says he was advised by a TSB 
manager to withhold payments from his mortgage when he couldnt get a new interest rate. 
This has resulted in his mortgage going into arrears  and now TSB not only wont give him 
a new rate, it is threatening to repossess his property.
What happened
Mr L has a mortgage with TSB. In 2017, he asked TSB for a new interest rate product. 
When, some time later he hadnt received the outcome of his application, he says he raised 
with his local branch manager  who, he says, advised him not to make any further 
payments to his mortgage until it was resolved. So Mr L stopped paying.
TSB said he wasnt eligible for a rate at the time because his mortgage was already in 
arrears  but Mr L says he wasnt aware of that and hadnt received any letters from TSB 
about it.
Mr L was receiving contributions to his mortgage interest in the form of the Support for 
Mortgage Interest (SMI) benefit, and he was paying the shortfall. So he says he wasnt, or 
shouldnt have been, in arrears. 
Since then, the arrears have mounted because Mr L still isnt paying the SMI top up. TSB is 
now taking action to recover the arrears and has threatened Mr L with repossession. So Mr L 
complained. He said he wanted TSB to remove the arrears and fees hed been charged, and 
re-work his mortgage as if hed been given an interest rate in 2017.
TSB said that the 2017 application never completed because Mr L didnt call back to 
complete the process. But it acknowledges it could have contacted him itself, and accepted 
there had been delays due to its own IT issues. It offered £375 compensation for that. 
However, it says Mr L didnt proceed because he only wanted a ten year fixed rate, which 
TSB doesnt offer. It offered to carry out a full review of his finances to advise him which of 
its available products would be most suitable, but Mr L didnt want to do that. 
TSB said Mr L was now over £6,000 in arrears and hadnt made any payments himself since 
2017, though it noted he had around the same amount in a TSB savings account  so it 
wasnt that he couldnt pay, he had chosen not to. TSB didnt accept that one of its staff 
would advise Mr L not to pay his mortgage. 
TSB said it had been trying to discuss Mr Ls income and expenditure with him to see what 
could be done to assist him, but Mr L wasnt willing to do that. 
Mr L did go through an income and expenditure assessment after the complaint came to us, 
but that showed that he had a deficit of over £400 per month. It didnt think there was a 
realistic prospect of getting the mortgage back on track and said it was likely to continue with 
litigation action. TSB noted that Mr L had significant health issues, and didnt think it was in 
anyones interests for matters to be dragged out while the equity in his property was eroded.
However, before TSB could take further action, the coronavirus pandemic hit  which 
prevented all repossession action. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the history of Mr Ls mortgage. According to TSBs notes, he discussed a new 
rate in 2016. He wanted either a ten or a twenty year fixed rate, neither of which TSB 
offered. Mr L decided to stay on the variable rate for now, keeping the option of fixing for five 
years in the future when interest rates started to rise. He was worried about fixing for only 
five years at the time and being caught out if interest rates rose before the end of the fixed 
rate. 
In December 2017, there was a further discussion and Mr L again asked for a ten year rate, 
which TSB still didnt offer. Unfortunately the review of Mr Ls account wasnt completed at 
this stage  and I agree that this was at least partly the fault of TSB and its migration to a 
new IT system.
However, even if the review had completed in early 2017 or 2018, I dont think its likely TSB 
would have offered Mr L a new interest rate. TSB doesnt generally offer rates to customers 
in arrears, as Mr L was. Thats because where a customer is in arrears, theres a risk of the 
mortgage coming to an end  either through sale or repossession  and if that happens 
during a fixed rate period an early repayment charge would be added to the balance. 
In certain circumstances, offering a new rate might be the right thing even where a customer 
is in arrears, because it makes the mortgage more affordable and helps get things back on 
track  for example, where a customer can afford payments at the lower rate, but cant afford 
payments at the higher standard variable rate.
This might be such a case. Mr L was in receipt of SMI. It seems, from TSBs contact notes, 
that the arrears was because of a problem with his SMI payments in around 2014, which Mr 
L was expecting at the time to be resolved by way of back payment. In 2016 and 2017, he 
was making up the shortfall on SMI payments himself.
SMI is paid at a standard rate for all claimants, regardless of the actual interest rate of their 
mortgage. That means that in some case SMI wont be enough to cover the mortgage 
interest, and in other cases it will result in overpayments.
In 2016 and 2017, while Mr L was on the standard variable rate, his interest rate was higher 
than the SMI rate, leaving him with a shortfall to make up. But TSB had some fixed interest 
rates at a lower rate than the SMI rate  meaning that there would be no shortfall, and SMI 
would make overpayments.
In those circumstances, I might think it fair for TSB to have offered Mr L a fixed interest rate. 
The arrears were because of an historic issue, and Mr L was  at the time  making his 
payments. A new rate would have made his mortgage more affordable and given him 
breathing space to start bringing down the arrears, even if the SMI back payment didnt 
arrive (as, it seems, it hasnt).
However, I dont think that if TSB had offered Mr L a new rate he would have taken it. He 
was very clear in 2016 that he only wanted to consider a very long term rate, ten years or 
more, because he was worried about being trapped if interest rates rose over the term of a 
shorter rate and it ended with him having to pay more at the end of the rate period. And in 2017 he made the same points. Again, he was clear that he only wanted to consider a longer 
term rate. 
And so while I think that it might have been fair for TSB to have considered offering Mr L a 
new interest rate in 2017, I dont think that if it did he would have accepted it  for the same 
reasons as he didnt in 2016  because TSB didnt have available the rate period he wanted.
I dont think its likely that TSB or a member of its staff would advise Mr L not to pay his 
mortgage. There are very serious consequences to withholding payment, and it seems to me 
very unlikely that any member of bank staff would suggest that.
TSB has said that it told Mr L in 2018 that it had put a hold on collections activity  meaning 
it wouldnt call or write to him about the arrears  while it looked at a complaint. Its possible 
Mr L misunderstood that and thought that meant he didnt need to make any payments 
either. But I dont think thats what TSB would have said.
In any case, it seems that by 2019, when TSB carried out the income and expenditure 
assessment, Mr L could no longer afford to make up the shortfall himself  though he told 
TSB he could make payment by either stopping other payments or asking family for support. 
However, he hasnt in fact resumed payments.
The complaint Mr L has brought to us is about what happened in 2017 and 2018. Ive looked 
carefully at that complaint, and Ive explained why I dont uphold it. 
But I recognise that leaves Mr L in a difficult position now. TSB has said that, in view of Mr 
Ls financial and health situation, it sees no prospect of the mortgage ever getting back on 
track. And if thats so, it believes delaying taking action just makes things worse for Mr L as 
his arrears mount up and his equity erodes. Theres force in that argument.
But as things stand, TSB cant take any action. The regulator has said no repossessions can 
be enforced before 1 April 2021. And even after that lenders will need to look at individual 
circumstances in light of the pandemic. I dont know for sure, but it seems likely to me, in 
view of his health conditions, that Mr L is in the extremely clinically vulnerable category 
advised to shield. TSB will therefore need to think very carefully, and make sure it fully 
understands his situation, before taking any further action.
At the very least, the pandemic and the current lockdown gives both parties some breathing 
space. Now that his complaint has resolved, I would urge Mr L to address his financial 
situation. If hes able to make some form of lump sum payment, he should do so. And if he 
can resume making the mortgage payments, again he should do so. Mr L might find it helpful 
to take some independent financial advice. If hed like us to, the investigator can put him in 
touch with organisations that can help him.
If Mr L can show that he can afford the SMI shortfall, and is willing to pay it again, then what 
Ive said above about new interest products will become relevant again. It might then be fair 
for TSB to consider whether a new rate  if Mr L is willing to consider a shorter term one  
will reduce his monthly payment below the SMI level, allowing Mr L to start addressing the 
arrears. 
It may be that Mr Ls mortgage situation is irretrievable. But I hope not  and I would urge 
Mr L to start paying what he can, and if he does I would expect TSB to reconsider whether 
the last resort of repossession really has been reached.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman