DRN-2723086
The complaint
This is a complaint that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold Mr M payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2000.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr M disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked the possible ways in which the PPI might have 
been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of the 
complaint. 
The evidence from the documents is that Lloyds set out the PPI as an option, and that Mr M 
chose to take it. However, Mr M has said that pressure was put on him to take the PPI, with 
the implication it would help his mortgage application  and, because of his personal 
circumstances at the time, he was emotionally vulnerable to this. 
I must assess things on the balance of probabilities  that is what is more likely than not 
that something happened. But there also needs to be reasonable evidence before I can fairly 
say that Lloyds has done something wrong. It would be unfair to make Lloyds prove it didnt 
do something wrong, especially when it was such a long time ago.
And, given that this was so many years ago, I dont know how much I can fairly rely on 
Mr Ms recollections of what was said. 
Also, in making a decision on this, I couldnt know the exact words used by the adviser and 
the tone in which they were said. It isnt necessarily wrong to strongly set out the possible 
benefits of an insurance policy, even if the adviser is partly motivated by making a sale  as 
long as the policy is actually something worth having and it is clear the customer has a 
choice. The closer it gets to making someone feel they have no real sensible alternative to 
taking the policy, the less acceptable it is. But, as I say, I cant be sure exactly what was 
said.
Overall, I dont have strong enough evidence to say Lloyds acted wrongly in the way Mr M 
believes.  
Ive looked to see whether there are other reasons the PPI might have been mis-sold  but I 
dont think these apply. 
I think Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr M, and this means we would judge its sales 
process by a higher standard  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable for Mr Ms particular 
circumstances. However, finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant 
difficulties. And it looks to me as though a recommendation would have been a suitable one, 
based on what Ive seen of Mr Ms situation at the time: 
Its likely Mr M was eligible for the policy, and so would have been entitled to make a 
claim if needed. 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr M received any employer 
sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits in 
addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when Mr M would 
need to fall back on any savings or other means he may have had for paying the 
mortgage and other living costs. This all would have put Mr M in a more secure 
position, if hed eventually lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest Mr M couldnt afford the PPI when he took it 
out. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Mr M would 
have been affected by any of these
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. It would then be up to Mr M to decide whether he wanted to accept the 
recommendation and agree to buy the PPI.
Its hard to know how well Lloyds explained the costs and benefits of the policy  from the 
documents, though, it looks likely that at least the basic information was given to him. And I 
dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have affected 
whether Mr M took the PPI. I say this because, in his circumstances, its unlikely this would 
have made the PPI seem less useful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman