DRN-3869684
The complaint
Mr L complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) hasnt settled his claim 
on his car insurance policy fairly and wont pay the costs of storing his car at a garage while 
his claim was being settled.
What happened
Mr L had a car accident in early January 2022. At the end of March 2022, he called Admiral 
to make a claim. According to call notes Admiral has given us, Mr L said he was looking to 
retain the car  hed had some temporary repairs done to it following the accident and 
wanted to make a claim so he could then sell the car.
Admiral declared Mr Ls car a total loss. It valued it at £8,544, based on one of the motor 
industry trade guides. Mr L was unhappy with this valuation and also with Admirals refusal 
to pay the costs of storing his car at a garage for 52 days while his claim was being settled.
When Mr L complained to Admiral about these things, it upheld part of his complaint. It said 
its valuation shouldve been £8,597 (based on three of the motor industry trade guides)  
rather than £8,544 (based on one guide). Admiral offered  and I believe has paid  Mr L 
£50 for the trouble and upset this caused him. But Admiral said it wouldnt cover the storage 
costs for the car.
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr L brought his complaint to us. The investigator who looked at 
it didnt uphold it. She thought Admirals valuation was within the range of the motor industry 
trade guide market valuations and so was reasonable. And she thought Mr L wished to keep 
his car and it was his decision to put it in storage, so she couldnt fairly hold Admiral liable for 
the storage costs.
Mr L disagrees with our investigators findings. He says he paid £13,500 for the car less than 
a year before the accident, car values went up (not down) during Covid and its not fair to 
give him (as a non-trader) a trader value for the car. So Mr Ls complaint has come to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Looking at the issue of the valuation first, as Ive mentioned, Mr L says he bought his car for 
much more than Admirals final valuation less than a year previously. And hes sent us 
adverts showing retail replacement costs for similar cars at much higher prices.
Mr Ls policy says that, in settling his claim, the most Admiral will pay is the market value of 
his car. The policy says this is the cost of replacing his car with one of a similar make, 
model, year, mileage and condition based on market prices immediately before his accident 
happened. And it says the value is based on research from industry recognised motor trade 
guides. 
Generally, its not our role to put an exact value on a car. But, when looking at a complaint 
like Mr Ls, we check the relevant trade guides to see if the insurer has made a reasonable 
offer in line with them. We also look at information other than the trade guides, including 
adverts. But we place most weight on the guides, because theyre based on nationwide 
research of likely selling prices  so we think theyre more reliable than individual adverts. 
And adverts can be misleading as cars often dont sell for the advertised price  they are 
often sold for less after negotiation.
While I can see Mr L is frustrated with Admirals valuation, I think the wording of his policy is 
clear and its in line with what Id expect a car insurance policy to say. Having reviewed the 
usual trade guides, I think Admirals valuation of £8,597 is in line with them. So I dont think 
Admiral has acted unfairly or unreasonably in reaching the valuation it has.
Turning next to the issue of the storage costs, Mr L says these were incurred from when he 
made his claim to when Admiral paid out on it. Admiral says it wasnt made aware of any 
storage costs until the beginning of May 2022. And, in any case, Admirals claim notes say 
that when Mr L notified it of his claim, he said his intention was to retain the car. The notes 
also say Admiral offered to salvage the car at this time (and so wouldve collected it from the 
garage) but that Mr L turned down the offer. I think it was Mr Ls choice to keep his car at his 
chosen garage. And, in the circumstances of this case, given that it was always Mr Ls 
intention to retain the car, I dont think Admiral has acted unfairly or unreasonably in refusing 
to pay the storage costs.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman