DRN-2055751
The complaint
I appreciate Mr and Mrs W have been very much involved in this complaint. But as the claim 
is in relation to Miss Ws property, Ill refer to her throughout this decision.
Miss W is unhappy that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited wont deal with 
her buildings contract claim under her legal expenses policy.
What happened
After getting quotes from different builders for large scale building works at her home 
address Miss W settled on one of the quotes and an agreement was made to proceed. 
Unfortunately, some delays were encountered, and the start date slipped back a few 
months. Once a revised date was set Miss W arranged to have the property stripped out and 
furniture removed  at this point the property became uninhabitable.
However, just before the start date of the work there was further activity, checking of plans 
and documents before the builder suddenly advised that he had underquoted for the works 
required and wouldnt be able to start. Within a few days he returned the keys hed already 
been given when access to the property had been set up for the works to begin.
Miss W contacted DAS to take action against the builder who had let her down. DAS said 
the policy didnt cover contract disputes regarding building works. Unhappy with this Miss W 
brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said DAS had acted reasonably when it 
applied the exclusion. She accepted that the dispute related to building works and that the 
exclusion was for this type of situation.
Miss W didnt accept this and asked for her complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss W has referred throughout the complaint to an anticipatory breach of contract and she 
also referred to the section of the policy that says cover applies to buying any goods and 
services.
Just to expand on Miss Ws point under the policy section titled contract disputes it says in 
full:
What we cover What we dont cover
We will cover the costs and expenses for the following:
Your legal rights in a contractual dispute arising from an agreement or an alleged agreement 
which you have entered into for:
 The buying or hiring in of any goods or services; or the selling of any goods.
On the other hand, DAS referred to the details in the section right next to this in the policy 
that says:
What we dont cover
Any claim relating to the following:
A contract regarding your profession, business or employment;
Anything relating to the building, converting, extending, altering, renovating or demolishing of 
your home (this does not apply to common home improvements, such as installing double 
glazing or replacement kitchens);
Although I can understand the point Miss W is making, I think the policy heading referring to 
contract disputes is clear. Miss W refers to an anticipatory breach of contract and purely 
the contractual dispute. This section of the policy deals with contracts as a whole and the 
issues that may arise. So, I think DAS is clear what the policy is dealing with.
Under this section the policy gives the broad definition of what it does cover (as shown 
above) and then specifically highlights in the policy section next to it what it doesnt want to 
cover. Miss W thinks what it says in the first section is the key to her claim and that the 
works she was having done arent under the exclusion. There could be times when possibly 
that might be the case. But I dont think thats the case here.
I know Miss W disputes this but its clear that the issue is about the works that were agreed 
but then not delivered by the builder as per the agreed contract. DAS referred later to the 
contract as the proximate cause. The contract was for extensive building works at the 
property. I think the exclusion (as shown above) is aimed at exactly this type of building 
works. Miss W thinks that the wording isnt clear and can be seen differently meaning she 
should get the benefit of any ambiguity. But I dont think there is any ambiguity. Its clear that 
DAS wish to, and write policies to, exclude situations like the one Miss W has unfortunately 
found herself in.
Miss W mentioned common home improvements and what DAS would allow a claim for. But 
thats not the circumstances Miss W finds herself in so Im only dealing with what has 
happened in this situation. Its clear based on the cost, on the plans, and the details that 
major extensive work was to be undertaken. I think theres no doubt this sort of work fits into 
the category DAS has excluded from the policy cover. So, I think DAS acted reasonably 
when it declined to deal with Miss Ws claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I dont make any award against DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman