DRN-3881212
The complaint
Mrs J complains that NewDay Ltd irresponsibly gave her a credit card account that she 
couldnt afford.
What happened
In March 2020, Mrs Js Argos credit card was opened by NewDay Ltd with an initial credit 
limit of £700. The credit limit was increased to £1,450 on 24 June 2021. In May 2021, Mrs 
Js Fluid credit card was opened by NewDay Ltd with an initial credit limit of £300. The 
credit limit was increased to £1,300 on 16 November 2021.  
In 2022, Mrs J complained to NewDay Ltd to say that the accounts shouldnt have been 
opened because they werent affordable and that NewDay Ltd ought to have made a 
better effort to understand her financial circumstances before it provided her with credit. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mrs J didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
NewDay Ltd will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Mrs Js complaint is that NewDay Ltd made credit available that was unaffordable. NewDay 
Ltd has explained that it relied in part on information that Mrs J provided at the time of 
application to assess affordability. They said they carried out a credit search in Mrs Js 
name to assess Mrs Js level of debt at that time and to understand how she had been 
managing that debt. With that information and using their own scoring metric, NewDay Ltd 
decided to agree to the credit limits they provided. So, the checks for affordability seemed 
proportionate for relatively modest credit levels compared to the income that Mrs J declared.
The NewDay Ltd checks showed that Mrs J had only a very modest amount of other 
borrowings compared to her declared income. And I have noted that Mrs Js credit file was 
reasonably clean at the time of the application. When I say this, I mean that Mrs Js 
management of her existing credit showed no recent history of CCJs, defaults or any late 
payments. So, it seemed from the credit file that at the point that the lending decision was 
made, Mrs J was affording her existing credit. And so, NewDay Ltd were not put on notice of 
any reason not to agree the lending from that. 
And when deciding about the further credit card and the credit limit increases, NewDay Ltd 
had their experience of how Mrs J had been managing her credit with them. There were no 
missed payments or over credit limit fees that would have signalled financial difficulty to 
NewDay Ltd. And so, I dont think that the information that NewDay Ltd had at the time of 
the lending decisions, would have led them to feel they ought to make more searching 
enquiries of Mrs Js financial situation. 
Mrs J has explained that she had a gambling habit at the time which was the prime cause 
of her existing borrowings. But Mrs J had not told NewDay Ltd about the gambling habit. 
And, as discussed above, the gambling habit had not led Mrs J to blemish her credit file 
recently at the time she applied for the credit cards. 
I have to look at the information that was available to NewDay Ltd at the time it made its 
lending decisions and not to use hindsight. And I have seen insufficient evidence that the 
other information that NewDay Ltd acquired or had presented to it at the time of the lending 
decision, would have led them to think that the relatively modest credit they were offering 
was unreasonable. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, I have seen insufficient 
evidence to uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman