DRN-3202805
The complaint
 Ms E and Mr U complain about Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) who declined their claims 
under their home insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms E and Mr U have had their home insurance with Ageas since 2012, renewing each year. 
In 2017 Ms E made a claim for a leak. That was repaired by the engineer Ageas instructed. 
Whilst there, he noted that there had been several leaks and in particular a missing grip 
handle to the side of the bath. Following this, there were a few more leaks that Ageas didnt 
cover as it assessed the cost of repair to be lower than the policy excess.
In October 2019, another leak was reported. Ageas sent an engineer to validate the claim. 
He reported that there was some staining in several rooms, which indicated old leaks. He 
also noted that there was no confirmation of the previous repairs and this meant that the 
location of the leak was unknown. Ageas asked for plumbing reports from Ms E and Mr U 
Whilst Ageas were waiting for the reports from Ms E and Mr U confirming the previous 
repairs, they made a claim in May 2020 for another leak from a heating pipe and the same 
section of ceiling that had been previously damaged. Ageas sent another engineer who 
found that water had come through a ceiling. The engineer reported that Ms E and Mr U told 
him that the leak came from the central heating system but again no supporting 
documentation was provided that confirmed this. 
Due to Ageas not being able to validate that either instance was as a result of one leak, it 
declined the claims. Ms E and Mr U raised a complaint. They said that they had made every 
effort to repair the leaks and to prevent the damage. Ageas said that the claims remained 
declined, Ms E and Mr U hadnt provided any supporting evidence of where the leaks 
actually came from. So, they referred their complaint to our service. 
During the investigation of the complaint by our investigator, Ageas agreed to repair the 
damage caused by the leak in May 2020. However, as to the outstanding issue of the leak in 
October 2019, our investigator ultimately recommended that as the causes of the damage 
were previously known, they shouldve been fixed earlier. So, he thought that Ageas fairly 
declined the claim.
Ageas accepted the view, Ms E and Mr U did not. They said that it was unfair for Ageas to 
keep asking for further evidence and that they had provided the evidence required. So, they 
asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will uphold this complaint. My findings are broadly the same as our 
investigator, which I expect Ms E and Mr U will be disappointed with, but I will explain why I 
think this is fair.  
Ageas agreed to repair the damage caused by the leak reported in May 2020. It has agreed 
to re-attend to confirm the repairs that are required and to either complete the repairs or 
provide a cash settlement to Ms E and Mr U. It also said that If Ms E and Mr U had already 
carried out the repairs, then it will require a schedule of repair and an estimate for 
consideration. Im satisfied that this is fair and reasonable, and I wont be asking Ageas to do 
anything further in relation to this leak. Therefore, the outstanding issue of this complaint
relates to the leak in October 2019. 
Ms E and Mr U reported a leak in around March 2019. The engineer who attended that leak 
reported the following:
Leak coming through customer's ceiling from floor above. She thinks it may be from 
bathroom/taps. Although she uncertain of the origin. Damage to ceiling below cylinder, water 
leaked through ceiling last night, all water is still on, no leak, expansion vessel has lost 
pressure, booked central heating eng for today
From this information, it suggests that Ms E had told the engineer that she thought the leak 
was coming from the taps but wasnt certain of this. But the engineer found there was no 
leak detected that he could fix, and another engineer was booked to resolve whatever issue 
there was. Ms E and Mr U have not provided any information of whether the other engineer 
attended and what they found, if anything. So, I think the information shows the presence of 
an undetected leak.
In September 2019, Ms E and Mr U called another engineer for a leak. He reported: 
Same bathroom tap running full flow, (unsure if related) toilet is leaking, isolated water 
supply. replaced basin mixer.  The customer checklist noted: replaced basin mixer on top 
floor bathroom basin.
From this information, it suggests that the March 2019 report suspects the leak to have 
come from the taps, but there is no evidence that identifies whether this was the case or not 
and no repairs were noted. The leak mentioned in the September 2019 report refers to the 
same taps. Our investigator contacted the engineers who attended to see if they could 
provide further evidence. The engineers were unable to confirm if the leaks were unrelated 
or whether the leak in March 2019 had been repaired. 
Ageas inspected the property in November 2019 and in its report, it couldnt confirm whether 
the leak had been fixed or what had been leaking. The engineer was directed that there 
could be a leak behind the bath, but he couldnt diagnose whether there was a leak but did 
note that there had been a missing bath handle and visible holes on the bath as a result. 
I have seen some photographs of the bath without the bath panel and this shows an area of 
damp which appears to have been present for a while. In addition, it was noted that there 
was staining to ceilings which showed cycles of growth which Im persuaded shows that 
there had been drying over time.   
Having carefully considered all the reports before me, what can be concluded is that the leak 
from the tap had been raised in March 2019. There is no evidence before me to say that it 
was repaired or indeed what happened here. Alternatively, it could be suggested that the 
leak (in October 2019) was caused by the missing bath handle, which had originally been 
highlighted as an issue in 2017. Consequently, Ageas has said that as both potential causes of damage had been previously 
identified and seemingly not repaired, then both couldve been fixed earlier before any 
further damage couldve occurred. Accordingly, Im persuaded, in the absence of any further 
evidence from Ms E and Mr U, that Ageas fairly declined the claim as Its likely that the 
causes of damage were previously known and not repaired. 
I understand that this is not the outcome that Ms E and Mr U wouldve liked. But Im unable 
to agree that Ageas acted unreasonably in declining the claim and I wont be asking it to do 
anything further in relation to the leak in 2019. 
  
Putting things right
I direct Ageas Insurance Limited to put this right as outlined below.   
My final decision
For the reasons I explained, I will uphold this complaint. 
I find that Ageas Insurance Limiteds offer to complete the repairs for the leak in May 2020, 
or to make a cash settlement, is fair and reasonable and I direct it so to do. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E and Mr U to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman