DRN-4031841
The complaint
Mr E has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) failed to call him back after he had 
issues with various problems with his accounts. He is also unhappy that HSBC sent him a 
letter instead of calling him. Finally, Mr E is unhappy with the contents of an e-mail from a 
senior member of staff.
What happened
During various issues that Mr E had with HSBC Mr E says that he was not called back by 
HSBCs staff when promised. He says that this caused a great deal of distress and 
inconvenience to him. In relation to this HSBC credited Mr E £50 to reflect the service he 
received.
One of our investigators looked into this matter already and they concluded that this was 
sufficient given the overall circumstances of this complaint. Mr E did not agree and therefore 
this complaint was passed to me to issue a decision.
I should strongly highlight at this point that this complaint only refers to the issue with the 
promised call backs and the letters. The underlying issues that prompted these calls in the 
first instance have been dealt with separately.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im also very aware Ive summarised this complaint very briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and largely in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think is at the heart of the matter here.
If theres something Ive not mentioned, I havent ignored it. Ive not commented on every 
individual detail. Ive focussed on those that are central to me reaching what I think is the 
right outcome. This reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
The first series of calls that Mr E is concerned with related to an issue with Mr Es banking 
app. Again, I am only looking at the customer service received during this issue not at the 
underlying issue relating to the banking app. In this instance I am satisfied that the member 
of staff did attempt to call Mr E as was promised, so I dont think HSBC did anything wrong 
customer service wise in relation to this matter.
The second series of calls related to an issue with Mr Es savings account. Again, there is 
sufficient evidence to suggest that the member of staff did attempt to call Mr E as promised, 
so again I dont think that HSBC did anything wrong in relation to this.
There does seem to be another series of calls that relates to a different member of staff. It 
seems that during this time, the member of staff sent a letter to Mr E, rather than calling him 
as promised. HSBC paid Mr E £50 to apologise for this issue. Overall, I think that this is 
reasonable, given the minor nature of this issue.
Mr E has raised concerns about the contact he received from a senior member of staff. Mr E 
says he is unhappy that during these communications, he was told that if he was unhappy 
with the service that he was receiving from HSBC then he could potentially seek to move his 
account to a different provider. I have carefully considered this and I dont think that this was 
an unreasonable thing to say. Mr E clearly has had a number of issues with HSBC during his 
time banking with them and it is not unreasonable to suggest that if he continues to remain 
unhappy with HSBC he may want to consider a different banking provider.
Overall, I am satisfied that the £50 that HSBC has credited Mr E is reasonable considering 
the circumstances of this complaint and it therefore follows that I do not ask it to do anything 
more.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Es complaint. This means that I dont think HSBC UK 
Bank Plc needs to take any further action to settle this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman