DRN-3951974
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy about how Aviva Equity Release UK Limited applies voluntary partial
repayments to his lifetime equity release mortgage accounts.
What happened
In late 2015, after seeking advice from an independent financial adviser, Mr M and his late 
wife Mrs M took out an equity release mortgage with Aviva. They had an initial cash advance 
of £10,000 at a fixed rate of 5.40%, with a cash reserve of £16,013 that they could draw 
down on at any time. 
Further drawdowns were made as follows:
- May 2016 - £5,000 at a fixed rate of 5.74%
- April 2017 - £6,000 at a fixed rate of 5.09%
- September - 2017 £4,000 at a fixed rate of 4.85%
Their mortgage terms and conditions provided that after the first year, voluntary partial 
repayments (VPRs) could be made during each 12-month period, up to 10% of the total 
amount owed (initial sum borrowed plus any drawdowns), without incurring an early 
repayment charge.
In May 2022 Mrs M called Aviva to make a VPR of £2,000. During this call, Aviva explained 
the VPR terms and confirmed that the payment would be applied to the latest loan first and 
how this would impact the overall amount owed. Mr M was present for at least part of the call 
when he spoke to Aviva to give his consent for his bank card to be used for the payment. 
Later that year Mrs M sadly passed away. In November 2022 Mr M through his 
representative complained to Aviva about how the VPR had been applied. Mr M said that 
him and his late wife wanted the VPR to be applied across all their loans proportionately. 
Mr M said that due to Mrs Ms health conditions in the lead up to her passing, she was not 
able to make an informed choice at the time of making the VPR.  
Aviva responded to the complaint. It said the terms and conditions dont specify exactly how 
each VPR will be applied, and Aviva does reserve the right to amend how it applies VPRs. 
Aviva also explained that the initial loan was sold through an independent financial advisor 
(IFA). Any information and advice regarding the loan was given by the IFA. Aviva referred 
Mr Ms complaint about how the loan was sold to the IFA.
Unhappy with Avivas response, Mr M (through his representative) brought his complaint to 
our service. An investigator looked into this complaint against Aviva and didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld. She said that in line with its terms, Aviva reserved the right to 
determine how to apply VPRs to the mortgage account and she was satisfied it was entitled 
to do so. Mr M didnt agree with the findings on this case and asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Equity release mortgages are intended to be long-term products which are meant to run for
the lifetime of the borrower(s). No monthly repayments are required, because of which the
pricing and structure of this type of loan reflects that Aviva has lent money on which it may
not receive any repayment for a substantial time.
Avivas terms do however allow some flexibility in allowing borrowers to repay part of their 
loan, up to a maximum of 10% of the total amount borrowed each year without incurring an
early repayment charge. 
Section 5 of the mortgage terms and conditions state:
If you wish to do so, you may make occasional voluntary partial repayments under the terms 
of this Section
5.8 After 12 months has elapsed since the Completion Date of your Lifetime Mortgage 
you may make up to 4 voluntary partial repayments in any subsequent 12-month 
period preceding an Anniversary Date provided that:
a. the minimum amount of any single payment is £500;
b. the maximum aggregate payment that you make in any such 12-month period is 
10% of the sum of the initial loan amount, any Additional Borrowing and Cash 
Payments (and not, for the avoidance of doubt, taking into account any interest 
accrued, mandatory or voluntary partial repayments made or the Cash Reserve), 
although Aviva reserves the right to vary the maximum payment at any time by 
giving notice to you;
c. in the previous 12 months you have neither taken any Cash Payments from your 
Cash Reserve under Section 2 nor been given any Additional Borrowing under 
Section 13;
d. Aviva is informed in advance of the voluntary partial repayment; 
e. and the voluntary partial repayment is made by BACS, CHAPS, Faster 
Payments, Debit Card or cheque.
Aviva reserves the right to return any voluntary partial repayment in full where any of 
the above conditions are not satisfied.
5.9 Voluntary partial repayments will not be applied until cleared funds are received and 
will be used to reduce the Total Amount You Owe. A repayment statement will be 
issued to confirm the voluntary partial repayment.
5.10 Aviva will explain to you how any voluntary partial repayment amount will be applied 
in advance of a voluntary partial repayment being made and will, upon your request, 
also provide this explanation in writing at that time. 
So, when considering the mortgage terms, Im satisfied Avivas terms merely permit VPRs to 
be made  they do not specify how Aviva would apply them. As such, the terms give 
discretion to Aviva as to how it will apply any payments. Aviva says it will explain how any VPRs will be applied ahead of any payments being made. So, I dont consider what it has 
done was inconsistent with the terms.
I dont have any power to tell Aviva how to run its business or what policies and processes it
should have in place in relation to its administration of its lifetime mortgages. But I am
required to decide if Aviva has treated Mr M fairly and reasonably in the circumstances of 
this case.
Aviva wrote to its customers in 2019 to explain the changes to the rules around VPRs. Aviva 
has provided a sample of the letter it says it sent its customers around this time. The letter 
explained the changes Aviva was making to the VPR rules as follows:
You can now make as many repayments per year as you like, up to a total of 10% of 
the total amount you borrowed
Each repayment can be a minimum of £50
Further borrowing isnt restricted after a repayment
You can make a repayment as soon as one day after taking the initial loan, additional 
borrowing or a reserve release. 
The letter goes on to remind customers that Aviva will explain all the details to the customer 
over the phone before a VPR can be made.
Its unclear whether Mr and Mrs M received this letter. But, in accordance with the mortgage 
terms, ahead of Mr and Mrs M making their VPR, Aviva did explain over the phone how the 
payment would be applied. Mrs M, in the presence of Mr M agreed to the VPR being made 
on the provision that the payment would apply to their most recent loan.
Mr M says that Mrs M was in a vulnerable position at the time she made the VPR and 
agreed to its terms. I can see from what he has said that they had both been through 
a very difficult time. I do empathise with their circumstances.
For the purpose of this complaint and when considering Avivas responsibilities, I must 
consider whether it ought reasonably to have known of anything concerning that meant it 
should not have allowed the VPR to go ahead. Unless there were any obvious signs that 
made the advisor concerned about Mrs Ms decision-making capacity, then its difficult for 
me to say that the advisor ought to have been concerned. From Listening to the call, Im not 
persuaded there was anything about Mrs Ms behaviour during the call, that ought to have 
given the advisor cause for concern.
Aviva has previously told our service its reasons for making the changes to its VPR rules in 
2019. Its overall changes to the repayment facility now allows customers to borrow and 
repay without any of the time restrictions that used to apply. 
To support this change, Aviva changed the way loans were repaid to remove the risk of 
some customers using this additional flexibility to lower their overall borrowing costs. By that 
it means, customers using the VPR flexibility to develop a cycle of repaying older drawdowns 
at a higher rate of interest and then withdrawing funds at a lower interest rate, to repay 
higher interest bearing loans and so forth until, in effect re-scheduling their borrowing until it 
is all on an interest rate which suits them better than the ones they originally agreed to at the 
time of their original drawdowns.If this were allowed, then Aviva would be at risk of suffering a commercial loss. To offset
such risk and minimise any losses, Aviva would inevitably have to increase its interest rates
for all customers. This would penalise customers not intending to make any VPRs. 
I am not suggesting that this way of operating the account was ever an intention for Mr and 
Mrs M, but I dont find it unreasonable for Aviva to apply its process consistently as its not 
fair to treat each customer differently.
In the circumstances, Aviva has made a legitimate commercial decision which it is entitled to
make, and Ive seen nothing inherently unfair in Avivas decision to apply VPRs to the
newest drawdown first.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr M was hoping for. But after careful consideration Im
unable to find Aviva has done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman