DRN-3848247
The complaint
Mr B complains that Santander UK Plc lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr B took out a loan with Santander in July 2017. He borrowed £5,000 over 48 months, 
repaying £140.98 a month. 
Mr B says he couldnt afford the credit. He says he had lots of debt elsewhere and that if 
Santander had done proper checks it had would have known the credit was unaffordable for 
him. 
Santander says it did all the necessary checks before it lent to Mr B and it didnt see 
anything which might make it think he couldnt afford the loan. 
Our adjudicator initially didnt think Santander had done anything wrong in relation to the 
lending, although he changed his opinion when Mr B provided more information. Mr B had 
provided information to show what Santander ought to have seen when it did proportionate 
checks and, in the adjudicators view, this indicated that Mr B couldnt afford the loan. 
Santander didnt provide any substantive information until our adjudicator changed his 
opinion. At that point it provided the results of the checks it did. Our adjudicator reviewed this 
information and concluded that it did not change his opinion about the lending. 
As Santander did not agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Mr Bs complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as our adjudicator. I will explain why I 
have reached this decision.
Santander needed to take reasonable steps to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B 
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts, how much borrowing Mr B had elsewhere and Mr Bs income and 
expenditure. There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending 
itself clearly demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable.
Santander initially said that it conducted checks to ensure that the credit would be affordable 
for Mr B when he took out the loan. It didnt provide the evidence of the outcome of those 
checks at first, and in the absence of other evidence our adjudicator initially accepted 
Santanders statement that there was nothing of concern in the results of those checks.
However, Mr B then provided evidence of his financial circumstances at the time he took the 
loan. These showed that he was seriously indebted and had almost no disposable income. 
This information ought to have been reflected in Santanders checks. Our adjudicator 
decided that Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. 
When our adjudicator provided his new opinion to parties, Santander chose to supply the 
evidence it had previously withheld, along with lengthy and multiple submissions about how 
Mr Bs loan was actually affordable for him. Santander said it had not completed any in-
depth investigation at the point of initial submission.
None of these submissions persuade me that the loan was affordable for Mr B. Although 
Santander did appropriate and proportionate checks I do not consider that it used that 
information fairly and nor was it fair for it to lend to Mr B based on what it knew. 
Santander has now provided a more detailed breakdown of the information it had about Mr 
Bs income and expenditure. It generally underestimates that provided by Mr B. It does show 
that Mr B was heavily indebted with existing credit - so much so that his total expenditure 
each month (as calculated using data from external sources which provide an estimate 
based on market factors and Office of National Statistics data), including essential outgoings 
like utilities, insurances and food, was such that his calculated disposable income was £32. 
This would have increased marginally on completion of the loan as it was intended to be 
used in part to pay off an earlier loan. This alone should have given Santander pause for 
thought. Santander says it was within [an] acceptable threshold of 100%, indicating that it 
would have been content to provide the loan to Mr B even if it left him with no disposable 
income at all. This is a commercial risk decision which Santander is entitled to make, but it 
does not necessarily mean that any decision to lend to the consumer in those circumstances 
is fair. It is my view that on the results of those checks alone Santander it was not a fair or 
reasonable decision to have agreed the loan to Mr B. 
Even if the results of the checks had caused Santander to do more checks, I dont think it 
would have been a fair or reasonable decision to lend to Mr B. Mr B has provided evidence 
of his committed expenditure each month from the months before the loan was taken out. It 
shows that in some months his essential spending exceeded his income. He was paying 
around £1000 a month towards other consumer credit payments  about 45% of his net 
income. He owed more than a years net salary on credit cards. 
Santander seeks to rely on the fact that Mr B remained up to date on his loan for the first 12 
months as proof that Mr B could afford the loan. It also relies on Mr Bs regular repayments 
on an earlier loan. It says it was only after a material change in Mr Bs circumstances that he 
began to fall into arrears. But this is irrelevant  Santander do not know how Mr B 
maintained his repayments on the loan. It only knows the information available from its credit 
checks. 
Santander has sought to quibble the amount Mr B needed to pay off his credit card debts, 
intimating that if he had reduced the amount he paid off he would have had more disposable 
income which he could have used to pay off the loan. Santander says that although its 
calculations allowed for 2.5% of the balance to be paid each month, in reality some credit 
cards allow less than that  sometimes only 1% of the balance plus interest. This is quite an 
extraordinary argument to make.  It would not allow Mr B to pay off those balances in a 
reasonable amount of time. At that rate, even if Mr B spent no more on the cards, his existing balances would take at least eight years to pay off. And Santander has no 
knowledge of what the minimum repayments would have been on Mr Bs other credit cards. 
Given that credit cards generally charge a much higher rate of interest it is an uneconomical 
way to service debt.
On balance, on the information available to me, I am satisfied that Santander did not act 
fairly on the results of its checks. As a result, Mr B lost out. 
Putting things right
Santander should not have provided the loan to Mr B. To settle this complaint Santander 
should do the following:
Add up the total amount of money Mr B received as a result of having been given this 
loan.
Subtract the repayments Mr B has made from this amount.
If this results in Mr B having paid more than he received, any overpayments must be 
refunded along with 8% simple interest* calculated from the date the overpayments 
were made to the date of settlement.
If any capital balance remains outstanding, Santander should arrange an affordable 
and suitable payment plan with Mr B. If no such arrangement can be agreed, Mr B 
can return to this service to make a further complaint.
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Bs credit file relating to this loan.
Pay Mr B £250 in additional compensation to recognise the distress and 
inconvenience to him of Santanders decision to withhold information from this 
service about this complaint.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Mr B a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce 
an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
My final decision
I have decided that Santander acted unfairly when it gave Mr B the loan. To put things right I 
direct Santander UK Plc to pay compensation as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman