DRN-3920654
The complaint
Ms D and Mr V complain that Charter Court Financial Services Limited trading as Precise 
Mortgages didnt tell them until the point at which the mortgage offer was issued important 
terms of the mortgage, some of which they found unacceptable.
What happened
Ms D and Mr V intended to borrow £900,000 on a bridging facility with Precise Mortgages. 
The loan was arranged through a broker. This was to bridge the period between when they 
bought their new home and sold their existing one. Ms D and Mr V got a mortgage offer but 
they found some of the terms unacceptable. In particular under the Right to Transfer clause 
they understood that if the loan was sold to a new owner, the interest rate could be changed. 
Ms D and Mr V believe that this term should have been made clear to them earlier. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said that Precises role wasnt to provide 
an advisory service and that the terms and conditions were available on Precises website 
and not hidden from the broker or Ms D and Mr V. Ms D and Mr V disagreed saying in 
summary that key information was omitted from the standard declaration they signed, and 
their complaint is that a key fact was omitted from their standard terms until the final offer 
was made when costs had already been incurred.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms D and Mr V applied through a broker to Precise mortgages. I note that at section 2 of the 
offer document Precise confirms that the broker recommended that they take out the 
mortgage and that Precise Mortgages is not responsible for the advice or information they 
received. The role of the broker is to advise Ms D and Mr V on the suitability of a mortgage 
and whether it meets their needs. Ms D and Mr V say that their complaint isnt about advice 
but that Precise withheld a key fact from their standard terms until the final offer and they 
incurred costs in the meantime. But the only reason that Ms D and Mr V considered taking 
out this mortgage with Precise was because their broker advised them that this was a 
product suited to their needs. This is a complaint that arises because of that advice.
Precise issued an offer after a valuation but Ms D and Mr V were unhappy with the terms of 
the offer, sought clarification and didnt proceed because they were concerned with a 
possible sale of the loan and the interest rate changing. Precise says that its terms and 
conditions are available online to the broker and its mortgage offer simply stated whats in its 
terms and conditions. The mortgage offer says that if the loan was sold on, we may not be 
responsible for setting future interest rates or charges. The terms and conditions say that 
the new owner may change the Tariff of Mortgage Charges applicable to your loan and may 
set the Standard Variable Rate of Interest charged on the loan independently of the rate set 
by us  
So, the lenders point is that Ms D and Mr Vs broker had the opportunity to inspect their 
terms and conditions before advising them to apply for the bridging facility and that it should 
have come as no surprise to the broker that these or similar terms also appear in the 
mortgage offer. Ms D and Mr V say that such an important term should have been brought to 
their attention in the Standard Declaration that they signed.
But Ms D and Mr V engaged a broker to advise them. Precise has terms and conditions and 
says that they were available to the broker online.  It was a matter for the broker to 
familiarise itself with those terms and conditions if it wished to recommend this product to Ms 
D and Mr V. I understand Ms D and Mr V to query whether the terms and conditions were 
actually ion the website. But I would not expect them to inspect those terms and conditions. 
The investigation of the terms and conditions of Precises product and determining whether 
in view of those terms and conditions the product was suitable for Ms D and Mr V would be a 
matter for their broker. I have no evidence that Precise prevented the broker accessing 
those terms and conditions or otherwise misled the broker before the broker recommended 
this product to Ms D and Mr V. 
Although I can understand Ms D and Mr Vs concern with the terms of the mortgage offer 
given that the interest rate was important to them, its the lenders money and the lenders 
choice as to what terms to include in the mortgage offer and of course Ms D and Mr V have 
the freedom to accept those terms or not. In this case they decided not. But that doesnt 
mean that Precise did anything wrong and, so, I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D and Mr V to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman