DRN-3111998
The complaint
Mr F complains that TFS Loans Limited (TFS Loans) lent him a loan he couldnt afford.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all again
here.
TFS Loans lent Mr F a loan of £2,500 in June 2017, this is not in dispute, so Ill focus on
giving the reasons for my decision about this loan. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
oTFS Loans says it carried out proportionate checks before agreeing to lend to Mr F. It 
says it called Mr F to ask about his expenditure, verified his income using payslips 
and carried out a credit search. It says based on what it gathered the loan was 
affordable.
oFrom what I can see, this loan was due to be repaid over 36 monthly instalments of
around £121.01. I can also see from the credit search carried out by TFS Loans that 
Mr F had a number of defaults. Although I acknowledge TFS Loans point that these 
were from a number of years before the loan application, there were outstanding 
balances on most of them. I think on seeing this, it ought to have prompted TFS 
Loans to find out more. I cant see that it did this and in particular verify any of Mr Fs 
expenditure and so I dont think its checks went far enough.
oMr F has provided copies of his bank statements from around the time of the loan. 
Ive relied on this in the absence of information from TFS Loans as I think his bank 
statements provide a clear picture about his actual financial circumstances at the 
time. From what I can see, Mr F was paying a significant amount of his income to 
credit commitments. The payments towards credit on Mr Fs statements over a 3-
month period, were up to 70% of his income shown on the statements. On balance, I 
think Mr F would have struggled to repay his loan repayments in a sustainable way 
and that he was having problems managing his finances. I think if TFS Loans had 
carried out further checks it would have uncovered this and not given him the loan.
oIn the circumstances, TFS Loans lent to Mr F when it shouldnt have, and it needs to 
put things right.
  
Putting things right
  While I think TFS Loans shouldnt have lent to Mr F, I think it will be fair for him to repay the 
capital of £2,500 which he borrowed. So, to put things right, TFS Loans should:
add up all the payments made by Mr F, if it exceeds the capital amount of £2,500, 
then the overpayments plus 8% simple interest* should be paid to Mr F, remove any 
adverse information recorded on Mr F credit file as a result of this loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS Loans to deduct tax from the interest payment referred to 
above. TFS Loans must give Mr F a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks it for 
one.
My final decision
 My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld and direct TFS Loans Limited to put
things right as set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman