DRN-3874645
The complaint
Mr K complains about how Barclays Bank UK PLC has responded to the arrears on his 
mortgage.
What happened
Mr K said that for a number of reasons, including the pandemic, ill health, and a non-paying 
tenant, hed fallen into arrears on the mortgage on his home. He said hed asked Barclays to 
help, but it hadnt. He had started to overpay his mortgage, and expected to shortly receive a 
lump sum which should help, but he said that at the end of July 2022, he got a letter from 
Barclays solicitors saying that Barclays had started proceedings to repossess his home. 
Mr K said Barclays records were inaccurate, and pre-action protocols for possession hadnt 
been followed. He wanted Barclays to suspend its action for repossession, but he said it had 
refused, and also hadnt even considered his proposal to make additional payments of £250 
per month to clear the arrears.
Mr K said all this was very distressing, and it was having an effect on his health. He wanted 
Barclays to stop its legal action, to comply with the pre-action protocol if it wanted to pursue 
possession proceedings. He also wanted it to respond to his proposal to clear the arrears, 
and to stop harassing him. 
Barclays said Mr Ks mortgage has been in arrears for almost all the time hes held it. And it 
had asked Mr K repeatedly to provide it with his income and expenditure information, so it 
could check that any potential plan, or the offer hed put forward, was affordable for him. But 
Barclays said Mr K had repeatedly refused to do that. Barclays said it also couldnt put Mr K 
onto a different mortgage deal, like a fixed interest rate, until his arrears were cleared. 
Barclays said all legal action was on hold while Mr Ks complaint was being considered by 
our service, but it didnt think it had made a mistake in starting this action, and it wouldnt 
simply stop it altogether. It was, however, still happy to discuss with Mr K a proposal to clear 
the arrears. It would need him to provide income and expenditure information, as part of that.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said overall he felt Barclays 
had acted fairly and reasonably by not accepting Mr Ks proposal until it could check whether 
this was actually affordable for Mr K. Our investigator said Barclays does have to consider 
any proposals made by Mr K, but he said we would also expect Mr K to engage with 
Barclays, and respond to any reasonable requests it makes. 
Our investigator said Mr K was currently paying Barclays Standard Variable Rate (SVR) 
and whilst he remained on this rate, his mortgage didnt have an Early Repayment Charge 
(ERC). Our investigator felt it was reasonable for Barclays to say he couldnt choose a 
different mortgage deal, because of the arrears. Our investigator said that Barclays, as a 
responsible lender, is obliged to ensure that any proposals arent unaffordable. And Mr K 
had previously missed a number of mortgage payments. Our investigator said a new fixed 
rate would be likely to come with an ERC, and that would then be added to the arrears on 
his mortgage if Mr Ks property ultimately had to be taken into possession. So he didnt think 
that a new fixed interest rate deal would be clearly in Mr Ks interests. But he stressed that 
Barclays was still willing to discuss things with Mr K.
Mr K didnt agree. He wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. Mr K also 
said he wanted to see the documents and evidence wed relied on in making our decision, 
and I can see these have been sent to him. Mr K raised questions about any specific terms 
which prevented Barclays from granting him a new fixed interest rate on his mortgage, and 
which required him to complete an affordability form before any proposal for clearing the 
arrears could be accepted. Mr K also wanted to know why he hadnt been given a mortgage 
payment deferral under the special arrangements put in place for the Covid-19 pandemic. 
This case then came to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our service sent Mr K the documents that hed requested. Mr K hasnt commented further, 
following receipt of these. I think its now appropriate to reach a decision in this case. 
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Ill start by setting out the issues Ill be considering here. 
When this complaint came to our service, Mr K raised a number of concerns. He said 
Barclays wouldnt change his mortgage type, it hadnt considered his payment proposals, 
and taking legal action wasnt appropriate. Ill look at those issues as part of this complaint.
Mr K didnt express concerns then that Barclays hadnt given him a payment deferral under 
the special arrangements put in place for the Covid-19 pandemic. Because that issue hasnt 
previously been raised with Barclays, and Barclays hasnt had a chance to respond to Mr Ks 
concerns on this, I wont consider that here. 
Mr K also said that required pre-action protocols, which should have been followed before 
legal action started, hadnt been observed. Our service considers the underlying law, 
including the pre-action protocol, as part of assessing whether Barclays has behaved fairly 
and reasonably overall. And Ill set out in this decision why Im satisfied that it was fair and 
reasonable for Barclays to start legal action in these circumstances. I also note that Barclays 
acted in line with the protocol when it suspended legal action while Mr Ks complaint was 
being considered by our service. 
But our service isnt a court, and it would be for the court itself to reach any definitive view on 
whether Barclays has fully and properly observed all the detail of the legal protocols required 
before court action is started. So Ill leave detailed questions of compliance with the protocol, 
including whether Mr K was sent the relevant documents and information prior to 
proceedings being started, to be dealt with as part of any eventual proceedings, if those do 
in fact go ahead. 
Like our investigator, I think that Barclays has taken a number of steps here because its 
concerned about whether Mr K can afford his payments. It has told us hes had difficulties 
making his payments regularly, almost since the start of his mortgage. And its shown us that, more recently, its asked him a number of times to provide income and expenditure 
information, so it can consider the proposals hes making. 
Mr K doesnt want to give Barclays this information, and hes asked us to show him where 
Barclays terms set out that he must provide this before it will even look at his proposals. But 
I dont think this is an issue that arises from Barclays terms and conditions. I think that what 
Barclays is saying here, is part of its wider obligations to lend money responsibly and 
support a borrower in financial difficulty. It simply wants to be sure that Mr K can afford the 
payments in the offer hes making  without, for instance, having to borrow more money 
elsewhere. I think thats why Barclays has asked for this information. I think that is a 
reasonable thing for Barclays to do. 
I also think its reasonable for Barclays to say that the first step in getting Mr Ks mortgage 
account back on track is for it to reach an agreement with him thats affordable, to pay off the 
arrears. I think its reasonable for Barclays to ask Mr K to work with it on this, and for it to say 
that this should be done before it will look at wider issues, like whether he can take out a 
new fixed interest mortgage arrangement. 
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr K has faced, both with his health and with a very 
problematic tenant, who apparently still owes Mr K a large sum of money. But the arrears on 
his mortgage do appear to be longstanding. And without a plan in place to clear those 
arrears, which Barclays can see is going to be affordable for Mr K over the long-term, I dont 
think its unreasonable for Barclays to start possession proceedings. 
I would like to stress that it remains open to Mr K to engage with Barclays, and set up a plan 
which could clear the arrears on his mortgage. I would expect Barclays to engage positively 
with any efforts Mr K makes to do that, provided hes able to give it the income and 
expenditure information that it has requested. At the moment, I dont think the steps Barclays 
has taken here are unfair or unreasonable. And, although I understand Mr K will be very 
disappointed, that means his complaint wont be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman