DRN-3570586
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as C, complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc 
unfairly transferred its accounts to their Global Restructuring Group (GRG) then made 
various unreasonable demands regarding repayment, the provision of management 
information and the appointment of a third party to investigate the business. 
C is represented by two of its directors in bringing this complaint
What happened
In 2008, C took out a £310,000 interest only two year loan to refinance its existing borrowing. 
C was linked by common ownership to several other enterprises and in 2009, some other 
linked enterprises moved their banking to RBS. The bank treated the enterprises as one 
connection (the group).
In 2010, Cs loan expired without repayment and the bank transferred the connection to its 
GRG. The GRG RM told the directors she required regular management information and the 
appointment of one of the banks panel consultants (who Ill refer to as Mr J) to review the 
viability of the group, as a condition of considering continued support. 
Mr J produced his report in June 2011. In summary, he concluded that the group was 
unlikely to generate enough cash in the near term to enable it to make capital repayments to 
the bank. 
The directors sold some properties to bring down debt levels and in 2012, refinanced 
elsewhere. 
In October 2012, the directors engaged lawyers to claim damages from the bank as a result 
of an alleged breach of confidentiality by Mr J. A settlement agreement was eventually 
reached. At the time of the conclusion of this settlement, the bank transferred the group out 
of GRG and back to its mainstream bank. 
In 2018, the directors complained to the bank under the GRG review scheme. They said 
they were bringing the complaint on behalf of all the enterprises in the group. The bank 
declined to consider the part of the complaint regarding the appointment of Mr J, as it said 
that matter had already been settled. RBS also said the complaints about events in 2009 fell 
outside the GRG review period. The remaining parts of the complaint were not upheld. 
The directors appealed to the Independent Third Party (ITP) stage of the GRG review, but 
the outcome remained unchanged. They then referred the complaint to our service, again 
saying they were referring it on behalf of all the enterprises in the group. 
I issued a provisional decision on 19 October 2022. I said:
Should the ombudsman service look into the part of the complaint about the 
appointment of a third party consultant? 
Both sides agree that a settlement was reached on a no fault basis to the directors 
2012 legal claim. The bank took the view that this settlement meant that it wasnt 
appropriate to consider a complaint about any matters connected with Mr J. Our 
investigator agreed. 
Ive looked carefully at all the correspondence regarding the legal claim and 
subsequent settlement, noting that there isnt a formal settlement agreement. Ive 
concluded that the settlement reached was exclusively in response to a breach of 
confidentiality claim. I dont think it covered the appointment of Mr J. I say this because 
the letter from the directors lawyers was headed up Breach of Confidentiality. Whilst 
it then goes on to recount some of the general circumstances of the groups transfer to 
GRG (under the sub-heading Background), this isnt, in my view, the subject of any 
claim or allegation. The letter concludes by reaffirming that its purpose is to pursue a 
claim for breach of confidentiality.  
RBS lawyers response begins We note your instruction relates to a formal claim 
against RBS for damages for breach of confidentiality. Their letter did also touch very 
briefly on the circumstances of Mr Js appointment, but I dont think this means that it 
was part of the settlement reached. 
In addition, it seems to me that this part of the complaint was prompted, at least in 
part, by knowledge that the directors didnt have at the time of the settlement. I dont 
think they became aware until later that Mr J had twice been the subject of bankruptcy 
proceedings. Neither were they aware that GRG would later face wider criticism for 
sometimes instructing unqualified accountants. 
On balance, Im satisfied that the complaint about the appointment of Mr J wasnt part 
of the settlement reached between the directors and the bank. It follows that I see no 
reason why the ombudsman service shouldnt consider the merits of this part of the 
complaint, so I have done so below. I will not be commenting on anything connected 
with the breach of confidentiality, as that part of the matter has been settled between 
the parties. 
My provisional findings on the complaint about the appointment of Mr J and the 
banks demands for management information 
The part of the directors complaint about Mr J as I understand it is that the bank 
employed an unqualified and twice bankrupt individual, who then manipulated his 
conclusions to help the bank. 
First, I dont think there was anything wrong in principle with requiring the appointment 
of an external consultant. The bank wanted more detailed and timely management 
information than the directors were able to produce. I havent seen all the relevant 
facility documentation, but it was the banks usual practice to include clauses entitling it 
to ask for financial information as it saw fit, so I think it was likely that these were 
included here. In any case, where there are some question marks regarding a 
business performance, I think it is good practice to seek more information to 
understand cashflows and profitability in more depth.
I accept that the groups existing accountancy contract was with a top 5 firm and their 
accounts werent overdue. But the bank wanted more immediate information than the 
formal accounts, which werent due to be completed until more than a year in arrears 
for some parts of the group. I dont think thats unreasonable. It wouldnt be 
responsible of lenders, in my view, to always wait for official financial information in 
arrears, when what it really required was to know whether there was enough cash to 
meet business needs in the future. I dont think theres any dispute that Mr J wasnt a qualified accountant. But he was 
operating a consultancy that was offering accounting-related services to assist 
businesses similar to those that the bank felt the group required. I dont think it is 
unreasonable to put forward someone without formal qualifications in those 
circumstances. 
That said, I do think that it would have been good practice for the bank to have done 
some due diligence in advance. And I think if it had done so, a twice-bankrupt 
individual would have been unlikely to have been deemed suitable. I also think that 
best practice would have been to offer the directors a choice of consultants rather than 
effectively impose one. So Im minded to consider that the bank didnt act fairly in 
requiring Mr Js appointment. 
Where I find that a bank has done something wrong, the next step is for me to 
consider whether anything needs to be done to put things right. In this case, my 
provisional conclusion is that nothing needs to be done. Ill explain why Ive reached 
that view next. 
Ive looked carefully at all the evidence about Mr Js actions while he was working for 
the group and producing his report (aside from the breach of confidentiality issue) and 
I havent seen any evidence that the consultancy acted improperly. 
A report was produced, which I have read in full, and appears to me a professional and 
evidence-based document. This conclusion is supported by the directors first email to 
the bank after the report was delivered, they said:
You have a copy of the [] report which confirms no more than we discussed at 
our various meetings prior to the issue of the report and only validates that [G] is 
overall a profitable business and continues to trade without any major problems. 
In addition it ratifies what we already knew that the business could not sustain a 
change of payments on the  existing loan from interest only to capital and 
interest on  with market conditions continuing as they are.
Although the report is factual we do not agree with all the recommendations as G 
& S has not reneged on any of its obligations to the Bank and you only became 
involved because the loans for [other companies in the group] were not to be 
renewed at the renewal date by RBS as in earlier years. 
I think this shows that the directors had no issue at that point with the work done by the 
consultancy. They said the report was factual for example. Rather, their problem is 
with the change in stance by the bank, from supporting them to requiring them to repay 
or restructure the groups loans on a capital and interest basis. Later on, I note that the 
directors expressed willingness to meet with Mr J to discuss employing him for further 
work, which also supports the view that, at the time, they found his work acceptable. 
The reports chief conclusion was that the groups cash generation wasnt strong 
enough to support capital repayments on the banks lending, a conclusion with which 
the directors themselves agreed.
My provisional finding is therefore that, although the bank shouldnt have imposed the 
appointment of Mr J on the group, I dont think that his appointment actually changed 
the banks strategy or led to any losses being incurred. It seems to me that the 
directors problem was not so much with the conclusions of the report, but with the fact 
that the bank had decided it was unwilling to renew its lending on the same basis. I therefore dont intend to direct the bank to pay any compensation for Mr Js 
appointment. 
My provisional findings on the other parts of the complaint
I note that, when referring the complaint to us, the directors commented on the 
difference between the ITPs approach and a Courts  particularly that the ITP could 
only consider available written evidence whereas a Court could hear oral testimony 
and assess the credibility of rival accounts. In the light of this, I will make some general 
comments regarding my remit at this point. 
My role here may be somewhat broader than the ITPs, in that I can take into account 
testimony, such as recollections of meetings and calls, in order to arrive at a fair and 
reasonable outcome. But unlike a court, I cant compel witnesses to testify, nor can 
witnesses be cross-examined to test credibility. This means that I generally consider it 
fairer to attach more weight to contemporaneous evidence, which in this case is likely 
to be written. 
On the subject of the transfer to GRG, I agree with our investigator. In principle, I think 
the bank is entitled to manage its relationships through whichever department it 
chooses, provided that department then treats its customer fairly. I can see that the 
bank explained clearly, with reasons, why the group was being transferred, which was 
chiefly because C and another part of the group had lending that had expired without 
repayment or any plan to repay and there were concerns regarding the profitability of 
the group.
I accept that other parts of the groups facilities were at that time still performing 
(although due to mature in 2012). But given the interdependence of the group, I think it 
was reasonable for the bank to want to manage it all together rather than have 
separate RMs overlooking separate parts.
I havent seen any evidence that the bank forced any part of the group to sell assets. I 
cant know what was said at meetings, but the first written reference Ive seen to 
selling a property in order to repay was in the directors email in response to the 
consultancy report, which said that, as the bank was unwilling to renew the lending on 
the same terms, they had sold one of their properties to repay one of the loans. There 
is no suggestion that the bank had forced this or any other property sale. 
I know that the directors now believe that the banks strategy was aimed at forcing 
them to sell assets to West Register at undervalue. But this is as far as I have seen 
purely supposition by the directors, as I havent seen anything saying the bank 
suggested this at the time. I dont think it was unreasonable of the bank to want 
repayment proposals, given that the facilities had expired (or would do in the next 
year), it didnt want to renew and was under no obligation to do so. In any case, the 
directors successfully came up with their own strategy to refinance the main borrowing 
elsewhere and returned to mainstream. I can see why the directors are frustrated with their treatment by the bank. They were 
persuaded to move to RBS, took out short term facilities fully expecting them to be 
renewed, but then the banks appetite for lending changed and it wanted repayment. I 
can see why the directors would have liked the bank to give them more time. But there 
are no regulations requiring the bank to behave differently. The groups relationship 
with the bank was governed by the contract in the form of the facility agreements 
signed. I havent seen that the bank gave any commitment that lending would be 
renewed. So once those facilities expired, the bank was entitled to demand repayment 
if it chose. 
I dont doubt that the bank had expressed clearly its unwillingness to continue with the 
status quo. So the directors felt under pressure to come up with a repayment plan. But 
I havent seen any evidence of intimidation or threatening behaviour. Email exchanges 
Ive seen were polite and professional throughout and suggest a civil relationship 
where different repayment options were being proposed and considered.  
In summary, my provisional findings are that the bank shouldnt have required the 
group to employ Mr J, since due diligence would have revealed him to be unsuitable. 
However, I dont think that his employment had any adverse consequences for the 
group, so I dont currently intend to award any compensation for it. I havent been 
persuaded that the bank did anything wrong in any other respect.
In response to my provisional decision, the bank maintained that its legal advice was that the 
settlement covered both the appointment of Mr J and the breach of confidentiality. 
C disagreed with my provisional assessment and said, in summary:
RBS decided to reduce its property book and therefore created GRG to force 
companies to sell assets.
The bank had undertaken nine months of due diligence on the group, prior to taking 
on the rest of its banking in June 2009. So how could it suddenly decide this was 
inadequate only eighteen months later?
The groups transfer to GRG was later shown to be wrong as they were transferred 
back to mainstream banking as part of the settlement regarding the breach of 
confidence. 
The group was successful in finding other bankers but had still suffered stress and 
losses due to RBS actions. 
They were ultimately vindicated by being transferred back to mainstream banking  
but too late, as they had sold properties at the demand of GRG following the 
assessment of Mr J. 
The group was tarnished for many years because they had been transferred into the 
dreaded GRG, which signalled a problem with their finances. 
The appointment of Mr J had a profound effect on the group. The bank deliberately 
employed someone unqualified, who could be more creative in his reports. 
Had they been allowed to use their own accountants for the review, the outcome 
would have been different. Mr Js report was slanted to show the group in a bad light. The GRG RM made it clear (verbally) that she was taking action because of the 
conclusions of Mr J. 
If someone was found to have done something wrong, punishment was required. It 
was contemptable and shameful to let a company of RBS size and standing get 
away with their behaviour. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint the directors, but I havent been persuaded to 
change my provisional view. 
First, Ive reconsidered the banks argument that the settlement agreement covered both the 
appointment of Mr J and the breach of confidentiality. I havent changed my view on this 
point. I accept that the banks current lawyers disagree with me, but I still consider that the 
evidence indicates that the settlement covered only the breach of confidentiality. I say this in 
the absence of a formal settlement agreement, as both sides lawyers at the time refer to it 
only as a claim for breach of confidentiality in their correspondence.  
I also havent changed my provisional view on the appointment of Mr J. I conclude that the 
bank shouldnt have appointed him. RBS didnt carry out due diligence on his background, 
which would have swiftly turned up his two sequestrations. The bank also didnt offer the 
directors a choice of firms.
That said, I dont think it was unreasonable to require the appointment of a consultant to 
review the viability of the business, given the banks concerns. So I dont intend to direct the 
bank to refund the fees the group paid for the review, since I think theyd have paid them to 
another firm anyway. 
The directors dispute that Mr J was on the banks panel of consultants. The bank has 
repeatedly said that he was on this panel, although I havent seen any evidence proving this. 
I dont think it makes any difference, as I dont think the bank should have appointed him 
whether he was on the panel or not. 
I note the directors comments on the requirement to punish the bank. It may help if I explain 
that punishing respondents isnt part of the remit of the Financial Ombudsman Service. I can 
only consider what is fair and reasonable compensation for losses incurred. It isnt my role to 
make punitive awards to discourage reoffending. 
Ive considered carefully the directors thirty-one page letter to the ITP and I can see that 
they believe the appointment of Mr J was just part of a carefully constructed plot by the bank 
to gain control of their property assets. I am not persuaded this was the case. As I said in my 
provisional findings, Ive read Mr Js report on the group and consider it to be a professional 
document that reached reasonable conclusions on the basis of evidence. And I think that the 
contemporaneous evidence of the directors email on receipt of the report supports this. I 
dont think the report was slanted against the group and I dont think a different accountant 
would have come up with a radically different view.I also dont think that the report was crucial in the banks approach to handling the group, 
since the RM had already made her position very clear before it was received. The 
underlying problem it seems to me is not the conclusions of the report, but a change of 
stance by RBS. The bank was happy with interest-only property lending in June 2009, but 
wasnt happy with it eighteen months later. And both sides agree that the groups cashflows 
didnt support repayment on a capital and interest basis. 
The banks appetite for lending is a commercial decision for them and they are entitled to 
change their stance. This doesnt entitle them to renege on existing contracts, of course, but 
I havent seen any evidence they did this in this case. Cs loan had already expired without 
repayment. And the RM made it very clear that they wouldnt be renewing the June 2009 
lending on the same basis at renewal. 
I can understand why it was distressing for the directors to have the group transferred to 
GRG and told their loans wouldnt be renewed, only some eighteen months after moving all 
their banking to RBS and undergoing extensive initial checks. I can see that, from the 
directors perspective, there was little reason for the change  they were continuing to trade 
through a difficult trading period. But there are no regulations preventing a bank from 
changing its appetite for lending. And I consider giving plenty of notice of an intention not to 
renew to be good practice rather than bad. 
I know that the directors dont think the bank had any genuine basis to transfer the group to 
GRG in December 2010. But I think that two expired interest-only loans were a valid reason. 
I also think it was reasonable to treat the group as one connection. Given the importance of 
the directors throughout, I think there was clearly some element of interdependence. Overall, 
I dont think the transfer to GRG was out of line with normal banking practice at the time, so 
Im satisfied that there was nothing unreasonable about it. 
I realise that the directors consider the fact that they were transferred back to mainstream 
banking in 2013 as evidence that the group should never have been in GRG in the first 
place, but I dont think thats a fair conclusion to draw. By the time the group was transferred 
back, they had sold several properties and refinanced a large loan elsewhere, so the 
position was very different from when they were transferred into GRG. 
I also dont think it was unreasonable to keep the group in GRG until their threat of legal 
action regarding the breach of confidentiality was resolved. I think it would be normal 
practice to keep a customer in an area where there were more resources in circumstances 
where legal action was unresolved. 
I dont doubt that the groups period in GRG was a very stressful time for the directors. They 
had to come up with a repayment strategy that they werent expecting to need, including 
selling property they didnt want to sell. I acknowledge the directors comments about the RM 
expressing her views more forcefully in face to face meetings than in her written 
correspondence. But in the absence of any written or contemporaneous evidence, I dont 
think I can reasonably award compensation for this. In summary, my conclusions remain that the bank shouldnt have required the group to use 
the services of Mr J, since due diligence would have revealed him to be unsuitable. 
However, I dont think that his employment caused the group a loss or changed the outcome 
for them, so I dont intend to award any compensation for it. I havent been persuaded that 
the bank did anything wrong in any other respect.
My final decision
I uphold the part of this decision about the appointment of the consultant. I dont uphold the 
other parts of the complaint and I make no award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman