DRN-2963149
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC could not trace his dormant bank account.
What happened
In July 2002, following a request from him, Barclays advised Mr G that theyd located a 
dormant account in his name, and would refund the money to him if he submitted certain 
personal information.
In September 2002, after receiving the personal information theyd requested, they advised 
Mr G he could open an overseas bank account and they would transfer the money from his 
dormant account into the new account.
18 years later in October 2020, Mr G contacted Barclays to ask about the funds in the 
dormant account. Barclays told him they could no longer locate the funds. They said he 
hadnt contacted them since 2002, and they couldnt find any trace of his account.
They told Mr G that they believed the money would have been transferred to good causes 
under the UK Governments dormant accounts scheme. They said this scheme allowed 
banks to transfer money to good causes from accounts which had been untouched for 15 
years or more. They also provide him with a link to more information about the scheme, 
including information about how he could reclaim the money from the scheme.
Mr G had left the UK in 1991 and believed the money was safe and earning interest in an 
account with Barclays. He said he hadnt opened an overseas account as suggested by 
Barclays. He said this was because he thought his money was safe with Barclays, as it had 
shares in a bank in the country where he now lived. He said he contacted Barclays in 2020 
after he saw that they no longer had shares in that bank.
Unhappy with their response, he brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold his compliant. She felt that Barclays had done all they could to locate the account 
and didnt think there was anything more they could do. Mr G disagreed and the matter has 
been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. 
Mr G is unhappy that Barclays have lost his money. Hes questioned why the account was 
closed, and asked on whos authority it was closed.
Barclays said that in 1995 Mr G shouldve received a letter telling him that the funds were 
being transferred to the Reclaim Fund because the account had not been used for some 
time. Because of the time that has passed, they said theyre not able to provide a copy of the 
letter(s) they would have sent.
In September 2002 Barclays located Mr Gs account. They told him the account was 
dormant, with a balance of £2,779. In that letter, they told him he could open an off-shore 
account, and that once he had done that, they would transfer the full amount, plus interest 
accrued, after hed given them the new account number.
Mr G said he never did that. He said he left the money where it was, believing it was safe.
It appears that because he did nothing, the account remained dormant. And although they 
cannot be certain, Barclays believe the money was transferred to the Reclaim Fund.
The rules that apply in this situation are set out in the FCA Handbook in section BCOBS 
5.19R (available online). They say:
A firm must make appropriate arrangements to enable a banking customer, so far as 
is possible, to trace and, if appropriate, to have access to a deposit held (or formerly 
held) in a retail banking service provided by the firm. This applies even if:
(1) the banking customer may not be able to provide the firm with information which 
is sufficient to identify the retail banking service concerned; or
(2) the banking customer may not have carried out any transactions in relation to that 
retail banking service for an extended period of time.
Barclays confirmed theyve searched their records and their dormancy register and have 
found no trace of Mr Gs account.
And BCOBS 5.1.10R says:
If a firm participates in the scheme under the Dormant Bank and Building Society 
Accounts Act 2008, it must inform a banking customer of this fact and provide 
appropriate information regarding the terms of the scheme on entering into 
communications with a banking customer regarding a dormant account.
Barclays provided Mr G with this information in their final response letter to him.
The Dormant Bank and Building Society Accounts Act 2008 allows banks like Barclays to 
transfer funds from accounts that appear to have been abandoned to The Reclaim Fund - 
and these funds are used for charitable purposes.
Barclays arent obliged to keep records for an indefinite period. So I cant say that theyve 
done anything wrong here. Mr G waited for 18 years before contacting Barclays again. Im 
satisfied that Barclays has searched their records but without a trace. Im satisfied that 
Barclays has done what I would have expected of them by trying to trace the account. 
I dont feel that Barclays have treated Mr G unfairly or unreasonably by following the 
dormant account closure process in the manner that they have here.
They searched their records but found no trace of the original account in their records  either an active account, nor a closed dormant account. I dont think that Barclays can be 
expected to do anything further to search for Mr Gs account  theyve done all they could. 
So, while I appreciate that Mr G will be disappointed by my decision, I wont be asking 
Barclays to do anymore here.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman