DRN-1025851
 
The complaint
Mr H says MYJAR Limited irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about seven short-term high-cost loans MYJAR provided to Mr H 
between October 2015 and April 2016. They varied in term from 2 weeks to 12 months. This 
is a summary of Mr Hs lending history from MYJAR. 
Loan Taken out Repaid Amount, £
1 01/10/2015 28/10/2015 100
2 30/10/2015 27/11/2015 300
3 29/11/2015 03/12/2015 325
4 09/12/2015 22/12/2015 150
5 01/01/2016 26/02/2016 500
6 28/02/2016 28/04/2016 700
7 28/04/2016 28/03/2017 1000
 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Hs complaint in part and thought loans 6 and 7 shouldnt have 
been given. MYJAR disagreed so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr 
H could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts 
and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult 
to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of 
time during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that 
repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to 
establish whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication 
a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this 
is the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, 
or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make 
their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments 
without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in 
this context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
There was nothing to indicate MYJAR needed to do more when it approved loans 1 to 5. I 
think it carried out proportionate checks looking at affordability and creditworthiness, and 
there was nothing in the information it gathered that I think should have led it to make 
different lending decisions. So I dont think MYJAR was wrong to give loans 1 to 5 to Mr H. 
Ive then looked at the overall pattern of MYJARs lending history with Mr H, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which MYJAR should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so MYJAR should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans until there was a significant gap in lending.
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Hs case, I think that this point was reached at loan 
6. I say this because:
At this point MYJAR ought to have realised Mr H was not managing to repay his 
loans sustainably. Mr H had taken out 6 loans within 5 months. And each time he 
took out a new loan within just a few days of repaying the previous one. So MYJAR 
ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr H was having to borrow further 
to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his finances and that his 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr Hs first loan was for £100 and loan 6 was for £700. At this point MYJAR ought to 
have known that Mr H was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in his 
income but to meet an ongoing need. 
Mr H wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed MYJAR. Loan 7 was 
taken out seven months after Mr Hs first. And it was for a larger amount. Mr H had 
paid high interest charges to, in effect, service a debt to MYJAR over an extended 
period.
 I think that Mr H lost out because MYJAR continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Hs indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the loans were likely to have had negative implications on Mr Hs ability to access 
mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
 
So Im upholding the complaint from loan 6 onwards, and MYJAR should put things right.
Putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do
refund all interest and charges Mr H paid on loans 6 and 7;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
the number of loans taken from loan 6 onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse. So all entries about loans 6 and 7 should be removed from Mr 
Hs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Hs complaint. MYJAR Limited 
should pay Mr H compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman