DRN-3004766
The complaint
Mr J complains about Family Equity Plan Limited trading as OneFamily (OneFamily). He
complains it failed to set up his direct debit to make a monthly payment into his daughters
stocks and shares child trust fund.
Mr J says OneFamily accepted it made the error and offered him £100 as a goodwill gesture.
He didnt think that was a reasonable offer because it left Mr J to pay a lump sum of £260 to
make up the missing direct debits over three years. Mr J said his financial circumstances
had become more difficult and he was unemployed. So, he was unable to find this lump sum
or even pay it spread out over a year.
What happened
Mr Js daughter holds a stocks and shares child trust fund (CTF).
Mr Js wife sadly passed away in 2017. In July 2017 Mr J set up a direct debit to collect a
monthly payment of £10 to be paid to his daughters CTF.
In 2020 his employment situation was impacted by the pandemic which caused him to look
closely at his financial circumstances. In around July 2020, having checked his statements,
Mr J noticed that the direct debit hadnt been collected at all, even though he had set it up
three years before.
Mr J then complained to OneFamily who accepted it had not set up the direct debit as
requested. It upheld Mr Js complaint but said that he hadnt sustained any financial loss in
relation to the payments because Mr J had retained the £360, he would otherwise have paid.
OneFamily agreed to pay £100 as a gesture of goodwill and the lost return on the missing
amount, if Mr J paid the remaining monies into the CTF. It said the additional payments
could be made over the next year.
Mr J disagreed with the offer. He said he would be unable to find the lump sum to make up
the missing payments or make larger monthly payments into the CTF, given his financial
circumstances. He reiterated that OneFamily had made the mistake in the first place. Mr J
referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator considered Mr Js complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He
sympathised with Mr Js circumstances but felt the compensation offered by OneFamily was
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. The investigator noted that Mr J hadnt checked
that the payments had been collected and hadnt noticed the error for three years. He didnt
think Mr J had suffered any financial loss, other than the lost return on the investment, as
the money hadnt been taken out of his account. He also noted OneFamily had agreed to
reconstruct the account, by paying any lost growth on the monies that would have been
paid in, providing Mr J made up the missing amount.
Mr J didnt agree with the investigator and felt OneFamily could have offered more
compensation as it made the error.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint was referred to me for review.
I considered Mr Js complaint and provisionally concluded that OneFamily should pay a 
further £80 into the CTF, in addition to the lost return on that sum and the relevant lost 
return on any sums paid in by Mr J to make up the remaining difference.
OneFamily acknowledged and accepted my provisional decision. Mr J indicated he had 
received my provisional decision and had no further comments to make. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My findings remain the same as those set out in my provisional decision. Ill reiterate them 
as follows.
Mr Js daughter held a stocks and shares child trust fund. It is not disputed that Mr J set up a
monthly direct debit of £10 to be paid into that fund and that OneFamily made an error and
failed to carry out his instructions. The issue for me to consider, is what compensation, if
any, should be paid by OneFamily into the child trust fund.
Monitoring of bank account
I take into account that over the period of three years Mr J didnt check his bank account or
the CTF account to see if the money had been collected and paid in to the CTF. I can
understand that Mr J may well have assumed that as he had set up the direct debit, it would
be collected as instructed. But I consider if he had checked, the missing payments would
have been noticed sooner.
We would expect consumers to check their bank accounts periodically, but I take into
account that Mr J was dealing with some difficult personal circumstances when he set up the
direct debit, as his wife had recently passed away. In addition, I dont think he would have
easily noticed an extra £10 a month in his account. He wouldve had to specifically check for
that particular direct debit. So, I consider that provides some explanation as to why it took
Mr J longer to notice the direct debits hadnt been collected.
I have also considered the additional information provided by OneFamily in respect of the
annual CTF statements it sent to Mr J. I note the 2017 statement was sent shortly after Mr J
set up the direct debit. As I have said, he was dealing with difficult personal circumstances at
that time. It doesnt appear, from the information provided, that a statement was sent in
2018. And by the time the next statement was sent, on 5 August 2019, about two years of
payments would have been missed. So, while I note Mr J didnt check these statements, I
also take into account that OneFamily was responsible for the initial error that caused this
problem.Financial loss
OneFamily says Mr J has suffered no financial loss as a result of its error. It says as Mr J 
didnt pay the £360, that represents the missed payments, nothing has been lost, save for 
the lost return on that sum. OneFamily says it will pay that lost return into the fund once   
Mr J makes up the missing payments. It has also paid £100 into the fund as a gesture of 
goodwill.
When doing this, it calculated how many units the first missed £100 worth of monthly
payments would have bought on their original due dates. OneFamily compared this with how
many units would have been bought with £100 on the date it carried out this calculation. The
latter figure resulted in a higher number of units being due, and so OneFamily has added
this higher number to the CTFs unit holding. This method ensured the late payment of this
£100 into the CTF had not led to any financial loss.
Although I agree that Mr J hasnt lost the £360 that wasnt paid into his daughters CTF, I
dont think that Mr J really benefited from receiving £10 extra a month over three years. I
think that is the sort of sum, which more likely than not came from his disposable income,
and that he probably wouldnt have noticed any additional benefit from. From Mr Js own
description of his finances, I think its likely that he would have spent an extra £10 a month
on normal daily living expenses, rather than saving this sum.
It follows that I consider it is likely it will be difficult for Mr J to now find a lump sum of £260
rather than the small monthly payment he had set up, even if that lump sum was spread out
over the course of a year. Particularly, as Mr J has explained that his financial circumstances
have deteriorated since he first set up the direct debit in 2017, which is what caused him to
examine his finances more closely in 2020. So, I consider it fair and reasonable on balance
for OneFamily to pay some further compensation than it has already paid to reflect the
position Mr J now finds himself in, which I consider was caused largely by its error.
I also consider it would have been upsetting for Mr J to find out the money hadnt been
invested in the CTF. Particularly, because the money was for his daughter and he would
have been responsible for his daughters financial affairs after his wife passed away.
I also think Mr J wouldve had to spend some time to contact OneFamily, confirm what had
happened and try to resolve the situation. Although I do take into account that OneFamily did
accept it had made an error at an early stage.
So, I consider Mr J has been caused trouble and upset as well as being left in the more
difficult position of having to find a lump sum, or significantly larger monthly payments.
I have taken this into account when considering what would represent fair compensation in
this case.
Putting things right
Summary
Overall, I dont consider that the £100 paid into the CTF is sufficient compensation in the
circumstances. I dont think OneFamily should pay the entire uninvested sum as I consider
three years was a significant length of time not to check the accounts and I recognise that
those payments werent taken from Mr Js account.However, OneFamily should pay a further £80 into the CTF, in addition to the lost return on
that sum and the relevant lost return on any sums paid in by Mr J to make up the remaining
difference. That would mean that, to reflect the error it made by failing to set up the direct
debit, OneFamily will have paid 50% of the premiums that were not collected. Overall, I
consider that fairly reflects the error caused by OneFamily.
When using this £80 payment to buy additional units in the CTF, OneFamily should carry out
the same basis of calculation that it did with the £100 that it has already paid into the CTF.
The £80 should be assumed to represent the next eight missed payments, after the first
£100 missed payments that have already been covered by One Family. This method should
ensure the late payment of this £80 into the CTF does not result in any financial loss.
Any further sum that Mr J then chooses to pay in respect of the missed contributions should
be treated as representing the missed payments due after those which have been
compensated by OneFamily.
My final decision
My final decision is that Mr Js complaint against Family Equity Plan Limited is upheld in part 
and it should pay Mr J compensation as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
Julia Chittenden
Ombudsman