DRN-2297843
The complaint
Mr M says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1998. 
The policy was added to Mr Ms credit card account when he applied for the card by post. It 
protected his credit card monthly repayments in the event he couldnt work.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M disagrees, so the complaint has been 
referred to me. 
Mr M mainly told us that he felt it was implied that PPI was requirement and he wasnt told it 
was optional. He also says that the possibility of buying PPI from another provider wasnt 
mentioned.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Heres why I say this.
I think the way the application form is set out makes it clear that it was up to Mr M to say if 
he wanted to take out PPI with his credit card. 
In the PPI part of the form there were two tick boxes. If Mr M hadnt wanted to take out PPI 
he couldve ticked the box where it says: I do not want to take this protection This box is 
left blank on the application Mr M completed. 
Mr M ticked the other box indicating that he wanted to protect his card repayments. And hes 
signed the completed application. 
So I think it wouldve been clear to Mr M that PPI was optional. And Nationwide added PPI to 
his account when Mr M chose to take it. 
As the application was sent to Mr M to complete at home, Nationwide had to make sure that 
it gave Mr M enough information to make a proper decision about whether PPI was right for 
him. And if it didn't do this, Ive thought about whether that makes any overall difference to 
what happened.
Nationwide didnt have to tell Mr M about other PPI providers. So thats not a reason for me 
to uphold his complaint.
Looking at the likely policy terms, it seems that Mr M was eligible for this policy when he took 
it out. 
It covered Mr M in the event of accident, sickness and unemployment for up to 12 months 
per claim. 
Looking at the other means Mr M told us he couldve relied on to make his credit card 
repayments if he couldnt work I think he couldve benefitted from having the PPI if hed 
needed to claim. 
Mr M couldnt recall his sick pay entitlement. But in any case, the PPI wouldve paid out on 
top of any sick pay for up to 12 months. This couldve been useful bearing in mind that Mr M 
mightve also had extra costs if he was off work sick or disabled.
And the policy wouldve paid out if he lost his job unexpectedly and was out of work.   
I dont know if Mr M wouldve always had savings he couldve relied on to pay his credit card 
if he was unable to work. 
And the PPI provided Mr M with cover for longer than its likely he wouldve been able to rely 
on the amount of savings hes mentioned to replace his lost income if he wasnt working. 
The PPI couldve cleared his card balance if hed claimed successfully for the whole 
12 months the policy couldve paid out per claim.
So I can see why Mr M mightve wanted PPI. 
Its possible some information Nationwide gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. There were some things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt look as if 
those applied in Mr Ms case. So, I dont think having more information about policy 
exclusions and limitations wouldve affected his decision to have PPI.
I dont think Nationwide properly explained what the policy would cost, or what it might pay 
out if Mr M made a claim. But Nationwide made Mr M aware that hed be charged 60p per 
£100 of his statement balance. And, even if he hadnt fully appreciated how much this would 
actually be on a month to month basis, Mr M chose to take out the policy when he didnt 
have to  so he seems to have wanted it. And it appears the policy was affordable for him. 
He couldve cancelled it at any time if he decided he didnt want to pay for it.
Looked at overall, given the benefits PPI offered him, I think it unlikely Mr M wouldve made 
a different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think hed still have 
taken out the policy.
Ive also taken into account what Mr M said about the way a different PPI case was dealt 
with. But each complaint is looked at on its own merits - Ive looked at the circumstances that 
apply in this particular case and so what happened on a different case doesnt affect my 
conclusion here.  
This means Nationwide doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Nationwide has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr M about that. Because Nationwide didnt tell 
Mr M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide does not have to pay back all of the cost of 
the PPI to Mr M.
But Nationwide does have to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman