The complaint
Mr M complains TSB Bank Plc (TSB) allowed his late wife to remove money from his ISA 
account without his signature or consent.
What happened
Mr M brought his complaint to us as he was unhappy with the time it was taking TSB to 
respond to his concerns. TSB told him in a Final Response Letter (FRL) on 18 September 
2019 they hadnt made any mistake. They told him records showed hed registered for 
telephone banking on 11 May 2015 and shortly after this the balance of his cash ISA was 
moved by inter account transfer through an automated service and this wasnt an error. TSB 
said as, on Mr Ms own evidence, his wife a managed all his accounts, it was her who 
wouldnt have obtained his signature and authority to set up telephone banking and had the 
details for this facility. They said this was a breach of the account terms and conditions.
TSB said Mr M should have kept the information safe and secure and shouldnt let anyone 
hear or see the security details or let anyone use the account even if you had a joint 
account. They told Mr M if he thought someone was trying to use his sole account he should 
have told them as soon as he suspected it. TSB said when Mr M closed his ISA account in 
February 2019 he hadnt queried the balance or the 2015 withdrawal. TSB said when the 
funds from the ISA were paid into the joint account held by Mr M and his wife she had full 
authority to transact on the account as the joint party holder and her payment of the ISA 
proceeds, by cheque to another of their joint accounts with a separate bank wasnt a bank 
error. So they told him they werent prepared to reimburse the money withdrawn from the 
ISA.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought on the evidence before him the 
likeliest outcome was that this transaction had been made through Mr Ms wife, but with his 
authority. He thought it was most likely that Mr M spoke with TSB in May 2015 by phone and 
provided consent for them to speak to his wife who then executed the transaction. He also 
thought there was no detriment to Mr M here as the funds were eventually paid into an 
account held jointly by him and his wife so he wouldve benefited from the funds. So overall 
he didnt think TSB had done anything wrong.
Mr M didnt agree, he said he was disgusted with the view. He didnt think TSB had any 
evidence and has based this all on the actions of his late wife. He found it upsetting to hear 
the suggestion that his late wife was a fraudster. Mr M reiterated that hed never given 
permission to remove the funds, he said he would remembered giving an adviser permission 
for his wife to move funds on the phone but hed never done this as its nothing hed ever do. 
He asked for an ombudsman to review this case.
What Ive decided  and why
DRN-1424439Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to learn of the passing of Mr Ms wife last year, I appreciate it mustve been a 
difficult time for him. The first thing I have to decide is whether TSB have done anything 
wrong here. And, for broadly the same reasons as the investigator has set out in his view, I 
dont think they have. Ill explain why I think that.
Its important to remember this situation has ultimately come about because of the way Mr M 
tells us hes dealt with his finances. Its his responsibility to manage his account within the 
terms and conditions, but he didn't do that. On Mr Ms own evidence his late wife dealt with 
everything - she had unlimited access to his account information and security - in breach of 
the account terms. Theres no evidence to suggest that after the withdrawal the ISA funds 
were moved out of Mr Ms reach. Ive listened to the call between Mr M and TSB on 18 
September 2019 where he says the money was later moved to another joint account with a 
different bank, and hes had the statements for that. So I cant see theres been any loss to 
him.
In the call from 18 September 2019 Mr M is clear that his central point is TSB have allowed 
this money to be withdrawn (by his wife) from his ISA without his signature or say so. So 
theres no disagreement it was Mr Ms late wife who was behind the transfer - Mr M just 
disputes he gave permission for her to do this, so, he thinks, TSB were wrong to allow it. 
Where some of the facts are disputed, incomplete or inconclusive and I cant know exactly 
whats happened, Ive decided whats more likely to have happened, at the time, on a 
balance of probabilities. 
The information weve received from TSB shows the withdrawal from the ISA was initiated 
by Mr M's telephone banking facility, which was granted on 11 May 2015. But Mr M told us 
hes never registered for telephone or automated banking. He says in the call recording that 
in all his married life hed never opened a letter or banking statement of any kind.
Mr M told us his late wife always dealt with his banking and hes never spoken with the bank 
about the ISA withdrawal in 2015. I dont doubt Mr M when he says he has no recollection of 
speaking to the bank - a number of years have passed since this transaction so it may be 
difficult to recall a single conversation. And, as its been the case throughout his marriage 
that his wife dealt with his finances, theres no reason why this particular transaction would 
stand out in Mr Ms memory. But whilst it may be difficult to recall a particular conversation I 
do think the evidence before me suggests - despite the way he's chosen to operate his 
finances - that Mr M had an awareness of the general nature of finances. He first expressed 
concerns about this withdrawal to TSB in July 2019, rather than when he closed the ISA on 
14 February 2019 and received a nominal sum. If Mr M had been expecting a significantly 
higher balance in the ISA Id expect him to have raised this on closure in February 2019 - but 
he didnt. That suggests to me the balance paid to Mr M in February 2019 was in line with 
his expectations and that he wasnt concerned by it. 
So, given this and everything else Mr Ms told us - both about the way he operated his 
finances and the way in which the withdrawal was handled by his wife afterwards - I dont 
think its unreasonable to conclude, on balance, that with his permission, his late wife 
facilitated his application for telephone banking. And that she then also used the details - 
with his consent - whether by the automated system or by phone with Mr M giving verbal 
consent to TSB, to make the withdrawal in May 2015 and pay it into their joint account. So, 
overall, I cant reasonably say TSB have done anything wrong here.
I anticipate Mr M is likely to be disappointed by my findings. I can see he feels strongly about 
this, so he may want to pursue the matter further through other routes. But my decision brings to an end what we - in trying to resolve his dispute with TSB informally - can do for 
him. Im sorry if this disappoints Mr M.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2020.
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman