DRN-2824481
The complaint
Mr A is a sole trader trading as S. He complains that American International Group UK 
Limited (AIG) unfairly declined a claim under his business protection insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A holds a business protection insurance policy with AIG. He made a claim on that policy 
to cover his losses arising from the business closure as a result of the national Government-
imposed lockdown in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
AIG declined the claim as it said COVID-19 isnt covered under the terms of the policy. Mr A 
didnt agree. He said he thought the wording of the policy, specifically the wording for 
Notifiable Diseases, meant that his claim should be covered.
Mr A complained to AIG but it explained that, although his policy would provide cover in the 
event of certain diseases causing closure, COVID-19 wasnt one of the named diseases. 
Mr A wasnt happy with its response so brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator considered Mr As complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said 
that, while he sympathises with Mr As situation, he didnt think there was cover available 
under the policy. Mr A didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Mr As business, but I wont be upholding his complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr A is looking to claim on his business protection insurance policy. These types of policies 
offer protection from risks common to business but there are a range of business protection 
insurance policies on the market covering a range of different risks. When considering 
whether AIG acted fairly in declining Mr As claim, the starting point is to consider the 
specific policy he took out. 
Having reviewed Mr As policy, I dont think there are any terms which provide cover for the 
closure of his business as a result of the Governments response to the national pandemic. 
However, I would like to explain why I dont think the parts of the policy which appear most 
relevant provide cover.
Mr As policy included an extension for Notifiable Diseases. The extension wording was 
amended by an endorsement which states that it would provide cover for business 
interruption as a result of An outbreak of any Notifiable Disease occurring at the Premises 
or which is attributable to food or drink supplied from the Premises, or occurring within a 
twenty five miles of the Premises, which by reason of the abnormal number of cases causes 
prospective guests to refrain from making bookings for accommodation, or gives legal 
grounds for guests to cancel bookings for accommodation already made
The policy provides a definition for Notifiable Disease, which sets out a list of specified 
illnesses that are covered under the policy. However, COVID-19 isnt on that list.
I realise that COVID-19 wasnt something AIG would have known about when the policy was 
drafted, but there are other policies that were on the market that do provide cover for the 
pandemic  usually policies that cover all notifiable diseases, which are set out and updated 
on a Government defined list. In contrast, Mr As policy sets out a specific list of illnesses 
which are covered by the policy. And having reviewed the policy wording, there is nothing 
which implies that it provides cover for other illnesses, including any new illnesses which 
might emerge. So I think the purpose of the policy is to provide cover in the event of the 
specific illnesses listed and I dont think the policy can or should fairly be interpreted as 
covering any illnesses that arent specified in the list set out in the policy.
Mr A has also stated that his claim should be covered due to the use of the word any 
before Notifiable Disease. However Mr As policy states within this Policy there are certain 
words shown in italics, which have special meanings. Notifiable Disease is shown in italics 
in the wording, so I dont agree that that the policy is unclear or ambiguous. And the 
definition of Notifiable Disease clearly outlines a specific list of illness, so this doesnt change 
my decision.
Mr As policy also provides cover for loss resulting from Damage or Denial of Access. 
However, I dont think anything in that wording extends to damage caused to the business 
itself by way of a specified illness or disease such as COVID-19, or even a Government-
imposed act. Rather, these terms refer to physical damage or loss and I havent seen 
anything to indicate that COVID-19 caused damage to property  so I dont think these 
sections cover Mr As claim.
So while Im sorry to hear about the financial impact the Government-imposed lockdown had 
on Mr A, having taken all of this into account and having considered the remaining terms of 
the policy, I dont think AIG acted unfairly in declining his claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman