DRN-3701101
The complaint
Mrs L has complained that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (C&G) 
wrongly declined a claim made for the treatment of her dog following which she suffered 
financial loss.
What happened
Mrs L has had a policy for her dog, who Ill refer to as K, since 2017. This is an annual 
policy, renewable each year.
In early 2022 K needed veterinary treatment for lameness. Mrs L claimed the cost of this 
from C&G. Her claim was initially declined by C&G on the ground that K was overweight, 
and the policy contains an exclusion for the cost of veterinary treatment for a pet as a result 
of it not being the recommended medical weight for its age, breed type and sex as 
recommended by a vet. Its opinion was that as K was overweight, more pressure was being 
put in her joints, resulting in lameness.
As Mrs L was unhappy with C&Gs rejection of her claim and considered that the policy was 
now effectively worthless, she cancelled it and brought a complaint to this service. C&G 
subsequently reassessed Mrs Ls claim and upheld it as it was satisfied that K was within the 
recommended medical weight for her breed.
Mrs Ls claim was for the £590.68 cost of Ks veterinary treatment. C&G agreed to pay this 
but after a number of deductions, which included the premium payable for the remainder of 
the policy year, certain veterinary costs and the policy excess, the amount payable to her 
was £285.43.
Our investigator s view was that C&G had initially incorrectly declined Mrs Ls claim and that 
had it not done so Mrs L was likely to have continued with the policy rather than cancel it. 
But as shed cancelled it, and C&G had deducted the remaining premiums from her claim in 
accordance with the terms of her policy, Mrs L was financially disadvantaged. She also 
suffered stress and inconvenience from C&Gs initial rejection of what was a valid claim. His 
view was that C&G should increase the amount payable to Mrs L under her claim by the 
£101.44 that C&G had deducted in respect of future premiums and should also pay her £100 
compensation for her distress and inconvenience.
C&G doesnt agree with our investigators view and maintains that it is acting within the 
terms of the policy which state:
If a claim has been made the full premium will be due at cancellation, which we 
reserve the right to remove before any claim is made.
It also considered that the compensation suggested was not representative of the value of 
the claim. Its asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman. The complaint has 
therefore been referred to me for a final decision from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding Mrs Ls complaint ad Ill explain why.
Following its review of Mrs Ls claim, C&G has accepted that it shouldnt have been declined 
as K was within the average weight for her breed. But Mrs L reasonably took the view that if 
C&G was going to reject any future claims based on Ks weight being in excess of 
recommended weight, there was little benefit to be had from the policy. She therefore 
cancelled it.
I think it a reasonable assumption to make that if Mrs Ls claim had been paid when first 
presented, she wouldnt have cancelled the policy  shed continued insuring K with C&G 
since 2017. But doing so has cost her the future premiums payable under the policy for 
which she receives no benefit. I regard that as a financial loss to Mrs L that flows from what I 
consider to be a reasonable response to C&Gs error. 
I therefore consider that in the circumstances of this case, it isnt fair for C&G to rely upon 
the strict wording of the policy and that it shouldnt deduct future premiums from her claim. 
I also agree with our investigator that Mrs L will have suffered distress and inconvenience as 
a consequence of having a valid claim denied and having to arrange for new insurance for K. 
I consider that £100 is appropriate in the circumstances. As with all compensation that this 
service requires to be paid, its a reflection of the level of distress and inconvenience 
suffered and not of the value of the claim or loss.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Mrs Ls complaint. 
I require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to settle Mrs Ls claim 
without deducting the future premiums due under her policy. I also require it to pay Mrs L 
compensation of £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman