DRN-2044788
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain about their secured loan with Elderbridge Limited. They complain 
that despite paying it for many years, the balance is higher than when they started. They 
complain about fees and charges added to the loan, and that their monthly payment didnt 
change when interest rates changed in 2018.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R took their loan out with another lender in 2001. The loan has since been 
transferred to Elderbridge.
Mr and Mrs R dont think theyve been treated fairly. They dont understand why the loan 
balance has increased over time and think Elderbridge isnt asking them to pay the right 
amount. They think that the fees and charges that have been applied to the loan are unfair 
and have worsened their financial problems. 
Our investigator explained that we couldnt look at anything that happened before 2013, 
which is six years before Mr and Mrs R complained. Mr and Mrs R accepted that, so in this 
decision Ill focus on things that have happened since then. She didnt recommend upholding 
the complaint she did look at, so Mr and Mrs R have asked for an ombudsman to review it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to do so Ive considered the history of this account. While, as our investigator 
explained, we cant decide whether or not things before 2013 are fair or not, Ive reviewed 
what happened as context for considering whether Elderbridges actions were fair.
When a secured loan is taken out, the monthly payments are set at a level to repay the 
amount borrowed, plus interest, over the term agreed. Where  as here  the interest rate is 
variable the monthly payment could change during the life of the loan.
In the early days, most of the monthly payment is interest, because the balance is high. But 
a small part is used to reduce the capital  and so the next month the interest is slightly 
lower because the balance is lower. So more of the payment goes to reducing the capital. 
This effect speeds up over time, so that towards the end of the term most of the monthly 
payments are capital, not interest.
Thats what happens when a loan behaves as it was originally intended when it was agreed. 
But where payments are missed, the balance doesnt reduce in the months when theyre 
missed. As a result, more interest is charged. Even if the payment is later made up, theres 
more interest now charged overall than was expected when the monthly payment was 
calculated at the start.
As a result, from then on more interest is charged. More of the monthly payments go to 
interest, and less of the capital is paid off. This in turn adds more additional interest  and so 
on.
Where many payments are missed, this effect can be quite marked. It means that the loan is 
no longer on track to repay the capital by the end of the term. In some cases, so much 
additional interest is charged on missed payments that the monthly payments are no longer 
enough to cover the monthly interest  and so the balance goes up each month even when 
payments are made.
In this case, Mr and Mrs R missed payments on and off from 2005 onwards. The previous 
lender agreed arrangements to pay with them. But Mr and Mrs R didnt always stick to them. 
Often, arrears fees were added. All this meant that the loan didnt clear as quickly as it 
should, and the balance started to go up  for the reasons Ive set out above. As I say, Im 
not considering whether or not what the previous lender did at this time was fair. But I can 
say that is in fact what happened, and it explains why the balance is now higher than Mr and 
Mrs R expected it to be  and why the amount Elderbridge is asking them to pay is accurate.
I think the fees and charges applied during the period I can consider were fair. Where Mr 
and Mrs R miss a payment, or dont stick to an agreed arrangement, the lender is required to 
try and contact them to find out what the problem is and whether a way forward can be 
found. This is extra work to be done in managing the loan  and Elderbridge is entitled under 
the loan terms and conditions and the regulators rules to charge for that work. Having 
looked at what happened, I dont think the fees charged in this case are unfair.
Elderbridge did make relatively small changes to the monthly payments in 2016 and 2018 
when interest rates changed. Because of the additional interest and fees, those revised 
payments werent enough to ensure the loan would be paid off by the end of the term. 
Elderbridge has explained that if it did that, the monthly payments would increase very 
significantly  and it doesnt want to commit Mr and Mrs R to making higher payments every 
month without being sure they can afford them. I think thats fair. But if Mr and Mrs R want to 
increase their payments they can contact Elderbridge to discuss what would be affordable  
or make ad hoc extra payments when they can. They will need to come to some 
arrangement as to how the loan is to be repaid. I dont think Elderbridge has misled them 
about that, or about what their balance is. 
I do understand why Mr and Mrs R are concerned about the position they now find 
themselves in. Their loan has become more expensive than they expected, because of their 
past financial difficulties. But I do think they fairly owe what Elderbridge is expecting them to 
pay. So I would urge them to try to come to some arrangement with Elderbridge, or seek 
financial advice about their options, before the end of the term.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman