DRN-3865302
The complaint
Mr R, who is a director of a limited company, which I will refer to as R, brings a complaint on 
behalf of R due to the service that was provided by National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) when Mr R requested to transfer funds to an individual abroad.  
What happened
On 6 May 2022, Mr R went to a NatWest branch to request an international money transfer 
from Rs business account to a third-partys bank account located abroad. The amount of 
money Mr R was requesting to transfer was approximately £80,000. 
Mr R said that he provided all the necessary details for the transfer. He said these included 
details of the transfer bank, plus routing and account details for the third-party recipient 
abroad. To his surprise, Mr R said that he was informed by employees of NatWest branch 
that a certain routing number wasnt necessary. Shortly after requesting the transfer, Mr R 
said that a third-party from abroad, informed him that the funds have not arrived. So, Mr R 
said that on 17 May 2022, he visited a different branch of NatWest, and there he was 
informed that the funds had not been transferred because the payment had not been 
verified and there had been no response to a letter sent. Mr R said that he, again, provided 
NatWest with all the required information, including the routing number, but again he was 
told that the routing number wouldnt be needed. And it was not until 10 June 2022, that he 
received a letter from NatWest, dated 2 June 2022 that said that the transfer couldnt be 
made as the beneficiary bank details are missing. 
Mr R said that he made numerous calls trying to sort this matter out and that it was only 
about eight weeks from the date he initiated the money transfer, that the third-party abroad 
received the funds. Mr R said a lot of inconvenience was caused and getting the matter 
sorted took a lot of time. He said he had to make several long trips to the NatWest branches 
while trying to sort this out. As he was unhappy, he raised a complaint with NatWest. He said 
that this money was held since 18 May 2022 by NatWest and it has foregone any interest it 
would have earned.
In June 2022, NatWest wrote to Mr R. In this correspondence they explained to Mr R that the 
beneficiarys bank had returned the funds to them as the beneficiarys account details were 
missing, and they were unable to credit the funds to an account. NatWest explained that 
they wrote to Mr R on 2 June 2022, and again on the 20 June 2022, advising him to get in 
touch with them. In the meantime, the funds were in a holding account pending his 
instructions. They said that on 23 June 2022, the missing information was added, and the 
transfer again re-requested. In this correspondence, NatWest also explained that they 
understand that Mr R had all of this information at the time he visited the NatWest branches, 
but was advised that this was not necessary, for which NatWest said they were sorry. They 
also said, they have communicated with the two branches to remind them that it is the 
customers responsibility to verify the information that is provided, and that branch members 
should not influence how a payment is to be made, and what information should be 
provided. They explained that going forward, Mr R should ensure that he is comfortable with 
the information that has been keyed in for any payments before approving the transaction, 
as the bank is not responsible for any losses. They did however, as a gesture of goodwill, 
credit Mr Rs personal account with £30 which was initially paid for the urgent transfer fee. 
They also said that a £25 investigation fee may be applied to Mr Rs account following the 
rejected transaction, so as a precaution they have also credited this amount to his account, 
again as a gesture of goodwill.
NatWest also said that for the distress, inconvenience and worry that this issue has caused 
Mr R, and for the lack of support and quality of information that they gave him, they would 
like to compensate him £500, and asked him to let them know if he decides to accept this 
offer.
Mr R was unhappy with this, so he brought his complaint to our service. As a resolution to 
his complaint, Mr R would like NatWest to pay him £1,500 in compensation instead of the 
£500 offered. 
Our investigator thought that NatWests offer of waiving the fees incurred, plus the £500 
compensation offered by NatWest was fair and reasonable under the given circumstances.
Mr R disagreed with the investigator. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time.
Mr R said he had all the information written and that he presented this to the staff in the 
branch on both occasions. He is adamant that all details requested by NatWest staff at both 
branches were given correctly, and that further information was offered, and refused as 
unnecessary. He contends that this was a wilful default by NatWest staff at both branches. 
And, he said, NatWest didnt notify him at any time until he complained that the information, 
he had given, was inadequate. 
NatWest have told us that they appreciate Mr R has said that the branch informed him the 
routing number wasnt necessary and, ultimately, this is the reason why the transfer was 
returned/delayed. However, they said that their branches version of events doesnt match 
up with Mr Rs, and that in the end its the customers responsibility to ensure the payment 
details are correct, and not the banks. They also said that they reimbursed the £30 
International Payment Fee as a gesture of goodwill, along with the £25 Investigation 
Payment Fee, which Mr R incurred when the payment was returned from the beneficiary, 
plus they offered £500 compensation, so overall they felt that their offer was fair. 
Ive considered all the above in order to decide what is fair and reasonable. And overall, I 
think the compensation offered by NatWest to R is fair. Even if I was to decide that NatWest 
is at fault for all the errors that have occurred, I dont think the resolution offered by them is 
unreasonable. Ive taken into consideration the impact and the delays this situation had on 
R, and the inconvenience this caused. But I think the £500 offered by NatWest is a fair 
amount of compensation to reflect the impact of this situation. I know Mr R said that the 
money has forgone interest due to the delays that have been caused. But Im conscious that, 
had no error occurred from the start, the money wouldve left Rs bank account early in May, 
so it wouldnt have been earning any interest during the delays in question. Also, I can only 
consider the impact this situation had on R. And Ive not seen evidence of any financial loss 
which would be considered over and above what has already been offered by NatWest. Overall, I sympathise with Mr R for the difficulties that he had experienced, but taking all the 
circumstances of the complaint into account I think NatWests offer to R is fair and 
reasonable, and I can only consider the impact this situation had on R.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I think National Westminster Bank Plc compensation offer is 
fair, so they should pay R the £500 they offered, if this has not yet been paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman