DRN-3133092
The complaint
Miss M has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) acted unfairly by continuing to 
apply charges to her account when she was in financial difficulty.
What happened
Miss M complained to HSBC that it acted unfairly by continuing to apply charges to her 
account when she was in financial difficulty. She said the charges applied made her 
overdraft more difficult to repay. HSBC didnt uphold the complaint but refunded some of the 
charges as a gesture of goodwill. And as Miss M was dis-satisfied she referred the complaint 
to our service.
Miss Ms complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that HSBC 
ought to have realised that Miss M was experiencing financial difficulty by 17 November 
2017 and so shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point 
onwards. HSBC didnt agree it said all charges were applied in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account but offered to refund £500 to bring the account to a credit balance. 
Miss M didnt accept the offer so the case was passed to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that HSBC acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees on Miss Ms 
overdraft from 17 November 2017. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Miss M was 
in no position to sustainably repay what she owed within a reasonable period of time. 
By this point, Miss M was hardcore borrowing. In other, words she hadnt seen or maintained 
a credit balance for an extended period of time. HSBCs own literature suggests that 
overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency borrowing not prolonged day-to-day expenditure. 
So I think that Miss Ms overdraft usage should have prompted HSBC to have realised that 
Miss M wasnt using her overdraft as intended and shouldnt have continued offering it on 
the same terms. As HSBC didnt react to Miss Ms overdraft usage and instead continued 
charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
Miss M ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft and this 
ended up exacerbating difficulties she already had in trying to clear it. So I think that HSBC 
didnt treat Miss M fairly and she lost out because of what HSBC did wrong. And this means 
that it should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Ms complaint for HSBC to put things right by:
Re-work Miss Ms current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges
applied to it from 17 November 2017 onwards are removed, however Miss M
managed to bring her balance in to credit and maintained it from 1 November 2020, 
so the calculations should end at that point.
AND
If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Miss Ms credit file, 
it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the process of 
taking corrective action on the overdraft on 17 November 2017.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss M along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then HSBC 
should remove any adverse information from Miss Ms credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give 
Miss M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.  
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Ms complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman