DRN-3447431
The complaint
Mrs G brings this complaint on behalf of the estates of Mr S and Mr S, her late father and her 
late uncle. She says that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited has not given 
her sufficient information about the sums paid out for claims she made under the four whole 
of life policies they held. She feels that it is unacceptable that claimants have to rely on the 
word of insurers regarding calculations, without independent verification. 
What happened
Mrs Gs grandmother held four with-profits whole of life policies. Mrs Gs father and uncle 
were the lives assured for two of the policies each. Two began in April 1939, and two in May 
1940. The policies were made paid-up in March 2000 with commuted premiums to be 
returned upon the event of any claim.  
Mrs Gs father sadly passed away in 2010, and her uncle in 2007. In late 2020, Mrs G 
contacted Royal London to make claims under both policies.  
In November 2020, Royal London confirmed it was paying a combined £776.46 for her 
fathers policies.
In January 2021, Royal London told Mrs G that it could pay out £128.58 on one of the 
policies for her uncle. 
In February 2021, Royal London told Mrs G that it could pay one of her uncles policies in 
full, less £1.46 of premium reductions beyond 2000 as previously confirmed. However, it 
said the other policy lapsed in 1974 with a paid up value of £20.81. 
Mrs G complained. She said it was fraudulent of Royal London to say that one of her uncles 
policies lapsed in 1974 and this was not the case. She escalated the matter to Royal 
Londons chief executive, asking for evidence of payments and requesting the full amount of 
money due on both policies along with a detailed breakdown of calculations. 
Mrs G then brought the complaint to this service in April 2021. She said Royal London had 
proved itself incapable of calculating the value of the four policies and so she should receive 
maximum awards (£355,000) for each policy.
The following month, Royal London rejected the complaint. It explained the basis of the 
calculations for all four policies, setting out the basic sums assured, the reversionary 
bonuses and the final bonuses. It also apologised for saying Mrs Gs uncles policy had 
lapsed when it had not. It recalculated that value as at the date Mr S passed away in 2007. 
For Mrs Gs fathers policies, it had mistakenly keyed in 2020 as the date of death, not 2010. 
For this, it meant both policies were overvalued by a combined £563.16. However Royal 
London told Mrs G it would not seek recovery of that sum.  
Finally, it agreed to offer Mrs G £200 for the mistakes made in settling the four policies. 
Mrs G said the £200 compensation Royal London had paid her did not adequately 
compensate the stress and upset she had been placed under. 
An investigator from this service considered the complaint, but he did not think it should 
succeed. He said the payments made exceeded the sums assured for all four policies. Given 
the respective premium values for the periods the policies were being paid, he felt the claim 
values were likely correct. 
In terms of the compensation paid to Mrs G, he did not think a further payment was 
warranted but also noted he could not have proposed it in any event, because our service is 
only able to make compensation awards for upset or distress to eligible complainants, not 
representatives.  
Mrs G said she disagreed, and wanted the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. She 
said:
some of the dates the investigator had included regarding the policy start dates 
werent correct;
the premiums of 1d per week and the sums assured were not insignificant at the time 
of taking out the policies;
addition of bonuses and compound interest over the 70 years should be substantial;
it isnt fair to place the burden of establishing accuracy on a consumer when 
businesses have historical data to verify their calculations;
the Financial Ombudsman Service website says businesses can be asked to provide 
evidence;
Royal London ought to have retained appropriate records but if it hasnt, that should 
not be Mrs Gs fault;
she should also be compensated because of any failure;
Liverpool Victoria was asked to reassess pay-outs for penny policies in 1998  
perhaps the same ought to have applied to Royal London;
she is surprised that the investigator simply accepted the figures submitted by Royal 
London without question;
the policyholder was Mrs Gs grandmother  and she is her next of kin;
so, she is legally entitled to death benefits and accordingly the complainant;
she wants the name of the complaint amended to be in her name only;
she notes how our service can make awards up to £1,500 for distress and upset;
Royal London also took longer than eight weeks to provide a final response letter;
the £200 offered as compensation remained inadequate;
this service ought to work with businesses to arrange clarity of calculations under 
penny policies without delay.  
Our investigator explained he could not change the name of the complaint because an 
eligible complainant is a person (who may have since passed away) that had a direct 
relationship with a business. His view on the complaint remained unchanged. 
Royal London did not have any other comments to make. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Id like to thank the parties for their patience whilst this matter awaited an ombudsmans 
decision. Though I know this will be disappointing for Mrs G, I am also of the view this 
complaint should not be upheld. That is because I dont find Royal London to have acted 
unfairly in the circumstances, nor do I believe it appropriate to award compensation on the 
basis proposed by Mrs G. Ill explain my reasons for that below.  
Each of the four policies taken out by Mrs Gs father and uncle had a four-weekly penny (1d) 
premium, equivalent to 0.4167p after decimalisation. Premiums for these policies were often 
paid annually. The policies belonging to Mrs Gs father had sums assured of £13.15 and 
£13.65, and her uncle £13.36 and £14.00.  
These policies were with-profits, meaning the sums assured and premiums remained the 
same throughout the life of the policy. When they were made paid up in 2000, this merely 
meant premium payments were no longer needed and they could be deducted from the final 
policy value after claims were made when Mr S and Mr S passed away.  
The obligation on Royal London was to pay the sum assured, plus any bonuses added in 
intervening years as well as an optional final bonus (which was included for all four policies). 
I know it is frustrating for Mrs G that Royal London has not been able to provide breakdowns 
of the bonuses added for the life of the policies. But they are particularly long-standing, and it 
has no retained records going back that far. Unfortunately to do so does conflict with data 
protection laws and I cannot say it is unreasonable in how it has explained matters. 
This service does not operate in a role of regulation, such as the Information Commissioner 
may do. Instead Ive looked at the premiums paid, the settlement values and the sums 
assured and I cannot see any suggestion that the four policies have received less than they 
should have given the limited premium value of 54 pence per annum. 
In fact, Royal London has significantly overpaid the policy values for Mrs Gs father, which 
should have been a combined £213.20 but instead were overpaid by a further £563.16.  It 
has also explained in the final response letter what the breakdown of each policy value 
means  though it cannot give historical bonus rates.  
The award limit Mrs G has referred to applies to complaints where there is identified financial 
loss in excess of £355,000. There is no loss of that nature here  and therefore that value is 
not relevant to this complaint. 
I was pleased to see Royal London offered Mrs G £200 for the mistakes it made in both 
saying Mrs Gs uncles policy ended when it didnt and by overpaying her in error. This 
award is within a sensible range for the upset caused to Mrs G, in my view.  
I do not believe further compensation should be awarded. Though this service can, and does 
make further modest awards for the distress a business has caused in relation to a 
complaint, those awards must be made to an eligible complainant. This is not because Mrs 
G isnt authorised to pursue the complaint here. What it relates to is the Dispute Resolution 
(DISP) rules which apply to this service as set out in the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook. 
Those rules require that awards are made to an eligible complainant. And whilst a complaint 
can be made to this service by a representative on behalf of the eligible complainant (or the 
estate of a complainant that has passed away), that does not confer the right to receive a 
money award to the representative  if it were appropriate for me to make such an award.  My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint or make any award.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estates of Mr S 
and Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman