DRN-2130500
The complaint
Mr G says Gain Credit LLC, trading as Drafty, irresponsibly lent to him. He says he should 
not have been provided with the loan as he had serious financial problems when he applied 
for it. 
What happened
This complaint is about one running credit account Drafty provided to Mr G on 7 May 2019. 
This was an arrangement where Mr G could withdraw up to an agreed credit limit. He would 
need to repay a minimum of 2% of the outstanding balance each month plus any accrued 
interest or charges. 
Neither party to this complaint has been able to provide full details about the lending. What I 
have seen shows that Mr G drew down up to the full credit limit of £1,000 straight after being 
approved for the facility. He then made some further withdrawals of smaller amounts and 
made what look to be the minimum repayments each month going forward. This carried on 
until September 2019 and I understand the account has a balance outstanding. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Gs complaint. He thought that Drafty shouldnt have approved 
the lending. Drafty didnt respond to the opinion. And so, as no agreement was reached, the 
complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending  including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. Broadly 
speaking, this all means that Drafty needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice, this means it should have carried out proportionate checks to make 
sure Mr G could repay his loans in a sustainable manner. Additionally, there may come a 
point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that the 
lending was unsustainable.
Applying this to the circumstances of this particular complaint, I have reached the same 
outcome as our adjudicator, for essentially the same reasons.
Our adjudicator thought Drafty was made aware of some of the financial problems Mr G was 
having.  And so a proportionate checks before approving this facility wouldve looked into Mr 
Gs circumstances in some detail. If Drafty had done this it wouldve seen that Mr G had 
some significant financial problems such as a high use of other short term loans. So Mr G 
would be unlikely to be able to afford the repayments to this facility in a sustainable manner. 
I agree that Drafty shouldve made better checks. It had seen that Mr G had other lending 
and hed had been unable to pay some of his credit in the recent past. And Ive thought 
about what Drafty was likely to have seen had it made proportionate checks. I have 
independently reviewed the evidence of Mr Gs income and expenditure. 
Having done all of this I dont think that Mr G couldve afforded the repayments to this facility 
and I think Drafty wouldve seen this had it made better checks. So, it shouldnt have 
approved this facility. As Drafty hasnt responded, it hasnt added anything further for me to 
consider.  
Putting things right
Drafty shouldnt have approved this loan to Mr G.
If Drafty has sold the outstanding debts Drafty should buy these back if Drafty is able to do 
so and then take the following steps. If Drafty is not able to buy the debts back then it should 
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Drafty should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr G towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything 
Drafty has already refunded.
B) Drafty should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr G 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr G originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Drafty should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr G as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr G having made 
overpayments then Drafty should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. Drafty should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B 
and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus should be paid to Mr G. However, if there is still an outstanding balance 
then Drafty should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr G. Drafty shouldnt 
pursue outstanding balances made up of principal Drafty has already written-off.
E) Drafty should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Gs credit file in relation to 
this loan. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to deduct tax from this interest. Drafty should give 
Mr G a certificate showing how much tax Drafty has deducted, if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Gs complaint. 
Gain Credit LLC should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman