DRN-3535181
The complaint
Mr B says Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited, trading as Skoda Financial Services
(VWFS) were wrong to send him an arrears letter after he settled his car finance
agreement.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in May of this year. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr B acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our
service is able to look into complaints about it.
Mr B settled his car finance agreement on 17 September 2021 but VWFS sent him an
arrears letter on 29 September 2021.
Mr B is upset about that as he said there were no arrears. Hes explained that any adverse
reports made about his accounts to the credit reference agencies could affect his
employment in the financial services sector.
In VWFSs final response they said:
Within days of the monthly rental billing a payment was received totalling the settlement
figure above. The payment did not allocate into your finance agreement until we already
requested the monthly direct debit from the bank. As such, your agreement was settled,
however the payment requested for 24 September 2021 reported as unpaid upon declined
application from the bank and reflected as arrears. With the arrears showing as due,
automated correspondence was sent out requesting you contact us.
Mr B has provided information to show the payment wasnt declined by his bank and that he
had indeed kept the direct debit active. VWFS have now agreed that the payment wasnt
taken because it was declined but rather it was reversed at their request.
So, I think they were wrong to suggest the payment had been declined and they should
provide a written apology to Mr B so he can show his employers if required to. The apology
should include an explanation that there were no arrears on the account and that they were
therefore wrong to issue correspondence chasing those arrears.
VWFSs call logs show that on 11 November 2021 Mr B was still asking them for clarification
his credit file hadnt been impacted. Whilst I can see that VWFS confirmed there was nothing
reported to his credit file they didnt do so until after Mr B paid for a copy of his file on 14
November 2021, to check if thered been any impact. In those circumstances, I think VWFS
should therefore refund the £14.99 Mr B has shown us the credit report cost him.
My provisional decision
Im expecting to uphold this complaint in part and to tell Volkswagen Financial Services (UK)
Limited to:
Issue an apology to Mr B as Ive set out above.
Refund the £14.99 Mr B spent on a credit report.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr B and VWFS accepted my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
As the parties agreed with my provisional decision Ive seen no reason to change it and that 
provisional decision now becomes my final decision on this complaint.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and to tell Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited to:
Issue an apology to Mr B as Ive set out above.
Refund the £14.99 Mr B spent on a credit report.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman