DRN-2397369
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Aviva Insurance Limited declined a claim to repair a leaking drain 
under her home assistance insurance policy. 
Mrs R is the sole policy holder and is represented in this complaint by her husband. But, for 
ease, Ill refer to Mrs R throughout.  
What happened
Mrs R had cover for plumbing and drainage. The agreement was in the name of a home 
assistance company but the policy was underwritten by Aviva. In April 2020 Mrs R contacted 
Aviva to say a drain had started leaking and was causing significant flooding. Aviva sent an 
engineer who found fresh water escaping from the ground near a well in Mrs Rs back 
garden. Another engineer attended about a week or so later. He told Mrs R the leak was 
coming from a land drain that didnt form part of her drainage network. As it wasnt a water 
supply pipe or a waste drainage issue, he said it wasnt covered under her policy. Mrs R paid 
a private engineer to excavate the area, clean a clay pipe that was blocked, replace the 
damaged section and leave the area accessible for future access. She also complained to 
Aviva as she didnt agree the drainage issue wasnt covered under her policy.
Aviva said land drains werent covered under Mrs Rs policy. It acknowledged this wasnt 
specifically excluded in the terms and conditions as it said its not possible to include every 
scenario. But it said Mrs Rs problem didnt fall in line with certain sections of her policy. It 
quoted a section from the policy about emergencies and another about having sole 
responsibility for the drains or sewers causing problems. It said there was no evidence the 
issue related to a sewage or waste drain connected to her property. Mrs R remained 
unhappy and approached this service.
Our investigator didnt think Aviva had acted fairly. He said hed not seen anything in Mrs Rs 
policy to say it didnt cover land drains. He was satisfied Mrs R had sole responsibility for the 
drain and that it was located within the boundary of her home. And he didnt accept the claim 
wasnt covered because it didnt meet the policy definition of an emergency. So, he thought 
Aviva should reimburse Mrs R for the costs of paying a private engineer, plus 8% simple 
interest per annum. And £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
the way it had handled the claim. 
Mrs R was happy with the investigators view but Aviva didnt accept it. As such, the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence suggests the escape of water in Mrs Rs back garden was caused by a 
blocked drain. And that the drain was a land drain connected to a well which is also within 
the boundary of her property. Aviva has said land drains arent covered under Mrs Rs policy. 
It acknowledges theres no specific reference to land drains and I accept that terms and 
conditions cant cover every scenario. So, Ive considered whether its fair and reasonable 
for Aviva to decline Mrs Rs claim in light of all the circumstances. And, on balance, I dont 
think it is. Let me explain why.
Emergency/ies
Aviva has cited a number of sections of Mrs Rs policy to explain why its declined her claim. 
Its quoted the definition for an emergency as set out in the terms and conditions, although it 
hasnt explained why. The policy says it relates to emergencies and other domestic 
incidents. And later says if the incident is an emergency, the claim will be given priority - 
otherwise an appointment will be made. So, Im satisfied the policy covers other domestic 
incidents and not only emergencies.
Sole responsibility
Aviva has also cited the section of Mrs Rs policy that says the policy doesnt cover drains 
and/or sewers that she doesnt have sole responsibility for (including shared drains within 
her property). Mrs R has confirmed she contacted both her local water company and the 
district council when the incident first happened  and both confirmed the drain was her 
responsibility as it was on her property and served no one else. Im therefore satisfied from 
the evidence Ive seen that Mrs R has sole responsibility for the drain. 
No connection to the propertys drainage system
Avivas main reason for declining the claim seems to be that the drain doesnt connect to 
Mrs Rs house and isnt part of her drainage network. I have some sympathy with that 
position. There doesnt seem to be any dispute the drain that caused the escape of water 
isnt connected to Mrs Rs house. And it might be the intention of Avivas policy to only cover 
drainage facilities directly connected to her house. But is it fair for Aviva to apply that policy 
intention to this situation? I dont think so. 
As Aviva has acknowledged, Mrs Rs policy doesnt mention land drains. What it does say is 
that it covers drainage (internal and external) and waste pipes within your property which 
you are legally responsible. So, the policy covers external drainage within the boundaries of 
her property. The policy defines property as The private home, garage and domestic 
outbuildings (excluding sheds, greenhouses, non permanent structures) within the property 
boundary at the address shown on your policy schedule. And goes on to say that the 
extent of your property will be that which is wholly within your control and you are wholly 
responsible for. As Ive said, Im satisfied Mrs R is legally responsible for the drain. And Im 
also satisfied the blocked pipe (and the well) are within the boundary of Mrs Rs property.
So, in light of the above, I dont think its fair and reasonable for Aviva to decline Mrs Rs 
claim for an escape of water from a drain for which she has sole responsibility and which lies 
within the boundary of her property. 
Putting things right
The private engineer employed by Mrs R excavated the area around the leak, repaired the 
pipe and unblocked the drain before leaving an inspection chamber to make it accessible in 
future. Ive seen photographs showing some of the work in progress as well as the 
completed work. Ive also seen evidence of the amount Mrs R paid the private engineer to 
complete this work.
The terms and conditions of Mrs Rs policy says Aviva will clear the drain or repair or replace the damaged section of any leaking waste pipe. And says the repairs will include the 
temporary reinstatement of any excavations carried out as part of the claim. So, Im satisfied 
Aviva would have done similar work to the private engineer had it accepted the claim. The 
amount Mrs R paid for the work seems reasonable in the circumstances  so I think it would 
be fair for Aviva to reimburse Mrs R the £500 she paid the private engineer to repair the 
drain. And to add interest to this amount for loss of use of that money.
Our investigator also thought Aviva should pay Mrs R £100 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused by the way it handled the claim. And I think thats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint and direct Aviva Insurance Limited to pay 
Mrs R the following:
A total of £500 for the cost of repairing the drain in her back garden. It should add 
interest to this amount at a rate of 8% simple annually from the date of the claim to 
the date it reimburses her1
£100 for the trouble and upset caused by its poor service
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman
1 If Aviva Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs R how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs R a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.