DRN-2801998
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt refunded the premiums they 
paid for a travel insurance policy.
What happened
On 15 February 2020, Mr and Mrs G bought a single trip travel insurance policy through a 
broker, which was underwritten by Great Lakes. Mr and Mrs Gs policy covered a cruise 
holiday theyd planned to take abroad between 23 March and 4 April 2020. The policy cost 
Mr and Mrs G £734.01 for classic cruise single trip insurance cover, including a discount of 
£45.08. They paid an additional premium for optional excess waiver cover. The policy also 
included cover for a number of medical conditions. A few days later, Mr and Mrs G got in 
touch with the broker because theyd been able to find cheaper cover elsewhere. The broker 
agreed to price match the competitors quote and refunded Mr and Mrs G £211.40. This 
meant that Mr and Mrs G ultimately paid £512.61 for their policy (including a total discount of 
£341.48).
As a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, on 16 March 2020, Mr and Mrs Gs cruise provider let 
them know that their cruise had been cancelled. So on 17 March 2020, Mr and Mrs G got in 
touch with the broker to cancel their policy. They wanted a cash refund of the premium 
theyd paid for their policy, less a small amount to represent the time Great Lakes had been 
covering them for the cancellation of their trip.
Great Lakes didnt offer Mr and Mrs G a cash refund. Ultimately, it calculated the pro-rata 
value of their policy for the period of unused cover from 17 March 2020 until 4 April 2020. It 
said that as this was such a low amount, it would offer Mr and Mrs G a discount voucher of 
20% which could be put towards the base price of a future policy. This voucher would be 
valid for 36 months. Great Lakes didnt include the price of the excess waiver cover in its 
calculations.
Mr and Mrs G werent happy with Great Lakes offer and they asked us to look into their 
complaint. 
Our investigator didnt think Great Lakes had calculated Mr and Mrs Gs offer fairly. She set 
out the details of the relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances 
of this case. She also explained that it is a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the 
insurer had started to bear risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is not 
returnable. That means its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to 
the risk it covered during that time. And she explained that Covid-19 didnt make it 
impossible for the contract of insurance to be performed because cover under the policy 
started on 15 February 2020 and the policy covered various risks during that time. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
She thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint 
was for Great Lakes to offer Mr and Mrs G a voucher, which would be valid for 36 months 
and which took into account the unused cover remaining on the policy. But she felt that as 
Mr and Mrs Gs holiday had been cancelled on 16 March 2020, Great Lakes should calculate 
the refund due from that date. And she also thought that as Great Lakes was no longer 
bearing any risk of a claim under the optional excess waiver cover, it would be fair for it to 
include a pro-rata refund of the additional premium for it in its refund offer. She didnt think 
though that the terms of the voucher were overly restrictive. So she didnt think Great Lakes 
needed to pay Mr and Mrs G a cash refund of their premium.
Great Lakes accepted the investigators recommendations. It backdated the cancellation 
date to 16 March 2020 and it included a pro-rata refund for the excess waiver cover in its 
calculations. It calculated that Mr and Mrs G could either accept a credit voucher for £0.16, 
or they could still take up the offer of a 20% discount voucher off the base price of a future 
policy.
Mr and Mrs G disagreed. Ive summarised their response. They didnt think it was fair for 
Great Lakes to take into account the price match rebate or discounts theyd received on the 
policy. They thought Great Lakes should calculate the refund based on the amount of 
£512.61, without taking into account any discounts. They didnt think a credit voucher would 
be any use to them, given their age and also given the potential impact of Covid-19 on cruise 
travel in the future.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs G, I think Great Lakes offer is fair. 
Ill explain why.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of your 
documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, less 
any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day coolingoff period no premium will 
be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as 
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions. 
I think Great Lakes offer is fair because: 
The policy was taken out on 15 February 2020 and it wasnt cancelled until 17 March 
2020. This means I think the policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period. And 
so, there is no requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for Great 
Lakes to offer a refund
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that Great Lakes doesnt have 
to pay any refund of a policyholders premium after the cooling-off period has ended. 
In this case, Mr and Mrs Gs cooling-off period ended on 29 February 2020. But the 
policy wasnt cancelled until 17 March 2020. So the cancellation was outside of the 
14-day cooling-off period. While I appreciate Mr and Mrs Gs holiday was cancelled 
for reasons outside of their control; I dont think it would be fair to ask Great Lakes to 
use its discretion and treat the Covid-19 pandemic as exceptional circumstances. I think this policy term most likely relates to circumstances which are individual to the 
policyholder  such as bereavement or a change in their own health. This means I 
dont think the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Gs contract with Great Lakes 
entitle them to any refund of premiums.  
Ive taken into account though what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-
19. In the circumstances of this case, I think Great Lakes offer to provide Mr and Mrs 
G with either a credit voucher for the unused portion of their cover or a 20% discount 
voucher off the base price of a new policy is fair and reasonable. 
I say that because Great Lakes wouldve been on-risk for a 50-day period if the 
policy hadnt been cancelled. The voucher represents the remaining, unused 20 days 
of cover, after the holiday was cancelled, as Great Lakes was no longer carrying any 
risk of Mr and Mrs G making a claim after that point. I agree with the investigator that 
it was fair for Great Lakes to backdate the cancellation date to the date Mr and Mrs 
Gs trip was cancelled. And that it was reasonable for Great Lakes to include a pro-
rata refund for the excess waiver cover in its calculations, as it no longer bore any 
risk of a claim under this section of cover once the trip was cancelled. I was pleased 
to note that Great Lakes accepted our investigators recommendations on this point 
and recalculated the refund due accordingly.  Ive checked Great Lakes refund 
calculation and Im satisfied it was correct. And I also think it was fair for Great Lakes 
to take the discounts itd applied to Mr and Mrs Gs policy into account.
In my view, a voucher is fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances of 
this case. I say that because while I appreciate travel plans are still uncertain, Great 
Lakes credit or discount voucher is valid for 36 months, meaning that its likely Mr 
and Mrs G will be able to put the voucher towards another policy in the future. As 
such, I dont think that the terms of the voucher are overly restrictive.
Having considered everything, while I know Mr and Mrs G will be disappointed in my 
decision, Im not telling Great Lakes to pay them a cash refund of their premiums or do 
anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that Great Lakes offer is fair and 
reasonable.
I direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to either:
Provide Mr and Mrs G a credit voucher for £0.16; or
Provide Mr and Mrs G with a discount voucher of 20% off the price of a base       
premium for a future policy with the broker;
Its open to Mr and Mrs G to decide which option theyd prefer to take up and let Great Lakes 
know.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman