DRN-3027059
The complaint
Mr S complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin, rejected his claim in respect of a 
cancelled flights.
What happened
On 27 December 2018 Mr S booked a package holiday, including flights, online with a 
company I will call T. His credit card shows two payments were made of £123 and £349 with 
respective transaction dates of 27 December and 24 January.
Mr S says he called T on 31 December and it confirmed his booking had been made. T 
issued a confirmation of the booking on 7 January 2019. Mr S says he called T on 11 
January to cancel the booking and was told he was liable for the full cost of the flights. He 
sought to cancel the flights directly with the airline, but to no avail. On 2 May 2019 T sent 
confirmation of cancellation of his hotel and transfer bookings.
On 14 January Mr S contacted Virgin and £472.90 was credited to his account, but this was 
later re-debited after it concluded that it could not accept his claim. It had attempted to make 
a chargeback but this was rejected by T as it considered it had not breached its terms and 
conditions which were available on its website. However, there were delays in its handling of 
the matter and it offered him £100 in compensation.
Mr S brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. Mr S has argued that when making the 
booking he was not told about the inability to cancel the flight and confirmation of the 
booking with full details wasnt received until 7 January. 
Our investigator concluded that the bank hadnt done anything wrong. It had made a 
chargeback request and this had been declined. He also considered whether there was a 
valid claim under S 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974. He said that Ts terms and conditions 
made it clear that if a consumer cancels a flight no refund will be given. As such he didnt 
consider Clydesdale had failed to uphold a S 75 claim.
Mr S didnt agree. He disputed some of the factual details in our investigators view letter and 
said that there had been a clear breach since the full documentation had not been sent to 
him until 7 January. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I have every sympathy with Mr S I am not persuaded that I can uphold his complaint. I 
will explain why.
Chargeback is a process that is provided by the Card Scheme- in this case MasterCard. It 
allows customers to ask for a transaction to be reversed if there's a problem with the goods 
or services they've paid for. There's no automatic right to a chargeback.  Nor is chargeback 
a guaranteed method of getting a refund. MasterCard checks the nature of the problem 
against the possible chargeback reasons to see whether the claim will be successful. If the 
bank feels that a claim won't be successful, they don't have to raise a chargeback.
The basis if Mr Ss claim is that he was unaware that he would not be entitled to a refund 
when he made the booking. However, T says the terms and conditions are set out in its 
website. I have looked at the recent version and I can see that it does make clear that no 
refund will be given for cancelled flights. It also says that it will refund accommodation 
transfer costs if cancellation is made more than seven days before departure.
I am satisfied the information about cancellation rights was available to Mr S on Ts web site 
and any delay in received confirmation of the booking has no bearing on the matter. He 
entered the contract on 27 December and at that point he agreed to pay for the flights 
regardless of whether he made use of them. The fact he had a change of heart at a later 
date does not entitle him to a refund.
Although the bank does not appear to have considered S 75 I agree with out investigator 
that there was no valid claim. For S 75 to come into play there has to be a breach of contract 
or misrepresentation. I can see neither in this case. In short Mr S said I am booking this 
holiday and I agree to pay £x. T said we can do that, but there will be no refund of the flight 
costs of you cancel. The fact it didnt overtly highlight this does not make the terms and 
conditions invalid. They were set out clearly on its web site and it was open to Mr S to 
ensure he was satisfied before completing the purchase.
I agree that the bank didnt handle the claim and the subsequent complaint as well as it 
should and I consider the offer of £100 compensation to cover the distress and 
inconvenience suffered by Mr S as a result to be fair.
My final decision
Clydesdale Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Clydesdale Bank Plc should pay £100 if it has not already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman