DRN-2533797
The complaint
Mr Cs complaint is about a pet insurance policy he held with Aviva Insurance Limited. He is 
unhappy a claim he made for treatment for his dog was declined because the illness 
occurred within the first 14 days of cover. 
What happened
In August 2019 Mr C decided to change his pet insurance provider. The new policy started 
on 13 August 2019.
On 19 August 2019 Mr Cs dog became unwell and required veterinary treatment. Sadly his 
illness led to his death shortly thereafter. When Mr C tried to claim for the treatment in 
September 2019, Aviva declined the claim as the policy didnt cover any claims where 
clinical signs or a diagnosed illness had been present or presented within the first 14 days 
from inception. 
Mr C was unhappy the claim was declined. He contacted us to complain about Avivas 
decision and explained that the illness that required treatment had a sudden, acute onset 
and so it was unfair for it to be excluded from cover. As Mr C hadnt complained to Aviva, we 
forwarded the complaint to it.
Aviva considered the complaint, but it didnt uphold it. It said that Mr C was provided with 
access to two documents before he applied for the policy which detailed that there was no 
cover for illnesses that occurred within the first 14 days of the policy. He had to confirm that 
hed read one of those documents before he could complete his application, so he would 
have known at the time of purchase about the restriction to cover. It was satisfied it was right 
to decline the claim.
Mr C wasnt happy with Avivas response and again asked us to consider the complaint. One 
of our investigators looked into the complaint, but she didnt recommend it be upheld. She 
didnt think Aviva had acted unreasonably when declining the claim. 
Mr C didnt accept the investigators conclusion and said he felt that Aviva was using a 
loophole in the terms and conditions in order to get out of paying the claim. In addition, he 
said he felt that the person considering the claim didnt consider the specialist vets account 
and just used the 14 day policy term to draw a line under the claim. He reiterated his 
comments about the sudden onset of the illness and the detail of the overlap between the 
Aviva and his previous policy  neither of which would pay out for the claim. He also 
questioned why other forms of general insurance provide immediate cover, but pet insurance 
doesnt. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Mr Cs comment about policies they have for other pets and that the 14 day initial 
cover condition is different to that included in the Aviva policy. An insurer will offer cover 
based on the risks it is willing to take and we cant tell an insurer what cover it should offer. A 
consumer can select a policy that offers the features that are most important to them. Whilst 
Mr Cs current insurer has chosen to offer polices with different terms and conditions to 
Avivas, that doesnt mean Avivas terms and conditions are unreasonable or unfair.
I am satisfied Mr C was aware the new policy didnt cover illnesses that manifested in the 
first 14 days as it was clearly detailed in the documentation he was required to read before 
he could apply for the policy. In addition, the fact that he had an overlap between the end of 
the old policy and the start of the new one, would support an understanding of the cover 
limitation. It is simply unfortunate the illness occurred after the existing policy lapsed and 
before the 14 days of limited cover under the new policy had expired.
I can understand that Mr C is unhappy his policy excludes illnesses arising in the first 14 
days, given the circumstances of the illness in question. However, his claim wasnt declined 
on a technicality, but based in the terms of the policy, which Mr C agreed to before he took it 
out. I dont consider that in the circumstances, Aviva behaved unreasonably when it declined 
the claim.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 
24 May 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman