DRN-2123396
The complaint
Mr M complains that Allianz plc (Allianz) have mishandled his motor insurance claim 
following an accident and have also failed to provide legal expenses cover. 
What happened
Mr M holds a motor insurance policy with Allianz, which also includes the minimum legal 
insurance required to comply with regulations regarding compulsory insurance. Mr M had a 
car accident on 20 July 2017 in the early hours of the morning. At the time, he said he 
swerved to avoid hitting a fox and drove into a wall of boulders on the side of the road, which 
he said had been illegally placed there without planning permission by the land owner. Mr M 
suffered significant injuries and was hospitalised after the accident.
Mr M made a claim to on his motor insurance policy on 25 July 2017. The car was written 
off, and a payment issued in August 2017. Mr M later got back in contact with Allianz in 
November 2017 requesting that they hold the third-party land owner responsible for the 
accident due to the positioning of the boulders by the road.
Allianz considered pursuing a recovery claim and contacted the third-party land owners 
insurer in an attempt to recover their outlay. Photos of the incident and a copy of the 
engineers report detailing the damage caused to Mr Ms vehicle was provided to the third-
party insurer, but they subsequently advised that they were denying liability for the accident 
and Mr Ms injuries. Allianz say they considered their position in light of all the information 
but decided not to pursue the third party and closed their file. 
Mr M later got back in contact with Allianz in February 2020 explaining that the third party 
had been presented with an enforcement notice regarding the roadside boundary, and that 
he wished to sue the third party to recover costs for his medical treatments. He requested 
that Allianz fund his legal action, but the insurer said there was no cover available under the 
policy for the legal action Mr M wished to pursue. 
Mr M complained about Allianzs decision not to pursue the third party for their costs, and for 
their failure to provide him with funding to pursue legal action through the courts. Allianz said 
that they were satisfied there was insufficient evidence to prove the third partys negligence 
and liability for the accident, as the illegally placed boundary could not be said to have 
caused or contributed to the accident given that Mr M had swerved into it in order to avoid a 
fox. 
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He was satisfied that Allianzs decision not to 
pursue the third party for costs was reasonable in light of the facts they had been given, and 
that they were entitled to make this decision under the policy terms and conditions. He was 
also satisfied there was no cover available under the policy for his legal expenses to be 
covered. Mr M disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and I will not be 
upholding it. Ill explain why.
Recovery of costs from the third-party land owner
The policy terms and conditions state:
Claims procedure
 
We are entitled at any stage during any claim, to take over and conduct the defence 
or settlement of the claim, and, at our discretion to pursue the claim for our own 
benefit in the name of any person insured.
This term essentially gives Allianz a contractual right to settle the claim how they see fit. This 
is the insurers right of subrogation, and they do not need the agreement or consent or Mr M 
as the policyholder to either pursue (or choose not to pursue) any third party. However, the 
insurers decision should still be reasonable in light of the evidence available and 
circumstances of the claim.
I can see that Allianz did consider pursuing the third party for their outlay, and that they 
approached the third-party insurer in this regard. But the insurer denied liability, and Allianz 
also considered there was insufficient evidence available to establish liability  i.e. that the 
presence of the rockery likely caused the accident or at least contributed to its occurrence  
as they considered the main cause of the accident to be Mr M swerving in order to avoid 
hitting a fox. 
Mr M now says that his initial statement was inaccurate, and that he actually wasnt sure 
about the cause of the accident (apart from the boulder wall being present on the side of the 
road). But I cant ignore that his initial statement clearly stated that he swerved in an 
emergency so as to avoid making contact with a fox that had suddenly ran onto the road, 
and drove into the boulder wall placed on the verge as a result. 
So, taking into account Mr Ms initial recollection of events, and based on the information 
Allianz had at the time, I do not think it was unreasonable for them to decline to seek 
recovery from the third party, as it would be difficult to prove that the alleged negligent 
placement of the boulders caused the accident. And it appears they made their decision 
based on the facts and evidence as they were presented.
Mr M has put forwards various arguments as to why the third party should be held liable for 
the accident. But it is not the role of this service to determine liability; I am only considering 
whether Allianz have acted fairly and reasonably in deciding not to pursue the third party. 
And even if Mr Ms arguments regarding negligence had merit, liability in this case is not 
clear cut, which means that the insurer could potentially stand to lose in court if they were to 
pursue the third party. 
So, even if Allianzs decision to settle rather than contest the matter in court was a 
commercial or financially motivated one, I dont think this would be unreasonable either. An 
insurer is a custodian of pooled funds which have to be managed responsibly. And with such 
a fiduciary duty, an insurer cannot be expected to defend or pursue cases at any cost, purely 
as a matter of principle of behalf of the policyholder. And given the potential costs and 
inherent uncertainties surrounding litigation, it seems a prudent and reasonable strategy to 
decline to pursue the third party when the costs of litigation could likely outweigh the sums 
they stand to recover.So I do not consider Allianz have acted unfairly by failing to pursue the third-party landowner 
for recovery of their costs. 
Legal expenses cover
Mr M is also unhappy that Allianz have refused to cover his legal expenses in order to 
pursue a personal injury claim against the third party. But having considered Mr Ms motor 
policy, it does not extend to funding the pursuit of his personal injury claim. Such a claim is 
not defined as an insured event under Mr Ms cover, so Allianz are under no obligation to 
provide funding for it.
I understand that Mr M had separate legal expenses cover in place at the time, but that this 
is not provided or underwritten by Allianz. I also understand that Mr M has concerns 
regarding his broker and the information he has been given about this separate legal 
expenses policy. However, this decision concerns only the acts or omissions of Allianz as 
the underwriter of Mr Ms motor insurance policy, so I will not be able to comment on any of 
these issues within this decision, and any such concerns would need to form the basis of a 
separate complaint about the relevant firm that is responsible (i.e. the broker or relevant 
underwriter of the legal expenses policy).
Mr M has also said that he suspects Allianz is colluding with other parties to neutralise his 
personal injury claim. But such a serious allegation would need to have persuasive evidence 
to substantiate it, which Mr M does not have. So I will not be commenting any further on this.
In summary, Im satisfied that Allianz has handled Mr Ms claim fairly and reasonably, and I 
will not be directing them to take any further action in these circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2020.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman