DRN-2476954
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage which, until recently, Miss L and Mr M held with 
Santander UK Plc. Theyre unhappy generally, with how Santander treated them during 
long-term financial hardship  including starting possession action when they were trying to 
sell the mortgaged property. More specifically, they say Santander charged them unfairly for 
making payments later in the month than they were due, and by charging interest on arrears.
What happened
The main facts of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
in detail here. Instead Ill give a brief summary (using my own words and rounding the 
figures involved) and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention 
something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to 
the outcome of the complaint. 
The mortgage fell into arrears in 2011, after Mr M lost his job, and then suffered serious 
long-term health problems. From this point, credits to the mortgage have comprised either a 
combination of payments from the borrowers and the Department for Work and Pensions 
(DWP) or those received from the DWP alone. However, we've explained to both sides that 
we can only look at events since October 13 and why. I won't repeat the details of that here. 
At that time, the arrears were in the region of £31,000. In October 2014, Santander agreed a 
temporary switch to interest-only as a concession. It also offered to capitalise the arrears, by 
then close to £47,000, but that didnt go through. In May 2015, the mortgage reverted to 
capital repayment, but arrears continued to rise. By January 2020, when Santander issued 
two final responses letters (the second of which confirmed possession proceedings were 
taking place), the arrears were close to £93,000.
Miss L and Mr M had been marketing their home for sale, and eventually completed the sale 
in April 2020, thus averting the need for the legal action. By this time the arrears had peaked 
at around £98,000 and their complaint was already with us. 
Our investigator didnt think Santander had treated Miss L and Mr M unfairly. He explained 
that under the terms of the mortgage, interest was chargeable daily on the outstanding 
balance, so interest on arrears (or extra interest arising from payments being received later 
in the month than the due date) wasnt unfair. 
He also thought Santander had shown a reasonable degree of forbearance over the years 
Miss L and Mr M had been in difficulties, but that the decision to litigate was a legitimate one 
given how high the arrears had become. 
Miss L and Mr M asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Mr M has spoken very openly about the impact of the past years events on him personally. I 
dont repeat the details here, to preserve his privacy, but Ive noted what hes said, and am 
aware of the very serious nature of some of the events hes described. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what 
we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly 
the same test that the courts use in civil cases.
Ill begin with the interest charged on the mortgage. Interest is calculated daily on the 
amount owing reach day, so when the account is in arrears, then the arrears balance 
attracts interest in the same way and at the same rate as the non-arrears balance. 
I appreciate an important point for Miss L and Mr M is that Santander wouldnt change the 
due date for monthly payments to accommodate the timing of the DWP credits. But even if 
Santander had done that, it wouldnt have changed the amount of interest charged, which is 
entirely dependent on when payments are received, not on when they are technically due.
Ive not seen anything in the evidence presented to me that gives me reason to suspect 
Santander has charged more interest than the mortgage contract allows it to. But if Miss L 
and Mr M genuinely believe that has happened, then theyre welcome to have the mortgage 
accounts audited by a suitably-qualified independent professional, at their own expense. The 
fact that the mortgage has now been redeemed doesnt stop them doing that.
If such an audit revealed errors that were to Miss L and Mr Ms detriment, then they could 
use the audit as the basis for a new complaint and claim any reasonable cost of obtaining it 
as part of the redress. But we wont do that audit for them; thats not our function.
I now turn my attention to the substance of Santanders treatment of Miss L and Mr M as 
borrowers in financial difficulties. More than nine years have passed since Mr M first lost his 
job, and the mortgage went into arrears. It was always in arrears thereafter, and the payment 
record shows that until redemption in April 2020, no payments were received from Miss L 
and Mr M after 1 December 2018. 
Thereafter, the only credits to the account were those received from the DWP, and as these 
were substantially below the contractual payment, arrears had reached almost £93,000 
when Santander began possession proceedings. Yet Miss L and Mr M were able to continue 
to live in the mortgaged property for around nine years until selling it in April 2020. Thats my 
starting point when considering if Santander treated them fairly.
Providing forbearance for those in hardship is a regulatory duty, and in the light of what Ive 
set out above, its hard to conclude that Santander hasnt met that duty over the past 
decade. It provided a temporary interest-only concession in 2014. It also offered capitalisation of the arrears as they stood in 2014, but that didnt go ahead because Miss L 
and Mr M didnt sign to accept the offer.
Im aware Santanders decision to begin possession proceedings came at a time when 
Miss L and Mr M were trying to sell. Possession is rightly regarded as an action of last 
resort. When a lender does that, its generally because it has reached the conclusion that 
things arent likely to get better in the foreseeable future. 
In deciding the point of last resort had been reached, Santander exercised its commercial 
judgement. It was entitled to do that, and whilst Ive no doubt it was unwelcome to Miss L 
and Mr M, I cant say it was unfair or that I should second guess the banks judgement and 
find it to have been hasty. 
Everything has a context, and when I view the decision to litigate against the conduct of the 
account in its entirety  and not just against the immediate situation at the time it was taken 
 its apparent to me there was nothing hasty about it. Santander had shown remarkable 
patience and lenience towards Miss L and Mr M for a very long time. It wasnt obliged to do 
so indefinitely.
Its arguable that Santander could have taken a tougher position sooner than it did; that it 
didnt, possibly out of consideration for Mr Ms health problems, is further evidence of the 
forbearance it provided. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman