DRN-3188005
The complaint
Mr M is complaining that Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt helped him resolve a claim hes made that 
a car he bought using his Lloyds credit card was misrepresented to him and not as 
described. He brings the claim under S75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (S75).
What happened
In February 2019 Mr M bought a used car using his Lloyds credit card. The car was around 
five years old and had travelled around 53,500 miles when he bought it. It was advertised as 
manufacturer approved. Mr M says, due a technical issue, the dealership wasnt able to 
provide a copy of the service history when he bought the car, but later provided it. However, 
when Mr M inspected the history he noticed that the car hadnt had a full service in 2017 and 
2018. And he said that one of the conditions for car to have manufacturer approved status is 
that the dealership would have serviced the car if the service was due. 
Mr M tried to resolve the issue with the dealership, but he was unhappy with the proposed 
resolution. He said it took the dealership around five months to accept there was a 
misrepresentation. The dealership offered to allow Mr M to hand the car back with a full 
refund. Alternatively it offered to carry out the service and provide an extra 12 month 
warranty.
Mr M didnt think these options were fair. He didnt think it was fair to make him have to go 
through the whole process again of sourcing and buying a car. So he thinks the dealership 
should source him a replacement itself and provide a car with the manufacturer approved 
status. Alternatively, he thinks it should carry out the service, provide the warranty and also 
give a price reduction of around £2,500 to cover the potential liability for any damage that 
may have occurred due to the incomplete service history. 
The dealership maintained its offer was fair. At the same time, this matter was also reviewed 
by an arbitration service who also concluded that the dealerships offer was fair. Since then 
the dealership has said its still will to allow Mr M to hand the car back, but it said it would 
make a deduction for the cars usage at 45p per additional mile the car has travelled since 
he bought the car. Mr M remained unhappy with the outcome, so he asked Lloyds to step in 
under S75. However, Lloyds also concluded that the dealerships offer was fair. But it 
acknowledged it had delayed processing the S75 claim so offered £50 in compensation for 
this.
 
Mr M remained unhappy with the outcome so referred his complaint to this service. I issued 
a provisional decision partially upholding this complaint and I said the following:
Firstly, I acknowledge Ive summarised Mr Ms complaint in far less detail than hes done. I 
dont mean any discourtesy by this, but it simply reflects the informal nature of this service. I 
assure Mr M I have considered everything hes sent us. If Ive not commented on something, 
its not that I havent considered it. But in this decision Ive focused on what I consider to be 
the key issues. Our rules allow me to do this. 
Mr M paid for the car through his Lloyds credit card. S75 sets out that, in certain 
circumstances, as the finance provider, Lloyds is jointly liable for any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the dealership. Im satisfied those circumstances apply here. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) implies a term into Mr Ms contract with the 
dealership that the dealership  and in turn Lloyds  is liable for any losses incurred as a 
result of anything that it says to Mr M about the car he bought which Mr M reasonably relied 
upon and induced him into entering into the contract. 
In addition to this, the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)  implied a term into the contract 
that the goods are to be as described.
Theres no dispute that the dealership explained that the car was manufacturer approved. 
And one of the requirements for the car to have manufacturer approved status is that the 
dealership will have serviced the car if its within two months or 1,500 of the next service 
being due.
In regards to Mr Ms car, a partial service was carried out in 2017 and 2018 where the 
engine oil and filters were changed. But I understand the differential oils, cabin/pollen filter 
and spark plugs werent replaced. So I agree the dealership should have serviced the car 
before Mr M bought it. And this isnt disputed.
So I think the car was misrepresented to Mr M. I also dont think it was as described. This is 
also not disputed. But the issue for me to decide is whether I think it was fair for Lloyds to 
say the dealership had made fair offers to put things right. I think it largely was. 
The redress available to Mr M is different depending for misrepresentation and breach of 
contract. I shall consider each point separately.
Breach of contract
As I said above, the CRA implies a term into the contract that the goods must be as 
described. The car was described as being manufacturer approved, but due to the service 
issue, it shouldnt have been. I think its important to highlight here, though, that the issue is 
that the dealership should have serviced the car before it was sold to Mr M. But the car 
wasnt advertised has having a full-service history. I appreciate Mr M is unhappy that the car 
didnt have full services previously. But he wasnt told it would do so. So there isnt a breach 
of contract or misrepresentation in this regard. I appreciate Mr M thinks the dealership 
should compensate him for any damage this may have caused to the car. But it doesnt have 
to do so  subject to the CRA requirement that the car is of satisfactory quality. 
However, the inference from the car being described as it was is that the car wouldnt need a 
service and, given the car hadnt had a full service since 2016, the dealership would have 
serviced the car before Mr M bought it. And I think this is accepted. 
The CRA sets out that Mr M was effectively entitled to ask the dealership to have the car 
serviced, which the dealership offered to do. I note he thinks the dealership should have 
replaced the car instead. But the CRA also sets out the dealership can decline to replace the 
car if, to do so, is disproportionate to other remedies. I think it was fair for Lloyds to think the 
offer to carry out the service was fair and I dont think requiring the replacement of the car 
was proportionate to the loss. Further to this, given the car was a used car, its not generally 
plausible to replace it with another car of the same age, mileage and specification.
As I said above, I appreciate Mr M is unhappy he would have to go through the 
inconvenience of sourcing a replacement car. But, Im satisfied the proposed remedy from 
the dealership to service the car and give a 12 month extended warranty was fair. So Im satisfied Lloyds acted fairly in saying this was a fair remedy to put things right. However, due 
to the length of time thats passed, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to require 
Lloyds to now arrange to service the car. 
Having said that, I do note Mr M paid to replace the cabin filter himself. The dealership 
offered to refund this which is fair. But Lloyds should refund this if the dealership hasnt done 
so. It should also pay 8% simple interest per year on this from when Mr M paid for it until he 
gets it back. 
Misrepresentation
Goods or services are considered misrepresented where the supplier makes a false 
statement of fact about them and that statement induces the consumer into entering into a 
contract they otherwise wouldnt have done. Where this happens, the remedy is to put the 
consumer back in the position theyd be in if the misrepresentation hadnt taken place. 
Mr M says he wouldnt have bought the car, so the correct remedy in these circumstances 
would be for him to be allowed to return the car and receive a refund of the amount he paid  
which is what the dealership offered to do. I appreciate Mr M was unhappy that hed have to 
source a replacement car himself. But theres always likely to be some inconvenience in 
resolving a dispute. And, ultimately, what the dealership offered Mr M is what it was required 
to do in line with the CRA as it puts him back in the position hed have been in had the 
misrepresentation not taken place. 
Mr M should still be entitled to hand the car back because of the misrepresentation if he 
wishes to do so. But I dont think its fair that he has a full refund of everything hes paid 
given how long hes had the car and the CRA sets out that the dealership can make a 
deduction for usage. However, I dont think charging 45p per mile is a fair way to work out a 
fair deduction for usage as this isnt a fair reflection of the loss in value of the car. I think a 
fairer way is that Mr M receives back the dealer market value for the car in its current age 
and mileage.
Mr M should contact the dealer first to process this return if wishes to do so. But if the 
dealership doesnt arrange for Mr M to hand the car back, Lloyds should step in to process 
this. However, if Mr M wants to hand the car back I intend to say he should do so within 28 
days of accepting my final decision. After this date, it would be at Lloyds discretion whether 
to allow him to hand the car back. 
I appreciate Mr M has suffered a lot of distress and inconvenience with handling this matter. 
But I need to think about what Lloyds should be responsible for. As I said, S75 gives Mr M a 
like claim against Lloyds if there has been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
dealership. But, I need to think about what losses Mr M would likely be able to recover in 
court against the dealership when considering what the like claim might look like. Im 
mindful when doing this that courts dont typically tend to make awards for non-financial 
losses such as distress and inconvenience for breach of contract apart from in limited 
circumstances (which I dont think would be likely to apply here). 
Given this I dont think Lloyds needs to compensate Mr M for any distress and 
inconvenience he may have suffered because of anything the dealership may have done 
wrong. Im also satisfied that Lloyds has handled reasonably fairly. I note Lloyds has 
acknowledged it initially delayed the handling of the S75 claim. But I dont think Mr M has 
lost out as a result of this because I think the situation would still be the same now even if it 
had processed the claim when it should have done. So I think the £50 it offered him was 
more than fair.Mr M didnt accept my provisional decision. In summary he said the following:
The dealership told him the car was advertised with a full service history and he 
maintains it was advertised as such.
The dealership initially offered to service the car, but this offer was withdrawn when he 
asked to have the offer put in writing. He thinks its wrong that the dealership did this.
He maintains the dealership could and should have offered him a replacement car as 
there were many other suitable cars available.
He thinks its unfair both the dealership and Lloyds have taken the easiest option to just 
refund all his money.
He maintains he was told hed get a manufacturer approved car in immaculate condition 
so he should be put back in this position  i.e. give him such a car. 
Lloyds didnt respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think Mr M has provided anything significantly different to what hes provided before. 
So I dont see any reason to reach a different conclusion to the one I reached in my 
provisional decision.
I do appreciate and understand that Mr M feels strongly about whats happened in this case 
and how it should be remedied. But ultimately I remain of the opinion that it was largely fair 
for Lloyds to say the dealership had taken fair steps to put things right. I recognise Mr M 
feels the dealership and its solicitors have acted in an underhand manner. But, in this 
decision, Im only considering Lloyds actions in its handling of Mr Ms S75 claim  i.e. Im 
not able to consider the actions of the dealership or its representatives. Lloyds isnt liable for 
the customer service provided by the dealership. Lloydss liable for any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation and Ive considered its comments in this respect.
Mr M doesnt feel the dealership offered to put things right because it withdrew the offer to 
service the car after he insisted the offer be put in writing. But there was no requirement for 
the offer to be in writing and ultimately the dealership did offer to service the car.
Ultimately, my provisional decision sets out why I think it was fair for Lloyds to say the offer 
to put things right was fair  with the exception of the charge for usage. Neither party 
commented on what I said about the fair usage charge. So I see no reason to conclude 
anything differently regarding this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I partially uphold this complaint 
and I require Lloyds Bank PLC to do the following:
1. If Mr M wishes to hand the car back, he should be allowed to do so. But dont think 
charging 45p per mile is a fair way to work out a fair deduction for usage. I think Mr M 
should receive back the dealer market value for the car in its current age and mileage. 
Mr M should allow the dealership the opportunity to do this, but Lloyds should step in if 
he doesnt receive this. If Mr M wants to hand the car back he should do so within 
28 days of accepting my final decision. After this date, it would be at Lloyds discretion 
whether to allow him to hand the car back.2. Subject to Mr M providing evidence of paying for this, Lloyds should refund the amount 
Mr M paid to replace the cabin filter if the dealership hasnt already done so. It should 
also pay 8% simple interest per year on this from when Mr M paid for it until he gets it 
back. If Lloyds thinks that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from this interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
3. Pay the £50 in compensation it offered Mr M for the delay in processing the S75 claim if 
it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman