DRN-3848605
The complaint
Mr W complains that American International Group UK Limited (AIG) hasnt paid a 
cancellation claim under a travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W was insured under a travel insurance policy provided by AIG. He was due to travel 
abroad between 9 and 12 May 2022, but he cancelled the trip as his partner tested positive 
for Covid-19 using a lateral flow test (LFT).
Mr W made a claim to AIG for cancellation of a trip due to Covid-19. But it said that Mr W 
hadnt provided enough evidence to validate the claim. AIG said the LFT wasnt enough, and 
it asked Mr W to provide either a PCR test result, evidence that the LFT test result had been 
registered on the NHS app, or a medical certificate from a doctor. AIG also wanted to see 
evidence from the airline that the flights were cancelled, and if Mr W had been offered a 
refund or a voucher.
Mr W said it was now too late to provide the evidence AIG was asking for about Covid-19. 
But he had already given the information AIG was asking from the airline. So, Mr W didnt 
think AIG had acted fairly.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Overall, he didnt think AIG had 
acted unfairly by saying the LFT result alone wasnt enough to validate the claim. So, he 
didnt think AIG was wrong to decline the claim.
Mr W didnt agree with our investigators findings, and the complaint was passed to me to 
decide. I asked Mr W if he had any other supporting evidence for the reason for cancelling 
the trip. Following this, Mr W sent contemporaneous work emails about his partner testing 
positive for Covid-19 before the trip, and the impact that had on his work arrangements and 
the upcoming trip.
I wrote to AIG and explained that as the policy didnt specify what evidence was required to 
show a valid cancellation claim due to Covid-19, I thought Mr W needed to provide 
reasonable evidence in support of his claim. I agreed that the LFT result alone wasnt 
enough to show a valid claim. But I was persuaded that this, along with the 
contemporaneous work emails supporting the LFT result, was enough to say Mr W had 
provided reasonable evidence to show the cancellation was due to Covid-19.
I also said that, as far as I could see, Mr W had provided evidence from the airline that the 
flights were cancelled, and the refund amount issued. So, I thought Mr W had provided the 
information AIG had asked for.
I explained that I was minded to say that AIG should accept that Mr W had provided 
reasonable evidence of cancellation due to Covid-19, and refund confirmation from the 
airline. And it should reassess the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of 
the policy.
AIG didnt agree with my provisional findings. It said that medical evidence was required to 
support the claim, rather than work emails. AIG also said that the policy terms wouldnt have 
been able to set out the evidence that would be needed in support of cancellation claim due 
to Covid-19, as it was an unexpected and unforeseen event. AIG also said that the evidence 
Mr W had now sent hadnt been provided earlier. AIG didnt provide further comments about 
the information from the airline.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules, and 
other industry guidance, into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr Ws complaint.
The policy covered cancellation as a result of You or a relative being diagnosed with 
COVID-19 prior to the scheduled trip departure date The policy doesnt specify what 
evidence is required to show a valid claim for cancellation due to Covid-19. AIG drafted the 
contract terms, and it was open to it to include the requirements if it wished to do so. So, I 
dont think it can reasonably decline a claim on the grounds of a requirement that isnt set 
out in the contract between the parties.
I think Mr W needed to provide reasonable evidence. For the reasons I explained in my 
provisional decision, I think hes now done so. The comments AIG provided havent 
persuaded me otherwise. And I dont think its unreasonable that Mr W didnt provide these 
to AIG earlier, as AIG had only asked for specific evidence.
Im also satisfied that Mr W has provided reasonable evidence that the flights were 
cancelled, and the refund that was issued by the airline.
Having considered everything, I dont think AIG acted fairly or reasonably when it declined 
Mr Ws claim, for the reasons it did.
Putting things right
AIG should accept that Mr W has provided reasonable evidence of cancellation due to 
Covid-19, and refund confirmation from the airline. It should reassess the claim in line with 
the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint, and I direct American International Group 
UK Limited to put things right in the way that Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman