DRN-3373133
The complaint
Mr G complains about charges for damage applied when he returned his car at the end of a 
hire purchase agreement provided by Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited 
(MBFS).
What happened
In March 2017, Mr G entered into a three year hire purchase agreement to acquire a used 
car. At the point Mr G acquired the car, it was around six months old and had travelled 
around 2,200 miles. The agreement reached maturity in March 2020. But due to restrictions 
imposed as a result of COVID-19, the car wasnt collected until 1 June 2020. The car was 
collected by MBFS agents  who Ill refer to as B.
Mr G complains that after the car was collected by B, he received a report from MBFS 
charging him for damage to the car and a missing book.
B issued a report on the condition of Mr Gs car after it collected it. It said the following 
damage was outside of fair wear and tear:
1. Literature pack  missing  needs replacing
2. Tyre right hand front inner tread  too low  needs replacing
3. Left hand front door  scratched greater than 25mm through top coat and requires 
refinish
4. Left hand front door aperture seal  torn  needs replacing
5. Left hand door mirror - scratched greater than 25mm through top coat and requires 
refinish
6. Right hand front door - scratched greater than 25mm through top coat and requires 
replacement
7. Right hand front door aperture seal  torn  needs replacing
In total Mr G was charged £701.02. Mr G made a complaint to MBFS. He said:
He placed the literature pack in an area of the car when the car when it was 
purchased
The tyres were road legal when the car left his property and the car had a valid MOT
The damage to the body work and door mirror housing was within the agreed 
tolerance at the point of collection and he had pictures to show this. And hed had the 
car valeted and polished.
He had been advised that both door seals were of a poor quality material and hed 
never noted any damage to the seals
He said MBFS should pay him for storing the car on his property for around two 
months
Industry guidelines stated MBFS needed to highlight any apparent damage at the 
point it was collected. But this didnt happen and instead the inspection was carried 
out after the car was collected. 
In September 2020, MBFS issued its final response to the complaint. It said the charges had 
been applied correctly in line with MBFS vehicle return standards (VRS). It said no 
damage had been caused in transit. Unhappy with this, Mr G referred his complaint to our 
service. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Gs complaint  and thought the charges were applied fairly in 
line with MBFS VRS and the industry standard  the British Vehicle Rental & Leasing 
Associations (BVRLA) fair wear and tear guidelines. He said he didnt think MBFS needed 
to pay Mr G for storing the car whilst it was unable to collect it. 
Mr G was unhappy with this and said he was unhappy he had to store the car for MBFS on 
his property after the finance agreement had ended. He sent in some photos of the car. He 
said the car needed work to the brake light and had issues idling. And he also said he was 
being held responsible for damage to a car which legally wasnt his responsibility.
Our investigator said this information didnt change their opinion. 
As Mr G remains unhappy, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file and acknowledge that Mr G has raised a number of 
different complaint points. Ive concentrated on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on 
any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it  but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
When reaching my decision, Im required to consider relevant industry guidance. Here, 
relevant industry guidance includes the guidelines on fair wear and tear published by the 
trade body, the BVRLA. This guidance is generally intended for the return of new cars and 
the end of the first leasing cycle. MBFS arent members of the BVRLA, but Ive considered 
the BVRLA guidelines alongside MBFS VRS.
The VRS are set out in Mr Gs hire purchase agreement and these explain the standards 
that MBFS expected this car to meet on return. When Mr G acquired his car under the hire 
purchase agreement, he agreed to return the car in line with the standards set out in the 
VRS. And he agreed that MBFS would be entitled to charge him for costs of repairs and/or 
refurbishing the car, or the cost of the consequent reduction in the sale value, as 
compensation. 
The car was just over three years old at the point of inspection and it had covered around 
32,500 miles. So while Ill take into consideration the BVRLA guidance and MBFS VRS, Ill 
also think about whats fair and reasonable for a car of this age and mileage. 
Ownership of the car
Mr G has queried who is legally responsible for the car. The car is the property of MBFS. 
This is confirmed in the hire purchase agreement which Mr G signed. This states, You 
understand that the vehicle remains our property during the period of the agreed monthly 
payments. The car would only become the property of Mr G if he repaid all the total amount 
payable under the agreement in full. 
I appreciate Mr G has said the condition of the car on 1 June 2020 is MBFS responsibility as 
the finance agreement had ended. But Mr G agreed to keep the car until MBFS could collect 
it. And whilst he was in possession of the car, he also agreed to, keep the vehicle in good 
repair and condition at all times. This means Mr G was responsible for the condition of the 
car until it was collected.I turn to the level of insurance MBFS provided for the two months after Mr Gs agreement 
ended. Mr G mentioned the car could have been stolen and said he would have been liable 
for the cost of the car if this had happened. However, I cant consider a hypothetical scenario 
and because this didnt happen, Mr G didnt have any loss in this respect. 
Tyre
Mr G says the tyres were road legal at the time the inspection was carried out as the car had 
passed an MOT. 
In relation to tyres, the VRS say the following is acceptable:
Minimum remaining treat of 1.6mm across 75% of the tyre in line with current legislation
And the following is not acceptable:
Less than 1.6mm tread depth across 75% of the tyre including spare.
The BVRLA says for tyres:
All tyres, including any spare, must meet minimum UK legal requirements and comply with 
the vehicle manufacturers recommendations of tyre type, class*, size and speed rating for 
the vehicle.
There must be no damage to sidewalls or tread.
Ive reviewed public available records and can see the car passed an MOT on                      
3 October 2019. At this point, the mileage was recorded at 28,822 miles. But, at the time the 
car was collected, the car had travelled around an additional 4,000 miles. So whilst the tyre 
may have been road worthy at the time the MOT was carried out, the additional mileage 
travelled since the MOT would have contributed to the tyre becoming worn over time.
Bs report provides a picture which shows the right hand front tyre tread is uneven and worn. 
And the tread depth was recorded as 1.5mm when the car was inspected. 
In light of this, I think its likely the tyre didnt meet the requirements set out by the VRS and 
BVRLA, so this falls outside of fair wear and tear. It follows that I think MBFS are entitled to 
charge for the replacement tyre.
Scratches
Bs condition report identified scratches over 25mm which penetrated the surface on both 
the doors and the left hand mirror.  
In relation to scratches to the body of the car and paint, the VRS say the following is 
acceptable:
light surface scratches not through the top coat which can be removed by polishing/ 
touching up.
They say the following isnt acceptable:
Any chipping and scratching of paintwork that has penetrated the base coat and/or has 
caused corrosion of any kind which cannot be polished out.
The BVRLA says for scratches to bumpers and the body and paint of a car:Surface scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare metal is not showing are 
acceptable provided they can be polished out. A maximum of four surface scratches on one 
panel is acceptable. 
Ive looked at the photos provided for all three scratches. The scratch to the front left hand 
door mirror is over 25mm and a ruler has been used to measure this. The primer is also 
showing. 
The photos which show the scratches to the right hand front door, show a scratch down the 
side of the door measuring around 100mm and a scratch at the bottom of the panel which 
measures around 50mm. Having reviewed the photos, I think the scratches affect the overall 
appearance of the car.
The photo provided for the left hand front door shows a scratch down the side of the door, 
which is in a similar position to the scratch on the right hand front door.  This measures 
around 50mm and a ruler has been used to measure this. The scratch penetrates the primer 
of the body and paint of the car in some parts. 
Overall, as all the scratches fall outside what is considered fair wear and tear under both the 
VRS and the BVRLA guidance, I think its fair for MBFS to charge for all three areas of 
damage B identified.
Mr G has provided pictures which he says are taken whilst the car was in his possession. 
But the pictures are taken of the outside of the car, from a distance. I agree I cant see all the 
damage listed by B in its report from these pictures. But Mr G hasnt provided close enough 
pictures of the areas where damage was identified, to show the damage wasnt present at 
the time the car was collected. 
Ive very carefully thought about everything here. But, I havent seen enough to make me 
think the damage identified by B wasnt present when the car was collected. And I think its 
more likely this damage happened in the three years Mr G had the car, rather than in 
between the few days B had it after the collection and the inspection. So, this doesnt 
change my opinion.
Seals
Bs condition report identified that both right hand and left hand front door aperture seals 
were torn. 
In relation to the interior of the car, the VRS say the following is acceptable:
Normal wear and tear to carpets, trim, upholstery, etc.
And the following is not acceptable:
Broken or damaged interior mouldings, trim pads, instrument panel, sun visor or headlining, 
etc.
The BVRLA says:
Scratches on treads, sills and seals that reflect normal use are acceptable.
Torn or split floor coverings and damaged surrounding trim panels are not acceptable
Ive looked at the photos provided for both door seals. I can see both of them are torn. As 
this falls outside what is considered fair wear and tear under both the VRS and the BVRLA 
guidance, I think its fair for MBFS to charge for the cost of replacing both door seals.Mr G has said he was told the seals were of poor quality. However, he hasnt provided any 
supplementary information to confirm this about the seals. And given the car had travelled 
around 32,500 miles at the time it was returned, I havent seen enough to make me think its 
likely this was the reason for the damage.
Literature pack
Theres no dispute that the literature pack was due to be returned with the vehicle. Mr G 
says he left it in the car and B said he didnt. So Ive thought about what I think is most likely 
to have happened on a balance of probabilities.
The condition report has listed the literature pack as missing and not available. But it 
confirms the V5 registration document (V5) is available. It also reports the MOT certificate 
is missing and the digital service record is to be confirmed. However, these are both 
available electronically, so werent required to be returned in a physical format, unlike the 
literature pack.
Given that B was required to check if the literature pack was available as part of the 
condition report, and if so retain it, I think its likely the literature pack wasnt in the car. As B 
has listed the V5 as being present, I see no reason why it would have missed the literature 
pack if it was present in the car.
Overall I think its fair and reasonable for MBFS to charge for the missing the literature pack 
as I dont think on balance, it was provided to B at the time it carried out the inspection.
Collection of the car
The country went into lockdown around 20 March 2020. The government set out restrictions 
on what activities a business could and couldnt carry out. In this case, B was closed 
between March 2020 and June 2020, as a result of the restrictions set out by the 
government due to COVID-19. 
Ive thought about whether MBFS did anything wrong when it arranged collection of the car 
on 1 June 2020, rather than 30 March 2020. Having done so, I dont think it did. This is 
because MBFS arranged collection of Mr Gs car on the first day B reopened. This is the 
earliest it could have arranged collection. Given that it didnt appear to have any other choice 
but to wait until B had reopened, I dont think it did anything wrong when it delayed collection 
of the car.
It should also be remembered that businesses were still trying to adjust to new and different 
ways of working, due to the unprecedented nature of COVID-19. Mr G says that B didnt 
carry out an inspection when the car was collected as per the BVRLA guidelines. Whilst I 
appreciate it would be reasonable to expect it to carry out an inspection under normal 
circumstances, it was the first day B had started to operate again, and it was still adjusting to 
new ways of working. So I dont think it did anything wrong here.
I now turn to consider whether I think Mr G has suffered any loss by storing the car for an 
additional two months. Mr G has said storing the car in his garage caused a passing 
inconvenience to himself and others. However, this is to be reasonably expected given that 
MBFS couldnt pick up the car as it was following government guidelines at the time. I also 
appreciate Mr G said he pays council tax for his house where the car was parked. However, 
he would have paid this cost anyway, regardless of whether the car had been collected or 
not. So Mr G hasnt had a loss here for which I think MBFS are responsible for.
Ive thought about everything else Mr G has said in relation to the complaint and considered 
all of the evidence available. But, this doesnt change my opinion.My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman