DRN-4326118
The complaint
Mrs P says HSBC UK Bank Plc, has treated her unfairly in relation to transactions on her 
credit card which paid for installation of bi-fold doors and surrounding works.
What happened
In October 2022 Mrs P used her HSBC credit card to make payments the installation of bi-
fold doors and surrounding works (the works). She paid over £13400 for this installation to a 
firm (which Ill call the Installers) using a mix of her HSBC credit card and other funding 
sources to pay the full amount.
Mrs P raised issues with the works to the Installers soon after the installation. And she 
complained to the Installers about how it treated her and about the Installation. The Installers 
offered to do some remedial work, but relations between parties worsened. So she 
complained to HSBC.
HSBC says it considered the matter and it raised a chargeback which was defended by the 
Installers. The Installers defended the chargeback on the grounds that it was willing to 
remedy the issues with the Installation. So HSBC didnt pursue the chargeback. It started to 
consider a Section 75 claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and says it asked for more 
information from Mrs P. Unhappy with HSBCs handling of the matter Mrs P brought her 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into matters. An Independent specialist had surveyed Mrs Ps 
installation in March 2023 and provided an independent quote for the remedial work. Our 
investigator considered this evidence alongside what Mrs P had said were the issues with 
the Installation and the other evidence available, and upheld Mrs Ps complaint and told 
HSBC it should pay Mrs P the amount quoted for the remedial work to be done (which was 
just over £3100). HSBC made an offer on this basis to Mrs P.  But Mrs P remains unhappy 
and so this complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs P has described having on going medical conditions during the events of this case and 
having suffered from immense despair and upset at what has happened. Im sorry to hear 
this and have kept these important issues in mind whilst considering all that happened here. 
Mrs P has made a large number of arguments within the course of this dispute and done so 
in an articulate and clear manner. It is my duty to give reasons for my decision in this dispute 
and to do so in an informal and clear manner. Accordingly I will not address every argument 
or nuance to an argument that that Mrs P has raised. However I have considered everything 
she has said and supplied in coming to this decision.
Mrs P used her HSBC credit card in part to pay the Installers for the installation. This means 
that section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (s.75) can apply to the transaction. This 
provides that where Mrs P has a claim against a supplier of goods or services (in this case 
the Installers) in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract she will have a like 
claim against HSBC as creditor subject to the provisions of s.75. 
Also, Mrs Ps HSBC credit card is part of a card scheme which is operated by separate 
company. This scheme has rules which include giving HSBC an avenue for card 
transactions to be disputed with the relevant merchant, such as the Installers, namely 
through the chargeback process. The ultimate decision maker on chargebacks is the 
scheme itself and not HSBC. So it is possible that HSBC could take Mrs Ps dispute as far 
as it could in the chargeback process and Mrs P still not be successful in getting a refund. 
However this service does consider raising a chargeback where there is a reasonable 
prospect of success to be good practice.
This decision is solely about HSBC in relation to whether it did what it should have, and 
whether it treated Mrs P fairly in consideration of her dispute with Installers. This decision 
isnt directly about the Installers, who are not within this Services jurisdiction for complaints 
regarding chargeback and s.75. 
Could HSBC challenge the transaction through a chargeback? 
Mrs P doesnt dispute that she used her HSBC credit card to part fund this installation. Nor 
does she dispute the amounts applied to her account or when that was done. So I dont think 
HSBC couldve challenged the payment on the basis Mrs P didnt properly authorise this 
spending given what Ive set out.
HSBC is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. And it can fairly decide to not proceed at any stage if it 
doesnt think there remains a reasonable prospect of success with that particular 
chargeback.
Here HSBC did raise a chargeback in this case which was then defended by the Installers 
stating that they were willing to remedy the issues. Mrs P has made clear that the 
relationship with the Installers had broken down. And it is clear from what shes said and 
done that Mrs P knew that outside of the chargeback scheme she was aware that if she was 
successful, a remedy could be provided by other parties than the Installers. 
Under the scheme rules it is also clear that the willingness of the Merchant (the Installers 
here) to remedy the situation is a reasonable defence to a chargeback. And it should be 
remembered that this part of my decision is with regard to HSBCs approach to the 
chargeback in this case. Bearing in mind the clear breakdown in relations between the 
Installers and Mrs P, Im not persuaded having the remedial works done by the Installers would have been an acceptable solution to Mrs P. Furthermore only the amount of the 
transaction on the credit card could be recovered through chargeback, not the full cost of the 
Installation, nor any consequential losses.
Bearing all of this in mind and what Mrs P was claiming for originally (the full cost of the 
Installation) and the defence of the Installers, Im not persuaded HSBC has treated Mrs P 
unfairly in relation to chargeback by not taking the chargeback further.
And on balance, even had the chargeback continued, I think it likely it would have been 
unsuccessful as the defence raised by the Installers was fair and it wasnt compatible with 
Mrs Ps position. So I dont think Mrs P has lost out because of what HSBC did in relation to 
chargeback.
Section 75
Before deciding on whether there is breach or misrepresentation here there are some 
requirements set out in s.75 which have to be met before these issues can be considered. 
One of these tests is around financial limits and having considered these I think that Mrs Ps 
claim meets the financial limits criteria as it was above the minimum threshold and below the 
maximum threshold.
S.75 also requires there must be a Debtor-Creditor-Supplier arrangement in place (often 
referred to as a DCS arrangement). This is between Installers and Mrs P and HSBC. And 
Im satisfied this arrangement is in place also. 
For HSBC to be liable under s.75 it has to be shown that there would be a claim against the 
supplier (Installers) for breach of contract or misrepresentation. Bearing in mind the 
correspondence between the Installers and Mrs P which included setting out the areas of the 
works needing remedy and the independent quote for repairs which reflected the same 
broad issues needing fixing, Im satisfied that these works werent done with due skill and 
care. And thus Im satisfied there is a breach of contract to be remedied.
Our Investigator set out in their assessment that the remedy appropriate was for HSBC to 
pay Mrs P the amount quoted for the repairs (£2,607 plus VAT). HSBC subsequently made 
an offer of settlement to Mrs P of £3,128.40 which equates to the same amount plus the VAT 
amount at the current VAT rate. Mrs P hasnt disagreed with this remedy directly, rather she 
has said that she deserves compensation for the events here over and above this amount.
In such cases of breach one of the most appropriate remedies is to remedy the breach 
through repair, or in other words to make good what went wrong. Here an independent firm 
has quoted on what needs repairing and HSBC has made an offer to cover that cost of 
repair. Accordingly I find HSBCs offer to pay the amount quoted to be a fair remedy for the 
breach of contract here.
I shall now turn to Mrs Ps other arguments here. Mrs P says she should be compensated for 
what happened here. However a section 75 claim is a like claim to that which Mrs P would 
have against the Installers through legal means, such as court action. This means that 
HSBC only needs to consider the remedies that such an action could provide. HSBC is not more liable than the Installers would be in this regard, and it can rely on the same defences 
as the Installers are able to rely upon and should offer remedies on the same basis as the 
like claim.  And it should be remembered that this service does not make awards on a 
punitive basis. Mrs P has not provided persuasive argument as to why HSBC should pay 
more here. And HSBC is only liable to remedy the matters here as the Installers would be, 
were Mrs P to launch any action against them.
Mrs P points to extra costs with regard heating. However it is well known that heating costs 
have risen substantially over the period in question here due to outside influences on utility 
pricing. Furthermore Mrs P has a duty to mitigate her losses from such matters as the drafts 
caused by the breach of contract in the installation here. And it is clear that such draughts 
would have been evident from the outset. So Id have expected her to take action to mitigate 
the drafts. Furthermore the heating costs she point to are not solely caused by any such 
draft. And Mrs P hasnt done enough to show which costs within her heating costs are purely 
a consequence of the draft and that she has taken steps to mitigate that. So Im not 
persuaded that HSBC has treated Mrs P unfairly by not making an offer in relation to 
consequential loss here all things considered. I say this because Im not persuaded Mrs P 
has done enough here to make out causation on these matters. And Ive noted her 
comments about not willing to provide further information on the entire dispute to our 
Investigator. And I dont consider her arguments on consequential loss persuasive.
Mrs P points to the length of time this matter has taken to get to this point. I can see that Mrs 
P didnt take her complaint to HSBC until sometime had elapsed after the agreement for the 
Installation was made. I can also see a final response from HSBC in March 2023 which 
provided her with referral rights to this service and Mrs P bringing her complaint to this 
service shortly afterwards. I can also see that Mrs P sought a full refund to start with. I can 
also see evidence from the Installers which makes clear that it considers Mrs Ps behaviour 
towards it as being unwarranted and not being conducive to an amicable solution. The 
independent inspection was in March 2023, and I also note HSBC made a fair offer to Mrs P 
in August 2023. Accordingly having considered all the circumstances here Im not persuaded 
the making of any award to Mrs P in relation to distress and inconvenience would be fair 
here.
Mrs P has said I am unable to spend a winter in draught due to deteriorating health 
conditions due to this dispute. Im sorry to hear this. However she was made a fair offer in 
August this year and also has a duty to mitigate losses throughout such a dispute, which 
would include mitigating such draughts from the point she became aware of such an issue 
which would be from around the point of installation. Mrs P has also pointed to medical costs 
but hasnt demonstrated causation between those costs and what the Installers could be 
responsible for. She has not delineated between those costs shed have occurred in any 
event and those due to the installation. So I dont make any award here.
Mrs P says HSBCs behaviour was highly suspicious. Im not persuaded of any untoward 
behaviour by HSBC here. I can see it went to close the matter having not heard from Mrs P 
at one point, but shortly afterwards raised the chargeback when Mrs P liaised with it, as is 
good practice. In any event it was only shortly after this point Mrs P brought her complaint to 
this service. Im not persuaded there was any deliberate wrongdoing by HSBC here.Mrs P has provided ample comment on HSBCs processes and systems and noted how long 
it took for her to upload documents. Im sorry she found this difficult. But how HSBC meets 
its regulatory requirements is not for me to consider here. And how its systems are set up 
and resourced is for HSBC to consider within its commercial decision making. Im satisfied 
Mrs P had sufficient means and opportunity to raise this dispute with HSBC and I can see a 
wealth of correspondence between Mrs P and HSBC throughout. Just because HSBC didnt 
agree with Mrs P doesnt mean it is deliberately treating her badly as she implies.
I note Mrs P has repeatedly suggested she wishes to take legal action against the Installers, 
HSBC and indeed this service. It is my generic advice that any party considering taking legal 
action against any other party should first source independent legal advice at their own cost 
before embarking on such legal action so that they are advised and informed in making their 
decisions in that regard.
Putting things right
So all in all and having considered everything that has happened here and all the evidence I 
uphold Mrs Ps complaint and direct HSBC to put things right. Accordingly I direct HSBC to 
pay Mrs P £3,128.40 to conclude this dispute.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold the complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc. I direct it 
to remedy the matter as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman