DRN-3337672
The complaint
Miss C complains that MotoNovo Finance Limited irresponsibly granted her a hire purchase 
agreement she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In October 2016, Miss C acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
MotoNovo. Miss C paid a deposit of £1,141 was required to make 59 monthly repayments of 
£219, followed by a final payment of £459. The total repayable under the agreement was 
£14,529.
Miss C says that MotoNovo didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it had, 
it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. MotoNovo didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included gathering information that Miss C was in 
full time employment and that she was living with parents as well as carrying out a credit 
search. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. He thought MotoNovo ought to have 
realised the agreement wasnt affordable to Miss C.
MotoNovo didnt agree. It noted that Miss C had only provided partial bank statements and 
said these werent sufficient to assess the affordability of the agreement at the time it was 
provided. It also noted that Miss C made her normal monthly repayments for 21 months 
before contacting it to explain a change of circumstances.
Miss C was unable to provide copies of her full bank statements and the case has been 
passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MotoNovo will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
MotoNovo didnt ask Miss C about her income or her regular expenditure before approving 
the finance. Given the overall size of the borrowing, the monthly repayments and the term of 
the agreement, I think it would have been proportionate for MotoNovo to have done so to 
ensure it was affordable.
The credit search carried out by MotoNovo showed some historic defaulted accounts. I do 
not think this meant that the lending shouldnt necessarily have been approved but I think it 
would have been proportionate for MotoNovo to have found out more about Miss Cs income 
and her committed expenditure, such as her living costs to ensure she would be able to 
maintain her repayments. I cant be sure exactly what MotoNovo would have found out if it 
had asked. In the absence of anything else, I think it would be reasonable to place significant 
weight on the information contained in Miss Cs bank statements as to what would most 
likely have been disclosed. 
Unfortunately, Miss C has only provided extracts from her statements and payroll 
information. Based on these, I can see her monthly income varied and Miss C has explained 
she as on a zero hours contract, so her income changed depending on the hours worked. 
Unfortunately, there is limited information about her income in the months leading up the 
agreement although I can see she was paid £897 in September 2016 and then £598 in 
October 2016. MotoNovo has said Miss C was earning between £500 and £800. Based on 
what I have seen I think further checks would have suggested a monthly income of around 
£600 or more. As this varied I think it would have been reasonable to use the lower amount 
of £600 in the assessment. 
The repayments under the agreement were £219 and so these accounted for over a third of 
Miss Cs income which I think raises questions about whether this would be sustainably 
affordable over the term. Miss C needed to pay £91 for the insurance and she would also 
have other costs associated with running a car. I think this raises concerns about whether 
the repayments would be sustainably affordable over the term. 
MotoNovo calculated Miss Cs credit commitments as £80 a month and while screenshots 
from the credit check have been provided I havent been able to verify the £80 credit 
commitments but based on what I have seen I do not think this unreasonable. The extracts 
from bank statements that Miss C has provided show she was making payments to a 
telecommunicators company, for travel insurance and food and other general items. She 
was also making payments to a debt collection company. Miss Cs statements also show 
she had no money left before her monthly salary was paid. Taking all this into account I do 
not think it reasonable that MotoNovo consider this agreement affordable.
Putting things right
As I dont think MotoNovo ought to have approved the lending, I dont think its fair for it to
be able to charge any interest or charges under the agreement. Miss C should therefore only 
have to pay the original cash price of the car, being £9,370. Anything Miss C has paid in 
excess of that amount should be refunded as an overpayment. 
To settle Miss Cs complaint MotoNovo should do the following:
Refund any payments Miss C has made in excess of £9,370, representing the 
original cash price of the car. It should add 8% simple interest per year* from the date 
of each overpayment to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Cs credit file regarding the 
agreement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MotoNovo to take off tax from this interest. MotoNovo 
must give Miss C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Miss C asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct MotoNovo Finance Limited to put things right in the 
manner set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman