DRN-2573221
The complaint
Mr W complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited, trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk, lent 
to him irresponsibly. Mr W started the complaint in September 2019.
 
What happened
Mr W applied for and was approved for one loan in December 2016. It was for £300, 
originally due to be repaid in two instalments of just over £178 each. Just over a week later 
on 20 December 2016, Mr W emailed MoneyBoat to ask for assistance in repaying it. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and did not think that MoneyBoat had lent 
irresponsibly. Mr W did not agree and said that he had a lot of outstanding credit at the time 
and thinks that MoneyBoat would not have lent if it had known that.    
A second adjudicator looked at it and thought that Mr Ws credit file search results provided 
by MoneyBoat to this Service as part of the complaint investigation showed his debt position 
in December 2016. He thought that this showed Mr W had too much debt to sustainably 
repay this loan, along with his other commitments.
MoneyBoat disagreed and I paraphrase here the points it makes:
its checks were proportionate for a first loan
early loans are approved by automation
it would be unrealistic for an underwriter to sit and review every line of a credit file 
prior to lending
it thinks that most of the loans our adjudicator has mentioned would have been 
repaid prior to any repayment for the MoneyBoat loan
the total borrowing was less than £6,000, Mr W was within his limits, there were no 
delinquent payments evident and no defaults in the previous five years.
The complaint remains unresolved and was passed to me for a decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr W 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include: where a customers income is particularly low; where the repayments are 
particularly high; and/or where the frequency of the loans and the length of time over which a 
customer has been given loans need to be looked at: repeated refinancing could signal that 
the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable.
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. This was unlikely for Mr Ws case as he 
was approved for one loan only. 
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Mr W could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the 
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
in order to do that.
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint. 
In MoneyBoats final response letter (FRL) addressed to Mr W it said:
Regulation of consumer credit is the responsibility of the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). As set out in their Handbook CONC 5.2A, they require us to conduct 
proportionate checks to ensure any borrowing would be affordable and sustainable, 
however, our checks were not expected to be exhaustive and as such we were 
entitled to use our judgement when determining the types of checks we would 
conduct to assess affordability.
When assessing each individual application we perform a credit check through the 
credit reference agency [Credit search agency name given here]. The results of this 
credit check helped to satisfy us that you would be able to sustainably meet the 
repayments due on the loan you were requesting.
MoneyBoat also explained that it took the declared income and expenditure details Mr W 
provided at the time of application. These details were a net monthly income of £2,350, 
expenditure on rent, food, transport and other was £609 and for other credit it was £300. 
So, a loan of £300 would, on those figures alone, likely look affordable. 
However, MoneyBoats credit check search results for December 2016 showed a large 
amount of debt and I have summarised the open loans in a table which appears below. And 
the table relates to loans which still had outstanding balances by the time Mr W was applying 
for the MoneyBoat loan. And addresses the point raised by MoneyBoat that most of the 
loans would have been repaid prior to any repayment for the MoneyBoat loan: clearly they 
would not have been. 
Type of loan Outstanding balance in Start date of that loanDecember 2016
Advance against 
income£358 11 October 2016
Budget account 
Finance House£215 9 October 2016
Advance against 
income£105 26 October 2016
Advance against 
income£804 25 Oct 2016
Advance against 
income£591 25 October 2016
Unsecured loan £560 6 October 2016
Unsecured loan £375 26 October 2016
Unsecured loan £352 9 September 2016
Unsecured loan £302 23 Sept 2016
The credit search for December 2016 also gave this information about Mr W: he had 
fourteen active accounts, seventeen accounts he had opened in the previous six months, 
and twenty four searches in the previous three months.
The combination of all this information ought to have led MoneyBoat to realise that Mr W 
was not able to take on further debt. Its striking that Mr W had taken so many loans within a 
short period (just over a month) and was still coming back to MoneyBoat for fresh lending 
when all of these were unpaid. Its not necessarily the amount of outstanding debt but the 
fact that the multiple applications plus the numerous searches presented a picture of an 
applicant where his financial position needed further investigation.
MoneyBoats FRL suggests that it carried out the credit search results to ensure any 
borrowing would be affordable and sustainable. But it has explained to us that the 
approval/application system was automated and that the search results were not read as 
thoroughly as I have read them. It did not take me long to read the December 2016 search 
results. And the headline section which told any reader of the fourteen active accounts, 
seventeen accounts opened in the previous six months, and that Mr W had had twenty four 
searches carried out against his name in the previous three months ought to have alerted 
any professional lender to look for that detail. 
I appreciate that Mr W had not applied to MoneyBoat before. But I do not accept that 
carrying out a credit search where the results were either not read and/or not read by a 
human being, and/or may have been part of the automated process, can be a satisfactory 
creditworthiness assessment. 
So, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint and MoneyBoat needs to put things right 
for him. 
Putting things right
A)MoneyBoat should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr W towards 
interest, fees and charges on this loan, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything already refunded.
B)MoneyBoat should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mr W which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr W originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.C)MoneyBoat should pay Mr W the total of A plus B.
D)It should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ws credit file in relation to this 
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to deduct tax from this interest. It should give
Mr W a certificate showing how much tax deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint and Evergreen Finance London Limited  
trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk should do as I have outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman