DRN-3032974
The complaint
Mrs O complains that Marks and Spencer Financial Services Plc has declined to refund her 
for a purchase she made using her credit card.
What happened
In May 2019, Mrs O bought a bike from a seller through an online marketplace. Mrs O found 
that there were faults with the bike and, in 2021, asked Marks and Spencer for help with 
getting a refund under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act. Marks and Spencer 
considered whether Mrs O would be eligible to claim, but said that the relevant relationship 
between Mrs O and the supplier of the bike wasnt present here to make Mrs O eligible for a 
refund in this way.
Mrs O complained about this and brought her complaint to us where one of our investigators 
looked into it. They agreed that the relevant relationship wasnt present between Mrs O, 
Marks and Spencer and the supplier of the bike, because of the involvement of the online 
marketplace in the transaction.
Mrs O disagreed with this and felt that this relationship did exist. So the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I can understand Mrs Os frustrations  I think Marks and Spencer 
has acted fairly here. 
Mrs O used her credit card to buy the bike, so Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act allows 
her to hold Marks and Spencer liable for any breach of contract or misrepresentation in 
respect of goods and services purchased using the credit its afforded her. But there are 
certain criteria that have to be met for a claim like this to be valid. These criteria relate to 
things like the cost of the goods and/or services, the parties to the transaction, or the way 
the payment was made. The relevant criteria here is for there to be a debtor-creditor-
supplier agreement between the parties to the transaction.
Marks and Spencer said that there wasnt the relevant relationship between the debtor 
(Mrs O) the creditor (Marks and Spencer) and the supplier (which Ill call E). Thats because 
Mrs O made her payment to a company Ill call A  the marketplace which the seller sold 
the bike through. 
Our investigator has referred to As conditions which clearly explain that As role isnt as the 
buyer, or seller of items. Instead, the contract for the buying and selling of the goods is 
between the buyer (here Mrs O) and seller (here E). The conditions explain that A isnt a 
party to this contract and has no liability in respect of responsibility for the sale, claims or any 
issues arising out of this.
Having looked at all the evidence here and more widely at the service A provides, its clear 
that A functions as an online marketplace for sellers to advertise and sell goods through. As 
a part of that, it also provides some other features and services  but its clear that A doesnt 
supply goods itself. So Im satisfied that As not contractually responsible for the quality of 
any goods sold through it - including, in this case, the bike Mrs O bought.
I realise thatll seem unfair to Mrs O  but in reaching my decision, I have to take into 
account what any relevant law may say, especially as Mrs O has made her claim with 
specific reference to Section 75 of the CCA. In considering this I find that the party 
responsible for the quality of the goods here is E rather than A. But E didnt receive Mrs Os 
payment from Marks and Spencer  A did. So for the purposes of Section 75 here, while 
Mrs O is a debtor and Marks and Spencer a creditor  A isnt (and was never) the 
supplier here. So Mrs O has no valid claim against Marks and Spencer for a breach of 
contract by the actual supplier (E) in respect of the goods shes purchased.
Ive read all that Mrs O has said about why she feels Marks and Spencer can be held liable 
here. Shes also provided a lot of evidence of the faults with the bike. But nothing shes said 
or sent us makes me think that it would be fair and reasonable for me to conclude that 
Marks and Spencer can be held liable for any faults with the bike here.
Marks and Spencer could also have potentially raised a chargeback here to help her get a 
refund. But it didnt because by the time Mrs O raised her concerns with the goods shed 
bought, it was outside the relevant timeframe set by the chargeback rules to proceed. So, I 
cant see that Marks and Spencer could have done any more to help Mrs O here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
James Staples
Ombudsman