DRN-2105612
The complaint
Miss W has complained about My Policy Ltds handling of her car insurance policy.
In bringing her complaint Miss W is represented by a friend. But as Miss W is the 
policyholder, I will refer to her throughout this decision. References to her will include what 
her representative has said on her behalf.
What happened
In November 2019, Miss W took out a telematics (commonly known as a black box) car 
insurance policy online. Miss W took out the policy through My Policy who are the insurance 
broker. They administer the policy. The insurance policy is underwritten by a separate 
company (the insurer).
In March 2020, My Policy fined Miss W £100 because they said she had three high risk 
journeys within a rolling 30-day period. My Policy said those journeys took place on 22 and 
26 February and 10 March 2020. My Policy said the terms and conditions of the policy 
allowed them to fine Miss W.
Miss W disagreed with My Policy. She said her black box was faulty and the data My Policy 
used couldnt be relied on. In relation to the journey on 22 February 2020, which was shortly 
before 3am, Miss W said she and the two named drivers were asleep so the journey 
recorded was inaccurate. Again, in relation to the same journey, My Policy said Miss Ws car 
was recorded as travelling at 49mph where the speed limit was 30mph. Miss W asked My 
Policy to specify exactly where the alleged journey took place as that stretch of road has 
varying speed limits between 40 and 60mph.
My Policy said, before issuing fines for high risk journeys their internal telematics team 
verifies the journeys in question. But, because Miss W said the data was wrong, My Policy 
got the third-party data provider to independently verify the accuracy of the data. The data 
provider confirmed to My Policy that the details of the high-risk journeys were accurate.
As Miss W wasnt happy with My Policys decision, she brought her complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into it. He felt that My Policy had acted in accordance with 
the policy terms and treated Miss W fairly. As Miss W didnt agree with our investigator, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Miss W, but Im not going to uphold her complaint. 
Ill explain why.
When Miss W took out the policy she agreed to My Policys terms and conditions. The policy 
explained the circumstances in which she could get negative points for high risk journeys 
and that she would be fined for having three high risk journeys within a 30-day period.
The three journeys My Policy said were high risk were all for speeding. The journeys took 
place on 22, 26 (two during the same journey) February and 10 March 2020. Miss Ws 
challenge of the journeys on 26 February and 10 March 2020, were on the basis that the 
data was inaccurate because she believed the black box was faulty and needed replacing. I 
have seen the evidence provided from the data provider that confirms the data was accurate 
when recording the speeding on those two dates. And Miss W hasnt provided any other 
evidence to show the data was inaccurate.
My understanding of Miss Ws challenge of the journey on 22 February 2020, is that it has 
three elements. The data was inaccurate; she and the two named drivers on her policy were 
asleep at the time of the alleged journey, so the journey couldnt have taken place; and that 
parts of the road where the journey took place have a speed limit ranging from 40 to 60mph. 
And as the alleged speed was 49mph, it may have been within the speed limit depending on 
where the driving took place.
As mentioned above, Ive seen the evidence from the data provider that confirms the data for 
all three dates was correct. And Miss W hasnt provided other evidence, beyond her 
comments, to contradict that. Ive also seen a map that shows the precise location of where 
the speeding event on 22 February took place and that the speed limit was 30mph at that 
point but the speed of Miss Ws car was 49mph. So, I accept the data was accurate and that 
Miss Ws car did travel at 49mph in a 30mph zone on 22 February 2020.
Miss W said that she and the two named drivers on her policy were asleep at the time of 
speeding on 22 February 2020. She suggests it was therefore not possible for the car to 
have been driven. I accept My Policys evidence that Miss Ws car was being driven at 
49mph at the said time and date. Like My Policy, I dont know who was driving. Most 
insurance policies allow their policyholders to drive other cars provided they have consent. 
So, its quite possible for someone other than Miss W or the two named drivers on her policy 
to have driven her car on that occasion with her consent. But, as Ive said, I accept the 
evidence that the car was driven. And as the policy makes it clear, the black box cant 
distinguish between drivers. And that it is Miss Ws duty to make all persons who will drive 
the insured vehicle aware of the Telematic Smart Box and the implications of their driving 
behaviour. All scoring will go against the Policyholder and not the alleged driver at the time.
Miss W said that during 30 January and 6 February 2020, she used her car on a daily basis 
but that the black box was not recording little or no data between these dates. My Policy 
accepted that during that period there was a data interruption due to a server error. But they 
confirmed the journeys during the period of the data interruption werent taken into account 
when deciding to fine Miss W. And I can see that is correct as none of the high risk journeys 
were within the dates of the interruption. I think Miss W has suggested that the data 
problems during those dates proves her argument that the black box was faulty and that the 
data My Policy used to fine her cant be relied upon. I dont agree with Miss W. 
Unfortunately, from time to time technical problems do arise such as the data interruption. 
But that doesnt mean the black box was faulty. And it doesnt mean that the data for the 
periods when the system was working properly was inaccurate.
Finally, Miss W said that according to the terms and conditions, the black box for her car 
should have been installed by one of two specified companies. But it was in fact installed by 
another company. I understand from this that Miss W is implying the data shouldnt be relied 
upon because My Policy didnt comply with the terms and conditions when having the black 
box installed. My Policy said the black box is owned by one of the two companies mentioned in the terms and conditions. And that the engineers of another company were indeed used to 
install the black box. And as My policy have pointed out, the policy says: The Telematics 
Device will be fitted by our approved engineers who are fully competent to carry out the work 
to the required standard. And as the company used to install the black box was an 
approved engineer, I dont think My Policy have done anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Mehmet Osman
Ombudsman