DRN-3229033
The complaint
Mr G says Zenith Insurance plc made a record about his vans insurance policy that caused 
him problems in getting other cover and that it wrongly paid a garage for storage.
What happened
Mr G made a previous complaint to this service about Zenith having avoided his policy on 
the basis of it finding no record of Mr G having told it about modifications to his van. After the 
complaint was dealt with, Mr G told us he was having problems with other insurers. He 
thought that was because Zenith had recorded adverse details about his case. He also said  
Zenith had paid a garage £562 in storage charges for his van - but that the garage had kept 
the van on a public road  where another vehicle had collided with it.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Gs complaint. He noted that Zenith had made an entry 
on a central database for insurers (the Claims and Underwriting Exchange  CUE). He said 
Zenith had done nothing wrong in making the entry - and that the details on CUE only 
showed that Mr G had made a claim that was settled as non-fault, with his no claims 
discount (NCD) unaffected. Zenith accepted that it had paid storage charges, but said it had 
recouped them from the other drivers insurer, so the sum it had paid out didnt affect Mr G.   
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurers record incidents on CUE routinely. We only intervene if the information recorded is 
incorrect. In this case, as Mr G had made a claim, which was settled, I dont think Zenith did 
anything wrong in recording it. Other insurers will see from the record that the claim was 
settled as non-fault, with Mr Gs NCD unaffected. So in my opinion, theres no basis for 
requiring Zenith to remove or change the record, as Mr G would like, as its accurate.  
Theres no reference to the policy avoidance on the CUE record. Mr G doesnt think Zenith 
should have avoided the policy. But that issue has already been dealt with by another 
ombudsman, who issued a final decision not upholding Mr Gs complaint in 2021. 
Turning to the storage charges, Mr G has images that show his van was parked on the road 
close to the garage - and he has pointed out that another vehicle couldnt have driven into it 
otherwise. So he thinks the garage acted fraudulently in charging Zenith for storing the van 
on its premises. He says Zenith should have challenged the bill, especially given the 
evidence he had about where the van was parked. If the storage charge wasnt queried, I 
think thats surprising, given the circumstances here. But even if thats the case, Mr G would 
still have to show that there was an impact on him resulting from Zeniths decision. 
I think Mr G believes that his current difficulties are at least partly due to Zeniths payment of 
the bill, but I dont think he can show thats the case. Zenith says the third-party insurer 
accepted liability for the accident, so it reimbursed Zeniths outlay for the vans recovery and 
storage. Thats why the only sum showing on the CUE record is £10.56  which Zenith 
wasnt able to recoup. But Zenith left Mr Gs NCD intact, so theres no impact on him from 
that, and therefore nothing for Zenith to put right. 
I think the problems Mr G has faced in getting other cover at an affordable price are likely to 
be linked to the policy avoidance. Although it isnt recorded on CUE, its likely to have an 
impact as and when other insurers ask about Mr Gs previous insurance record.  
Mr G says his mental health and his life in general have been adversely affected by what 
has happened. I was very sorry to learn about his current personal circumstances. But I 
dont think Mr G has shown that Zenith has acted unreasonably - or that its actions have 
caused him financial detriment. So despite my sympathy for the situation Mr G has found 
himself in, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman