DRN-4063988
The complaint
Mr P complains that Wise Payments Limited (trading as Wise) wont refund over £17,900 
he lost to an investment scam.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it for the following reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr P authorised the disputed payments he made as part of the 
scam. The payments were made either to his own crypto wallets or to an account he 
held with another Electronic Money Institution (R), where his funds were subsequently 
transferred on to the scammer. The payments were made via Mr Ps Wise payment card, 
or through direct transfer, using his legitimate security credentials provided by Wise, and 
the starting position is that firms ought to follow the instructions given by their customers 
in order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Wise should have done more to prevent Mr P from 
falling victim to the scam. Wise is an Electronic Money Institution (EMI) and, at the time 
these events took place, it wasnt subject to all of the same rules, regulations and best 
practice that applied to banks and building societies. Nonetheless, there are still some 
situations in which an EMI should reasonably have had a closer look at the 
circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. For example, if it was particularly 
suspicious or out of character. 
I appreciate that overall, Mr P has lost over £17,000 which is a significant amount of 
money. But this amount wasnt paid in one transaction. It was spread over nine separate 
smaller increments which, in my judgment, would not have appeared particularly 
suspicious or unusual. Mr P had also newly opened his Wise account as part of the 
scam, so it also didnt have any account history to compare his spending to either, to see 
whether the payments could be considered as out of character.
I also appreciate there were occasions where Mr P made multiple payments on the same 
day, such as three payments to Wisenex on 14 September 2022, and then three 
payments to his own account with R on 26 September 2022. But as Ive set out above, 
EMIs were not subject to the same standards that banks were at the time, and its not 
uncommon for such accounts to be used to make multiple large payments. But in any 
event, having considered the value and frequency of the payments Mr P made, Im not 
persuaded they ought reasonably to have indicated a heightened risk of financial harm in 
these circumstances. The cumulative value of the payments made on 14 September 
2022 were under £7,000, for example, which I dont think ought to have appeared as 
particularly suspicious. So, Im not persuaded there was anything that ought reasonably 
to have triggered Wises fraud monitoring systems, or that would have indicated Mr P 
was likely being scammed. 
Im also satisfied there was no reasonable prospect of Wise being able to recover the 
money Mr P lost either. He wouldnt have been able to make a successful chargeback 
claim for the card payments he made as he would have received the crypto asset he 
paid for. And in relation to the money sent to his own account with R, we know this was 
swiftly transferred out and wouldnt have been able to be recovered either. 
I note that Mr Ps representatives have said he was vulnerable at the time of the scam. 
But while I appreciate he may have been going through a difficult time, I dont consider 
his circumstances amount to him being vulnerable, or that Wise would have been aware 
of his circumstances either. Wises duty first and foremost is to execute transactions at 
the request of its customers. And given there was nothing to put it on notice that Mr P 
was vulnerable or lacked capacity to make his own financial decisions, I dont think it was 
under any obligation to put extra measures in place as a result.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr P, and Im sorry to hear he has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded that Wise can fairly or 
reasonably be held liable for his loss in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman