DRN-3773257
The complaint
Mr T complains about the lack of services he received from Origen Financial Services 
Limited (Origen) in respect of his self invested personal pension (SIPP). He believes Origen 
hasnt provided the services for which he was charged and would like the fees to be 
refunded. 
What happened
In June 2017 Mr T met with Origen to discuss his retirement provision. As a result Origen 
recommended that he transfer his existing personal pensions into a SIPP, before then 
withdrawing the tax free cash lump sum. Mr T accepted the recommendation and 
£71,542.54 was transferred to the SIPP  after the deduction of the tax free cash. Origen 
said it would charge Mr T an initial fee for the transfer advice and an ongoing adviser fee of 
0.95%.
Mr T says thereafter he received an annual newsletter from Origen as well as one annual 
valuation from 2019 but no other services. 
By 29 October 2020 the value of the SIPP was £77,830.49, invested into a governed 
portfolio.
 
Mr T had cause to contact another adviser in 2021 at which time he says he first became 
aware of a 0.95% ongoing advice fee. He looked at his original documentation to find out 
what services Origen should have provided in respect of the fees  but he didnt think it had 
lived up to his expectations as set out in the client service agreement (CSA). So in 
March 2021 Mr T complained. He said:
He had signed a CSA which set out the services Origen would provide him in line 
with its level 2 proposition. This included annual valuations  which he hadnt 
received, and ad-hoc meetings and reviews. 
He said he had only received an annual newsletter which gave the details of his 
adviser if he wanted to contact them for any of the services.
He was surprised to find out that hed paid Origen somewhere in the region of £3,000 
as an ongoing adviser fee, and he didnt think the CSA said that he would pay Origen 
an annual percentage of his pension fund.
As hed only received the newsletter  and none of the other ongoing services - he 
wanted a refund of the charges.   
Origen didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had been unable to identify any services that 
werent provided or werent available to Mr T since 2017. 
It also noted that it had sent annual valuations to the address it held for Mr T during this time. 
It didnt agree to refund any of the charges to Mr T, but it confirmed that if he wished to stop 
the ongoing adviser charge, he could contact the pension provider in order to do so. 
Mr T didnt agree. He said he hadnt had any contact with an adviser to discuss or review his 
plan and had only received one valuation report since May 2017. He said that, having signed 
an agreement to pay an ongoing 0.95% adviser charge, he had found little evidence of 
contact or discussion to justify the charge. 
Origen said that the CSA Mr T had signed was clear in that he wasnt eligible to receive 
(free) annual reviews based on his level 2 service proposition. It said that he had been 
contacted by means of the annual newsletter and annual valuations which gave details of 
how to contact an adviser if he needed to do so  although this may have incurred additional 
advice costs.
But Mr T remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to us where one of our 
investigators looked into the matter. He thought the complaint should be upheld making the 
following points:
Origens suitability report set out clearly that Mr T had chosen to receive ongoing 
advice  at a cost of 0.95% of his pension fund. It said he would be contacted each 
year by the adviser to provide that advice. 
But the CSA, sent to Mr T four months later, noted that because of the amount of 
ongoing fees Origen would receive from his SIPP Mr T was eligible for its level 2 
proposition, which didnt include an annual review. 
He didnt think it was fair to send out a contradictory, generic agreement, offering a 
lesser service than had been agreed with the adviser some months earlier. 
He thought Origen should have provided a review service as the adviser ought to 
have known that the ongoing fees would only equate to a level 2 proposition, so 
ought to have accepted its error and offered annual reviews. He also thought that as 
the adviser had said he would contact Mr T then the onus remained on Origen to do 
so.
Origen should refund the annual advice fee for each year it was received  preferably 
back into Mr Ts SIPP. It should also pay Mr T £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience the matter had caused.  
Mr T accepted the investigators findings, but Origen didnt. It said that Mr Ts complaint letter 
confirmed that he had signed the original CSA, fully aware of what services he would receive 
from a level 2 service proposition. It also provided an email from June 2015, in which it had 
provided a CSA to Mr T advising on its service charge. The email confirmed that due to your 
fund size you will be classed as a level 1 client. It thought that both events suggested that 
Mr T was in fact aware of its service charge and how it worked and wasnt confused by 
Origens information.
The investigator didnt think Origens submissions addressed the contradiction between the 
CSA and the bespoke suitability report hed received some months earlier  which stated 
that Mr T would be provided with ongoing advice and that the adviser would contact him to 
arrange a meeting. He thought Mr T ought to have been able to rely on the report as a clear 
record of what had been agreed. He thought that if Mr T had been made aware of the 
position as set out in the CSA then he wouldnt have agreed to pay the ongoing charge. 
Origen remained of the view that Mr T had been aware of the services he would receive in 
respect of level 2 ongoing service. It asked for the complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman  so it was passed to me to review. 
My provisional decision
I took a different view to the investigator and concluded that the complaint should be upheld 
but only in respect of Origens adviser having raised Mr Ts expectations of what he services 
he should receive from the content of the suitability report. I made the following points in 
support of my findings:Based on the ongoing annual fees that Origen expected to receive from Mr T, he 
qualified for a level 2 service proposition as set out within the CSA. Such a service 
comprised a half yearly newsletter, an alert programme, a review programme, and a 
budget e-commentary. But an annual planning meeting wasnt included within the 
level 2 service. Mr T had signed the CSA so should have been aware of its contents, 
which he seemed to confirm in his complaint letter.
I was satisfied that Origen did provide Mr T with the services it said it would and that 
Mr T had confirmed his understanding of that  but I then went on to look at the level 
of service the adviser said he would provide Mr T within his suitability report.   
The report implied that Mr T would receive annual contact to review his financial 
arrangements, so I understood why Mr T might have assumed that was part of the 
services he could expect. So I had to decide whether the CSA or the suitability report 
was the most important document when it came to considering what information Mr T 
had been provided with.
I gave greater weight to the information contained within the CSA. That was because 
I thought that provided the correct information about Origens proposition, and also 
because I thought the adviser had made a mistake in the suitability report and had 
over committed himself to the wrong level of service based on the expected advisory 
fees. 
I didnt think Mr T qualified for the level of service he expected, but I also thought the 
adviser had raised Mr Ts expectations of that level of service based on the 
information in the suitability report. So I thought Origen should pay Mr T £300 for the 
trouble and upset that raised expectations had caused. 
With regards to his awareness of the ongoing fee charge, I was satisfied that Origen 
made Mr T aware that he would be charged 0.95% of his fund each year for the 
ongoing services  and that the money would be taken directly from his pension fund. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Origen said it had nothing further to add following my provisional decision, but Mr T didnt 
agree with it. He said that he didnt understand why I had said that my understanding is that 
Mr T hasnt complained about the suitability of the transfer of his fund, when that hadnt 
formed part of his complaint. He said that if Origen had simply handled his funds correctly  
including communication updates, then he wouldnt have needed to complain about charges 
that were taken by Origen for what he thought was non provision of the promised services 
from my account. He confirmed that he wanted the charges taken from his fund to be 
reimbursed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. I know Mr T will 
be disappointed with this outcome as he wants any ongoing advice charges that were 
applied to his plan to be refunded to him. But I dont think Origen should have to refund them 
- although I think it does need to pay Mr T some compensation. Ill explain my reasons.
Mr T doesnt understand why I referred to the suitability of the advice he was given about the 
original transfer, as he said he hadnt raised that as a complaint point  and Mr T is right to 
confirm that. But under our inquisitorial remit we would be able to widen the scope of a 
complaint if we thought it was the right thing to do. In this case Mr T has helpfully confirmed 
that he didnt complain about the original transfer.So, in order to consider Mr Ts complaint about a refund of ongoing adviser fees in respect of 
non-provision of services, Ive started by looking at the CSA to see what Origen said it would 
provide Mr T in return for the charges. 
The client service agreement 
Origens CSA at the time of the advice noted five different levels of service. These were 
dictated by your requirements and the level of annual payments we receive. In Mr Ts case 
the SIPP fee agreement showed that the cost of ongoing services was 0.95% - which was 
£679.65, based on the transferred value at the time. This meant Mr T was eligible for a level 
2 service proposition and therefore Mr T was entitled to:
a half yearly newsletter.
An alert programme.
A review programme.
A budget e-commentary.   
The second and third strands would only apply if Origen needed to make Mr T aware of 
changes to legislation, the markets, or the product  so they werent fixed or guaranteed 
points of contact. But crucially no planned annual review meeting was included within that 
service proposition. 
And Mr T had signed the agreement, so I would have expected him to have been aware of 
its contents  which included the list of services he was entitled to receive. If Mr T thought 
that some services he assumed he would receive werent included on the list then I would 
have expected him to have raised that issue with Origen at the time. Indeed, Mr Ts 
complaint letter to Origen suggested he was aware of the services as he wrote, I signed a 
client agreement which clearly laid out what services you would provide for a client on your 
level 2 proposition... So I cant reasonably say that Origen didnt clearly set out the services 
that Mr T could expect for the proposition he qualified for, or that Mr T himself wasnt aware 
of them. 
I then went on to carefully consider what Origen said it would do for a level 2 client and Im 
satisfied that it did provide Mr T with the services that it said it would. Mr T has told us that 
he received the annual newsletters and one annual valuation.  Origen says it did send the 
valuations to the address it held for Mr T  and while Ive no reason to dispute Mr Ts 
assertion that he didnt receive the other valuations, I cant reasonably say that Origen didnt 
issue them. So, I think that, on balance, Origen did what it was required to do for the 
appropriate level of service.
But, while I think Origen set out the level of service it would provide Mr T  and that he 
signed the CSA to confirm his understanding of that, Origens adviser suggested he would 
provide Mr T with a greater level of service in his suitability report following his 
recommendation to transfer. This was before the CSA was issued to Mr T. So, Ive looked 
carefully at the report. 
The suitability report
Within the suitability report the adviser set out the charges involved with the transfer. 
The total annual charges included an investment charge equating to £442.13 and an adviser 
charge of £933.39- both based on the fund value before tax free cash was withdrawn. 
However, the report also noted, you have opted to receive ongoing advice, therefore as 
discussed the ongoing adviser charge being taken from your pension will be 0.95%, which 
based on the amount going into drawdown equates to a monetary amount of £679.65 a year..
So I think the report was inconsistent with the information it provided, as it seemed to 
suggest the ongoing adviser charge of £679.65 would bring Mr T in line with a level 2 tier of 
service, while at the same time stating that, you have opted to receive financial advice. And 
furthermore, other higher adviser charges were noted which were based on fund values 
including the tax free cash element. So I can fully understand why Mr T would have 
concluded that he would receive annual reviews based on what the adviser had told him. 
This was further supported by what the adviser set out in the service proposition and reviews 
section of the report which said:
You have selected an on-going advice service primarily focused on the recommendations 
provided in this report. We agreed I will contact you to review your financial arrangements 
once a year. The current charge for this service is 0.95% per annum of the amount invested. 
However, you can opt out of this ongoing service at any time. Full details of the nature and 
frequency of the service we will provide is contained in our Client Service Agreement.
So I think this clearly positioned that the adviser would contact Mr T each year for a review 
and therefore I need to consider whether the CSA or the suitability report was the most 
important document in providing Mr T the appropriate information. I think the CSA was much 
clearer in its explanation and consistent with setting out the services that would be provided 
at each level. It also clearly set out which level of service was provided depending on the 
amount of (expected) annual ongoing adviser charge. As Ive already said the suitability 
report contained inconsistencies in terms of the charges that were noted, and it would seem 
the adviser made an error in determining which level of service was due in respect of the 
likely fees Mr T would pay.
On balance, and especially considering Mr T accepts that he received the CSA and paid 
close attention to the levels of service noted within it, I think the CSA set out the actual level 
of service Mr T was entitled to  as well as the ongoing services that would involve. So I 
dont think Mr T qualified for an annual review service based on what Ive seen, and while I 
know Mr T thinks he should have been entitled to what the adviser set out in the suitability 
report, I dont think thats consistent with what the level of annual ongoing adviser fees made 
him eligible for. I dont think Mr T is entitled to a higher level of service than he received  
notably the annual reviews - and I dont think Origen should have to refund those charges 
back to Mr T.
But I think the suitability report would have raised Mr Ts expectations of the level of service 
he should receive, and I think this matter has had a significant impact on Mr T which I can 
understand. Taking into consideration the misinformation he was provided with and
the impact thereafter I think Origen should pay Mr T £300 for the trouble and upset this 
caused. 
Awareness of the ongoing fee charge  
Mr T did suggest that he wasnt originally told about the 0.95% ongoing adviser fee being 
paid from his SIPP fund. He said it wasnt mentioned in the CSA. And I agree with Mr T that 
it isnt specifically mentioned. But that doesnt mean that Mr T wasnt made aware of the 
charge from other sources. 
The suitability report said that, you have opted to receive ongoing advice, as discussed the 
ongoing adviser charge being taken from your pension will be 0.95%.  Although this 
confirms what Ive previously said about the report raising Mr Ts expectations of the level of 
service he might receive  it does set out the amount he would be charged and from where it 
would be deducted. In addition, a letter dated 29 March 2017 from Origen confirmed to Mr T the amount to be 
transferred and enclosed a separate fee agreement. That agreement confirmed that, 
ongoing service charges were 0.95% or £679.65.
So, for those reasons, I think Origen made Mr T aware of both the amount that he would pay 
for the ongoing fees and also that the fees would be deducted from his pension fund. I dont 
think Origen could have been said to have misled Mr T or failed to make him aware of the 
charges. 
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I uphold Mr Ts complaint against Origen Financial Services 
Limited in part. I think Origen raised Mr Ts expectations of the level of service he should 
receive through inaccuracies within its suitability report, and therefore it should pay Mr T 
£300 for the impact the raised expectations had on him. I think thats fair and reasonable 
compensation in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman