DRN-3279399
The complaint
Mr S explains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) sold him a pension as a 
repayment vehicle for an interest only mortgage. He complained to Aviva that the pension 
wasnt suitable for him. And that he wasnt sent letters regarding his pension or informed that 
there would be a shortfall. After 30 years of paying his mortgage, his pension didnt cover the 
mortgage capital.
What happened
Mr S took out an interest only mortgage in 1991. Aviva sold him a personal pension, as a 
way to repay the capital on his mortgage when it reached its term. 
Mr S appears to have made monthly payments of £210.65 into his pension up until October 
1991. Then stopped making payments.
In 2021, Mr S complained to Aviva that the pension he was sold in 1991 wasnt suitable for 
him.
Aviva investigated. It explained to Mr S that the documents from the sale in 1991 were 
incomplete. So Aviva couldnt say that it explained all of the risks associated with that 
product when it was sold to Mr S. So upheld Mr Ss complaint. However, Aviva calculated 
that Mr S had suffered no financial loss. 
Mr S was unhappy with Avivas answer and brought his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. He thought that the way that Aviva approached 
its redress calculation was fair and reasonable. He also thought that Aviva had shown 
evidence of efforts that it made to update Mr S regarding his pension in 2000, that werent 
responded to. He didnt think that Mr S suffered a financial loss as a result of the mis-sale of 
the pension.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all of the circumstances Ive reached the same conclusion as our 
investigator for very similar reasons. I would like to reassure Mr S that Ive looked at 
everything he sent us on this complaint. And I understand the issues hes raised. But its the 
role of our service to provide an informal resolution service as an alternative to the court. As 
a result, Ive concentrated on the points that I consider most relevant to my outcome and 
may not have addressed every point he has raised. I would also point out that this complaint 
is about Aviva, who provided the pension product. Aviva did not provide the mortgage and I 
havent considered the actions of the mortgage provider in this decision.
The crux of this complaint is that Mr S doesnt believe that the pension product he was sold 
was a suitable product to repay the capital of his interest only mortgage. I dont have point of 
sale documents to understand exactly why it was recommended. Given that it was taken out 
30 years prior to Mr Ss complaint being made, it is perhaps unsurprising that documentary 
evidence is limited. 
In considering the complaint though, Aviva accepted that the sale of the pension may not 
have been suitable. So agreed with Mr S, albeit not perhaps for the reasons he raised. 
Nonetheless, both parties agree that the pension was mis-sold. So its not necessary for me 
to make a determination on this point.
Mr S doesnt think that Aviva offered a fair way to put things right. So Ive considered what I 
think Aviva should have done. Our main objective in trying to resolve complaints is to put 
consumers back into the position they would most likely have been if the mistake hadnt 
happened. Which, in this case, would mean Aviva making a comparison with what Mr S did 
and what he might have done instead. I think it would be fair to compare what Mr S did with 
the position hed have been in if hed instead used the pension premiums in a repayment 
mortgage.
Aviva have shown us their calculations, and Im satisfied that they calculated Mr Ss loss in 
the way I would expect. They have only calculated the impact over the period that Mr S paid 
premiums into his pension. So only up until October 1991. Which I think was fair. The impact 
of Mr S making payments into the personal pension rather than a more suitable alternative 
ended when he made the decision to stop paying the pension premiums. He has shown us a 
letter, dated in 1992, in which he explained that he wasnt happy with the way his premiums 
were being treated. And evidence from Aviva shows that he cancelled the direct debit paying 
the pension premiums. I have to conclude that, on balance, Mr S made a deliberate and 
considered decision to stop paying the premiums. So could, from that point, have used those 
premiums to make alternative provision for the capital sum of his mortgage.
Avivas loss calculation showed that, at the point Mr S stopped paying the premiums, he 
hadnt suffered a loss. The amount accumulated at that point, that could potentially be taken 
tax free in the future, was more than the amount he could have paid off his mortgage 
instead. The circumstances might have been different had Mr S continued to pay into the 
pension for the intended span of the product. But it isnt fair to hold Aviva responsible for 
what Mr S did with those potential premiums after he decided to cancel them.
Mr S is unhappy that he was sold the personal pension as a way to repay the capital of a 
mortgage on a jointly owned property. I dont have the information from the time of the sale 
to say why that was recommended. But for the purposes of this complaint, it doesnt matter. 
As I said, Aviva accepted that it was mis-sold, so any additional reasons that may have 
made that so dont affect the outcome.
I can see that Mr S feels let down by the fact that he wasnt kept better informed by Aviva 
about his pension. He hasnt received annual pension statements. Aviva explain that it didnt 
have Mr Ss address and showed evidence that it had tried to trace him. It also showed us 
that it wrote to him in 2000 at his correct address following a meeting Mr S had with one of 
its representatives. And sent him his pension fund value. 
Mr S should have received annual statements for his pension, even though his plan was 
paid up. But I can see that Aviva wrote to him at his address and asked him to confirm in 
writing whether that was his address. And Mr S didnt respond. On balance, I think that Mr S 
was aware of the existence of his Aviva personal pension and that he wasnt making 
contributions to it. I dont think that Aviva are entirely at fault for being unable to provide Mr S 
with regular updates. But even if I considered that it was, I dont think that there was an 
impact on Mr S. He could, at any time have contacted them to provide his postal address, or 
request a pension statement. And he didnt. And he knew that he wasnt contributing to the pension, so ought to have known that it wasnt going to build up a sufficient fund to pay the 
capital of his mortgage. 
I understand that Mr S made no other provision for the payment of the capital on his 
mortgage. Which resulted in his having to sell the property to pay the capital on the loan 
from the equity. That must have been upsetting for Mr S but I dont think its fair to say that 
was Avivas fault. For the above reasons, I think that the way that Aviva dealt with Mr Ss 
complaint was fair. It demonstrated that Mr S didnt suffer a financial loss, so I dont think it 
has to do anything to put things right. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman