DRN-4310946
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the actions of Grove Pension Solutions Limited (Grove) which 
advised him on, and facilitated, the transfer of a personal pension in 2015.
What happened
In 2015 Mr B sought advice from Grove. He completed an enquiry form in which he provided 
some personal details including details of a personal pension he wanted Grove to 
investigate. He said he was looking to receive a lump sum of £5,000. 
A fact-find was completed on 3 November which detailed Mr Bs circumstances and 
objectives. He was 59 years old. He was working but had recently suffered an accident that 
meant he was off sick. His employer was said to be looking after him (but other documents 
from the casefile suggest a degree of uncertainty about how long that was going to continue 
for). Mr B had a credit card debt of £2,500, a personal loan debt of £3,000 and an 
outstanding mortgage of £35,000. The credit card had a 0% interest rate which was to 
continue for another two years. Mr B was said to be worried about his debts and was looking 
to clear them as soon as possible. His personal pension had a transfer value of 
approximately £35,000 and had a guaranteed minimum pension (GMP) attached to it. Mr B 
wasnt allowed to take early benefits from the pension although he was allowed to transfer it. 
Grove had a telephone conversation with Mr B on 13 November. A recording of the call isnt 
available but call notes say Groves advice was discussed. The advice was, in essence, that 
Mr B should not access his pension. The call notes show Mr B was reluctant to follow this 
advice because he wanted to take cash from his pension in order to clear his debts. Shortly 
afterwards, Grove emailed Mr B to emphasize its recommendation that Mr B shouldnt 
touch his pension and to summarise its reasons for this, which were that leaving the pension 
would allow it to grow tax free, taking a lump sum would reduce Mr Bs future retirement 
income, the policy had a GMP, and because Mr B didnt have a need to access cash from 
his pension because he was already able to service his debts. 
Mr B emailed Grove, thanking it for its advice but asking for its help should he decide to take 
25% of his pension. Grove said it would help in this way, providing Mr B explained what he 
intended to do and why. This was still on the same day as the telephone call  13 
November. Mr B emailed  again the same day  with his reasons for going against Groves 
advice. It also looks like there was another telephone call during the day although the time of 
the call is unclear.
Grove sent Mr B its Pension Report (hereafter referred to as its advice report) on 
16 November. This summarised its reasons for why Mr B should, in essence, do nothing with 
his personal pension. It then went on to advise Mr B on what he should do given his rejection 
of that advice. The advice report recommended Mr B transfer his personal pension to a 
drawdown plan with another provider, from which he could take his maximum tax-free cash. 
Grove recommended Mr B invest the remainder of his pension in the new providers global 
strategy fund which was a relatively cautious fund with a high fixed interest weighting. The 
advice report also covered, amongst other things, the risks of a drawdown pension and the 
implications for Mr Bs money purchase annual allowance (MPAA). The advice report was 
sent with a copy of Mr Bs fact-find, information on his recommended new pension 
arrangement and forms to open the recommended pension. 
Mr B accepted the advice and signed an application form for his new pension provider on 
17 November. 
In 2022 Mr B, who is represented by a claims management company, complained to Grove. 
He was under the misapprehension that he had transferred a defined benefit pension and 
that the advice to do so was unsuitable because it resulted in him losing valuable 
guarantees. Groves response was that Mr Bs allegations werent true and that the advice 
process had been thorough. Mr B asked us to investigate his complaint. Both parties 
provided further arguments. Grove said that the transfer had been from a personal pension, 
that it had advised against Mr B taking any action and that Mr B wanted to go against that 
advice  it had therefore facilitated the transfer on an insistent client basis. Mr B said he 
wasnt aware that Grove had advised him in this way, he wasnt made aware of the 
guarantees he was giving up, and he hadnt insisted on transferring his pension in order to 
take cash from it. He said he had no need to do so.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), sets out the time limits in which 
someone can complain. Our investigator looked at this first and concluded that Mr B had 
complained in time. He went on to consider the merits of Mr Bs complaint. He didnt think 
Groves processes were as good as they should have been. But he didnt think its failings 
made a difference to Mr B; he thought he would have ended up in broadly the same position 
even if Grove had acted as it should have done. He didnt uphold the complaint. Grove 
disagreed with some of our investigators findings. Mr B asked for an ombudsman to review 
the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Did Mr B complain in time?
Dispute Resolution (DISP) rule 2.8.2R says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service:
(1) more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the complainant 
its final response, redress determination or summary resolution communication; or
(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint
Its the second part of the rules thats relevant here. The event complained of happened in 
2015. Mr B complained to Grove in 2022. So he is outside the six year time limit, which 
ended in 2021. Grove says Mr B also complained too late under the three-year part of the 
rules. It says this for two reasons. First, because it thinks Mr B ought reasonably to have 
been aware of there being a potential problem with the transfer back in 2015 because he 
would have been aware at that point that transferring would result in a lower income in retirement  broadly, one of his complaint points  because thats what Grove told him. 
Second, Grove thinks Mr B ought reasonably to have been aware that transferring might not 
have been in his best interests in 2018, which is when he started to significantly deplete his 
pension and the negative implications for his income during retirement should, in Groves 
view, have started to become a concern  especially given warnings to that effect by his 
personal pension provider.
I disagree with Grove on both counts. In relation to its first argument, it would seem 
somewhat illogical for someone to pay a firm for advice, and to facilitate a transfer, when 
they know, or suspect, that the advice is unsuitable or the firm is otherwise acting in an 
improper way. And, realistically, it would be difficult to see how Mr B would have even known 
what Grove should have done around the time of the transfer. It must therefore follow that 
Mr B didnt have doubts, and shouldnt reasonably have had doubts, about Groves actions 
around this time because he wouldnt have continued to use Grove if he had. The customer 
feedback form Mr B completed rather proves the point in this respect because when he 
completed it, shortly after the transfer, he was satisfied with what Grove had done. 
In relation to Groves second argument, I think most people would accept that taking funds 
from their pension will reduce the amount of income available for the future. Indeed, Mr B 
has said much the same thing. So this, in itself, isnt enough to make me think Mr B would 
have thought Groves actions had unfairly deprived him of retirement income he otherwise 
would have had. To think that I would need to be satisfied that reducing his pension in this 
way would have prompted Mr B to think he had given up valuable benefits when he 
transferred. This may then have caused him to question the transfer and the firm that 
facilitated it. But I havent seen anything that makes me think Mr B would have been 
prompted to think along these lines. Im satisfied Mr B would have thought any reduction in 
his pension from 2018 onwards was the natural consequence of him taking funds from that 
pension and not the consequence of losing other, additional, benefits that he had previously 
been entitled to.
I havent seen anything else that makes me think Mr B had concerns, or ought to have had 
concerns, about Groves actions more than three years before he complained to Grove in 
2022. So Im satisfied that Mr B complained in time and this is a complaint I can consider.
The merits of Mr Bs complaint  did Grove act as it should have done?
Firms such as Grove are subject to the FCA Handbook, and under that to the Principles for 
Businesses and to the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS). The following is not a 
comprehensive list of the relevant rules, regulations and principles. But I consider them to be 
particularly relevant here:
Principle 2  A  firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence;
Principle 6  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly;
Principle 7  A  firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading;
COBS 2.1.1R  A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the clients best interests rule);
COBS 4.2.1R  which states (amongst other things) that a firm must ensure that a 
communication or a financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading.With the above in mind, I think there were failings on Groves part here. 
I say this because Grove relied on just a telephone call to give its advice. The call wasnt 
recorded. Whilst its possible that the conversation was detailed and comprehensive, 
covering all key points, I consider this to be unlikely. I think its more likely that something 
important was missed. The call notes suggest as much, with at least two areas where Mr B 
appears to have been given insufficient information.
The first of these relates to Mr Bs GMP. The value of the GMP appears to have been 
discussed, as was the fact it would be lost on transfer. But there doesnt appear to have 
been much beyond that  for instance, the kind of scenarios that would have to play out for 
the GMP underpin to take effect. So Mr B wouldnt have known how valuable the benefit 
really was. I dont need to labour the point as Grove has given mixed messages on this, 
saying at the time the GMP was reason enough to not transfer but, in response to Mr Bs 
complaint, considering it to have been too low value to have made a difference. More 
analysis at the time may have clarified the position.
The second area relates to some of the broader repercussions of transferring, such as the 
impact of withdrawing too much from a drawdown plan and considerations around the 
MPAA. I havent seen anything that makes me think these were covered adequately during 
the telephone call between the parties. Given Mr B couldnt take early benefits from his 
existing policy, some of these warnings were potentially important because  like the loss of 
the GMP  they would only have applied had Mr B transferred. So Mr B should, reasonably, 
have been given a fuller picture of the potential downsides of transferring to have allowed 
him to fully consider his options.
I therefore consider it likely that Mr B didnt have all the information he would have needed 
when he initially decided to go against Groves advice. But even if the telephone call had 
been comprehensive, I still think a firm, acting with the above Principles and rules in mind, 
would have sent Mr B a comprehensive written summary of its advice so that he wasnt just 
relying on his own recollections of the call when deciding what to do. I think this is especially 
important where the client  as was the case here  appears to have been reluctant to 
accept the advice which points to a potential lack of understanding on the clients part or 
problems in the way the advice was being delivered.
I recognise Grove did send an email after the call summarising its advice. But the email was 
hardly comprehensive  little more than four, short, bullet points which didnt adequately 
summarise what was discussed during the call (according to the call notes) or what, in my 
opinion, should have been discussed. And when Grove did send its advice report, which 
covered more thoroughly why Mr B shouldnt touch his pension, Mr B had already made up 
his mind by that point  so the advice report came too late in that respect. So, however I look 
at things, it strikes me that Mr B should have been better served by Grove with regards to 
the information he had when he was making his decision.
Its also striking how Grove smoothed the path to Mr B becoming an insistent client. In the 
space of just one day, 13 November, Grove advised Mr B during a telephone call, followed 
up with an email, responded to Mr Bs request to go against its advice, had another 
telephone call with Mr B and decided to accept Mr B as an insistent client. And by the end of 
the next working day  16 November  it had already written and dispatched an advice 
report that included recommendations it hadnt previously considered and provided the 
application forms to allow Mr B to follow its updated advice. And, for good measure, the 
covering letter to the advice report repeatedly told Mr B to act quickly and signed off by 
saying the sooner Mr B responded, the sooner hed get his money. 
From Mr Bs perspective, in the space of just four days, he had considered Groves initial advice, decided to go against that advice, reviewed Groves advice report which covered 
both its initial and updated advice, and had signed the necessary forms to open a new 
pension. 
This is a very compressed timetable when one considers going against the advice of a 
professional adviser  and taking action that has been deemed financially harmful  is a 
significant, and counterintuitive, step to take. It isnt a step to take lightly or in a rush.
With the above Principles and rules in mind, I think Grove should have done more to check 
whether Mr B had genuinely understood its advice and why he wanted to ignore it. In 
Groves considered view, Mr Bs actions were financially harmful so they should, reasonably, 
have triggered more concern than they did. Instead, Grove appears to have expedited the 
transfer, and encouraged Mr B to similarly act without pause. And it took comfort from just a 
telephone call in which Mr B confirmed he wanted to pay off his debts, and the explanations 
he provided in two, very short, emails  one of which Grove had told Mr B to write and 
neither of which was especially enlightening:
Hi [advisers name] thanks for your recommendations, but if I decided I want to take 25% of 
my pension, please will you go ahead with it, regards [Mr B] (13 November 2015)
i will pay my loan of [sic], and part of my credit card, Im only working part time at the 
moment, Im not sure how long I will be of [sic] work, its a massive worry, I dont think I will 
manage, if I dont do this.  (13 November 2015)
I recognise that Grove may well have covered a lot of ground during its conversations with 
Mr B on 13 November, meaning it didnt need to do more to satisfy itself that the decision 
Mr B was making was, at least, a considered one. But, for the reasons given above, its 
difficult to conclude the calls were as comprehensive as they should have been. 
Grove has pointed to the lack of rules on insistent client transactions at the time and the fact 
that there werent (and arent) rules preventing such transactions. But Grove wasnt 
operating in a vacuum here. It had to act in line with the Principles, COBS 2.1.1R and 
COBS 4.2.1R. It failed to do so for the reasons given above. Similarly, the rules relating to 
when, and in what form, advice should be given dont mean firms can ignore  as Grove has 
done  their wider responsibilities to ensure their customers information needs are met and 
their best interests are considered.
Would it have made a difference to Mr B had Grove acted differently?
My starting point here is Mr Bs view that he wasnt aware he was going against Groves 
advice. Ive covered some of the flaws in Groves processes earlier. But, on this point at 
least, Im satisfied Mr B would have been aware that Grove was, essentially, recommending 
no action and that Mr B would have been aware he was going against that recommendation. 
I say this because the email Grove sent to Mr B in which it sought to emphasize why he 
shouldnt take any action with his pension ended with the following statement (which was in 
bold type):
In view of these risks and because you are managing to make repayments to your debts 
comfortably as I said my recommendation has to be to leave the pensions to age 65 / 
retirement age. Ive quoted Mr Bs response previously but its worth repeating in this context because it 
demonstrates, in my view, that Mr B knew what he wanted to do was contrary to Groves 
advice:
Hi [advisers name] thanks for your recommendations, but if I decided I want to take 25% of 
my pension, please will you go ahead with it, regards [Mr B]
Groves response also said that Mr B was proceeding against its advice. So even though 
Mr B says he didnt know he was going against Groves advice, I dont think this can, 
reasonably, have been the case. 
But this only gets us so far. For the reasons given above, I dont think Mr B was given the full 
picture ahead of making his decision. The advice was provided during a telephone call, the 
follow-up email was limited and a fuller analysis of why Mr B shouldnt touch his pension  
and the risks of doing so  was only provided in the advice report sent after he had already 
made a decision. So I need to consider what Mr B would have done had Groves processes 
being more thorough. 
My view is that Mr B would have still transferred and taken cash from his pension had Grove 
acted as it should have done. I say this because Mr Bs reason for engaging Grove was 
relatively straightforward: he was looking to take cash from his pension because he wanted 
to clear his debts. His desire to do so was long standing and consistent, with comments 
along those lines contained in the enquiry form, fact-find, telephone call notes and Mr Bs 
own emails. Grove told him he couldnt take cash from his pension unless he transferred but 
that he shouldnt touch his pension because he was already able to service his debts and he 
was better off letting his pension grow tax free until the age of 65. The message got to the 
heart of what Mr B wanted to know. And Im satisfied the message was understandable, 
even to someone with relatively limited financial expertise (which is how Mr B describes 
himself). Given Mr Bs apparent determination to pay off his debts using his pension, and the 
relatively clear message that he shouldnt do this, Im satisfied that Mr B would have still 
continued with his transfer, even if his information needs had been better met and even if he 
had been encouraged to take more time to reflect on his decision. 
In coming to this conclusion, Ive taken into account Mr Bs GMP. As Ive said previously, this 
doesnt look to have been explored in a particularly thorough manner. However, my view is 
Mr B wouldnt likely have considered the GMP to have been a valuable enough guarantee to 
consider keeping it. The transfer value comfortably covered the GMP. And it would have 
needed an unlikely set of circumstances for the underpin to have come into effect at a later 
date had Mr B not transferred. Given Mr Bs apparent determination to pay down his debts  
despite the lack of need to do so and clear enough messages to that effect  Im not 
persuaded better information on the GMP (or anything else) would have made a difference 
here. 
Finally, Grove advised Mr B on where he should transfer his pension to and the investment 
he should make. I havent seen any persuasive evidence or arguments that these 
recommendations were unsuitable for someone seeking to withdraw cash from their pension 
or with Mr Bs attitude to risk, which he describes as cautious. So I dont consider Groves 
recommended pension and investment fund are reason enough to uphold Mr Bs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Christian Wood
Ombudsman