DRN-4033824
Complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Citibank UK Limited (Citibank) closed his account.
Background
In September 2022, Citibank took the decision to close Mr Gs account and it notified Mr G 
that it would be doing so in two months. Mr G complained about Citibanks actions. Citibank 
didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. As Mr G remained dissatisfied, Mr G referred the matter to 
our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Gs concerns. He didnt think that Citibank had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr G unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr G disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I dont think that Citibank acted unfairly towards     
Mr G and so Im not upholding his complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
As our adjudicator explained to Mr G, a bank is generally under no obligation to continue 
offering an account to a consumer if it doesnt wish to do so. I know that Mr G is unhappy 
that Citibank closed his account and says that this is unfair because hed been a customer 
since the 1990s. 
However, each bank has its own criteria and risk assessment for deciding whether to close 
an account and providing a customer with an account is a commercial decision that a bank is 
entitled to take. And typically, as long as it provides reasonable notice it has no obligation to 
share its reasons for that decision.
In this case Mr G was provided with reasonable notice. So Im satisfied that Citibank had 
sufficient grounds to close Mr Gs account and as such its decision wasnt unfair in the 
circumstances. I realise that Citibanks decision will have been very disappointing to Mr G 
and I can appreciate why the closure of his account will have caused him inconvenience. But 
despite this, Im simply not in a position to be able to tell Citibank it has to continue offering   
Mr G an account in circumstances which it has legitimately decided it no longer wishes to 
provide him with one. 
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Citibank has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr G and Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr G. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell appreciate why Im satisfied that Citibank was entitled to close his account.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman