DRN-1926665
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) gave 
them incorrect information about the value of an endowment policy they hold with it. 
Mrs and Mr M say they made a large financial commitment based on the information they 
received from Prudential. 
What happened
Mrs and Mr M hold an endowment policy with Prudential. 
In July 2018 they made a partial surrender and withdrew over £20,000 from the policy, 
leaving a balance of around £5,000.
In August 2019 Mrs M phoned Prudential for an up-to-date valuation. Due to errors on 
Prudentials part it did not take into account the partial surrender Mr and Mrs M had already 
made and gave a valuation of around £25,000. Mrs M queried this figure during the call with 
Prudential, as she felt it was too high, and was told the amount was correct.
On 23 October 2019 Mrs M phoned Prudential again. This time she was told the value of the 
policy was around £18,000. Mrs M again queried the figure as it was around £7,000 lower 
than the (incorrect) valuation she had been given in August. 
The representative said that Prudential was experiencing some problems with its system and 
suggested that Mrs M could double check the valuation on MyPru. Mrs M did so, and it 
appears the figure tallied with the amount the representative had given. The representative 
then offered to arrange for Mrs M to receive a call back with the exact surrender value. It 
appears there was some confusion about whether the valuation included any terminal bonus 
that might be due. 
Mrs M explained to the representative that she wanted to buy a caravan and a call back to 
confirm the value of the policy was arranged for the next day. I havent seen anything to 
show that the call back went ahead. 
Despite not having had a call to confirm the value of the policy Mr and Mrs M put down a 
deposit on a caravan on 23 October 2019. 
It subsequently came light that the information Prudential had given Mrs M was incorrect and 
the surrender value of the policy was around £5,000.
Mr and Mrs M complained to Prudential. They said they would not have gone ahead with the 
purchase of the caravan if Prudential had given them the correct valuation. They said they 
had committed to buy a new caravan by the time they found out that the surrender value was 
around £5,000. And they said they had been forced to borrow money from relatives to cover 
the cost.
Prudential accepted that it had given them incorrect information and had provided a very 
poor level of service. It explained that it should have added a note to Mr and Mrs Ms file 
after they made the partial surrender in 2018 to flag that any further valuations would need to 
be done manually and that the valuation on its system was incorrect. As this hadnt 
happened the partial surrender wasnt taken into account in the valuations it provided in 
August and October 2019.
It offered to pay Mr and Mrs M £500 for the trouble and upset its poor service had caused. 
But it said it didnt feel it was reasonable for it to pay the £9,000 Mr and Mrs M had spent on 
a new caravan or the £4,000 they had said they would accept in order to resolve this 
complaint.
Mr and Mrs M werent satisfied with Prudentials response and brought their complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator said he felt Prudentials offer to pay Mr and Mrs M £500 was fair and 
reasonable and he didnt think it needed to do any more to resolve this complaint. 
He noted that Mrs M said that if Prudential had given her the correct information she 
wouldnt have gone ahead with the new caravan. But he said he was mindful that Mr and 
Mrs M knew that when they took £20,300 from their policy in 2018 the remaining value was 
around £5,000. 
He also noted that Mrs M had queried the valuation she was given in August 2019 as it 
seemed too high. He accepted that Prudential had told Mrs M that the £25,000 valuation was 
correct. But he said he felt it was clear that the surrender value was still in question. In view 
of this he said he felt it ought to have been apparent to Mr and Mrs M that any large 
purchase they planned to make might be affected.
He also noted that Mrs Ms credit card statement showed that they had chosen not to wait 
for the promised call back in October 2019 before putting down a deposit on the new 
caravan.
In view of this he said that although he felt the service Prudential had provided was very 
unsatisfactory, he didnt think it was reasonable to ask it to pay anything towards Mr and 
Mrs Ms new caravan. 
Mr and Mrs M werent satisfied with our investigators view. Mrs M reiterated that they only 
decided to go ahead with the purchase in October 2019 after Prudential had confirmed that 
the policy had a value of around £18,000 and Mrs M had checked this on MyPru. Mrs M 
said that she felt our investigator had not fully considered that she had checked the value of 
the policy several times with Prudential before going ahead with the purchase. 
Mrs M also subsequently contacted this service about more recent problems with a valuation 
statement they had received from Prudential.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is not in dispute that the service Prudential provided to Mr and Mrs M was very poor. What 
is in dispute is whether Prudential should pay Mr and Mrs M more than the £500 it has 
already offered to put matters right.I have very carefully considered all that Mrs M has said and provided and I am sympathetic 
to her position. But in order to find that Prudential should contribute towards the cost of the 
new caravan Mr and Mrs M bought I would need to be satisfied that they had reasonable 
grounds for believing that the valuations Prudential gave them could be relied on.
It is clear from the phone calls I have listened to that Mrs M thought the valuation she was 
given in August 2019 was too high. Likewise, I think it was clear to Mrs M that something 
was amiss when the valuation had apparently dropped from £25,000 in August 2019 to 
around £18,000 in October 2019.
I dont think Mrs M could have been expected to know what they problem was. But I do think 
she had enough information to suspect that something was wrong and that the valuations 
she had been provided over the phone and on MyPru couldnt be relied on.
I think, based on the information I have seen, that it would have been reasonable for Mr and 
Mrs M to wait for the call back that was promised for the next day before committing to the 
purchase of a new caravan. I note that Mrs M didnt chase Prudential about the promised 
call back until early November 2019.
As our investigator noted I think this suggests that Mrs and Mr M had already decided to go 
ahead with the purchase of the new caravan despite what appeared to be very large 
fluctuations in the value of their policy and no confirmation from Prudential about the actual 
surrender value.
That said, I do think the service Prudential provided was very poor. I note that despite Mrs M 
indicating that she felt the valuation was too high its representatives didnt follow up on this. 
But I think the £500 Prudential has offered to pay Mr and Mrs M is fair and reasonable for 
the trouble and upset its poor service caused. I cant reasonably require it to contribute 
towards the cost of the caravan Mr and Mrs M have bought.
In relation the recent valuation statement Mr and Mrs M have received from Prudential, as 
our investigator explained, if Mrs M wants to pursue this matter, she will need to raise it with 
Prudential in the first instance. I would also add that I dont think Mr and Mrs M should rely 
on this statement as it does not appear to take account of the partial surrender they made in 
2018.
My final decision
My decision is that the offer The Prudential Assurance Company Limited has made to pay 
Mr and Mrs M £500 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I simply 
leave it to Mr and Mrs M to decide if they now wish to accept this offer.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman