DRN-3267302
The complaint
Mr S complains about AXA Insurance UK Plc (trading as Swiftcover)s handling of his motor 
insurance claim.
All references to AXA also include its agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mr Ss complaint for these reasons:
AXA have paid out Mr S for his claim related loss, but he still had to pay an excess 
fee, he lost his no claims discount and his premiums increased
AXA said it made Mr Ss no claims discount available, which Mr S disputes, but it 
hasnt provided any information that shows me this 
AXA said it is not able to currently consider the claim under its uninsured driver 
promise until it has received the police report regarding the incident as it has to 
confirm the offending vehicle
I can see AXAs uninsured driver promise says it has to confirm the make, model and 
registration of the third-party vehicle 
From what I can see from AXAs claim handling notes, Mr S has been able to provide 
the registration of the vehicle, but not the make and model. AXA have also confirmed 
the registration isnt insured
While I appreciate the terms and conditions of the uninsured driver promise says it 
requires the make and model, AXA could reasonably obtain this information through 
simple vehicle searches
AXA have shown me emails that show they have been chasing the police for the 
report, but I can see there have been some significant gaps between chasers
I can also see the Police offered to release a type of redacted report to AXA. I asked 
AXA about why this wasnt sufficient or queried further, but it hasnt provided me with 
a response
Mr S was also unhappy with other issue regarding AXAs handling of his claim. I can 
see there have been times AXA asked for information it already had, and the claim 
was previously closed in error and later reopened
However. AXA have paid Mr S a total of £250 compensation in recognition of these 
service issues, and in the circumstances, I think thats reasonable as it fairly 
represents the inconvenience, he has been caused 
Putting things right
To put things right I direct AXA to:
Refund Mr S his excess fee  it should also add 8% simple interest per annum from 
the date of settlement to the day the payment is finalised
AXA said it reinstated Mr Ss no claims discount. However, if it hasnt already done 
so, it should do it under the terms of the uninsured drivers promise. It should also 
provide proof of this to Mr S
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint.
To put things right, I direct AXA Insurance UK Plc (trading as Swiftcover) to do as Ive set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman