DRN-2869067
The complaint
Mr R complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS), trading as Seat 
Financial Services, are wrong to continue to report arrears on his account and not to have 
defaulted it and that they have no legal redress to recover the debt from him.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr R, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr R has paid nothing towards his debt since he voluntarily terminated his agreement in 
2014.
statute barred
Its not for this service to decide whether a debt is legally enforceable. Only a court can 
decide that. 
We can consider whether a business has been unreasonable pursuing a debt. But here I 
dont think VWFS have been unreasonable as I think there is evidence the account was in 
arrears when it was voluntarily terminated and there was also a shortfall on the settlement.
should the account have been defaulted?
Section 87 of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) explains:
Need for default notice:
(1) Service of a notice on the debtor or hirer in accordance with section 88 (a default
notice) is necessary before the creditor or owner can become entitled, by reason of any
breach by the debtor or hirer of a regulated agreement, -
(a) To terminate the agreement, or
(b) To demand earlier payment of any sum, or
(c) To recover possession of any goods or land, or
(d) To treat any right conferred on the debtor or hirer by the agreement as terminated,
restricted or deferred, or
(e) To enforce any security
I dont think there was a need for a default notice as the agreement had been terminated 
and the goods returned. So, I dont think VWFS were wrong not to register a default.
Mr R is right to suggest that if a default had been recorded the record of that default would 
have been extinguished from his credit file after six years.
But there wasnt a default and I think theres evidence there were and continue to be arrears 
on the account. In those circumstances, I dont think there is guidance that would suggest 
VWFS need to remove the reports they are, and have been, making to the credit reference 
agencies, about the arrears. 
So, I dont think they need to take any further action.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman