DRN-4207030
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the way his motor insurer, West Bay Insurance Plc (West Bay) 
dealt with a claim he made on his policy.
 
West Bay is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Throughout the claim Mr H was 
also dealing with other companies who act as West Bays agents. As West Bay has 
accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agents, in my decision, any reference to 
West Bay includes the actions of the agents.
What happened
In December 2022 Mr H was involved in an accident where his car was damaged and 
needed to be recovered to a garage. At the time he and his family had been visiting and 
staying with family in a city several hours away from where they live. He reported the 
accident to West Bay.
Mr H said he was initially told he and his family would be taken somewhere safe and his car 
recovered to a garage. But this didnt happen. After waiting for some time the rest of his 
family travelled to the home of the family member they had been visiting. Mr H said he 
waited in the car in the cold for ten hours and after two failed attempts at being recovered 
(the wrong vehicle was sent to recover him) he decided to leave the car and join his family. 
He said this was also after West Bay told him it would not be taking him to his destination 
which he considered to be the home where he lives.
The following day, according to Mr H, he was given conflicting information as to whether he 
would get a courtesy car. He said this resulted in him and his family not travelling back home 
sooner which meant that he and his wife missed work and his son missed school. He said 
they eventually travelled back home by borrowing a car from family which he returned a day 
or so later and then travelled back home on the train. 
Mr H claimed for various expenses including underground tickets for his wife and children at 
£10.50, £77.49 for a taxi to his family members home, £48.35 to get insured on the family 
members car, £90.27 (£52.52 and £37.75) for fuel and £51.80 for his train ticket to return 
the car. This came to a total of £283.91. West Bay agreed to reimburse £87.99 for the taxi 
and underground costs and fuel and insurance (only one way) at £100.87. So it agreed to 
pay a total of £188.86 for expenses.
Mr H wasnt happy West Bay didnt pay for all his expenses and he said it also delayed 
repairing his car. 
West Bay upheld parts of the complaint and awarded Mr H £250 compensation for issues 
with its online form, poor communication and delays. It said his claim wasnt set up within 
24 hours as it happened over the weekend. It apologised for the lack of updates provided by 
the garage but it said it was the garages responsibility to keep Mr H updated. But it 
accepted there were avoidable delays regarding the repairs. It said a courtesy car was 
provided when one became available, as per its terms and conditions. 
  
Mr H then complained to us. He said he wanted a better apology, more compensation and 
confirmation that West Bay will never treat a customer like this again. 
 
Our Investigator who looked at the complaint thought West Bay should pay more 
compensation. She thought that whilst West Bay told Mr H he wouldnt get a courtesy car 
until his car was at a garage and that this was also subject to availability, she didnt think that 
he had been given clear information about how to get home after the accident. 
The Investigator added that according to the policy Mr H should have been able to claim for 
the cost of a taxi to travel back home and also to get his family to a safe location  to the 
family members home. And had that been the case, he wouldnt have had to make the 
return trip home and back in order to return the car he had borrowed. She thought West Bay 
should pay the full £283.91 Mr H claimed for his and his familys travel expenses.
She also thought Mr H minimised his losses by sharing his wifes car while he was without a 
courtesy car but accepted that he had to hire a car on one occasion to get to the airport. So 
she thought West Bay should pay back the £201.50 he paid for this. Furthermore, she 
thought West Bay should pay a further £100 compensation to bring this to £350 in total.
 
Mr H agreed with our Investigator but West Bay didnt and asked for an Ombudsmans 
decision. It said that Mr Hs destination was not his main home but the home of the family 
member he was temporarily staying with. It said the policy doesnt cover Mr H getting back 
home though it did agree for him to borrow a car to drive home. It said there was no 
provision for a courtesy car if none was available. In relation to the repairs it said the car had 
to be assessed to ensure it wasnt a total loss before a courtesy car could be provided. And 
a courtesy car was provided once one was available. It said overall there was a delay of 
15 working days between Mr H getting a courtesy car and this was due to the fact that the 
garage was closed for the Christmas holidays. 
Our Investigator didnt agree. She said Mr Hs final destination was his home. She also said 
the policy provides for payments of up to £100 per person in respect of alternative travel 
expenses. She added that she thought there was a delay in the courtesy car being provided 
and had Mr H not minimised his losses by borrowing his wifes car he would have been 
entitled to compensation for loss of use of his car. But West Bay wanted an Ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided to uphold it.
The policy says that if the insured calls straight after an accident they will be provided with a 
free courtesy car while their car is being repaired (subject to availability), free collection and 
redelivery and free cleaning service. Later on, the policy says that if the insured vehicle is 
being repaired by approved repairers West Bay will provide a courtesy car (subject to 
availability) for the duration of the repairs.
In terms of emergency transport and accommodation the policy says if the insured is not 
able to drive their vehicle as a result of the accident West Bay will assist with getting them 
and their passengers to a safe location. West Bay will also pay up to £100 per person in 
respect of alternative travel expenses for the insured and their passengers to reach their 
destination or emergency overnight accommodation for the insured and their passengers 
when an unplanned overnight stay is necessary. The accident happened on 17 December 2022. Two days later, Mr H chased for an update 
as he hadnt had any. The car was inspected on 24 January 2023. On 20 February 
West Bay wrote to Mr H to say that it had received an estimate regarding his repairs and that 
it would take seven to ten days for its engineers to inspect his car. Repairs were authorised 
on 22 February 2023 and completed at the end of March. Mr H was provided with a courtesy 
car between 25 January and 30 March.
 
The biggest issue in dispute is that West Bay is saying that Mr Hs destination wasnt his 
home which was several hours away but the house he had been staying at which was in the 
same city as where hed had his accident. The policy says there will be cover for Mr H and 
his passengers to go to a safe location. In this case I think that was the house they were 
temporarily stating at but not their home. West Bay has paid these costs.
The policy also says that West Bay will pay up to £100 for the driver and their passengers to 
reach their destination. West Bay says the destination was also the temporary home and not 
their actual house. I dont agree and I dont think this would be a fair and reasonable 
interpretation of the policy terms in these specific circumstances. I say this because the 
policy already covers expenses to travel to a safe location. The accident happened over the 
weekend and Mr H confirmed that his destination was his home. He had travelled to a 
different city to help move one of his children who had been at university and the plan was 
for the family to travel back home with several pieces of luggage. So in the specific 
circumstances I agree that Mr Hs destination was his home and not the temporary home he 
was staying at. So I think West Bay should pay the additional £95.05 Mr H has claimed for 
travelling to his home and having to travel back to a different city to return the car he had 
borrowed. 
Mr H also said, at some point before he got the courtesy car he had to hire a car to travel to 
the airport for a trip abroad. He took the coach back. The policy may not cover the cost of 
hire but in the circumstances I think it would be fair and reasonable for West Bay to 
reimburse Mr H those costs. I say this because Mr H hadnt been provided with a courtesy 
car until his was in for repair, over a month after the accident. Mr H mitigated his loss by 
sharing his wifes car but this was still something that caused him inconvenience, because 
his wife also needed her car. And, there is an argument that it would have been fair and 
reasonable for West Bay to compensate him for the loss of use of his car over this period. 
Because he had to wait a long time for his car to go in for repairs and though I appreciate he 
had a car for some days when he was using his wifes car there were some days when he 
didnt. As loss of use is normally awarded at £10 per day, I think the £201.50 Mr H is 
claiming for the cost of his hire car is fair and reasonable. 
Our Investigator thought West Bay should reimburse the cost of the car but not the bus (£33) 
as this would have been offset by Mr Hs fuel costs- had he driven. I think this is fair. 
West Bay agreed that there were issues with its online form as well as its service and delays 
in the car being repaired. It has offered Mr H £250 but our Investigator felt that £350 was 
more appropriate. I agree. It took around three months for Mr Hs car to be repaired and 
though he had a courtesy car for two of those he still had to go through the inconvenience 
and the stress of being without his car. And West Bay acknowledged that its engineers 
caused delays. West Bay said that it would have been for the garage to update Mr H but as 
the garage is acting as its agent in these circumstances I think it would be responsible for its 
actions. So it is also responsible for the lack of updates provided by the garage. 
Mr H asked for a better apology but I am of the opinion that a forced apology will not have 
any meaning so I will not ask West Bay to provide a further apology. In relation to seeking 
confirmation that West Bay will not treat another customer like it treated Mr H, this isnt something I can consider as part of this complaint. Our remit is limited to considering 
individual complaints that come to us and not the wider impact of a businesss actions on 
other consumers. That is a matter for the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I have decided to uphold this complaint. West Bay Insurance Plc 
must:
Pay Mr H £350 in total to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience it caused 
him. If it has already paid the £250 it offered it must now only pay a further £100.
Pay Mr H £201.50 for the cost of the hire car and a further £95.05 (so a total of £283.91) 
for travel expenses. It must also pay interest at the simple rate of 8% per year on these 
amounts from the dates Mr H paid them to the date it pays him.
If West Bay Insurance Plc pays interest and considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr H a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman