DRN-3151964
The complaint
Mr G complains Lloyds Bank plc (Lloyds) failed to close his credit card account when he 
asked, and the credit card account remained showing on his credit file.
What happened
Mr G says he contacted Lloyds in early July 2020 and asked to close his credit card account 
with them, having cleared the balance outstanding. Mr G says he noticed that a small sum of 
interest was charged to his credit card account and he complained to Lloyds about this and 
although it agreed to then close his credit card account, it took a few more weeks for this to 
happen. Additionally, the details of the credit card account remained on his credit file for 
months after this, which impacted his credit rating and his ability to obtain preferred credit 
terms elsewhere. Although this has now been removed from his credit file and his credit card 
account closed, Mr G doesnt feel Lloyds apology and £75 in compensation is sufficient, to 
cover the inconvenience this matter has caused him. 
Lloyds says it has apologised to Mr G for the time it took to close his credit card account and 
have paid him £75 by way of apology. Lloyds says given the impact of Covid, it took longer 
than usual for them and the credit reference agencies to mark the credit card account as 
closed, on his credit file  but there wasnt anything it could have done to have accelerated 
this. 
Mr G wasnt happy with Lloyds response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator says although Lloyds took longer than expected to close Mr Gs credit card 
account, it had apologised for that and paid £75 as an apology which she felt was 
reasonable. The investigator went on to say the impact of Covid on businesses would in all 
likelihood have affected the time it took Lloyds and the credit agencies to update his credit 
file, but it couldnt be held responsible for that. The investigator didnt feel there was any 
evidence to show that Mr G had been financially disadvantaged here. 
Mr G didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would have been frustrating for Mr G for it to take some weeks after his 
request, before Lloyds closed his credit card account and then some months before this was 
accurately reported on his credit file. When looking at this complaint, I will consider if Lloyds 
apology and payment of £75, fairly covers the inconvenience Mr G has suffered. 
The first thing to say is when making a full and impartial decision here, I have to take into 
account the fact this happened during the Covid pandemic which affected both businesses 
and customers alike. Mr Gs complaint centres around the fact Lloyds took several weeks to 
close his credit card account and then even longer to have this properly reflected on his 
credit file. Mr G feels this has impacted his ability to obtain preferential terms on finance 
elsewhere. 
Its worth saying Lloyds have accepted it did take a little longer than it would have expected, 
to close Mr Gs credit card account and have apologised for that. Lloyds have made clear to 
this service that any delays in recording up to date information on Mr Gs credit file, was 
because of the constraints put on it, and the credit agencies, as a direct result of the Covid 
pandemic.   
Thats not to say Mr G wasnt inconvenienced by the fact his credit file wasnt updated as 
quickly as it might, in normal circumstances, and that is understood. Its fair to say the 
backdrop of the pandemic here meant that many businesses faced problems resulting in 
inconvenience to its customers, so its important that this is taken into account when trying to 
establish what is fair and reasonable to impartially resolve a complaint. And here, while Mr G 
has suffered some inconvenience as he had to chase both the closure of his credit card 
account and the updating of his credit file, I am satisfied this was unavoidable due to the 
problems caused by the pandemic.
Mr G hasnt provided any evidence to support his view, the delay in updating his credit file 
was the sole and only reason why he wasnt able to apply and secure a preferential finance 
deal. That said, in any event, even if that was the case, I am satisfied there was little Lloyds 
could have done to speed up the process, due to the impact of Covid on businesses - so I 
cant hold it responsible for that. While Mr G may not agree, its not my role to penalise 
businesses when mistakes are made, but to see that an apology is given and a 
proportionate payment for the inconvenience caused is paid, and I am satisfied this is what 
happened here. While Mr G will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking 
anymore of Lloyds here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman