DRN-4509008
The complaint
Mr A has complained about a buy to let mortgage he holds with The Mortgage Business Plc 
(TMB). Hes unhappy about the rate of interest hes been charged.
What happened
This mortgage was taken out in 2007. The mortgage offer dated 23 February 2007 indicates:
The mortgage advice was given by a firm of independent financial advisers.
Mr A was borrowing £170,000 (plus fees) over a term of 20 years on a repayment basis.
The initial preferential rate product was described as The mortgage is at a 
TrackerTBE803 - Variable rate which is 1.100% above the Bank of England base rate 
currently 5.250% which ends on 31/05/2009, to give a current rate payable of 6.350%.
After which Your loan reverts to TMB Standard Variable Rate currently 7.590% after 
31/05/2009.
The contact notes indicate Mr A contacted TMB in May 2009 to query the reversionary rate 
as he said his illustration had given a product code of TBE664 but his mortgage was 
onTBE803. A copy of the mortgage offer was sent to Mr A on 8 May 2009 to confirm he was 
on the correct product.
On 1 June 2009 the mortgage reverted to the standard variable rate (SVR) in line with the 
February 2007 mortgage offer, and it remains on the SVR to date.
In October 2009 the mortgage was converted to interest-only at Mr As request, with the 
letter confirming that change stating the mortgage interest was being charged at the SVR 
which it said was 4.84% at that time.
Mr A raised this complaint with TMB on 22 August 2022. He said that his rate had increased 
with Bank of England base rate (base rate), but when base rate had reduced his mortgage 
hadnt reduced at the same rate. Mr A said TMB now appeared to be treating his mortgage 
as a base rate tracker mortgage with a pay rate of 4.45% over base rate, which he said was 
outrageous and should be amended immediately. He said it isnt a tracker mortgage, it is an 
SVR mortgage and should be charged at 3.5% in line with the Halifax SVR.
There was some back and forth between the parties, with TMB paying £50 compensation to 
Mr A for some misinformation it had given him about his initial preferential interest rate. 
Unhappy with TMBs response to his complaint Mr A referred the complaint to our service. 
The complaint was looked at by one of our Investigators. He said that Mr A had complained 
too late about the interest he had been charged before 22 August 2016 (six years before the 
complaint was made), although he said he would take account of earlier interest rate 
changes as part of the overall circumstances of the complaint. He then considered the 
complaint about the interest rate since that date and didnt uphold it.
Mr A didnt agree with our Investigators findings and so the case was passed to me to 
decide.
Earlier this month I issued a decision about our jurisdiction to consider this complaint. In that 
I said:
For the reasons Ive explained, our service only has the power to consider this complaint 
in respect of the interest rate charged since 22 August 2016. Ill now review the complaint 
on that basis and issue my decision on it in due course.
I now issue this decision about the interest rate charged since 22 August 2016 as the final 
stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case, Im 
required by DISP 3.6.4R of the FCA Handbook to take into account the relevant law, 
regulations, and good industry practice, when reaching my decision.
Ive given careful consideration to all the submissions made by both parties, but I wont 
address each and every point that has been raised. Ill focus on the matters that I consider 
most relevant to how Ive reached a fair outcome in keeping with the informal nature of our 
service.
Having done all that, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. I realise this will be 
disappointing for Mr A. But I hope the reasons I have set out below will help him to 
understand why I have come to this conclusion.
Before I go any further I should correct a misunderstanding on the part of Mr A. Hes said his 
mortgage was de facto with Halifax and said his bank statement showing his direct debit 
was collected by Halifax supports that. Mr As mortgage is with TMB. Whilst that is in the 
same banking group as Halifax, and I cant comment on why his bank statement says 
Halifax, it doesnt mean his mortgage is with Halifax rather than TMB. For that reason, 
Halifaxs SVR is irrelevant to this complaint. Mr A has also provided a copy of his 2023 
annual mortgage statement which is printed on Lloyds Banks paper. Again I cant comment 
on why that has happened, but it doesnt mean his mortgage lender has changed from TMB 
to Lloyds Bank.
The mortgage terms and conditions set out the circumstances in which TMB can vary the 
SVR.
Condition 7.6 says:
We can change the interest rate on any part of the capital at any time, unless the offer, 
any extra agreement or any flexible options agreement says we cannot. We can change 
the interest rate for any of the following reasons.
(a) To reflect changes in the cost to us of raising the money we lend to our customers with 
mortgages.
(b) To reflect changes in rates of interest charged by other major lenders (including the 
terms on which mortgages are offered by them).
(c) To reflect: changes to the law or codes of practice, a decision or recommendation 
made by, or a requirement of, a court, ombudsman, regulator or similar body or an 
undertaking given to the Financial Services Authority.
(d) To reflect changes to the way we look after the mortgage account or mortgage accounts generally (including changes to the technology we use) because of:
the steps we have taken to modernise or improve our systems for managing those 
accounts; or
reasons outside our control.
(e) To reflect changes to the accounting period.
(f) Because:
we are going to take over, take control of or acquire the business of another bank or 
organisation offering similar services;
we are going to be taken over or our business is acquired by another bank or 
organisation offering similar services; or
any of these things has happened, and the change will make sure that our customers 
and the customers of the other bank or organisation are treated in a similar way if 
they are in similar categories.
(g) To reflect changes to the way the property is used or occupied.
Where we refer to changes in the above list, we mean changes we know will happen or 
we reasonably believe will happen, or changes which have already taken place.
Condition 7.7 says:
We can also change the interest rate for any other valid reason.
The 2007 mortgage offer sets out that after the tracker rate expired in 2009, the mortgage 
would revert to the SVR, and the terms and conditions set out that the SVR could be varied 
in line with the terms of the mortgage. I havent seen any evidence that persuades me that 
TMB was obligated, contractually or otherwise, to have its SVR track the base rate. There 
was also no obligation on a lender to offer a new preferential rate when an old one expires  
or at any other time  in the rules of mortgage regulation. And nothing in Mr As mortgage 
offer says that TMB would move him onto a new rate either. To that extent, the mortgage 
has operated as it should.
By the time the tracker rate ended in 2009 TMB was what is known as a closed book 
lender  which means that it doesnt take on new mortgage business and doesnt offer new 
interest rates to existing customers. So if any existing customer had wanted a new rate, TMB 
had nothing to offer them. As Ive said, there is no obligation on a lender to offer new rates to 
existing customers, and since TMB didnt make rates available to any customer  not just 
Mr A  I dont think it was treating him unfairly.
Taking all that into account, I dont think it was unfair that Mr A was on TMBs SVR. 
That said, our service is required to consider what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. That includes, thinking more broadly about whether the way, and the extent 
to which, the terms have been used has resulted in unfair treatment for Mr A. I think that is 
the ultimate question I need to answer in deciding whether to uphold this case.
In answering this question, I have explained that although Im only able to consider the 
fairness of interest charged to Mr As mortgage since 22 August 2016, its necessary for me 
to consider historic changes to TMBs SVR.
Ive considered all the available evidence and all of the changes TMB made to the SVR 
since Mr A took his mortgage. Having done so, I am not persuaded that anything TMB has 
done in varying the rate has led to Mr A being treated unfairly. I have set out why below.
For reasons of commercial confidentiality, I havent set out in detail the evidence TMB has 
provided in full. Nor has our service provided copies of it to Mr A.Our rules allow me to accept information in confidence, so that only a description of it is 
disclosed, where I consider it appropriate to do so. In this case, I do consider it appropriate 
to accept the information and evidence TMB has provided in confidence, subject to the 
summary of it I have set out in this decision.
The 2007 mortgage offer makes clear the SVR is a variable rate. Theres no suggestion in 
either the offer or the terms and conditions that its directly linked to or tracks the base rate. 
Whilst I understand Mr A has commented on the fact TMB told him, in 2022, that his interest 
rate is base rate plus 4.50%, thats not the case. The SVR is a standalone variable rate, it 
isnt directly linked to and doesnt track the base rate. TMB has accepted that it gave 
incorrect information to Mr A and paid him £50 compensation for its mistake.
When Mr A took out his tracker rate in 2007, the SVR was 7.59%. Whilst he was on his 
tracker rate, TMB had reduced its SVR so that by the time he began to pay the SVR it was 
4.84%. The SVR then increased to 4.95% in November 2011. Following the change in 2011, 
TMBs SVR remained static at 4.95% until September 2018, and from then the changes 
TMB made to the SVR were largely made soon after changes were made to the base rate, 
and by the same amount.
As I say, theres nothing that links the SVR to base rate, or says that the SVR must be 
changed when the base rate changes. Nor is there anything in the terms and conditions that 
obliges TMB to change the SVR at any time  the terms allow TMB to make changes in 
certain limited circumstances, but dont require it to do so. 
The SVR was reduced between 2008 and 2010  around the same time as (though not to 
the same extent as) falls in the base rate. Between 2007 (when Mr A took out his tracker 
rate product) and May 2009 when his tracker rate period ended, the difference between the 
base rate and the SVR increased from 2.34 percentage points to 4.34 percentage points.
The SVR increased slightly in 2011 to 4.95% when base rate didnt change. That led to the 
differential increasing to 4.45 percentage points, and whilst there were changes to the base 
rate in 2016 and 2017 (one down and one up) there were no changes to the SVR. The SVR 
then increased to 5.2% in September 2018. It reduced to 4.7% in April 2020 and 4.55% in 
May 2020. It increased to 4.70% in February 2022, 4.95% in March 2022, 5.20% in May 
2022, 5.45% in June 2022 and 5.70% in August 2022. Mr A raised this complaint with TMB 
on 22 August 2022 so that is the point I can consider up until.
TMB has explained that it made these changes to the SVR to reflect changes in the cost of 
funding its mortgage business. Its provided us with evidence that shows that its costs 
changed over time, and that the changes to the SVR it made from time to time reflected the 
changes to its costs. Im aware from my wider knowledge of the mortgage market that there 
were significant funding pressures across the mortgage market around the time of the 
financial crisis and its aftermath, from 2008 to 2010, and that there was an increasing 
disconnect between the base rate and mortgage funding costs. This reinforces my view that 
the evidence shows changes TMB made at this time to the SVR reflected changes in its 
costs, which reduced but not to the same extent as reductions in the base rate. 
TMB has also shown that its costs increased in 2011, and that its costs remained broadly 
constant in 2016 and 2017. And since then, it has only changed the SVR following changes 
to the base rate.
Ive taken into account that TMB is a closed book lender, and doesnt lend new mortgages to 
new customers. But that doesnt mean its costs are fixed; until mortgages it has lent are 
repaid, TMB has to cover the ongoing costs of raising the funds it lent, which are themselves 
subject to change. Overall, Im satisfied that TMB has shown that it was entitled to rely on the terms and 
conditions to make the changes to the SVR it did make, and that there was no obligation on 
it to make changes to the SVR at other times. Taking that into account, I dont think theres 
evidence either that TMB relied on changes it was not entitled to make in setting the SVR 
charged at the start of the period I can consider, or that it acted unfairly in making further 
changes to the SVR during that period. 
I also note that throughout this period TMBs SVR was not substantially out of line with SVRs 
across the mortgage market. Although the SVR was higher than the preferential rates 
offered by other lenders, there was no obligation on TMB to offer preferential rates and the 
SVR wasnt substantially out of line with the reversion rates of other lenders. I think this is 
also a relevant factor in considering whether TMB acted fairly in setting the SVR at the level 
it did.
Ive explained that I can only consider the fairness of the interest rate TMB charged Mr A in 
the six years leading up to his complaint. Im satisfied that it was not unfair that he was on 
the SVR in that period. And Im satisfied  having taken into account both the changes to the 
SVR TMB made in this period, and the changes it made more than six years before the 
complaint but which influenced the level of the SVR in this period  that the level of the SVR 
was not unfair either. I dont therefore uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman