DRN-2455565
The complaint
Miss W complained that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco) 
passed her debt to a debt collection agency declined her offer of a repayment plan
What happened
Miss W had a Tesco credit card. The last payment to it was made in December 2019. In 
April 2020, Tesco sent her a Notice of Default. In May 2020, Tesco sent her a letter 
terminating the card and the debt was passed to a debt collection agency. In August 2020, 
Miss W contacted Tesco and offered to make an immediate payment of £100, followed by 
monthly payments of £200. She asked for the default to be removed from her credit file and 
for the debt to be taken back from the debt collection agency. Tesco said that she must deal 
with the debt collection agency and the default had to remain on her credit file.
Miss W complained to Tesco. She said that she had gone through a major trauma and 
therefore hadnt made any payments. She had blocked Tescos number on her phone 
because their calls were causing her stress. She said she would repay Tesco within three 
years. She didnt think it was fair that the debt had been passed to a debt collection agency 
and asked that it was transferred back to Tesco. And she wanted the default removed from 
her credit file.
Tesco replied in September 2020. They said that the last payment received was in 
December 2019.They had tried to contact Miss W by phone, text and letters throughout 
2020. But there had been no response from Miss W until her call in August 2020. If theyd 
been able to speak to her, they could have helped her. So, they had defaulted and 
terminated her account. Miss Ws credit file had been updated and this could not be 
removed. The debt had been passed to a debt collection agency. Miss W should deal with 
them to make payments.
Miss W brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator replied in December 2020. 
She said that Tesco had sent monthly statements and letters saying that payments were 
overdue. They had offered to discuss her financial position. In March 2020, Tesco wrote to 
Miss W and said that she may be issued with a default letter if she failed to make payments. 
In April 2020, the default notice was issued and in May 2020, the card account was 
terminated, and the debt passed to debt collectors. If Miss W had been able to contact 
Tesco about her problems, they may have been able to help. But Tesco had followed the 
rules for recovering the debt and hadnt done anything wrong.
Miss W asked that her complained be looked at by an ombudsman.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss W says that she suffered a major trauma and that led to the problems with the Tesco 
credit card. I am sorry to hear of this and Ive taken it into account when considering the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
But here, Tesco were faced with a debt and Miss W stopped making any payments in 
December 2019. Tesco didnt know what was going on with Miss W at this point, so its fair 
that they were trying to get in touch with her to find out why she wasnt making payments. 
Tesco made her aware of the situation when they sent statements showing the arrears and 
amounts due. 
In March and May 2020, they sent notices of arrears. In March 2020, they sent a pre-default 
letter. In April 2020 they sent a notice of default. In May 2020 they advised that the account 
was terminated. I have reviewed these, and they offer support and help if Miss W would get 
in touch. I can see that Miss W was also sent the FCAs information sheets on arrears and 
default - and how to deal with them. Tesco were clear that if Miss W took no action, then the 
default would be put on her credit file and the debt passed to a debt collection agency.
I realise that the situation as it stands with the sale of the debt and the default will have had 
an impact on Miss W. But, ultimately Tesco were following the correct procedure here for 
dealing with customers in this position. They acted within the rules for dealing with debts in 
arrears. The relevant guidance from the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) says when 
a consumer is at least three months behind with their payments then a default may be 
registered. And it would expect a default to be registered by the time the consumer is six 
months behind with their payments. So the fact Tesco did this here is fair and it remains an 
accurate reflection of what happened to the account.
Miss W has explained to Tesco why she wants it to now buy the debt back from the agent it 
is currently with and to remove the default. She offered a payment too. But by that point, 
Tesco had taken this action so they advised that Miss W contacted the company the debt 
was now with. Its worth saying that once a debt has been sold in this way, interest and 
charges will usually be suspended, allowing a customer to repay what they owe without the 
balance increasing, which seems like a positive thing for Miss W here  even if she doesnt 
currently see it that way.
I think thats a fair response here, as Tesco acted properly and fairly in dealing with Miss Ws 
debt. I am also satisfied that Tesco did all it could to contact Miss W to try and help her too. 
It is just unfortunate that Miss W couldnt speak to Tesco about her personal situation earlier. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to ask Tesco to do anymore here. Id urge Miss W to speak to the 
company that is currently trying to recover the debt to come to an agreeable way forward 
here. These companies often tend to be more flexible with what theyre willing to accept in 
terms of repayment, which seems like it could help Miss W here.My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman