DRN-2890731
Complaint
Miss J says Santander UK Plc (trading at the time as Alliance & Leicester) mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Miss J took out a regular premium PPI policy with a loan in 2011. She paid a monthly 
amount for the policy, which provided cover if she couldnt work because of an accident, 
sickness or unemployment.
 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Santander disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
On 20 May 2021, I issued my provisional decision. In my provisional decision I explained 
why I disagreed with the outcome reached by the adjudicator. And I gave Miss J and 
Santander an opportunity to respond. Below is an extract of what I said:
Miss J says she was told she had to take PPI in order to be accepted for the loan, she 
would not have chosen to take it out. She has also said she was not given the full policy 
details.
In order to apply PPI to Miss Js loan account, Santander had to make Miss J aware that the 
PPI was optional and gain her consent. Santander hasnt been able to provide the actual 
online application form Miss J completed. But it has provided a sample copy of the online 
loan application process that it says its customers would have seen, an electronic copy of 
the answers Miss J gave during her online application and a copy of Miss Js loan 
agreement. 
Looking at the sample online application process, I can see there would have been a point 
where the application asked if the customer wanted to take out the PPI. It gives them the 
option to select Yes or No. If they didnt want the PPI, the customer could have selected 
No and proceeded with the application. 
Based on what Ive seen of the sample online application process, along with the electronic 
copy of the answers Miss J gave during her online application, on balance, I think its more 
likely than not a similar process was followed in Miss Js case. 
I have also seen the loan agreement Miss J was sent after completing the online application. 
The Personal Loan Payment Protection Insurance section outlines that the policy is 
optional and the cost of the policy. I can see Miss J has to select again that she wished to 
purchase the PPI. She also had to sign separately for it. 
Having considered all of the submissions I have received in this case, I think its more likely 
than not that Santander made Miss J aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why Miss J can no longer recall this over nine years 
later.
Santander didnt recommend the PPI to Miss J, so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Miss J got the information she needed to decide for herself 
if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information Santander gave Miss J about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But she chose to take out PPI  so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it seems she was eligible 
for the policy and it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions or limitations 
to the PPI cover. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. 
Miss J has told us she would have been entitled to between 3 and 6 months pay if she was 
too unwell to work. Having thought about what Miss J has said, I dont think this means she 
wouldnt have found the policy useful. I say this because the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay Miss J would have received from her employer and would have 
potentially paid out for longer  for up to 12 months. The PPI would have also paid out in the 
event she was made redundant for up to 12 months. Shes also told us she didnt have any 
savings or other means she could have used to cover her loan repayments if she ever fell on 
hard times.
The cost of the policy was shown in the loan agreement Miss J signed  this included the 
monthly and total cost of the policy, the number of monthly premiums and the total combined 
monthly cost of the policy and loan. So I think Miss J would have understood how much she 
would need to pay for it. 
Having considered all of the information provided, I dont think better information about the 
PPI would have put Miss J off taking out the cover and I dont think that she lost out as a 
result of anything Santander might have done wrong. Which means Santander doesnt have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss J. 
But Santander has to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss J because:
 
Santander has to pay back to Miss J any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Santander should also pay back to Miss J any 
extra interest she paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Miss J the extra she paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander 
should also pay Miss J 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss J can claim back the tax if she 
doesnt pay tax.
I asked everyone to send me any further comments and information before I reached a final 
decision. Both parties have confirmed receipt of the provisional decision and had nothing 
further to add.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case. 
As neither Miss J nor Santander provided any further evidence for me to look at, Ive 
reached the same conclusions I came to in my provisional decision, for the same reasons. 
So I dont uphold the complaint. Which means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Miss J.
But Santander has to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss J because:
 
Santander has to pay back to Miss J any commission and profit share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Santander should also pay back to Miss J any extra interest 
she paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Miss J the extra she paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should 
also pay Miss J 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss J can claim back the tax if she 
doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and within my provisional decision, I dont uphold the 
complaint. So Santander UK Plc doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss J.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Miss J any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Donna Parsons
Ombudsman