DRN-3966734
The complaint
Mr H complains UK Insurance trading as NIG Insurance (UKI) provided poor service when it 
failed to email information it had said it would send him.
What happened
In May 2021 Mr H made a claim on his home buildings insurance policy that he held with 
UKI.
UKIs contractors had to revisit the property to resolve an issue of reported poor 
workmanship. An expert from UKI attended the property to check on the work completed. 
UKI agreed to take pictures of the rectification work and said it would email Mr H these 
images and a report from the attending expert.
When the email with the expert report was received by Mr H the images of the rectification 
work were not attached.
UKI apologised and emailed the images. It paid Mr H £25 for the inconvenience caused.
 
In addition Mr H complained there were no contact details on the expert report.
As Mr H was not happy with UKI, he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. They looked into the case and said the £25 
compensation offered for the inconvenience of forgetting to send the images was fair and in 
line with our approach. They said UKI was within its rights to omit the name of the author of 
the expert report.
As Mr H is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my decision I am only able to take into consideration the specifics of this complaint.  I 
cannot revisit or consider any other complaint points relating to this claim.  
After UKIs contractor revisited the risk address to resolve poor workmanship Mr H 
requested evidence of the repainted walls. In early November 2022 UKI sent one of its 
property insurance advisors to the property to take photos and to report on the work 
completed.
UKI agreed to send the images of the completed rectification work to Mr H in an email along 
with the expert report. However the images were not included in the email sent. 
I saw when UKI was notified of its error it rectified it quickly. It accepted it was human error 
that the images were not attached to the email it sent to Mr H. I saw the images were then 
emailed to Mr H on 9 November 2022.
UKI paid Mr H £25 as a gesture of goodwill. I think this is a fair and reasonable offer in the 
circumstances of this complaint point.
UKI said it did not include the name and contact details of the author of the report. It said 
these were not necessary as this person was an employee. It acknowledged Mr H might 
have found this frustrating.
Our service is not able to tell a business how it must operate, as we are not the regulator. I 
can only consider if UKI have acted fairly in relation to the complaint made.
UKI was within its rights to omit the employees name and contact details from the report 
regarding the work completed on the property. Mr H already had a contact at UKI who was 
dealing with his complaint and I dont think him having the employees name who completed 
the report was necessary information that would have changed anything in this complaint.
Therefore, I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint and do not require UKI to do anything further in 
this case.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman