DRN-3195529
The complaint
Miss T has complained about her car insurer EUI Limited because it marked her credit file 
with a default, even though it had agreed to put its request for her to pay outstanding 
payments on hold.
What happened
Miss T had a policy with EUI which shed agreed to pay for by monthly direct debit. In 
July 2019 Miss T missed a payment, and when EUI called for the money again, it still wasnt 
able to collect it. EUI wrote to Miss T and said she was in default and her policy would be 
cancelled if she didnt pay the outstanding sums by 1 August 2019. Whilst Miss T called EUI 
on 1 August to make a payment, the policy was cancelled and although EUI viewed Miss T 
as being in default, her credit file wasnt updated at that time. Miss T made a complaint to 
this service about EUIs actions. My ombudsman colleague found that EUI had treated 
Miss T fairly in respect of cancelling the policy and that it had been entitled to view her as 
being in default of her credit agreement.
During the course of our processing that complaint, Miss T told us EUI had agreed to put 
matters on hold pending the complaint outcome. However, she said that the hold kept being 
removed so she was receiving debt collection letters, with a late payment charge being 
added. She said the default had also been updated in her credit file. EUI refunded the 
charge to Miss T and paid her £75 compensation because it accepted it hadnt responded to 
her complaint email. But EUI felt it had acted correctly to record the default which had 
occurred. EUI said that whilst its collection activity had been put on hold that hadnt affected 
its duty to update the credit file. 
Miss T had an additional concern about a conversation shed had with EUI in an online chat 
in November 2020. At that time Miss T contacted EUI to make a payment of the outstanding 
sum which had resulted from the missed payments and policy cancellation in August 2019. 
She asked to pay the outstanding balance in full  which would be cheaper, rather than 
make a payment plan, but EUI initially refused to take this payment. EUI felt that taking full 
payment would place Miss T in a worse financial position. But, during the same 
conversation, when EUIs representative explained this to Miss T, she was able to persuade 
the representative this was not the case. The representative took Miss Ts payment for the 
lower amount in full settlement of the outstanding policy sum.
Miss T made a further complaint to us as she felt EUI should have advised her, when she 
asked to put its request for payment on hold, that it would still amend her credit file in the 
meantime. She said if it had she would have paid and, therefore, avoided the default marker 
being placed on her credit record. She also felt it was unfair that EUI had assumed what her 
financial position was, and whilst this had been resolved during the same call, she had been 
caused further distress. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She felt Miss T had been made aware via the 
credit agreement and the letter EUI sent in July 2019, that it might record her as being in 
default. She also felt EUI had acted in accordance with its responsibility to not put Miss T in 
a worse financial position when it had initially refused to allow her to pay the lower sum to 
clear the debt. She didnt think EUI had done anything wrong. 
The complaint came to me for consideration. I felt EUI had failed Miss T and that it should 
pay her £250 compensation. My provisional findings were:
default
My colleague found that EUI was entitled to hold Miss T in default. I appreciate that Miss T 
believes she wasnt in default as she was intending to pay, but I cant go behind the findings 
of my colleague. I can only start from the premise that in July 2019 a default had occurred. 
So, in August 2019, when Miss T was asking EUI to put its debt collection activity on hold, 
the default had already occurred. EUI, at that time, hadnt updated Miss Ts credit file, 
although as EUI has explained it does have a duty to provide an accurate record of Miss Ts 
credit history. So, at some point, it was always bound to update that. As such, Miss T making 
a payment to satisfy the debt which had resulted from the missed payments, or EUI agreeing 
to hold its request for payment of the same, wouldnt have changed the fact of the default 
which had already occurred. Or EUIs duty to record it. Ideally EUI might have thought to 
advise Miss T in this respect. But I note she asked it to put its debt collection on hold and 
that was a separate issue to the default on the credit agreement. I know it wasnt in Miss Ts 
mind. But I dont think I could reasonably expect that EUI should have assumed that either 
Miss T was labouring under that misunderstanding, or that in asking it about debt collection, 
she reasonably meant the default as well.
In any event, I asked Miss T to share with me a copy of her credit file. From this I cant see 
any sign that, at this time, any default is showing against her in respect of this insurance 
policy and credit agreement. So, even if I was persuaded (which Im not) that EUI had misled 
Miss T in 2019, in such a way as to cause her to have an entry on her credit file which, but 
for its failure, couldve been avoided, I cant see shes had any lasting loss as a result of that.
debt collection 
I do think EUI failed Miss T in this respect. And I accept this caused her some unnecessary 
worry and frustration. 
Miss T asked EUI to put the outstanding balance and its debt collection activity on hold 
whilst her initial complaint progressed through our service. EUI replied stating it would place 
a 60 day hold on her file. EUI didnt clarify to Miss T what would happen after 60 days. What 
did happen was that the hold came off automatically, and equally as automatically, its debt 
collection activity resumed. This meant Miss T received debt collection letters. 
At the very least I think EUI should have clearly advised Miss T that, towards the end of the 
60 days, shed need to contact it again to ensure a further hold was placed on her account if 
her complaint with us hadnt resolved. But it didnt. And what I think EUI should have actually 
done was take control of the situation and manage its own debt collection activity to ensure 
that it knew what stage the complaint with this service was at and that its activity didnt 
resume again until that was resolved. From what Ive seen, EUI recommenced debt 
collection activity three times before my ombudsman colleague issued his decision on the 
previous complaint on 6 August 2020. If EUI had managed things better, those resumptions 
in activity, along with the upset they caused Miss T, could have been avoided. Ive taken the 
upset Miss T was caused by this into account when awarding compensation. 
Novembers refusal, initially, to take paymentEUI does have a duty to ensure that it doesnt put a policyholder into any more financial 
distress than they may already be in. But Im not persuaded that EUI has shown that the 
conversation it had with Miss T in November 2020 progressed reasonably in light of that 
duty. 
I understand that in that conversation Miss T said she was or would be borrowing money in 
order to pay the balance in full at the reduced amount. And I accept that the phrasing 
borrowing might raise a red flag for EUIs advisors who have to balance obtaining a 
payment against placing a customer under further financial stress. But here the discussion 
was about a trade-off between paying £120 now or a total of £160 over several months. So 
there would be stress and pressure for Miss T in either event. And I note that Miss T says 
that when she volunteered a bit more information to the representative she was talking to, 
she was asked more questions and the representative was persuaded to take the reduced 
payment. So I think the representative likely jumped to a conclusion initially, without having 
first gained all the pertinent facts, which caused Miss Ts offer to pay the reduced amount to 
be unreasonably refused. I accept that Miss T was caused a fair amount of stress and worry 
by the initial refusal, but I bear in mind this issue was resolved quickly and during the same 
conversation. Nonetheless Ive taken the upset into account in making my compensation 
award. 
compensation
As Ive set out above, I think that EUI, on occasion, following the conversation it had with 
Miss T on 1 August 2019, did fail her. Ive also explained that Im satisfied she was caused 
distress and inconvenience as a result. For this upset I think fair and reasonable 
compensation of £250 is due to Miss T. 
To be clear, whilst Im aware that EUI has paid Miss T £75 compensation already, I see this 
was paid in respect of upset it was satisfied it had caused Miss T by not responding to her 
complaint email. I am not and have not considered that issue. My decision is about, and my 
award is made in respect of, other failures by EUI and the consequent upset Miss T was 
caused. If my final decision remains the same and Miss T accepts it, EUI will not be able to 
deduct £75 from my £250 compensation award. 
EUI said it accepted my decision. Miss T said she accepted it in the main, but she had 
concerns about what Id said in respect of the default notice. She said she was re-sending 
screenshots which show there is a default on her file applied in January 2020. She said if 
this is to remain it should reflect the correct date of the default (2019) as per industry 
guidance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the screenshot Miss T has provided I do see that there is a default on her credit file. 
But, as I explained provisionally, my colleague previously found that EUI was entitled to hold 
Miss T in default, and I wasnt persuaded that EUI had ever agreed to set that default aside 
or place it on hold. 
I appreciate that Miss T is unhappy about the date of the default recorded on her credit file. 
She says that industry guidance says that the date recorded should reflect the date of the 
default  which is not the case with her record. Shed like this to be amended. I understand 
Miss Ts concern. But the date of the recorded default was not an issue initially complained 
about to EUI or referred to this service. Rather, regarding the default on her credit file, Miss T was unhappy that the default had been applied even though she had challenged EUI 
by making a complaint and it had agreed to put her account (actually its debt collection 
activity) on hold. And it was whilst that hold was meant to be in place that in January 2020, 
the default was recorded. So that is the issue Ive assessed. If Miss T feels the date for the 
default recorded on her credit file should be different, she should put her concerns to EUI in 
the first instance.
Putting things right
I require EUI to pay Miss T £250 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require EUI Limited to provide the redress set out above at putting 
things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman