DRN-4037844
The complaint
Mr D has complained about the claim settlement made by Aviva Insurance Limited, and 
about the service he received. 
What happened
The facts are well known to the parties. In summary Mr D claimed under his jewellery 
insurance when an insured watch was stolen. Aviva accepted the claim, but paid Mr D less 
than he said that watch was worth. Unhappy, he referred his complain here.
Our investigator didnt recommend that it was upheld, she felt that the claim payment was 
fair. Mr D appealed. 
Mr D is represented by Mrs D, but for simplicity I will just refer to representations as being 
made by Mr D. Likewise any reference to Aviva also includes its agents.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms state For pre-owned or second hand watches the value provided 
must represent the amount to replace the watch with one of a similar age and 
condition in the UK. From the evidence I have seen regarding pre-owned watches of 
the same specification Im satisfied that the settlement Aviva made was fair. I have 
taken into account that the advertised prices vary, but the evidence before me 
doesnt support the argument that a replacement watch would cost £10,000. In the 
circumstances I find that settling the claim for the sum Mr D paid for the watch, less 
the policy excess, was reasonable.
Mr D increased the insured value of the watch as he had a valuation for £10,000. 
Unfortunately this wasnt from a National Association of Jewellers Registered valuer. 
Mr Ds policy provides cover for theft if substantiated by evidence of ownership 
and/or a jewellery valuation. These terms are defined in the policy and a jewellery 
valuation is defined as: A valuation completed within the last 3 years and completed 
by a National Association of Jewellers Institute Registered valuer. This therefore is a 
policy requirement. After the theft of the watch, Mr D offered to get a second 
valuation and paid for this. Although the second jeweller was registered and agreed 
with the valuation of the first, it hadnt seen the watch. 
Its unfortunate that Aviva initially agreed to accept a valuation after the theft, this 
raised Mr Ds expectations and caused expense and inconvenience. A valuation 
without having seen the watch wouldnt have been acceptable. I find that is 
reasonable. But Aviva later apologised and offered to refund the fee paid. It also 
offered to refund the increased premiums paid following the mid-term increase in 
cover to £10,000. I find this was fair.
I understand why Mr D was unhappy - the watch had been discontinued and he 
believed the value had increased. But without a jewellery valuation meeting the policy 
requirements, I dont find Aviva treated Mr D unfairly or contrary to the policy terms 
by settling the claim for the watchs purchase price. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman