DRN-3391438
The complaint
Mr H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc recorded missed payments on his credit file despite 
agreeing a payment holiday.  
What happened
In June 2020 Mr H applied for a payment holiday with HSBC. The Payment Deferral 
Guidance issued by the Financial Conduct Authority said businesses should offer customers 
the option of a payment holiday without impact to their credit file if their income was affected 
by the pandemic. 
In July 2020 HSBC approved a payment holiday for three months. HSBC sent Mr H 
confirmation the payment holiday had been approved. But HSBC failed to put the payment 
holiday in place on its systems. As a result, missed payments were recorded on Mr Hs 
credit file. 
Mr H complained to HSBC in September 2020 and it issued a final response on 26 October 
2020. HSBC accepted it had made a mistake and took steps to remove the missed 
payments from Mr Hs credit file. HSBC also confirmed it had reaged the loan, which meant 
the missed payments were spread over the remaining term and offered Mr H £150 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr H referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. Mr H has 
explained a credit card provider substantially reduced his credit limit and a remortgage 
application was declined as a result of the missed payments incorrectly recorded on his 
credit file. Our investigator thought HSBC had dealt with Mr Hs complaint fairly and didnt 
ask it to take any further action. Mr H asked to appeal so his complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All parties agree that HSBC made a mistake in this case. HSBC confirmed the payment 
holiday was approved but failed to make the necessary arrangement son its systems. That 
meant Mr H stopped making his monthly payments, in line with what HSBC told him, but it 
went on to record the missed payments on his credit file. 
HSBC has now taken steps to remove the missed payments from Mr Hs credit file but hes 
told us the missed payments caused problems. Mr H has sent us screen shots that show a 
rejected request to increase a credit limit on a credit card. And Mr H also says the missed 
payments caused a remortgage application to be declined. Our investigator asked Mr H to 
provide further supporting information to verify what hes told us but none has been 
provided. 
I understand Mr Hs frustration at being asked to supply further information. But for me to be 
able to fairly say HSBCs actions had led to a loss, Id need to see evidence to verify what 
weve been told. Mr H asked for some additional time to submit information but nothing 
further has been received. Based on the information on file, I havent seen anything that 
shows the missed payments were the key reason his credit limit wasnt increased or 
remortgage declined.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr H but Im satisfied the £150 compensation HSBC offered 
reasonably reflects the impact of its errors on him and is a fair way to resolve his complaint. 
As Im satisfied HSBC has amended Mr Hs credit file and offered a fair level of 
compensation, Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because HSBC UK Bank Plc has already 
made an offer that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman