DRN-1637813
The complaint
Mr W complains that Admiral Insurance Company Ltd concluded that he was at fault for a 
motor accident.
What happened
Mr W has a car insurance policy with Admiral. In April 2019, he was involved in a minor 
accident at a set of traffic lights. Mr W believes that the third-party driver deliberately drove 
into the back of his car, whilst he was stationary, as soon as the lights turned green. 
After reviewing the available evidence, including photos provided by Mr W, Admiral 
concluded he was at fault for the accident as it appeared likely he was moving from one lane 
to another after the lights turned green when his car was struck from behind. Mr W 
disagreed and complained to Admiral about their conclusion. He felt Admiral hadnt fully 
taken into account what hed told them, or accepted the photos hed provided were proof  in 
his opinion  he was stationary when the impact occurred. 
Responding, Admiral repeated that theyd looked at the photos and considered Mr Ws 
testimony.  Theyd also considered the third partys version of events, and considered the 
relevant rules of the highway code. And in the absence of any CCTV  which theyd 
requested and been told was unavailable  they concluded on a balance of probability that 
Mr W wasnt stationary and was at fault for the collision. Admiral also advised they were 
entitled to settle the third partys claim under the terms of Mr Ws policy. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr W brought his complaint to us. He asked that the accident is 
re-classified as non-fault. However, one of our investigators advised that our role was to 
consider if Admiral handled the claim in a fair and reasonable manner. It wasnt to decide 
who was at fault, as that is something best left to a Court to decide. She felt Admiral had 
handled the claim fairly  it made (unsuccessful) efforts to obtain CCTV recordings to better 
evidence what had happened, and so wouldnt be asking Admiral to do anything further. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr W asked an ombudsman to review the case, so its been 
passed to me to consider further. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware of Mr Ws strength of feeling regarding this matter - Ive listened to all of the calls 
hes had with our investigators. However, I agree with the outcome reached by our 
investigator. Ill explain why.
Mr Ws policy sets out what Admiral is able to do in the event of a claim being made. Under 
the General Conditions of Your Cover section, on page 17, it says: 
We are entitled toadmit negligence for any accident or claim on your behalf
Essentially this allows Admiral to decide, upon a review of the evidence available, whether 
Mr W should be held liable for the accident. We cant decide who is at fault  as our 
investigator said, this is a question better addressed in Court if a dispute remains. But whist 
this is a decision Admiral are entitled to reach, we can still consider whether Admiral handled 
the claim in a fair and reasonable manner in reaching that decision. And here I think it did. 
Ive seen from Admirals business notes that an attempt was made to obtain CCTV footage 
from the local authority, but this wasnt available. The request was made in good time, and 
certainly within the 30-day period during which such images were kept. Its clear the third 
party disputed liability and given the conflicting accounts of events the matter was referred to 
Admirals liability team to assess. And based on that assessment  in other words, a review 
of all the available evidence and testimony (from both sides)  Admiral concluded they were 
unable to dispute liability any further. That was a decision they were entitled to make, as I 
mentioned above  and Im satisfied it was reached in a fair and reasonable manner. And 
that being the case, I wont be asking Admiral to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2021.
 
Mark Evans
Ombudsman