DRN-2822653
The complaint
Mr D complains about poor service from Suffolk Life Pensions Limited (trading as Curtis
Banks Pensions) (CB) in connection with transferring his self-invested personal pension
(SIPP) to a new provider.  
What happened
Mr D started the process to transfer his SIPP from CB to a new provider in early 2017. But it
took until late 2019 for the transfer to be completed. Mr D says the delay was due to CBs
poor service, systems and administration. He considers the time taken to complete the
transfer is unacceptable and is unhappy that CB charged full fees for poor service.
In addition, CB deducted several years fees at once, without notice. This meant Mr D had to
make a taxable withdrawal from his pension fund to make up the shortfall in the cash he
needed at the time.
CB didnt consider it was responsible for the delay in transferring Mr Ds SIPP, and it didnt
offer to refund any fees. Mr D was unhappy with CBs response and referred the matter to
this service.
Our investigator didnt consider CB had delayed the transfer of Mr Ds SIPP. But she thought
the deduction of several years fees without notice was unfair. The investigator was satisfied
the fees had been properly charged, but she said CB should pay Mr D £300 for the
inconvenience caused by making the deduction without notice.
CB agreed with the compensation suggested by the investigator.
Mr D didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. He said, in summary, that CB was
unclear on which assets were held in the SIPP, and this created problems for the transfer.
He also maintained that CBs charges were unfair given the poor quality of its service. Mr D
asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint and the suggested level of compensation.
I issued a provisional decision for the complaint on 13 April 2021. Details of my provisional 
findings are set out below:
Mr D had said throughout his complaint that the root cause of the delayed transfer 
was CBs failure to properly record the assets held in his SIPP. Id looked carefully at 
CBs response to this suggestion, which was set out in an email to Mr Ds 
independent financial adviser (IFA) in July 2017.
It seemed Mr Ds SIPP included some loan notes, which CB wasnt aware of when 
the transfer request was first made in January 2017. CBs understanding was that the 
notes were probably issued as a default response to a proxy vote  which CB had 
not been aware of.
CB said it had to obtain full information about the loan notes before the new SIPP 
provider could confirm whether it could accept them. The position was confirmed by 
the new SIPP provider in June 2017, when it said it couldnt accept the loan notes.
An agreed solution was that there would be a full transfer out of the crystallised part 
of Mr Ds fund (in cash). The remaining fund would then show as fully uncrystallised 
and a partial transfer of the uncrystallised fund would be made. CB said this was 
permitted within HMRC rules.
Mr Ds IFA had provided his records of contact with CB from January 2017
onwards. These showed that the transfer of the crystallised part of the fund took 
place in June 2017, once the position on the loan notes had been clarified. A partial 
transfer of the remaining uncrystallised fund took place shortly afterwards.
But from then on, the records suggested to me that there was nothing proactive from 
CB in terms of dealing with the remainder of the uncrystallised fund. Mr Ds IFA was 
chasing CB regularly between June 2017 and January 2018 to find out what was 
happening, but I cant see that he received any meaningful response. The notes 
recorded the following information:
23-Mar-2018
There has been a cash transfer from [CB] to [new SIPP provider] for £20,712.36. 
[CB] have now closed their account.
But even though the SIPP was closed, CB was still holding the problematic asset. 
The new SIPP provider confirmed it couldnt accept it. Cash then had to be returned 
to CB to cover administration costs while it held the asset.
The IFAs records showed that in April 2018 CB accepted the SIPP had been closed 
in error. The records also showed there was discussion between the IFA and the new 
SIPP provider to agree a suitable mechanism for transferring the problematic asset. It 
seems a way forward was agreed around September 2018, but needed various 
paperwork involving CB.
CB told Mr Ds IFA in April 2019 that the transfer of the asset could take some time. 
The exact requirements for what was required from CB were confirmed in June 2019. 
A third party was also involved at that point, and it seems some of the delay during 
the summer of 2019 was due to waiting for paperwork from that third party. But it 
seems the necessary information was available by the end of July 2019.
The IFAs records from August and September 2019 showed:
Spoken toat [new SIPP provider] as the cash has been received from [CB] and
presumably the [asset] although this is showing on their website as pending. Hes 
confirmed hell chase [CB] as they said the transfer paperwork would be with them by 
the end of this week and nothing has been received.
[New SIPP provider] called, he was promised the letter last week but still not 
received it, he has chased again today and has been told that they have had errors 
in postage so should be received by the end of this week!!
Rang [new SIPP provider] whos confirmed he received an email from [CB] asking 
him to confirm how much cash and the value of the [asset] theyd transferred!!! [He] provided the information but still hasnt received the letter to enable them to reconcile 
things at their end.

The transfer wasnt fully completed until October 2019.
Having reviewed all of the evidence, I wasnt persuaded that CB did what it could to 
expedite Mr Ds SIPP once the problem with transferring the loan notes was 
discovered in June 2017. I didnt consider the overall time taken to complete the 
transfer was acceptable. I accepted that not all of the delay was caused by CB, but I 
thought its poor service made a significant contribution to the overall lengthy 
timescale. So I understood why Mr D was unhappy with the fees hed had to pay.
In the circumstances I thought it would be fair and reasonable for CB to refund one 
years worth of fees.
I also considered it was unreasonable for CB to deduct several years worth of fees 
without notice. So I said it should also reimburse Mr D for any tax paid on the 
pension withdrawal made as a result of the fee deduction.
I could see that the nature of certain assets in Mr Ds SIPP meant the transfer was 
likely to take longer than it might have done. But I still thought the overall time taken 
to complete the transfer was unreasonable. Even with a reasonable amount of delay, 
I considered it shouldve completed within one year of the transfer process starting.
Which meant the transfer shouldve completed by early 2018. It was possible that the 
additional delay had created an investment loss for Mr Ds SIPP. So I considered CB 
should also compensate him for any investment loss hed suffered.
Finally, I said CB should pay Mr D £200 for the inconvenience this matter has 
caused.  
Mr D responded to say that he agreed with my provisional findings.
CB said it didnt agree that fees should be refunded, but it was willing to accept my 
provisional findings to bring the matter to a close.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any further representations from the parties, I see no reason to depart 
from the position set out in my provisional decision.  
Putting things right
To compensate Mr D CB should:
Work out what Mr Ds new SIPP would now be worth if it had been fully transferred 
by 31 January 2018, and measure this against its actual current value.
If there is a loss, CB should pay into Mr D's SIPP, to increase its value by the amount 
of the compensation. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. CB shouldnt pay the compensation into the SIPP if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If CB is unable to pay the compensation into Mr D's SIPP, it should pay that amount 
direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow 
for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance 
should be calculated using Mr D's actual or expected marginal rate of tax at his 
selected retirement age. For example, if Mr D is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at 
the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. 
However, if Mr D would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction 
should be applied to 75% of the compensation. I have assumed that Mr D
will be a basic rate tax payer.
Refund one years worth of fees to Mr D.
Reimburse Mr D for any tax paid on the pension withdrawal made as a result of the 
fee deduction made without warning.
Pay Mr D £200 for the inconvenience this matter has caused.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Suffolk Life Pensions Limited (trading as 
Curtis Banks Pensions) to pay compensation to Mr D in line with the instructions above.
   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman