DRN-2419009
The complaint
Mrs K is unhappy Quickly Finance Limited, trading as Fast Track Reclaim (FTR) is charging
her a fee for a payment protection insurance claim (PPI), that she said she didnt authorise
them to make. She said shed made the PPI claims herself with her lender.
What happened
Mrs K said she made a PPI claim with her lender, Ill call M, using an on-line service shortly
before the August 2019 deadline for making PPI claims. And received confirmation that her
claim had been made.
And in October 2019 Mrs K was told by M her claim was successful and the amount of
compensation shed be paid. Mrs K said a few days later she had an invoice from FTR
asking her to pay their fee as her claim had been successful. Mrs K complained to FTR as
she said shed never asked them to submit a claim for her as she hadnt returned the
documentation, they had sent to her.
FTR said Mrs K had asked them to carry out a free PPI check, and shed signed a letter of
authority (LoA) in July 2019 authorising them to act on her behalf to make a PPI claim. FTR
said theyd submitted her claim to lender M, and as their agreement with Mrs K hadnt been
cancelled, their success fee was justified.
Mrs K wasnt happy with FTRs response and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said FTRs terms were clear in that they said theyd submit a PPI claim after
the end of the free PPI check. But went on to say that FTR had made further requests to
Mrs K for information. And their terms implied Mrs Ks claim wouldnt be submitted without
the completion of these documents. As Mrs K hadnt returned the documents, she said FTR
should waive their fee.
FTR didnt agree and said the LoA, Mrs K had signed, authorised them to make the PPI
claim on her behalf. And the further information was only asked for to strengthen her claim.
FTR asked for an ombudsman to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in August 2020 which said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Im currently minded not
to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
I can understand Mrs Ks frustration as I can see she made a PPI claim using a free on-line
service, and she gave the information needed to progress her claim. But in making my
decision I need to determine whether Mrs K had authorised FTR to act on her behalf. And if
she had, whether she let them know she no longer wanted them to work for her.
FTR has shown an online application for a free PPI check was made in July 2019. The
personal details in this application correlate with the personal details Mrs K has given this
service. The application also needed details of Mrs Ks lenders, and these details were
provided. So, on balance I think Mrs K completed the on-line form as the information was
specific to her. On completion of the application, an LoA was generated and signed. FTRs
terms and conditions were also available to see. And in signing the LoA Mrs K had agreed to
them.
FTRs terms and conditions say:
Free PPI Check Period:
a. FTR will use reasonable endeavours to request the Company confirm whether PPI existed
on any accounts which You held with them by making a Pre-submission or DSAR
b. If no PPI is identified this Agreement will come to an end but this Agreement will continue
on any accounts where a Company has confirmed You had PPI.
They go on to say:
Preparing and Submitting Your Claims;
a. Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and you authorise FTR to
continue to provide You with the Claims Services
b. If further information is required from You prior to submitting a Claim(s), FTR will
endeavour to contact You and You agree to provide reasonable assistance and information
to allow Us to submit a Claim{s) on Your behalf
Mrs K did have a PPI policy with lender M and FTR asked Mrs K to complete further
documentation. And reminders were sent to her, but Mrs K didnt respond to any of FTRs
requests. Instead Mrs K submitted the PPI claim herself as outlined above. I dont know the
exact date but Mrs K has said it was a few days before the deadline date.
I can understand why Mrs K says she made the claim herself. And that she didnt think shed
authorised FTR to act on her behalf as she didnt respond to their requests for further
information. But FTRs terms and conditions specifically explained that the agreement would
continue if PPI was found. And I think it was for Mrs K to have told FTR if she no longer
wanted this to happen.
The terms and conditions also say:
You may cancel Your Claim(s) at any time within 14 days from the date you sign the Letter
of Authority (Cooling-off Period) at no cost to you unless you or FTR have received a
reasonable offer of compensation within the Cooling Off Period.
I havent seen any evidence that Mrs K asked FTR to cancel her agreement. And despite still 
getting reminders, before and after she made her own PPI claim from FTR, I havent seen
any evidence that Mrs K asked FTR to stop or question them as to why they were still
contacting her. The claim may not have been formalised according to Mrs K, but its not
enough that she simply disengaged from the process. And by not telling FTR she didnt want
them to act on her behalf theyd submitted her PPI claim to lender M before the deadline
date.
I can see lender M, in September and October 2019 kept FTR updated about the progress
of Mrs Ks claim. And sent the offer of compensation, later in October 2019 to both her and
FTR. I think this shows lender M accepted FTR had authority to represent Mrs K in making
her PPI claim. So, Im satisfied FTR were authorised to act on Mrs Ks behalf.
FTR charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they
actually undertook. This means that any work done on any unsuccessful claim would be
done for free. Where a claim was successful, FTRs fee may be more or less than the valueof the work they actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement.
Mrs K has said when she submitted her own claim for PPI, shed completed the PPI
questionnaire. One of the documents she hadnt completed when it was sent by FTR, and
this information was needed for a successful claim. Its not unusual for a lender to send their
PPI questionnaire direct to their customer even when a claims management company such
as FTR is representing them. And as the deadline was fast approaching, it wasnt unusual
for lenders to auto convert claims without the need for a PPI questionnaire, to make sure
customers didnt miss out on the opportunity to claim.
And FTRs fee as outlined above isnt based on the work they did but on whether the claim
they submitted was successful or not. FTR submitted Mrs Ks claim as their agreement
hadnt been cancelled. And her claim was successful.
FTRs fees were charged in line with what Mrs K agreed to and reflect the fee cap thats in
place for PPI claims. Mrs K could have cancelled her claim with FTR. But I cant see she
cancelled the claim before it was successful. And I dont think it was enough by Mrs K no
longer engaging with FTR to consider this as her cancelling her agreement with them.
So, Im satisfied that FTR was authorised to act on Mrs Ks behalf and her claims were
successful. This means FTR can charge their fees for these claims.
responses to my provisional findings
FTR agreed with the findings of the provisional decision and didnt make any further 
comments.
Mrs K said the matter had already been settled by FTR and theyd upheld her complaint. 
She also commented on inaccuracies within the provisional decision. And added that FTR 
hadnt conducted their business in a fair, clear and not mis-leading manner.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive not been persuaded to change my thinking and Im not upholding this 
complaint.
I have looked at the comments Mrs K has made about inaccuracies within the provisional 
decision. But the comments Mrs K has made relate to a different complaint that she had with 
FTR. This was about another of her lenders Ill call S, which had already been resolved. I 
didnt consider this complaint in my determination. 
For Mrs Ks comments about the way FTR had conducted their business. As I outlined in my 
provisional decision, I think FTR had been clear in their terms and conditions about when the 
free PPI check would end. And that they would continue to provide their claims service on a 
no win no fee basis.  I dont think by Mrs K simply disengaging with FTR and choosing 
another service to make her claim was enough to consider her agreement with FTR to have 
been cancelled.
And as Mrs Ks claim against lender M was successful, I think FTRs can justify asking for 
their success fee.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman