DRN-1237099
The complaint
Mr J and Miss W have complained that in 2011 Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold them a 
packaged bank account, called an Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA).
Mr J and Miss W paid a monthly fee for the account and received several potential benefits 
in return. They think that Bank of Scotland should refund them all the fees they paid, plus 
interest. 
What happened
From 2008, Mr J and Miss W held a fee-free account with Bank of Scotland. In 2011, it sold 
them the URCA during a meeting at one of its branches. They believe it did so unfairly. 
One of our adjudicators has already looked into the complaint, and didnt think that Bank of 
Scotland had mis-sold the URCA to Mr J and Miss W. The adjudicator didnt recommend 
that Bank of Scotland should give them any money back.
Mr J and Miss W didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to 
review their case. So, it has come to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about this case. Ive looked into 
everything that Mr J and Miss W and Bank of Scotland have told us or sent us about the 
complaint, and Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Mr J and Miss W have given us a quite detailed description of how they came to buy the 
URCA. They have told us that there were two meetings. In outline, theyve said that: 
Before 2011, they were renting a council house and were considering buying it. They 
met with Bank of Scotland to ask about a mortgage. Theyve said that during this 
meeting Bank of Scotland told them it would only allow them to have a mortgage if 
they bought the URCA.
It turned out that they were able to buy the house without needing a mortgage, and 
didnt buy the URCA after the first meeting; but later on they went back to Bank of 
Scotland on other business and this time bought the URCA after Bank of Scotland 
pressured them into it. 
I dont know a great deal about the first meeting and the discussion about the mortgage. 
However, as Mr J and Miss W didnt apply for the mortgage, and didnt buy the URCA at that 
stage, I dont think they lost out as a result of anything Bank of Scotland told them during 
that meeting. I accept that Bank of Scotland may not have done everything correctly, but as 
Mr J and Miss W didnt buy anything, I dont think there was mis-selling. 
I understand that around four months passed between the two meetings, and that by the 
time of the second meeting Mr J and Miss Ws financial situation had changed significantly. 
They expected to complete their house purchase shortly afterwards and knew they wouldnt 
need a mortgage. So, I have considered the two meetings as separate events. 
The main purpose of the second meeting seems to have been to review Mr J and Miss Ws 
financial situation. Neither party has sent us any detailed records from the time, which isnt 
surprising after so many years have passed, so I cant be certain what happened. But I 
havent seen anything to convince me that Bank of Scotland pressured Mr J and Miss W into 
buying the URCA. By that time, they had held a fee-free account for almost three years and I 
dont think Bank of Scotland told them they couldnt or shouldnt keep it. Similarly, as they no 
longer needed a mortgage, I dont think Bank of Scotland could have used this as a lever to 
apply undue pressure. I think its more likely that Bank of Scotland gave Mr J and Miss W a 
choice to buy the URCA or to keep their existing account. 
In 2011, Bank of Scotland, along with other banks, was allowed to sell packaged bank 
accounts in two ways. It could do so on an information only basis or as an advised (or 
recommended) sale. In both situations, it had to tell customers about an accounts costs and 
benefits clearly and fairly and give them a choice about buying it; and in an advised sale it 
also had to check if an account was a reasonable match for a customers needs and 
circumstances. 
At that time, Bank of Scotland usually sold URCAs on an information only basis, but Mr J 
and Miss W have told us that it recommended the account to them. Theyve told us that 
although they no longer needed a mortgage, they wanted to arrange insurance for their new 
home. Theyve said that Bank of Scotland told them that if they had an URCA they would get 
a discount on home insurance and that it advised them to buy the account for this reason. 
In 2011, the benefits of the URCA included travel insurance, a car breakdown service, home 
emergency insurance and mobile phone insurance. It could also provide customers with 
discounts on home insurance (and Bank of Scotland has told us that Mr J and Miss W 
received one for several years) although Bank of Scotland didnt promote this as a main 
benefit. For example, the welcome pack it sent to its customers in 2011 does not highlight it. 
So, I doubt that Bank of Scotland would have changed its usual practice of selling URCAs on 
an information only basis to advise Mr J and Miss W to buy one for this benefit. I fully accept 
that it may well have told them about the discount, but this isnt the same as making a 
recommendation. 
There doesnt seem to be any dispute that Bank of Scotland told Mr J and Miss W that they 
would have to pay for the URCA, and I also think its highly likely that it told them about the 
other benefits of the account; after all it was trying to sell the URCA to them and it would 
have been in its own interest to tell them what they could get in return for their fees.
Bank of Scotland has told us that its records show that over the years Mr J and Miss W 
registered twelve mobile phones (some basic and some advanced) for insurance cover; and 
they also seem to have had a potential need for home emergency insurance. So, it seems 
likely to me that after Bank of Scotland told Mr J and Miss W about these benefits, along with 
the discount on home insurance, they may well have thought that an URCA was potentially 
attractive and opted to change accounts. Mr J and Miss W have told us that they didnt travel and didnt drive and so didnt need the 
travel insurance or car breakdown cover, and I accept this. However, like most packaged 
bank accounts, the URCA couldnt be adjusted for precise individual needs, so, even though 
Mr J and Miss W didnt want or need all of its benefits, it doesnt follow that it was unfair for 
Bank of Scotland to sell it to them.
Similarly, Mr J and Miss W have told us that they had alternative arrangements in place for 
some of the URCAs benefits or could have found them elsewhere at a lower cost. I accept 
this may well have been true, but in an information only sale, this was something for Mr J 
and Miss W to consider for themselves. 
So, in summary, while I accept that Bank of Scotland may not have got everything right in 
the way it sold the URCA to Mr J and Miss W, Im satisfied that it gave them a choice about 
the account, didnt pressure them into buying it and told them about its costs and benefits. I 
dont think that Bank of Scotland mis-sold the URCA to Mr J and Miss W.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mr J and Miss Ws complaint about 
Bank of Scotland plc. I am not going to tell it to give them any money back. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2020. 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman