DRN-1617570
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the way Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (trading as 
Littlewoods) has administered his catalogue shopping account after he bought a new TV.
What happened
In May 2018 Mr W used his Littlewoods online shopping account to buy a TV. He thought 
hed bought the TV on a buy now pay later (BNPL) basis which gave him a 25% credit based 
on the purchase price. Mr M made monthly payments but later queried the arrangements as 
the credit hadnt been applied. Littlewoods said Mr W hadnt selected the BNPL option and 
had instead bought his TV on 52-week payment terms.
Mr W complained to Littlewoods. He said he wouldnt have bought the TV without the 25% 
credit that applied if he chose the BNPL terms. Mr W also said he had no way of knowing 
which payment terms had been used until a few months had passed, and that hed been 
charged interest when he shouldnt have been. Finally, Mr W said he received poor 
customer service when he complained.
Littlewoods considered Mr Ws complaint and upheld it in part. They said Mr W didnt select 
BNPL terms at the point of sale, which meant he didnt qualify for the 25% credit. Littlewoods 
also said Mr W could see any BNPL purchases on his statements and online. In relation to 
interest, Littlewoods said no interest had been charged, and wouldnt be for the first 52 
weeks. But they had added a late payment fee when Mr W didnt make a payment on time. 
This meant Mr Ws next minimum payment increased. Finally, Littlewoods accepted they 
could have provided a better level of service and sent Mr W a cheque for £15.
Mr W wasnt happy with Littlewoodss response and brought his complaint to this service to 
consider. The investigator who reviewed Mr Ws complaint said the online tick box to apply 
the BNPL terms wasnt labelled clearly enough. He agreed the £15 compensation payment 
in respect of service was fair. Littlewoods didnt agree with all the investigators opinion and 
asked for a review. They said information provided to Mr W at the point of sale made it clear 
the 25% promotion was aligned to BNPL terms, and that Mr W needed to choose this option 
when he checked out. They did agree to refund the late payment fee though.
My provisional conclusions
I issued my provisional decision on 27 January 2020. I said both parties agreed Mr W hadnt 
ticked the BNPL box, so I needed to decide if it was clear to him when he bought the TV he 
needed to do something at checkout for BNPL to apply. I said the information beneath the 
basket and on the payment page was clear enough that Mr W ought to have known he 
needed to tick the BNPL box at checkout stage for it to apply. I also said Mr Ws monthly 
statements showed a minimum monthly payment and a pay by date, which wouldnt be 
relevant to a BNPL purchase. I noted Littlewoods had paid Mr W £15 in respect of the 
service provided, which I thought was reasonable. Finally, I said Mr W was properly charged 
a late payment fee, but Littlewoods had offered to refund it, so Mr W may wish to approach 
Littlewoods directly to see if they are still willing to refund the charge. 
Mr W didnt accept my provisional decision. He said:Littlewoods have now changed the way it offers BNPL terms so that a customer has 
to input a promotion code rather than select a box above the payment method. He 
says the fact Littlewoods have now made changes shows BNPL terms werent clear 
when he bought his TV. 
Another provider is more transparent in the way it offers BNPL.
A minimum payment must be made regardless of whether a customer is buying on 
BNPL terms or normal terms.
If Littlewoods cared about customer satisfaction, theyd honour the discount. Mr W 
provided examples of feedback from other customer.
Littlewoods said they have nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as I did in my provisional decision, for the same reasons.
I appreciate Mr W intended to buy his TV on BNPL terms, but Littlewoods could only know 
that if he completed the appropriate steps at the time. On the Add to basket page there was 
a clear notice that said Mr W could get an automatic credit to his account when he selected 
BNPL at checkout. The checkout page then provided information about BNPL, with a box 
underneath for BNPL to be added to the order:
Payment
Add to account
Buy now pay later (optional)
About BNPL
Your payment free period will start today.
To avoid paying interest simply pay the cash amount of your items before the end of 
the payment free period. You can do this a little at a time or all at once the choice is yours.
Below this it said, Click to add BNPL.
Im satisfied Littlewoods made it clear Mr W needed to do something at the checkout stage 
for BNPL terms to apply, and the option to add BNPL to the order was clear.
Mr W has brought to my attention the fact Littlewoods have now changed the way BNPL is 
applied. In considering Mr Ws complaint I need to look at the information that was available 
at the time, which Ive concluded was clear. The fact that Littlewoods have altered the way 
BNPL is chosen doesnt mean the process wasnt previously clear enough. In any event, I 
cant see Littlewoods have made a big change  instead of ticking a box at checkout a 
customer is now required to add a code. 
Mr W has provided information about how another provider offers BNPL and the cost, but 
this isnt relevant to Mr Ws complaint about Littlewoods. In the same way, feedback from 
other Littlewoods customers has no bearing on my view of Mr Ws individual complaint.
I consider the fact Mr Ws statements showed minimum monthly payments and a pay by 
date show he didnt choose BNPL when he bought his TV. Mr W paid these minimum 
payments each month. In his response to my provisional decision Mr W said he had to make a minimum payment regardless of whether BNPL or normal terms applied. I dont agree. 
With BNPL terms the customer chooses when they make payment and theres no minimum 
payment. The screenshot Mr W has provided, which mentions a minimum payment request 
each month, relates to what happens at the end of the delayed payment period. This is not 
the same as during the delayed payment period, when the customer can pay all or none of 
the amount owed. 
In terms of the service provided by Littlewoods I agree some of their responses to Mr W 
werent helpful. Im persuaded the £15 compensation already paid to Mr W was reasonable, 
so am not asking Littlewoods to do anything more. 
Whilst I sympathise with the position Mr W now finds himself in, I dont consider Littlewoods 
did anything wrong in the way they offered BNPL terms when Mr W bought his TV. Given 
this, I cant ask Littlewoods to change Mr Ws payment terms.
My final decision
Noting that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (trading as Littlewoods) have already paid 
Mr W £15 compensation, my final decision is that Im not asking them to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2020.
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman