DRN-3836893
The complaint
Mr P complains Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard wont refund him for 
transactions made on his card after he was robbed.
What happened
Mr P was assaulted following a night out and his card and phone were stolen. Mr P went 
home to recover and two days later reported the assault and robbery to the police and spoke 
to Barclaycard.
Mr P checked his online banking, once he had a new phone, and saw lots of transactions on 
his Barclaycard he didnt make. Mr P spoke to Barclaycard about the fraudulent transactions.
Barclaycard sent out a fraud disclaimer form, and spoke to Mr P again, but wouldnt refund 
the payments on his card. Mr P complained, some time after the event, and Barclaycard sent 
a final response to say it was still holding Mr P liable for the transactions.
Unhappy with this response, Mr P brought his complaint to this service. An investigator 
looked into things and didnt think Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. The investigator 
thought it was more likely Mr P authorised the payments.
The investigator thought this because they couldnt see how someone else had got hold of 
Mr Ps personal identification number (PIN). The investigator said either Mr P carried out the 
transactions himself or allowed someone else to use his card and PIN, with his agreement, 
and in either event it was fair for Barclaycard to hold Mr P liable.
Mr P didnt agree. Mr P said the transactions made on the card were suspicious and 
Barclaycard should have picked this up and stopped them. Several payments were made to 
the same retailer, and Barclaycard and the police should have investigated this.
Mr P also said he was drunk and scared at the time of the attack, so he must have given out 
his PIN when his card and phone were stolen.
Mr P asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a general rule Barclaycard can hold Mr P liable if the evidence suggests he authorised, or 
allowed someone else to make, the payments.
Im satisfied the payments on Mr Ps Barclaycard were made using his card and his PIN.
Mr Ps explained how someone got hold of his card, so theres a clear point of compromise 
here. But I dont think theres a clear point of compromise for Mr Ps PIN.
Ive looked at the notes Barclaycard has when Mr P originally logged his fraud claim. During 
the call to discuss Mr Ps fraud claim he was asked twice if hed given his PIN to anyone, 
including if hed been forced to disclose his PIN. Mr P replied he hadnt.
Ive also seen a copy of the fraud disclaimer Mr P completed when he reported the 
transactions as fraudulent, and there are two questions about whether hed given his PIN to 
anyone. Mr P said he hadnt for both the questions.
Whilst I accept Mr P was drunk and scared at the time of the robbery, hes only mentioned 
the possibility of giving out his PIN quite recently. The fraud happened in 2018. Id expect 
Mr Ps memory of the events to be fresher in his mind when he reported the fraud, a few 
days later, than it is now, five years later.
I think its reasonable to rely on what Mr P said at the time he reported the fraud to 
Barclaycard, which is he didnt give his PIN out to anyone, even under threat of further 
violence.
Ive also considered whether Mr P could have been overlooked whilst entering his PIN, then 
had his card stolen. The last transaction on Mr Ps card was at a supermarket, and it was 
contactless, so Mr P didnt enter his PIN.
Mr P had used his PIN earlier in the evening, at a nightclub. But the police investigated 
Mr Ps assault and told Barclaycard Mr P was alone in the supermarket and wasnt followed 
by anyone when he left.
I dont think its likely Mr P was overlooked in the nightclub, not followed out by anyone, then 
found later by the same person whod overlooked him and who then stole his card. So, I 
dont think the person who took Mr Ps card saw him enter his PIN anywhere.
This means I cant see how someone else got hold of Mr Ps PIN. This means I think its 
more likely Mr P either authorised the payments himself or allowed someone to use his card 
and PIN with his authority.
Mr Ps also said Barclaycard should have picked up on the transactions as there were lots of 
them, and several were made to the same retailer. I can see there are lots of transactions to 
the same retailer, for relatively small amounts.
But, each of these transactions were authorised using Mr Ps PIN. Since this second level of 
authorisation has been used, I think its reasonable for Barclaycard to assume Mr P was 
making the payments.
Because of this, I dont think Barclaycard was wrong to allow the payments to debit, even 
when there were several to the retailer in a short space of time.
Mr Ps also asked why the police or Barclaycard havent investigated the merchants. I cant 
comment on what, if any, police investigation should take place.
I have to decide whether its reasonable for Barclaycard to hold Mr P liable for the payments 
on his credit card, and I think it is.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2023.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman