DRN-4500992
The complaint
Mr L and Mrs R complain that BUPA Insurance Limited trading as Bupa Global didnt renew 
their private medical insurance policy.   
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr L had private medical insurance with Bupa from 2007 and 
Mrs R was added to the policy in 2012. The policy renewal date is in March each year. In      
April 2022, Bupa phoned Mr L and told him that it wouldnt renew his policy in         
March 2023. In January 2023, Bupa wrote to Mr L and told him that it wouldnt renew the 
policy because it was no longer doing business in the country in which Mr L and Mrs R 
live. Bupa said that it couldnt accept Mr L and Mrs Rs address in a second country they 
visit because of regulatory constraints. 
Mr L and Mrs R complained about Bupas decision not to renew their policy. Bupa 
maintained its position, so Mr L and Mrs R pursued their complaint.
Mr L and Mrs R say that a unilateral decision by Bupa to no longer offer cover requires it 
to provide them with an alternative solution. They say that its not clear in the terms and 
conditions that Bupa may refuse to renew the policy and that if the policy is a one year 
contract, it should be marketed as one. Mr L and Mrs R say that theyve paid above 
market premiums on the understanding that this is a long term policy. 
Mr L and Mrs R say that Bupa should have disclosed the possibility of a unilateral 
decision to decline renewal and if it had done that, they would have switched to a new 
insurer several years ago and saved a substantial amount in premiums and now have 
cover. They say that theyve made claims against the policy, so if they change to a new 
insurer existing health conditions may not be covered. Mr L and Mrs R want a refund of 
overcharged premium. 
 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She said that this service cant  
deal with the part of the complaint about the level of premiums Mr L and Mrs R have paid 
over the years, as they havent complained to Bupa about that in the first instance. The 
investigator said that this service isnt the regulator and cant direct Bupas commercial 
decisions. She said that the policy provides that Bupa may make changes on the 
renewal date. The investigator said that Bupa gave Mr L and Mrs R sufficient notice 
about its decision not to renew their policy. She said that she hadnt seen any evidence 
that Bupa said that the policy provided lifetime cover.   
Mr L and Mrs R didnt agree with the investigator. Mr L responded to say that they 
havent found a convincing legal basis for the unilateral refusal to renew their policy. He 
said that a one year contract is a different product than a contract with a right to renew 
and is priced accordingly. Mr L said that in other territories, Bupa includes in its terms 
and conditions that it may not renew the policy but doesnt mention the possibility of a 
unilateral decision to discontinue cover in their case. He says that theyve met all the 
conditions for renewal of the policy.
The investigator said that this service can consider Mr L and Mrs  Rs complaint but that 
she didnt think Bupa had acted unfairly or unreasonably. She said that it was up to Bupa 
to decide how and with whom it does business as long as it treats similar consumers in 
the same way, which it had here. The investigator said that Bupa gave Mr L and Mrs R 
reasonable notice. She said that the membership certificate confirms that the policy is for 
one year. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear and quite understandable that Mr L in particular has very strong feelings about this 
matter. He has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which I have read 
and considered. I trust that neither Mr L nor Mrs K will take as a discourtesy the fact that I 
focus on what I consider to be the central issue, that is whether Bupa has acted in 
accordance with the policy terms and fairly and reasonably.       
The relevant terms of membership
Renewing your membership
Your membership can be renewed automatically every year on your renewal date, subject 
to acceptance of our renewal terms and if we make changes in this section, by continuing 
to pay your subscriptions and any other payments due under your agreement with us.
Making changes to your cover
You, the principal members contract is an annual one and you can therefore only change 
your level of cover from your renewal date (sic) [].
If we make changes
We may change the benefit and rules of your membership on your renewal date.
These changes could affect, for example:
[]
the cover you receive
Has Bupa acted unfairly or unreasonably?
This service isnt the regulator, so we cant direct Bupa generally about how it conducts its 
business. But I can look at whether it has treated Mr L and Mrs R in accordance with the 
policy terms and fairly and reasonably. I think it has and Ill explain why:
Mr L and Mrs Rs contract with Bupa is an annual one. Thats clear from the policy 
certificates which give cover start and end dates and also from the terms and 
conditions of membership, relevant parts of which Ive set out above. Bupa is 
entitled to make changes on the renewal date, including whether it offers cover at 
all.  
In general terms, insurers are entitled to decide what risks they are willing to take, 
including which countries they operate in. In this case, Bupa decided not to renew 
policies for individuals in Mr L and Mrs Rs country of residence and couldnt accept 
an address in a second country Mr L and Mrs R visit because of regulatory reasons. Bupa is entitled to come to those decisions. Ive seen nothing to indicate 
that Bupa treated Mr L and Mrs R any differently to others in a similar position. 
Bupa isnt obliged to offer Mr L and Mrs R renewal terms or an alternative but has 
referred them to an insurance partner in the country they visit. I dont think Bupa is 
required to do more than that. 
I think that Bupa acted fairly and reasonably in giving Mr L and Mrs R several 
months notice of its intention not to renew their policy. 
Essentially, Mr L says that theyve been overcharged by BUPA as a one year 
contract is a different product than a contract with a right to renew and is priced 
accordingly. I dont agree that Mr L and Mrs R had a right to renew their policy in 
the way they suggest. Each year, Bupa offered cover on certain terms, which 
included the premium. It was open to Mr L and Mrs R to accept or reject those 
terms. 
Mr L says that in other territories, Bupas terms and conditions about not 
renewing a policy are more explicit. I dont think that alters the outcome here. 
Nothing Ive seen obliges Bupa to offer Mr L and Mrs R a new policy at the end of 
a policy year.  
Im sorry to disappoint Mr L and Mrs R but there are no grounds on which I can 
fairly direct Bupa to refund premiums to them. They accepted the terms offered 
by Bupa and had the benefit of the policy in previous years. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman