DRN-2663261
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the time it took HSBC UK Bank Plc to supply him with a new secure 
key to enable him to access his accounts online.
What happened
Mr H resides overseas and holds a HSBC bank account in the UK. On 26 September 2020, 
Mr H ordered a replacement HSBC secure key, which he needed to enable him to access 
his HSBC accounts online. But the replacement secure key didnt arrive until nearly a month 
later, on 24 October 2020. Mr H wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
HSBC looked at Mr Hs complaint. They acknowledged that there had been a delay between 
Mr H requesting the replacement secure key and HSBC actioning that request  with the 
replacement secure key only being posted to Mr H on 7 October 2020  so HSBC upheld Mr 
Hs complaint on that basis. HSBC offered Mr H £50 by way of compensation for the trouble 
and upset the delay in posting the secure key had caused him.
Mr H didnt think HSBCs response went far enough, so he referred his complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But while they agreed that HSBCs 
delay had caused Mr H some inconvenience, they felt that the £50 offer of compensation 
that HSBC had made was fair and reasonable. So, they didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Mr H remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC have acknowledged that Mr Hs request for a replacement secure key wasnt actioned 
by themselves in a timely manner and that Mr H has incurred a degree of upset and 
inconvenience because of this, and that its reasonable that Mr H should be offered an 
amount of compensation because of this. 
Whats in dispute here is whether the £50 offer of compensation made by HSBC represents 
a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint, or whether, as Mr H contends, the 
circumstances of this complaint mean that a higher offer of compensation would be more 
appropriate in this instance.
Its important here to confirm that the role of this service isnt to fine or punish a business for 
any acts or omissions they may make, but rather to undertake an impartial assessment as to 
whether a businesss response to a customers complaint constitutes a fair outcome to that 
complaint, and to make reasonable corrective instructions to that business where it is 
decided that it does not.
Mr H has confirmed that the replacement secure key wasnt received at his address until 24 
October 2020, despite being posted by HSBC on 7 October 2020. This is a considerable 
delay. However, I can confirm that this service wouldnt generally hold a business 
responsible for delays in posted mail being received by the recipient, given that the delivery 
of sent mail isnt something over which a business has any control. 
And this is especially relevant when it is considered that the mail in this instance was being 
delivered during a time where many organisations, including postal delivery services, were 
incurring delays as a result of the global pandemic, and given that the replacement secure 
key was being sent to an overseas address.
In these particular circumstances, where HSBC have recognised that they have delayed in 
processing Mr Hs request for a replacement secure key, what this service would expect 
would be that as well as sending a replacement secure key, HSBC would also make efforts 
to help Mr H access his accounts and make any transactions that he needed to make while 
the replacement secure key was still on route in the post to him.
And I think that HSBC did that here. Its evident that they did try to provide Mr H with 
alternative means to access his accounts, and this included trying to call Mr H directly on 9 
October 2020, shortly after the secure key was posted, to enable any urgent transactions 
that Mr H needed to make to be processed over the phone. 
Its understood that if Mr H were to make a call himself to HSBC from his home overseas it 
might have been the case that the call would have lasted a considerable length of time, 
which could have been financially prohibitive. But HSBC were providing Mr H with the option 
of him being called directly by HSBC here, so that HSBC would bear the cost of the call and 
there would be no hold time for Mr H, thus mitigating this potential issue. And it must be 
noted that Mr H declined this offer from HSBC.
Mr H has the right to choose which methods of account access he wishes to use. But given 
that the option of speaking with HSBC over the telephone was available to Mr H and that this 
option was made more accessible to him by HSBC, its difficult for me to consider censuring 
HSBC for Mr Hs continuing inability to access his accounts, given that Mr H chose not to 
utilise this option.
All of which means that Im satisfied that HSBC did make appropriate efforts to enable Mr H 
to access his account following their recognition that they hadnt processed his initial request 
for a replacement secure key in a timely manner. 
So, while Mr H did incur some inconvenience because of HSBCs delay in posting the 
replacement secure key to him, Im satisfied that HSBCs initial complaint response to Mr H, 
including the offer of £50 compensation, represents a fair and reasonable resolution to his 
complaint in this instance. And I say this because HSBC took steps to post a replacement 
secure key to Mr H and offered to provide Mr H with access to his accounts to enable any 
urgent pending transactions to be made. And on this basis, I dont feel that any additional 
offer of compensation, above and beyond the £50 already offered by HSBC, is merited here.
It follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking HSBC to take any 
further action at this time - beyond that to which they have already agreed. I realise that this 
wont be the outcome that Mr H was wanting, but I hope that he can understand, considering 
everything I have explained above, why I have made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman