DRN-2936520
The complaint
Mr S complains about how Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, dealt with his visit 
to one of its Lounges.
  
What happened
Mr S says he attended a Virgin Money Lounge for a business meeting. He says he was told 
he needed to agree to his photograph being taken and without it he would be refused 
access. Mr S says a person attended the Lounge at that time and was allowed access 
without identification. He says he was then told he didnt need to provide Virgin Money with 
his photograph for a visit and that his own identification could be used. Mr S says he was 
caused immeasurable embarrassment and distress as well as damage to his reputation. He 
would like compensation and says he asked Virgin Money to keep the video footage of the 
incident.
Virgin Money says it has apologised and paid £50 for what took place. It says it has 
explained what its process is for Lounge entry and says the other customer did provide 
required entry information.
Mr S brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Virgin Money was entitled to ask Mr S for photographic evidence for Lounge entry 
and thought it likely the other customer had provided entry evidence and was asked to wait 
for further information. The investigator explained it wasnt our role to decide if there was a 
Data Protection Breach and thought the compensation of £50 appropriate.
Mr S doesnt accept that view and in summary says the failure to keep the video footage 
from the Lounge is a breach of Data Protection rules and questions Virgin Moneys 
explanation about it. He says he should have further compensation for this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr S will be disappointed by my decision.
Im satisfied its up to Virgin Money, when exercising its commercial judgement, to decide 
what its entry policy and procedure is for its Lounge access. I accept Mr S was mistakenly 
told that Virgin Money would not allow Lounge access without it taking a photograph before 
being told that it would accept an identification document from Mr S. I appreciate that 
mistake may have caused some inconvenience, but Im satisfied the correct information was 
provided within a relatively short time period. I dont think that mistake would have had any 
real impact on Mr S and am satisfied that Virgin Money has apologised and paid what I think 
is a fair and reasonable compensation award of £50.
I appreciate Mr S says Virgin Money staff let a person into the lounge without identification. 
But Virgin Money says this person did provide identification evidence. I dont think it likely 
Virgin Money staff would let someone into its lounge without any checks and think on 
balance that the person in question would have provided evidence that satisfied Virgin 
Money of their entry eligibility. In any event I dont see how this other persons position had 
any real impact on Mr S.
I also appreciate Mr S says Virgin Money ought to have kept the video footage as he 
requested. But equally I dont think it likely any footage would have had sound and I dont 
think there is any real dispute about what would have been shown on that footage. I cant 
fairly order Virgin Money to pay Mr S compensation for not keeping the footage and I make 
clear to him that we are not Virgin Moneys regulator. And so, its not our role to punish a 
business.
The investigator has explained to Mr S that it would be for the Information Commissioners 
Office to decide if there has been a Data Protection breach.
Overall, Im satisfied that Virgin Money has dealt fairly with this complaint and I dont require 
it to increase its compensation award.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman