DRN-3489336
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) didnt pay claims made under a 
home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr B contacted IPA to arrange for a contractor to visit. Shortly afterwards, Mr B phoned IPA 
again to cancel the contractor as he said his own contractor could visit sooner. IPA said it 
would send Mr B a claim form but it might not pay the costs of his own contractor.
When Mr B provided the invoice, IPA declined to pay it as it said it could have sent its own 
contractor. When Mr B complained, IPA continued to decline to pay the invoice as it said it 
would normally send its own contractor first.
Mr B complained to this service. At this stage, IPA also consented to this service considering 
a second claim. Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said IPA hadnt made it 
sufficiently clear that it might not pay the invoices when it spoke to Mr B on the phone. He 
said IPA should pay the invoices.
Following this, IPA raised concerns about the invoices. It said the document properties for 
the invoices showed Mr B as the author and there was a discrepancy with the time given for 
when the documents were created. As it had doubts about the invoices, IPA said it wouldnt 
pay them. Our investigator considered further evidence provided by both parties and didnt 
uphold the complaint. He said there were inconsistencies in the document data for which Mr 
B hadnt provided a plausible explanation. He said IPA didnt need to pay the invoices.
As Mr B didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complain. I will explain why.
Ive listened to phone calls between Mr B and IPA in which he asked for pre-authorisation to 
use his own contractor. IPA told Mr B he would be welcome to submit invoices for work, 
although he was also advised there was a chance they wouldnt be paid. But I dont think it 
was made clear that IPAs policy terms normally required it to send its own engineer first 
before it would pay the costs of a policyholders own contractor. So, based on the 
conversation he had with IPA, I can understand why Mr B thought submitting the invoices 
would be acceptable.
So, Ive thought about whether IPA should pay the invoices. When IPA looked at the 
invoices, it checked the document properties. It found that the invoices listed Mr B as the 
author. The time listed for when one of the invoices was created was also inconsistent with 
the time at which Mr Bs contractor sent an email with the invoice for the work. The email 
seemed to have been sent several hours before the invoice was created and before Mr B 
had contacted IPA to make a claim.
From what Ive seen, IPA took steps to try and validate the invoices, including by contacting 
the contractor. Mr B also provided further information, including why he thought the 
document properties might show the information they did. IPA still didnt find the invoices 
acceptable. Looking at what happened, I think IPA took reasonable steps to try and confirm 
the contents of the invoices. I also think it was reasonable for IPA to conclude that the 
inconsistencies hadnt been dealt with and so didnt show there was a claim covered by the 
policy. Ultimately, it was for Mr B to show he had a valid claim and I dont think he has done 
this. So, thinking about all of the above, I dont uphold this complaint or require IPA to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman