DRN-2090049
The complaint
Mrs K has complained that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) has cancelled her travel 
insurance policy and declined to pay her claim. 
What happened
Mrs K bought a multi trip travel insurance policy which covered her, her husband and 
children. She bought this through a comparison website. 
She had booked a holiday to Paris for April 2019 but in March, Mrs K became unwell and 
had to have surgery for cauda equina syndrome. As a result, Mrs K was unable to travel and 
made a claim for the costs which she couldnt recover, including her flights and airport 
parking  the total claim was for just over £550.
IPA received and reviewed the claim including Mrs Ks medical history  this showed Mrs K 
had suffered from tonsillitis twice, angular cheilitis and eczema in the five years prior to 
buying the policy. It said Mrs K hadnt declared her pre-existing medical conditions (PEMCs) 
and if she had done so, it never would have offered her the policy. It cancelled the policy and 
refunded the premiums she had paid. 
Mrs K complained to IPA as she didnt think it was fair for it to cancel her policy on the basis 
of the minor conditions she hadnt declared. And she said that even if she had entered 
information in the website showing she had PEMCs, it would only ask her about a two-year 
history and not a five-year history. Mrs K says she didnt think the conditions she had 
suffered from were serious and the reason for cancelling her holiday wasnt connected with 
any of her previous conditions. 
IPA looked into the complaint but didnt agree with Mrs K and so she referred her complaint 
to this Service. Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think IPA had done 
anything wrong - he didnt think Mrs K had provided correct information. Therefore, the 
insurer was within its rights to cancel the policy.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think the complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
When buying an insurance policy, Mrs K has a responsibility to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). For IPA to take action, such as cancelling the insurance contract, it 
needs to show that Mrs K didnt take reasonable care which resulted in a qualifying 
misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of things to consider when deciding whether a customer failed to 
take reasonable care. And one of these considerations is the questions the customer was 
asked.
Mrs K bought her policy through a comparison website and the original application is no 
longer available. Both Mrs K and IPA have provided screenshots of the questions asked. 
Mrs K says she wasnt asked to declare a 5-year medical history. She says she visited the 
website again to check which questions were asked, but after the event.
IPA has provided screenshots from the questions it says applied at the time. And says the 
screenshots it has provided were from the point of sale. 
Both sides have provided information which asks whether any travellers have PEMCs, to 
which Mrs K says she answered no. I think this is a clear question. Mrs K says she didnt 
think her minor illnesses would be classed as PEMCs and goes on to say that even if she 
had answered yes to the questions, she would have been asked for a 2- or 3-year history  
which was all clear.
Mrs K says the website gives examples of serious illnesses such as depression, high blood 
pressure and asthma. She says she didnt think to declare her minor illnesses and her trip 
was cancelled due to cauda equina syndrome and none of the illnesses she previously 
suffered from. 
IPA has provided a screenshot of the important information of the declaration section. This 
says:
Please note that the policy you have selected is not designed to cover claims arising 
from pre-existing medical conditions. If you can answer no to the following 
questions, please select I Agree to proceed
1)Within the last 5 years have you or anyone you wish to insure on this policy 
suffered from any medical condition that has required prescribed medication and/or 
treatment including surgery, tests or investigation? 
The declaration ends with:
Show me policies for people with pre-existing medical conditions.
Im satisfied that the above declaration clearly asks about any medical condition and that 
this is a clear question. So even if Mrs K didnt think she had PEMCs based on the examples 
given in the questions about PEMCs, the declaration would have cleared this up as it 
confirms this policy isnt designed to cover anyone who has suffered from any medical 
condition within the last 5 years.
IPA has confirmed that if Mrs K had selected yes to the PEMCs question, she wouldnt 
have been able to purchase the policy and would have been kicked back to the start of the 
process to select another policy. And for that reason, it has cancelled her policy and 
provided a refund.
For IPA to take any action, there needs to be a qualifying misrepresentation. For this to 
happen, Mrs K must have failed to take reasonable care not to make the misrepresentation. 
Mrs K says she didnt think minor illnesses would be included and had forgotten about her 
tonsillitis. But the important information confirms that any illnesses need to be declared. And there were other illnesses requiring treatment which she didnt declare. And so there was a 
failure to take reasonable care. 
IPA also has to show that without the misrepresentation, it wouldnt have offered the cover or 
would have done so on different terms. IPA has shown that it wouldnt have offered Mrs K 
the policy she took with PEMCs. And so there was a qualifying misrepresentation. 
IPA hasnt said the misrepresentation was deliberate. If it was, CIDRA allows insurers to 
avoid the policy and refuse any claims. And it allows insurers to keep any premiums paid for 
the policy, unless it would be unfair to do so. But IPA has cancelled the policy and refunded 
premiums, treating it as a careless misrepresentation instead. And so I think IPA has acted 
fairly in this case. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont think IPA needs to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 October 2020.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman