DRN-3731607
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as J has complained that Hiscox Insurance Company Limited 
unfairly turned down its business interruption insurance claim. 
Mr H, a director of J, has complained through a representative. For ease of reading, Ill refer 
to all actions or comments of the representative as being those of J. 
What happened
J is a recruitment agency that held business interruption insurance with Hiscox. It took the 
decision to close its business premises in March 2020 due to the Governments response to 
the Covid-19 pandemic. J said it took the decision that its staff could reasonably work from 
home as it felt they would be breaking the law and risking their health if they went into their 
premises. 
J claimed on its policy for financial losses caused by the impact of working from home. It 
said a distinct part of its business relied on internal cross referrals which relied on staff being 
in the office to talk to each other. It said it experienced significant losses as staff werent able 
to communicate with each other in the same way when working from home, leading to fewer 
placements. 
Hiscox ultimately declined Js claim as they didnt think J was unable to use its business 
premises. They said if Js staff were unable to carry out certain activities from home, they 
were able to use the business premises. In support of their position, Hiscox referred to the 
Supreme Court judgment in the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Business Interruption 
Insurance test case. 
Unhappy with Hiscoxs response, J brought its complaint to our service as it thought its claim 
should be covered under the public authority clause. It provided detailed reasoning for why 
Hiscoxs interpretation of the public authority clause was unattractive and unreasonable. In 
summary J said the policy didnt require a closure of its premises and it was clear that it 
faced restrictions on the use of its premises with such losses covered by the policy. 
While we were looking into things J also said that, in light of the judgment on Corbin and 
King Ltd v AXA Insurance UK Plc [2022] EWHC 409 (Comm), its claim should also be 
covered under the non-damage denial of access clause. J said this clause refers to national 
events that lead to restrictions being imposed by the Government. J said that the policy 
should provide cover as there was an occurrence of Covid-19 within the required radius of 
the insured premises. 
Our investigator looked into Js complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he didnt 
think the policy provided cover for the circumstances of Js claim. 
J asked for an ombudsmans decision. It provided a detailed response but, in summary, said 
that it had complied with the restrictions placed on it and considered that Regulation 6 had 
the same mandatory effect as Regulation 4 or 5. J said once it had established its staff could 
reasonably work from home it had no option but to close its premises. However, in doing so 
it experienced a financial loss due to a distinct part of its business which was impacted by 
staff working from home. J specifically asked the ombudsman to comment on whether, in the 
circumstances of March 2020, a company should have required their employees to attend 
the premises of work when it was possible for them to work from home.
With regard to the non-damage denial of access clause, J specifically asked the ombudsman 
to comment on why the use of the word incident is determinative given paragraph 93 of the 
Supreme Court judgment. J said that if the meaning of an incident is central to the outcome 
then the principle of contra proferentem should apply and any ambiguity be read in Js 
favour.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
J has made a number of detailed points. I have considered them all but Im not going to 
address them all in this decision and will instead focus on what I consider to be the central 
issues to this complaint. This reflects the informal nature of our service and my role within it. 
I recognise that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an impact on 
Js business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill comment on both of the 
clauses J is seeking to rely on to explain why.
Public authority
Js policy covers financial losses resulting solely and directly from an interruption to its 
business caused by:
your inability to use the insured premises due to restrictions imposed by a 
public authority during the period of insurance following;

b. an occurrence of any human infectious or human contagious disease, an 
outbreak of which must be notified to the local authority;
There were restrictions imposed by a public authority following an occurrence of Covid-19. 
And Covid-19 is an infectious disease which must be notified to the local authority. 
Therefore, this extension would provide cover for a business that had been caused an 
inability to use their insured premises. However, the question is whether or not J suffered an 
inability to use its premises due to the restrictions imposed. 
The Health Protection (Coronavirus, Restrictions) (England) Regulations 2020 set out which 
businesses were required to close. And, significantly, recruitment agencies were not on this 
list, so I dont think J was required to close by the Regulations. These regulations did impose 
other restrictions on people that would likely have had an impact on businesses that were 
able to remain open - for example, the restrictions on movement that required people to 
remain at home without a reasonable excuse. But the reasonable excuses included being 
able to travel to work where it was not reasonably practical for that person to work from 
where they are living. 
I dont think that the restrictions imposed always have to have the force of law. But I do 
consider that there must be a mandatory instruction that is given by a public authority. And I 
am not aware of any such instruction that imposed a relevant restriction on J which obliged 
its staff to work from home. So I think J could have used its premises if it wasnt reasonably 
practical for its staff to work from home. When reaching a decision, one of the things Im required to take into account is the relevant 
law. The term inability to use in relation to policies with the same wording as Js was 
considered as part of the FCA test case, so I think the Courts findings are relevant.
The Supreme Court judgment in that case said, at paragraph 129: 
The public authority clauses in Hiscox 1-4 (set out at para 111 above) do not 
cover all business interruption due to restrictions imposed by a public authority 
following an occurrence of a notifiable disease. They apply only where the 
interruption is caused by the policyholders inability to use the business 
premises due to such restrictions. 
The court went on to say, at paragraph 136:  an inability of use has to be established; not 
an impairment or hindrance in use. The court did also make it clear that it may be possible 
for a business to claim for losses that arose out of an inability to use its premises for a 
discrete part of its business activities. But I dont consider that J has shown that it was 
unable to use its premises for a discrete part of its business. 
Ive noted Js point that it would like me to comment on whether a company should have 
required its employees to attend the work premises when it had determined that they could 
work from home. However, its not for me to make a finding on what J (or any other 
company) should have done; instead my role is to consider whether Hiscox have acted fairly 
and reasonably in declining Js claim. 
I recognise Js point that in determining that its staff could work from home it then didnt think 
it was reasonable to require them to go into the business premises purely because the ability 
to communicate with each other was affected. However, I have to consider the specific 
wording of the policy and whilst I do not doubt J would have suffered a disruption to the 
normal operation of their business from not using the premises, the policy requires that there 
be an inability to use its premises. And I do not consider J suffered such an inability to use 
its premises. As such, I do not consider Hiscox acted inappropriately in declining Js claim 
under this clause.
Non-damage denial of access
The policy also covers financial losses resulting solely and directly from an interruption 
to its business caused by:
an incident occurring during the period of insurance within a one mile radius of 
the insured premises which results in a denial of access or hindrance in access 
to the insured premises, imposed by any civil or statutory authority or by order 
of the government or any public authority, for more than 24 consecutive hours;
I dont intend to make a finding on whether Js access to the insured premises was hindered 
or prevented because I dont think that any restrictions were as a result of an incident. Again, 
I think the FCA test case is relevant to Js claim as it was considered by the High Court and 
this part of the judgment was not appealed to the Supreme Court.
The High Court said (at paragraphs 404-405) about the need for an incident:
 this word should be given the same essential meaning as an event: 
something which happens at a particular time, at a particular place, in a particular 
way...an incident is not synonymous with emergency or danger it is a misuse 
of language both generally and on the correct construction of the NDDA clause to 
describe the pandemic as an incident let alone an incident occurring within a 
one mile radius of the insured premises.
It may amount to a state of affairs but it istoo geographically dispersed, 
variegated, prolonged and non-specific to amount to an incident in any event, it 
is a misnomer to describe the presence of someone in the radius with the 
disease as an incident for the purposes of the clause.
Ive considered whether this position would be amended by the Courts position in Corbin 
and King Ltd v AXA Insurance UK Plc [2022] EWHC 409 (Comm) but I dont believe it would 
be. Thats because the judge said at para 516:
The word Incident also is capable of lending a very distinct colour to a wording 
 as the telling argument recorded at [398] of the Divisional Court's judgment 
makes clear. Its significance is underpinned by the Divisional Court's conclusion 
at [404] that In our judgment, the FCAs entire case on the NDDA founders on 
the requirement for an incident.
J has referred to paragraph 93 of the Supreme Court judgment as it believes this supports 
that an occurrence of Covid-19 should be considered an incident. However, the Supreme 
Courts comments were in relation to specific radius clauses where the insured peril was 
further defined. So in this case, I find the judgments from the High Court and Corbin and 
King (referred to above) more relevant in reaching a decision.  
I see no reason to depart from the findings of the High Court. Im not persuaded that an 
occurrence of Covid-19 within one mile means that there was an incident which prevented or 
hindered Js access to its premises, and I dont believe that this clause of the policy would be 
considered ambiguous. Therefore, I think Hiscox have acted fairly and reasonably in finding 
that this clause doesnt cover Js claim. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome J was hoping for but, having considered things very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Hiscox to pay Js claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman