DRN-3239107
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc refused to cover the cost of repairs to a 
faulty car.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for the following reasons: 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such this 
service is able to consider complaints relating to it. Santander is also the supplier of the 
goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
I appreciate Mrs B has concerns about the dealer and the warranty but these are not within 
my power to consider. My role is to consider if Santander as a regulated financial business 
should have done more or acted differently in response to Mrs Bs complaint. In short, I have 
to be satisfied that the car was faulty at the point of sale. 
The car was some 10 years old and had covered 111,065 miles. It follows that a degree of 
wear and tear was to be expected. The car suffered an oil leak and this was fixed by a local 
garage and this was paid by Mrs B. I have seen no evidence that this leak was present when 
the car was sold.
Santander commissioned an independent report and the inspector took the car for a 187-
mile drive and reported that he could find no faults. He was aware of the issues raised by 
Mrs B which were, the oil leak, water coming into the boot, the stop start working 
intermittently and the engine management light (EML) coming on. I have noted Mrs B has 
expressed concerns about the inspection and I have watched the videos she has sent this 
service showing the EML illuminated after the inspection was undertaken.
I have also noted the video showing two faults on the diagnostic test equipment. I agree with 
our investigator that there is a fault, but I also agree that we do not have evidence to show 
that this was present at the point of sale. As I have said above a degree of wear and tear is 
to be expected from an older car which has covered a high mileage. In short things will go 
wrong and it is unfortunate that in this case there have been some issues. 
I have read the detailed list of journeys taken in the car and the timeline of events. It seems 
that the issue may be with the lambda sensor and/or the EGR. These are parts that can 
suffer from wear and tear and given the cars mileage these may have simply worn out. If 
that is the cause then I cannot say that this was an inherent fault. It is regrettable but cars 
that have covered over 100,000 miles do tend to suffer from more faults than other younger 
ones do. 
I note Mrs B says the car wasnt serviced before she bought it and she had been led to 
believe that it had been. Again, I have seen no evidence to show that the car was sold as 
having been serviced.
I appreciate Mrs B will be disappointed with my decision and while I have every sympathy 
with her situation I cannot safely uphold her complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman