DRN-2787998
The complaint
Ms J complains that Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros removed the flood 
cover from her home insurance policy and, when her property flooded a few months later, 
declined her claim for damage to her property.
What happened
Ms J took out her home insurance policy with Ocaso through a broker in August 2018 having 
located it on a price comparison website. The policy renewed the following year in 2019. 
During the online application Ms J was asked to confirm if the house had ever been flooded 
 she answered no - and whether it was located in an area free from flooding or at risk of 
flood, to which she answered yes. 
Her answers to the application questions were sent to her online portal on a statement of 
fact document  both at inception in 2018 and the following year at renewal. 
In November 2019, Ms J contacted the brokers live chat to check if she was covered for 
flood and it was confirmed she was. During the chat Ms J mentioned that the area had 
flooded in 1998 when a nearby river burst its banks. The broker explained that as this 
information hadnt been disclosed during the online application it would need to refer it to 
Ocaso (the insurer) to confirm how it wanted to proceed. 
Ocaso told the broker in December 2019 that the policy would remain in force but cover for 
flood would be excluded both going forward and retrospectively from inception as it would 
never have offered to cover Ms J for it if itd known about the previous flood. Ocaso asked 
the broker to update the policy. And Ms J confirmed to the broker that she wanted the policy 
to remain in force without flood cover. The broker issued an updated policy schedule to the 
portal which showed there was now an endorsement on the policy which excluded flood 
cover. 
Following a named storm in February 2020 Ms Js house flooded. Ms J called Ocaso to 
make a claim for the damage sustained and was told flood damage was excluded under her 
policy. Ms J complained to Ocaso.
 
Ms J said this was the first time the property had flooded in 22 years and that she 
understood insurers were meant to review designated flood areas every 5 years. So, she 
said she couldnt understand why this wasnt done nor why she had a flood exclusion on her 
policy. She said her neighbour had a policy with Ocaso, and had been able to claim 
successfully, and that the nearest river was 2 miles away. Ms J also said that when shed 
taken the policy out shed no idea that the policy had flooded 22 years ago. 
Ocaso looked into Ms Js complaint but didnt think itd done anything wrong. It referred to 
the governments Flood Re scheme which it said worked by giving insurers the option to 
transfer the flood risk element of the policy to it at an extra cost subject to strict underwriting 
criteria being met and, typically, an increased premium. Ocaso said that for it to be able to 
assess the acceptability of a property under the Flood Re scheme it only quoted if the broker 
or customer approached it directly so that it could quote using its own systems  not through 
a price comparison site as Ms J had done. Ocaso suggested Ms J contact her broker to 
discuss her options as it may be able to find a policy with another insurer which included 
flood cover. 
Unhappy with the outcome of her complaint to Ocaso, Ms J complained to this service. Ms J 
said to this service that the broker mustve told Ocaso about her circumstances without 
telling her and giving her the opportunity to arrange different cover. Ms J said this was unfair 
as was the fact her neighbour was covered by Ocaso. She said shed had to pay for all the 
repairs herself. 
Our investigator looked into Ms Js complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. He 
thought the endorsement excluding flood cover had been added correctly to the policy by 
Ocaso and that the subsequent claim had been fairly declined. 
Ms J disagreed with our investigators findings and asked for her complaint to be referred for 
an ombudsmans decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I fully appreciate that this mustve been a very stressful and anxious time for Ms J. Not only 
was her house flooded and damaged, but she has had to find the money to fund the 
extensive repairs herself. But despite my natural sympathy for the situation in which she has 
found herself, Im unable to fairly uphold her complaint. I understand that this will come as a 
disappointment to Ms J. 
I dont doubt what Ms J has said throughout the course of her complaint: that when she took 
the policy out in August 2018 she had no idea her property was located in an area that was 
at risk of flood or that itd flooded previously. So, I accept that she answered the questions 
she was asked, about whether her property was at risk of flooding, during the application 
stage to the best of her knowledge at the time. I also accept that it wasnt until a named 
storm in November 2019 that flooded her neighbours home that Ms J became aware for the 
first time that her property was also at risk. And she did the right thing by contacting her 
broker and notifying it that shed recently found out that her property had flooded in 1998 
(before she lived there). The broker had a duty to pass the information on to Ocaso.
But ultimately the answers Ms J gave to the flood risk questions she was asked were 
inaccurate, even if it was to the best of her knowledge at the time. 
The information about the flooding in 1998 was both material and a fundamental change to 
the risk that Ocaso had agreed to take on in August 2018 and at renewal in 2019. If 
information that the property had flooded 22 years ago had been passed on to Ocaso when 
the policy was taken out then it has said it would have excluded cover for flood damage. 
Ocaso has provided us with underwriting material that shows this to be true. I can see that 
once it knew that the property had flooded, it amended Ms Js policy by adding an 
endorsement to exclude cover for flood damage backdated to the start of the policy. I can 
see too that Ms Js property is considered by the governments own website to be at high 
risk of flooding. 
Taking all of this into account, Im satisfied that Ocaso has shown it wouldnt have offered 
flood cover if itd known about the flood 22 years ago. Once it found out about it, I dont think it was unreasonable, taking the fundamental nature of the change of risk into account, for 
Ocaso to apply the flood exclusion endorsement to Ms Js policy. 
I note that Ocaso is an insurer that will cover flood risk areas by utilising the Flood Re 
scheme. But it has explained that it only does so if a consumer, or their broker, approaches it 
directly at the point of sale so that it could quote using its own systems. Unfortunately for 
Ms J, as she applied for her policy through a price comparison site it didnt apply to her 
situation. And I appreciate too that Ms J says her neighbour was covered by Ocaso for flood 
damage to her property but Im unable to comment on the neighbours situation as I dont 
know how he or she purchased her policy and, in any event, I can only consider here whats 
happened to Ms J. 
It follows that as I think Ocaso didnt unfairly amend the policy mid-term to exclude cover for 
flood damage, I dont think it unreasonably declined the claim Ms J made for the same in 
February 2020. Put simply, Ms Js policy only provides cover for damage caused by certain 
insured events  and flood wasnt one of them. 
I can see that Ocaso updated the policy schedule after it was notified about the 1998 flood 
and gave the broker clear instructions to notify Ms J of the change in her cover. I understand 
Ms J has made a separate complaint about the actions of her broker but I cant consider that 
here. I can only look at the complaint Ms J has made about Ocaso, and I think that it acted 
fairly when it amended the policy and directed the broker to advise her about the change to 
her cover.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman