DRN-4302667
The complaint
Mr M and Ms M complain that Astrenska Insurance Limited has turned down a curtailment 
claim they made on a travel insurance policy.
Mr M and Ms M are represented in this complaint, but for ease of reading, Ive referred only 
to Mr M and Ms M.
What happened
Mr M and Ms M took out a travel insurance policy through a broker, to cover an upcoming 
cruise holiday. Mr M declared that he suffered from anxiety and Astrenska agreed to cover 
this condition.
On 26 August 2022, Mr M and Ms M travelled abroad as planned and boarded their cruise. 
Unfortunately, shortly before the ship was due to sail, Mr M developed symptoms of severe 
anxiety and had to leave the ship. He was accompanied by a relative, and they flew back to 
the UK on 27 August 2022. Mr M and Ms M made a claim on the policy for the curtailment of 
Mr Ms cruise holiday and for his return travel arrangements.
Astrenska turned the claim down. Thats because it said there was no evidence to show it 
had been medically necessary for Mr M to cut short the trip.
Mr M and Ms M were unhappy with Astrenskas decision. They said thered been no chance 
to try and get a medical certificate on board the ship. And Mr M had spoken to a crisis team 
upon his return to the UK, whod referred him back to his GP. Mr M was also under the care 
of a mental health service and hed had an appointment with that service a couple of weeks 
after hed curtailed the trip.
However, Astrenska maintained its stance, although it said that if Mr M and Ms M could 
provide a copy of Mr Ms medical records for the 12 months prior to the purchase of the 
policy, it would review them. 
Remaining unhappy with Astrenskas decision, Mr M and Ms M asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He noted that in the case of 
curtailment, the policy terms required a policyholder to provide a medical certificate in 
support of their claim. And the contract terms also required a policyholder to contact 
Astrenska prior to making arrangements to return to the UK early. In this case, the 
investigator didnt think there was enough medical evidence to show it had been necessary 
to cut short Mr Ms trip. And Astrenska hadnt been contacted before Mr M cut short his trip 
and incurred additional costs. So the investigator didnt think it had been unfair for Astrenska 
to turn down the claim. He also considered it wasnt unusual for an insurer to ask for a 
policyholders medical records in claims like Mr Ms.
Mr M and Ms M disagreed and Ive summarised their representatives response to our 
investigator:
At the time Mr M had disembarked the ship, Ms Ms primary concern had been 
keeping Mr M safe and getting him home. She and her family hadnt been 
considering the precise wording of the policy at that point. 
Once Mr M had left the boat, his symptoms had resolved, so thered been no need 
for him to seek medical attention. 
Due to the emergency situation, Mr M and his relative hadnt had access to the policy 
wording. So strict adherence to the policy terms was unreasonable. 
They felt that the medical evidence which had been provided supported Mr Ms 
existing diagnosis of anxiety and the extreme symptoms he developed while on 
board the ship. The cruise operator had provided a letter which stated that Mr M had 
had to disembark due to his mental health and well-being. 
They felt Astrenska had been unhelpful and obstructive. 
And Mr Ms accompanying relative had had their own curtailment claim paid.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr M and Ms M, I dont think it was unfair for 
Astrenska to turn down their claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of the policy and the available evidence, to decide whether I think Astrenska 
treated Mr M and Ms M fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of the contract 
between Mr M, Ms M and Astrenska. The policy covers a policyholder cutting short their trip 
in the event of a medical emergency. However, the policy terms also set out a list of things 
Astrenska has chosen not to cover. This includes the following:
What is not covered
1. Early return home claims when we did not authorise the travel arrangements.
2. Claims where a medical certificate has not been obtained from the attending medical 
practitioner abroad confirming it was necessary to cut short the trip.
The cutting short your trip section also includes the following term:
For claims to be valid you must contact us before making travel arrangements back to the 
UK so that we can authorise additional costs to return home early.
And page 10 of the policy says:
Before a claim can be paid, you may be asked to provide supporting documentation to 
validate cover and the circumstances of the loss. The table on the next page sets out what 
documentation you may be asked to provide. Depending on the details of each claim we 
may ask for additional supporting documentation to that listed on the next page
Cutting short your trip  Medical reports/medical certificate.Its a general principle of insurance that its a policyholders responsibility to provide enough 
evidence to show they have a valid claim on their policy. In this case, Astrenska has 
concluded Mr M and Ms M havent demonstrated that it was medically necessary for Mr M to 
cut short their trip. So Ive gone on to think about whether I find this was a fair conclusion for 
Astrenska to draw.
I was sorry to hear about the circumstances which led to Mr M and Ms Ms claim. I dont 
doubt how upsetting and worrying it was for Mr M, Ms M and their family when Mr M 
developed distressing symptoms after boarding the cruise ship. I can entirely understand 
why their priority was to ensure that Mr M returned to the UK safely. 
However, I do think the policy terms clearly explain what a policyholder needs to do if they 
need to cut short a trip for medical reasons. I appreciate Mr Ms relative may not have had 
access to the policy document at the relevant time. But I think its more likely than not that 
Ms M and Mr M were sent a copy of the policy Insurance Product Information Document at 
the point of sale. This document set out an at-a-glance summary of cover and a list of a 
consumers obligations in certain situations. This list says that a policyholder must:
 Contact the emergency assistance service if you or anyone insured under the policy 
requires inpatient medical treatment, repatriation or your claim is likely to exceed £500.
Given the cost of the curtailed holiday and Mr Ms additional travel expenses, I think it should 
have been clear to Ms M and Mr M that the claim would likely exceed £500. And on that 
basis, I think Ms M and Mr M ought to have been reasonably aware of the need to contact 
Astrenska before cutting short the trip.
Its common ground that Mr M and Ms M didnt contact Astrenska either before Mr M 
disembarked or before he returned to the UK on the following day. I understand there was 
only a short time between Mr M developing symptoms and the planned departure of the 
ship. So I appreciate it might have been difficult for Mr M to see a medical officer during that 
time or indeed, to get in touch with Astrenska before leaving the ship. But given the 
emergency nature of the symptoms Mr M and Ms M have described, I think it might have 
been reasonable for Mr M and his accompanying relative to have sought medical attention 
once theyd disembarked and to have contacted Astrenska. Had they done so, its entirely 
possible that they may have been able to obtain medical evidence to show it had been 
necessary for Mr M to cut short his trip. Or that Astrenska could have directed Mr M to seek 
medical attention before making any further arrangements.
Ive considered the available evidence carefully. I accept that the cruise companys guest 
relations manager provided Ms M and Mr M with a letter saying that Mr M had curtailed the 
trip due to Mr Ms Mental health and Wellbeing. However, I dont think I could fairly or 
reasonably say that Astrenska ought to treat the letter from the cruise companys guest 
relations manager as a medical certificate. Theres no indication that a medical officer was 
involved in its drafting and it isnt at all clear that the guest relations manager was suitably 
qualified to assess Mr Ms health.
Ms M and Mr M have provided us with evidence to show that Mr M contacted the crisis team 
two days after his return. Theyve also sent us letters from Mr Ms GP and his mental health 
practitioner. These letters show that Mr M had a phone consultation with his GP on 13 
September 2022  around two weeks after he cut short his trip, and that theyd discussed 
episodes of Mr M experiencing palpitations and chest pain. While the GPs letter referred to 
Mr Ms history of anxiety, panic attacks and depressive symptoms, there is no reference to 
any discussion about Mr Ms symptoms on board the ship, or whether the GP wouldve 
thought it medically necessary for the trip to be curtailed. The mental health practitioners 
report shows that Mr M consulted with them on 19 September 2022. The letter says:Within the appointment we discussed some of the difficulties that you have been having for 
quite an extensive period of time. It is very apparent that there [sic] are affecting you on a 
regular basis.
You informed me that you are experiencing high levels of anxiety where you feel panic 
symptoms such as your heart beating very fast.
The letter refers to some of the difficulties Mr M was experiencing. But critically, theres no 
reference to Mr Ms symptoms on board the cruise ship or whether the mental health 
practitioner wouldve found it was medically necessary for him to curtail his trip.
On that basis, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Ms M and Mr M, I simply dont think it was unfair 
for Astrenska to conclude that there wasnt enough medical evidence to show it was 
medically necessary for Mr M to cut short his trip. 
Astrenska has offered to review Mr Ms medical records for the 12 months preceding the 
sale of the policy. I dont think this is an unfair or unusual request. In my experience, most, if 
not all, insurers regularly request a policyholders GP records when assessing claims arising 
from medical conditions. It remains open to Mr M and Ms M to provide Astrenska with this 
evidence should they wish to do so.
Overall, despite my sympathy with Ms M and Mr Ms position, I dont think Astrenska acted 
unfairly or unreasonably when it concluded that they havent shown they had a valid claim on 
their policy. And so it follows that I dont think it was unfair for Astrenska to turn down this 
claim. I appreciate that Mr Ms relatives claim was paid by another insurer. But all insurance 
policies include differing terms and conditions and I cant reasonably direct Astrenska to pay 
this claim outside of the contract terms simply because another insurer has accepted a third-
party claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman