DRN-1728724
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mrs and Mr J hold with Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Birmingham Midshires (BM). They say that BM left it too late to inform them of new rate 
deals before their current deal was due to expire. By the time theyd arranged a re-mortgage 
with another lender, their rate had expired, and they were charged interest at BMs standard 
variable rate for several days before the mortgage was redeemed.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the 
round. In doing that, I dont take instructions from either party to the complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator that BM has done nothing wrong in this 
instance.
Im satisfied Mrs and Mr J werent reliant on BM writing to them to tell them when their 
existing deal was due to expire. That information was already available to them by virtue of 
the mortgage offer and the annual mortgage statement. Viewed in that context, it seems to 
me that the main purpose of BM writing at all was to let Mrs and Mr J know what deals it 
could offer them to stay with it rather then move to another lender.
 
Mrs and Mr J say that one month (slightly less by the time the letter actually reached them) 
wasnt long enough for them to arrange the new mortgage before their existing rate expired. 
All Id say in response to that is that Mrs and Mr J didnt need to wait for BM to write to them. 
For the reason set out above, Im satisfied Mrs and Mr J would have known when the rate 
was due to expire, and they had a professional intermediary to advise them on how long it 
might take to secure a new rate. They, or their broker on their behalf, could have begun the 
process of searching the market for the best deal (including those available from BM) at any 
time before BM sent out the letter.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 November 2020. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman