DRN-3166556
Complaint
Mr H is unhappy with what The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) has agreed to do to put 
things right after he complained about his overdraft.
  
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Hs complaint he thought that RBS needed to refund all 
the interest added to the account from September 2013. RBS agreed but Mr H disagreed 
and asked for an ombudsmans decision.   
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I think what RBS has agreed to do to put things right for Mr H 
is fair and reasonable. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
Mr H says RBS agreed to provide his overdraft at a certain rate for life and it unfairly 
changed this in 2016. I dont know what RBS told Mr H when it provided the overdraft in 
2002. But the terms and conditions of the agreement, which Mr H has provided, permitted 
RBS to amend the interest rate on his overdraft as long as it provided one months notice. 
Ive been provided with information which suggests Mr H was notified about the upcoming 
change to his terms and conditions in 2016. So it looks like RBS made a change that it was 
entitled to make and provided Mr H with the appropriate notification before doing so. 
Nonetheless RBS has agreed that it ought to have realised that Mr Hs overdraft had 
become unsustainable for him by September 2013. And it has agreed to refund all the 
interest, fees and charges added it to Mr Hs overdraft from then in order to put things right. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have. However, thats not possible in cases where funds that shouldnt have been advanced 
were advanced because typically those funds will have already been spent. 
So we have to look at a way of asking a business to put things right in a fair and reasonable 
way. And where a business provided, or continued to allow a consumer to use, a credit 
facility which it should have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the 
consumer in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges 
on that credit. This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges 
added to any credit from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. 
And if those interest and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year. 
In this case, Mr H has been left with an outstanding balance even though the credits he 
made to his account have been factored in and hes been refunded all of the interest, fees 
and charges applied. So while Mr H has been left with an outstanding balance to repay and 
he might be unhappy with this, RBS has done what Id normally expect it to do here.
That said, we do look at each case individually. And while we have a general approach to 
how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it continued to provided credit it 
shouldnt have (such as here), we can and will tell it to do something different and/or 
something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what would be fair and reasonable to 
do in the circumstances of that individual case. Mr H believes that RBS should do more. 
Hes said he should be refunded all the interest and charges he paid on his overdraft.
Ive thought about what Mr H has said. However, its unclear why Mr H believes RBS should 
refund all interest and charges added since 2002 since his initial complaint was RBS should 
have continued providing this overdraft to him from 2016 on the same terms that itd been 
doing so before. He wanted the extra interest and charges refunded and RBS has not only 
done this but it has gone further and has agreed to refund all charges added from 
September 2013 onwards. 
In these circumstances and bearing in mind Mr H also wanted the facility reinstated on its 
original terms, I see no reasonable basis for requiring RBS to refund all the charges going 
back to 2002  especially as Mr H almost certainly complained about these matters too late. 
I do sympathise with the financial position Mr H is now in. However, his debt will be 
significantly reduced as a result of the adjustments RBS will now make and what hell be left 
to pay is in effect the remainder of the funds he spent and received since September 2013.
 
Ive also seen what Mr H has said about possibly losing out on investment returns. But even 
if RBS hadnt added the interest to his account he would still have had an outstanding 
balance. And this means that I dont think that hes lost out on the his of his funds as he 
would have, in any event, been borrowing from RBS. 
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what RBS has agreed to do to put things right for 
Mr H  reworking his account so all interest, fees and charges added since September 2013 
are removed  is fair and reasonable and Im not requiring it to do anything more and I leave 
it up to Mr H to decide whether he wishes to accept RBS offer. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc has 
already agreed to do to put things right for Mr H is fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of his complaint. So Im not requiring it to do anything more or anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman