DRN-2952927
The complaint
H, a limited company complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited delayed the provision of loan 
finance, included development finance that it didnt want and had a conflict of interest.
What happened
H agreed to buy a property at an auction with a completion date of 13 September 2019. 
Through an introducer it applied to Shawbrook Bank for finance. H complains that 
completion didnt take place until 27 September 2019 which resulted in late completion 
penalties of £4,055. The loan facility included development finance that it didnt want, and it 
says that it signed the facility under duress. It wants compensation of over £29,000 plus 
interest. H also alleges that Shawbrook Bank had a conflict of interest in dealing with the 
introducer as he was a member of its panel.
Shawbrook Bank said it didnt agree it had made a mistake. It said that it had provided a 
draft copy of a facility letter to H through its solicitors on 6 September 2019. Those figures 
were subject to a report from its Independent Monitoring Surveyor (IMS) who had inspected 
the property on 4 September 2019. Shawbrook Bank received the report on 12 September 
2019 which led to an increase in the amount of development finance. It detailed ongoing 
correspondence between its solicitors and those of H about outstanding information to meet 
the conditions precedent for the loan finance and which continued up to 27 September 2019. 
A revised facility letter had been issued on 20 September 2019. The increased development 
costs reflected items including a sprinkler system, ground floor underpinning, a lift and a 
contingency as there were reports missing. It said that although the loan amount had 
increased it didnt increase the fees or interest rate. Shawbrook Bank said that the introducer 
was an independent third party that had a contractual relationship. It didnt see any conflict of 
interest in this arrangement and the fee for that party was included in the facility. The fact 
that the introducer was on its panel meant that it could introduce business. The 
documentation was signed by H and reflected that Shawbrook was only interested in 
providing a loan including development finance.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said he had reviewed 
the loan documentation. H had written to Shawbrook Bank on 27 September 2019 stating 
that
We also write to confirm that we will not be accepting the development advance proposed 
in the loan agreement. We have never agreed to the development advance, however it was 
not possible to record our disagreement in the loan agreement as we felt threatened that we 
may not receive the site advance before completion.
Our investigator saw no evidence of any threats and nor that H could say it hadnt agreed to 
the loan finance. The loan finance was provided when all conditions precedent were met. He 
couldnt see that the introducers connection to Shawbrook Bank led to a conflict of interest.
H didnt agree and said it wanted to meet with an ombudsman. Our investigator explained 
that this wasnt available as part of our process and said it should respond to set out any 
further points. H said that it didnt think we had understood its complaint. There had been a 
promise to provide the loan before 13 September 2019. It wanted to know why the facility 
letter hadnt been sent before 20 September 2019 and why its solicitors were blamed. It had 
told Shawbrook Bank that it wasnt accepting the development loan so this shouldnt have 
been included. So, it wanted to know why it was charged. The questions in its complaint 
remain unanswered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid that H had committed to a completion date for a purchase before it had secured 
loan finance. I dont doubt that Shawbrook Bank was made aware of the deadline and 
agreed in principle. But any lending was fairly subject to its assessment and credit approval 
process. And I dont see it had agreed to provide a facility without the development finance.
There were a number of parties involved in this financing and not least solicitors acting on 
behalf of both H and Shawbrook Bank. Ive seen evidence of the questions that were raised 
and then answered to deal with all the legal issues and as has been referred to meeting the 
conditions precedent for the loan.
In particular I have reviewed the timeline that Shawbrook Bank has set out in its final 
response and the underlying correspondence which I consider supports this. There was a 
draft loan agreement, but this was subject to the IMS report. I dont agree with H that this 
draft was irrelevant as it set out the broad terms and was based on figures that had been 
discussed. But the IMS report changed the amounts involved significantly for development 
finance which Shawbrook Bank explained on 12 September 2019 needed credit approval. It 
wrote saying it expected this on 13 September 2019 or by 16 September 2019 and once we 
have the approval the Banks lawyers can send out the facility letter. Agreement to a facility 
of £1,781,855 with a development facility of £973,959 (an increase from £660,000, including 
contingency) in the term sheet was confirmed on 13 September 2019. On 16 September 
2019 H wrote to Shawbrook Bank to say that it had been promised a facility letter and had 
arranged completion for that date. On 18 September 2019 Shawbrook Bank set out what 
was still needed, and later H said that these had been sent the day before and it needed to 
complete the following day. The facility letter was sent on 20 September 2019. There was 
then the further communication about meeting the conditions precedent.
I appreciate that H feels that it or its advisors have been blamed for the delay. But I dont 
seek to apportion blame in this way but conclude that there was clearly a process to be 
followed as set out above and I dont find that Shawbrook Bank is fairly responsible for H not 
completing in the timescale it wanted to.
I know that H has referred to sending an email on 21 September 2019 stating that:
We did not either agree or requested a development advance of £973,959.00. It would not 
make any business sense for us to spend this amount on development. We will not be 
borrowing a development advance of £973,959.00. "
Shawbrook Bank says it didnt receive correspondence of this nature. In any event the key 
point is that the directors of H signed for the facility and committed it to all the terms of the 
agreement. And were clearly pushing through their own solicitors for the agreement to be 
completed. While they may have felt pressure Im afraid I think that this was likely due to the 
property purchase timetable theyd committed to. The director explains that H was given 
notice that it would lose the deposit if it didnt complete. I dont find evidence to support that Shawbrook Bank sought to take advantage of that 
situation and it explained why the amounts had changed and the increases. It could have 
decided it no longer was prepared to provide finance as the amount had increased 
significantly. It didnt have only to provide purchase finance and it gave no indication that this 
is what it would do. And I dont think that H, or it directors had any basis to think that it could 
reasonably sign an agreement, complete on a property and then not be bound by some of 
the terms with Shawbrook Bank it had separately decided it didnt want to accept. Or have 
any fees due refunded. I see no basis to find that any duress for H and its directors came 
from Shawbrook Bank.
Shawbrook Bank has set out the position of the introducer. And this complaint is about 
Shawbrook Bank not that introducer. It explains it has a number of accredited introducers on 
its panel and I dont see that this or its actions in dealing with H has been evidence of any 
conflict of interest.
I appreciate the director of H who brings the complaint on its behalf will be disappointed by 
my findings here. If H doesnt accept my decision it remains free to pursue this matter in 
court subject to any relevant time limits.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman