DRN-3746603
The complaint
Mr G complains Aviva Insurance Limited has acted unfairly in relation to his legal expenses 
insurance (LEI). Mr G says the policys hourly rate for solicitors fees is too low and as a 
result, the policy isnt fit for purpose. So, he feels the policy was mis-sold. 
Whilst this is a joint policy with Mrs G, as the claim and have been made by Mr G, Ive 
referred to him throughout my decision.
What happened
Mr G purchased his LEI policy as an add on to his home insurance policy in October 
2020. The policy is underwritten by Aviva and was bought via an agent of Aviva. For 
ease, any reference to Aviva includes the actions of its agents.
In May 2021, Mr G attempted to make a claim on the policy for an employment 
dispute his son was bringing against a former employer. At the time of making the 
claim Mr G provided details of the solicitor he had already involved.
In June 2021, Avivas legal advisors issued an opinion saying the claim did not enjoy 
reasonable prospect of success. In August 2021, Mr Gs solicitor provided a positive 
prospect of success which had been received from its own Counsel. This was shared 
with Aviva on 12 August 2021.
Following receipt of this, Aviva agreed to provide cover and sent Mr Gs solicitor its 
terms of appointment - which included details of the £100 + VAT hourly rate provided 
for solicitors fees (all following references to hourly rates are exclusive of VAT).
Because Mr Gs solicitor charged £185 per hour, he asked Aviva if it would increase 
the rate it would pay. Aviva said their panel solicitors had confirmed they could deal 
with this matter for £100 per hour, so this rate would also be applied to non-panel 
solicitors.
In October 2021, Mr Gs solicitor returned the signed terms of appointment but stated 
they and Mr G did not agree with the hourly rate. It was agreed funding would be 
backdated to when the positive Counsel prospects assessment had been received. 
Mr G complained about the hourly rate and Aviva didnt uphold it, so, he brought a 
complaint to this service.
Our Investigator didnt think Aviva had mis-sold the policy and said it was reasonable 
for Aviva to rely on the £100 per hour policy term.
Mr G disagreed with our Investigators findings, so the complaint has been passed to 
me for a decision.
On 15 August 2022, I issued a provisional decision upholding Mr Gs complaint. In summary 
I said:
In considering whether it was fair and reasonable for Aviva to restrict the hourly rate to £100
per hour, Ive kept in mind the Courts position in Brown-Quinn & Anor v Equity Syndicate
Management Ltd & Anor [2012] EWCA Civ 1633).
Here, the court found that legal expenses insurers had the right to restrict what it would pay
a non-panel solicitor provided the remuneration wasnt so low it rendered the policyholders
freedom of choice meaningless. This means Aviva needed to have offered Mr G a
reasonable choice of suitably qualified solicitors who were willing to act at the hourly rate its
willing to pay.
Aviva has confirmed their panel firm was willing and able to act for £100 per hour. Whilst I
accept this, whats key here is whether Mr G had a choice of solicitors  in other words, did
Aviva offer him a selection of panel firm solicitors from which he could pick one, or did it only
provide him with one option. Ive asked Aviva for further evidence that Mr G had a choice of
suitably qualified solicitors, but Aviva has been unable to provide this evidence. Without this,
Im not persuaded Mr G was given a choice.
So, Ive looked at whether Mr G wouldve been able to appoint a non-panel solicitor for £100
per hour. Mr Gs solicitor charged £185 per hour. The national guidelines set out that the
standard rate of pay for a solicitor in the area Mr G lives is £178 per hour  which is
significantly higher than what the policy covered. So, by only offering Mr G a single panel
firm to act for him and by restricting the hourly rate to £100 per hour  Im more persuaded
that Aviva has rendered Mr Gs freedom of choice meaningless and therefore, hasnt 
handled his claim fairly.
I explained that although Mr G had said the policy was mis-sold, I wasnt persuaded it was 
based on the information Id seen.
Based on this, Im currently minded to uphold Mr Gs complaint and require Aviva Insurance
Limited to do the following:
Reimburse the costs incurred by Mr G in relation to this claim up to the cost of £178 
per hour. This applies to costs incurred from 12 August 2021.
Pay interest at 8% simple per annum on the costs to be paid, from the date Mr G paid 
them to the date of reimbursement (Aviva has the right to have these costs assessed 
for general reasonableness but not in relation to the hourly rate charged).
Both parties responded to my provisional decision. Mr G accepted it and provided evidence 
of costs. In summary, Aviva said:
It disagreed Mr G hadnt been given a freedom of choice. It said their terms of 
appointment were provided to Mr G and his solicitor which highlighted that if their 
terms were not agreeable, Aviva would refer the matter to its panel solicitor. 
It feels its unfair to say they didnt provide Mr G which a choice of panel solicitors as 
there were corresponding with Mr G, but he continued to challenge the hourly rate.
It thought it was unlikely Mr G would have opted to switch to a panel solicitor at the 
stage his legal claim was at as his own solicitor was already invested in dealing with 
the matter.
Aviva queried whether it was ultimately responsible for a complaint regarding the solicitors cost per hour and suggested an agent - who acts as its claim handler - 
might be the appropriate respondent.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to depart from the reasoning set out in my provisional decision 
and Ill explain why. 
First, Aviva has queried whether its responsible for Mr Gs complaint about the solicitors 
hourly rate. The claims handling company who issued the final response did so on behalf of 
Aviva as it was acting as one of its agents. So, Im satisfied Aviva is the responsible 
business here. 
It's not in dispute that Mr G had the right to choose his own solicitor - as the policy permits 
this when legal proceedings are imminent. And Aviva is entitled to limit what it pays for 
solicitors fees under the policy. The key issue is whether Mr G  having been told Aviva 
wouldnt increase the rate it would pay a non-panel solicitor  was given a freedom of 
choice.  
Aviva has said it approached one panel solicitors who said they could act on his legal claim 
for an hourly rate of £100. But Im not satisfied that having one panel solicitor fulfils Avivas 
responsibility of providing Mr G with a reasonable choice of suitably qualified solicitors who 
are willing to act at £100 per hour. 
In its response Aviva appears to imply that because Mr G continued to dispute the hourly 
rate, it was prevented from being able to put forward a selection of panel solicitors from 
which he could choose. But Im not persuaded by this, as regardless of whether Mr G wasnt 
happy about the hourly rate, this didnt preclude Aviva from giving him information about 
other panel solicitors from which he could choose from. During this time, Aviva were able to 
give details for one of the panel solicitors, so Im not persuaded there was good reason for 
not being able to include the details of others. 
Aviva has also said that even if it had offered a choice of solicitors, it doesnt think Mr G 
would have wanted to move his legal claim to a panel firm because his own solicitor was 
already invested in the matter. I must keep in mind that this is a speculative argument and it 
doesnt persuade me that had Mr G been given other panel solicitors to pick from, he would 
have chosen to stay with his own solicitor.
So, my decision remains that by only offering Mr G a single panel firm to act for him and by 
restricting the hourly rate to £100 per hour, Im more persuaded Aviva has rendered Mr Gs 
freedom of choice meaningless and hasnt therefore, handled his claim fairly.
Because of the reasons given above and the direction Im making to uphold this complaint, 
Im satisfied arguments about whether the policy was mis-sold, inevitably fall away. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Aviva Insurance Limited to:
Reimburse the costs incurred by Mr G in relation to this claim up to the cost of £178 
per hour. This applies to costs incurred from 12 August 2021.
Pay interest at 8% simple per annum on the costs to be paid. Interest should be calculated from the date Mr G paid the fees to the date of reimbursement (Aviva has 
the right to have these costs assessed for general reasonableness but not in relation 
to the hourly rate charged).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 November 2022. 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman