DRN-1751166
 
The complaint 
Mrs Es complaint is about the quality of a car she is financing through an agreement with 
Oodle Financial Services Limited (Oodle), trading as Oodle Car Finance.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs E acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase agreement is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Oodle, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Mrs E. This car was 
about seven years old and had completed about 71,000 miles at the point of supply. Id 
therefore expect it to be showing some signs of wear and tear.
Im not persuaded that any of the repairs completed in late 2018 or in early 2019 were 
problems that could not have been expected on a car of this age and mileage. Ive seen, for 
instance, that the hand brake needed adjusting, the Diesel Particulate Filter needed 
regenerating and a wheel bearing needed to be replaced. I think these are wear and tear 
items. 
The independent inspector who is an expert in these matters has explained that the injector 
seal failure the car currently suffers from is not something that would have been developing 
at the point the car was supplied. He suggests that issue will have been developing over the last 3,000 miles. He registered the cars mileage as a little over 99,000 when he completed 
his visit so that would suggest the current fault had developed in recent times.
Its clear that Mrs Es car has completed significantly higher than average mileage. I 
understand she disputes the mileage recorded by the independent engineer but no further 
evidence has been provided and Im persuaded by the MOT records that this car has at least 
completed more than average mileage and most probably significantly more. 
So Im not persuaded that this car had faults that were present or developing at the point of 
supply when Oodle were responsible for its quality and Im therefore not asking them to take 
any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Oodle Financial Services 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman