DRN-2884433
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E have complained that Lloyds Bank PLC sold them each a whole of life 
assurance policy, but they were not fit for purpose.
What happened
In 2008 Mr and Mrs E were advised to purchase individual whole of life assurance policies 
by Lloyds. The policies provided an initial sum assured of £2,000, but they were index-linked 
so would increase each year in line with the Retail Price Index (RPI). The policies were 
written in trust, so that in the event of either of their deaths, the benefit would be paid to the 
other without becoming part of their estates.
In 2013 Mr and Mrs E say they met with a representative of Lloyds who questioned why they 
had this cover, saying they didnt need it because of their existing savings. For this reason, 
Mrs E cancelled her plan with effect from 17 October 2013. However, Mr E says he kept his 
in place because he was worried about leaving his wife unprotected if he were to pass away.
Mr and Mrs E complained in 2019 after realising that Mr E had paid more into the plan than 
would be paid out in the event of his death. Mr and Mrs E felt that the policies had been 
misrepresented as funeral plans, when they were actually life assurance policies. They said 
they didnt need the plans because they had savings of around £60,000 at the time of the 
sale and the adviser had failed to ask them about this.
Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint, saying the plans were suitable for Mr and Mrs Es 
identified needs, which was to cover funeral expenses. It said the adviser could only base 
his recommendation on the information provided. Mr and Mrs Es concerns remained so they 
referred their complaint to our service. They are also unhappy that Lloyds has said they met 
the adviser twice to discuss the plans  they say they only met him once. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint; she thought the plans met Mr and Mrs Es 
objectives at the time. She said she could understand that with hindsight after paying the 
premiums for over 10 years Mr Es plan didnt appear to be good value. But she explained 
the policy wouldve paid the full sum assured in the event of his death after two years and 
couldve been used to cover funeral expenses.
Mr and Mrs E asked for a final decision on the matter. They said the sum assured wouldnt 
have been sufficient to pay for a funeral.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill explain why.
Id first like to address Mr and Mrs Es concerns about the number of times they met with the 
adviser. The paperwork Ive seen suggests discussions were held with the adviser at the 
bank branch on two separate occasions in January and February 2008. However, Mr and 
Mrs E only recall meeting him once. Ultimately I dont think it matters whether or not there 
were two meetings  Mr and Mrs E accept that they met with the adviser to discuss their 
needs, so I think that is the important point here.
Mr and Mrs E say that the adviser didnt ask them for any details about their circumstances, 
instead they feel the information the adviser used to justify his recommendation may have 
been taken from their earlier dealings with a different adviser. I wasnt present at the 
meeting, so I have to make a decision based upon what I think is most likely to have 
happened, taking into account Mr and Mrs Es recollections and the documentation 
produced at the time.
The adviser Mr and Mrs E saw completed a fact-find, which included details of their income 
and insurance cover  they had none. For this reason, the adviser identified an income and 
lump sum shortfall in the event of either of their deaths. This was explained in the Personal 
Summary and Recommendations Report dated 5 February 2008, a copy of which was sent 
to Mr and Mrs E. In this report, the adviser noted that although he had identified income 
shortfalls, Mr and Mrs E did not want to address this. He also stated the following:
You wanted to ensure that on your death, whenever it may occur, there will be funds to pay 
towards the cost of your funeral.
He then set out the details of two policies, providing £2,000 of cover over each of their 
lifetimes, stating:
the policies shown for this purpose could satisfy your need because you both told me 
specifically that you both wanted to apply tor £2,000 cover, each, as you believe this to be 
an adequate fund to pay towards the cost of a funeral.
I therefore recommend this amount of cover, on an increasing sum assured basis, which will 
mean that the benefit may keep pace with potential future price rises over the coming years.
Mr and Mrs E have told us that they had substantial savings at the time of the advice. Lloyds 
wouldve had access to details showing around £15,000 held collectively in various 
accounts. Mr and Mrs E say a further £45,000 was held with another business, but no 
evidence has been provided to demonstrate this. I accept that Mr and Mrs E held savings in 
excess of the amount they identified they would need to cover funeral costs. However, 
I wouldve expected Mr and Mrs E to have told the adviser this if they felt they already had 
adequate funds to cover their funeral costs. It appears they didnt do so.
In any event, I dont think that having substantial savings means the plans were unsuitable  
Mr and Mrs E may have had other plans for these funds, or needed them to be available in 
case their circumstances changed in future, such as them requiring care in old age. Taking 
out insurance to cover funeral costs meant they could guarantee the funds would be 
available to them in the event of either of their deaths, as long as the premiums were 
maintained. This is also why the plans were written into trust, to ensure the funds were 
available immediately to the other to cover funeral costs, without being subject to inheritance 
tax or any other administration of the deceaseds estate. 
Furthermore, Mr and Mrs E do not seem to be saying that cover for their funeral costs was 
not required  they say they were interested in this at the time, which is why they met with 
the second adviser. However, Mr and Mrs Es main concern appears to be that the plans 
were life cover, not specific funeral cover, such as an Over-50s plan. Mr E has also said he 
doesnt think the sum assured wouldve actually covered the average cost of a funeral and has also complained that he has paid more into the plan than his wife could expect to 
receive in the event of his death.
The Personal Summary and Recommendations Report shows that Mr and Mrs E were 
provided with the key features document relating to the plans. This document clearly 
explains that the policies provided life cover, paying the cash lump sum on death. And, it 
specifically warned of the risk that over the course of the policy the amount Mr and Mrs E 
paid in premiums could exceed the benefit amount. So, I think they were given sufficient 
information at the time to know how the policies worked.
Although not called an Over-50s plan, the plans sold to Mr and Mrs E operate in the same 
way. Over-50s plans are still a form of life assurance. And ultimately I think the plans sold to 
Mr and Mrs E met their objectives as it was a form of insurance that would last for the 
remainder of their lives and would pay a guaranteed death benefit which could be used for 
any purpose, including covering funeral costs.
I appreciate that Mr E does not feel the sum assured is sufficient to cover the average cost 
of a funeral, but he and Mrs E selected cover starting at £2,000. The Personal Summary and 
Recommendations Report notes that they believed this amount was sufficient at the time, 
and they also elected to make the plans index-linked so the sum assured would increase 
each year in line with the RPI. So, I think its clear Mr and Mrs E had borne in mind that the 
average cost of a funeral would likely rise and so they took measures to ensure the sum 
assured would increase over time too.
Mr and Mrs E say in 2013 they were told they didnt need the cover because of the amount 
of savings they had, which is why Mrs E cancelled her plan. We asked for evidence of the 
review that took place in 2013 to see what was discussed, but there isnt any documentary 
evidence of the plans being reviewed. But given that Mrs E cancelled her plan, I accept that 
she believed her plan was no longer necessary at the time. However, Im satisfied that at the 
time the plans were sold in 2008, Mr and Mrs E wanted this cover and I think they were 
suitable for their needs.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman