DRN-2018518
The complaint
Mr B says Provident Personal Credit Limited, trading as Satsuma (Satsuma), irresponsibly 
lent to him. Mr B has said insufficient affordability checks were carried out. If sufficient 
checks had been carried out Satsuma would have seen Mr B had short-term loans with other 
credit providers and that he was dependent on this type of lending. 
What happened
This complaint is about four short-term loans Satsuma provided to Mr B between December 
2018 and July 2019. Mr Bs borrowing history is as follows:
LoanDate Taken Date Repaid Instalments AmountHighest 
Combined 
Repayment
101/12/2018 28/06/2019 6 months £500.00 £158.00
229/01/2019 29/07/2019 6 months £300.00 £252.80
328/03/2019 Outstanding 47 weeks £1,100.00 £485.65
429/07/2019 Outstanding 3 months £600.00 £528.05
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Bs complaint. They didnt think loans three and four 
should have been given as the repayment for those loans represented a significant 
proportion of Mr Bs monthly income. They didnt think Mr B could sustainably meet his 
repayments. 
Satsuma responded directly to Mr B and made an offer in-line with the adjudicators 
assessment. As Mr B had outstanding balances on loans three and four the redress offered 
would be offset against that and nothing would be due to Mr B.
Mr B rejected the offer and asked for an ombudsmans decision. As the complaint remains 
unresolved, it has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Mr B could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Mr B rejected the offer made by Satsuma. That offer was in-line with the adjudicators 
recommendation. Mr B didnt comment on why he was rejecting the offer, only asking for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint. After doing so, Ive decided to uphold 
the complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
Satsuma has shown this service the checks it carried out before approving any of the 
borrowing. And it has told us that when taking into account a consumers declared 
expenditure, it would add a safeguard buffer amount as a reflection of its own internal 
models for similar customers. It also carried out a credit search.
Satsuma asked Mr B about his income and expenditure. Mr B had a monthly income of 
between £1,400 for all four loans. Satsuma also checked Mr Bs normal monthly living costs. 
Mr B declared these to be £385 for loan one and £188 for loans two to four. Satsuma added 
its own safeguard buffers to those living expenses. 
On this basis, I dont think the loan repayments look unaffordable for loans one and two on a 
pounds and pence basis based on the information Mr B had declared to Satsuma. For Mr Bs first two loans there wasnt anything in the information that Mrs M provided which 
would have given Satsuma cause for concern, so I think it was reasonable of Satsuma to 
have relied upon what Mr B had declared. I think these factors had an impact on what level 
of checks would have been appropriate for Satsuma to have carried out. Given these, I think 
the checks Satsuma did before lending the loans one and two went far enough and the 
checks it carried out showed the loans were affordable. So, I wouldnt have expected for 
Satsuma at this stage to have undertaken more in-depth checks. 
But for loans three and four the combined monthly repayments represented a significant 
proportion of Mr Bs income. When Mr B applied for loan three  which was for more than 
double the amount of his previous loans  loans one and two were still running and 
respectively had a further three and four months to run. When loan three was taken the 
amount Mr B would have to repay on a monthly basis had risen to £485.65, much higher 
than any earlier repayments he had had to make. And this continued to rise to £528.05 when 
he took loan four. 
I also note that loan four was taken the same day that loan two was repaid, and it was for 
double the amount. This suggests Mr B may have used some of the amount borrowed at 
loan four to part repay loan two which further indicates he was struggling financially. All of 
which suggests that the lending was unaffordable for Mr B and was becoming unsustainable. 
So, like the adjudicator, Im also upholding the complaint about loans three and four and 
Satsuma should put things right. Satsuma has already offered to do this, so it is now for Mr B 
to decide whether to accept that offer. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Bs complaint. Provident Personal 
Credit Limited has already made an offer in-line with our recommendation so I wont be 
asking it to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman