DRN-2120560
The complaint
Mrs A complains about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) handled a claim on 
her home contents insurance policy.  Mrs A was represented by Mr A and he was involved in 
the claim, but for clarity I shall refer to Mrs A throughout as she is the policy holder.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
There were some inconsistencies in Mrs As account for how the damage to the iPad 
could have occurred. As a result of this I think RSA were fair in their request for 
further information with which to validate the claim, and they were clear in what was 
required. This request was also in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
It was entirely reasonable for Mrs A to refuse to give RSA a password to access her 
mobile account, however I also think it was reasonable for RSA to ask her to request 
the information herself and forward it on to them. I understand Mrs A says her mobile 
provider was unable to provide it, but it was still a reasonable request by RSA and 
the information was important for its validation of the claim.
Ive not seen anything which leads me to think RSA believed the claim was 
fraudulent. A letter was sent to Mrs A warning her that there may be policy 
implications should she not comply with the information request. The letter went on to 
outline the requirements of the policy holder to present claims openly and honestly. 
At no point did this letter say they thought Mrs A was acting fraudulently.
The process of making an insurance claim will inevitably cause some inconvenience, 
and this may include telephone costs. However, I dont think RSA have been 
unreasonable in their handling of the claim and have not seen evidence of any 
unnecessary calls being made by Mrs A.
Mrs A ultimately withdrew the claim, but whilst it was open Im satisfied that RSAs handling 
of it was fair and reasonable.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman