DRN-1638104
 
The complaint
Mr P says his Singapore 30 trade was closed on 14 August 2019, but it was not closed by 
him. This happened in his trading account with OANDA Europe Limited ('OANDA'). He says 
the trade should not have been closed, that the closure caused him a financial loss and that 
he holds OANDA responsible for this. 
What happened
OANDA disputes the complaint. It says it investigated the matter and found as follows:
1. At 13.12 hours on 14 August 2019 Mr P's Singapore 30 trade was closed by a market 
order.
2. Its technical officials established that the order was made from an iPhone with an 
identifiable Internet Protocol ('IP') address and location.
3. Its technical officials found no evidence of unusual activity in Mr P's account and no 
evidence that his account had been compromised.
4. There is no evidence to suggest that the order was not placed by Mr P. In addition, it 
notes that Mr P made a similar complaint about OANDA in 2018, in which he disputed 
placing a stop loss order that closed a trade, and this service did not uphold that complaint.
Mr P maintains that the closure was not ordered by him. He says he does not own an iPhone 
and that the IP address location does not match his residential location.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. He noted that the closure order was made from Mr P's account; that the terms of the 
account meant he was solely responsible for actions within it; and that the terms also 
excluded OANDA's liability for losses suffered as a result of unauthorised access to his 
account. Overall, the investigator considered that in the absence of evidence to show that Mr 
P did not close the trade OANDA should not be held responsible for the closure.
Mr P did not accept this outcome and the matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I conclude that Mr P's 
complaint is not upheld.
For Mr P's complaint to be upheld the balance of available evidence must show that he did 
not close the Singapore 30 trade, that he did not place the order that has been identified as 
leading to the closure of the trade and that the trade was closed in circumstances for which 
OANDA is responsible. These are the elements that need to be established.Mr P's statement - that he did not close the trade - stands as a form of evidence, but I 
consider it outweighed by evidence that the closure was ordered from within his account. 
The implication that arises from the latter is that someone with access to his account gained 
such access on the relevant date and closed the trade.
As the investigator noted, Mr P retained sole responsibility for activity within his account. 
This included responsibility for the order to close the Singapore 30 trade that was placed 
from within the account - unless there is evidence to show otherwise. I have not seen 
evidence that his account was compromised. I acknowledge his assertion that he does not 
own the iPhone that OANDA has referred to and that he does not reside in the IP address 
location that has been mentioned. However, these assertions do not establish the elements 
that need to be established (as noted above).
The fact appears to be that the order to close the trade was made within Mr P's account; 
this, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, makes him responsible for the order; I have 
not seen evidence that the account was compromised at OANDA's end, so I do not have a 
basis to consider whether (or not) it is liable in such respect; and if the account was 
compromised at Mr P's end he would hold responsibility for that. Overall and on balance, I 
do not consider that Mr P's complaint is supported by available evidence.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr P's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman