DRN-2883494
The complaint
Mr J complains about inconvenience caused when Nationwide Building Society wrongly 
recorded his address.
What happened
Mr J contacted Nationwide to update his address in April 2020, but the letter which formed 
part of his house number wasnt provided. Mr J gave Nationwide the correct details in May 
2020. But Nationwide recorded the wrong letter, and Mr Js address wasnt properly 
corrected until August 2020.
In the meantime, Mr J had asked for a replacement debit card because his was damaged. 
The address issue meant Mr Js card wasnt replaced until November 2020. He said this had 
caused considerable inconvenience.
Nationwide accepted it had made mistakes in connection with Mr Js address, and paid £250 
compensation. But it said the replacement debit card hadnt been sent because the society 
had asked Mr J to confirm his correct address, but he hadnt replied. So it didnt consider it 
had done anything wrong in this respect.
Mr J wasnt happy with Nationwides response and referred the matter to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think it was 
unreasonable for Nationwide not to issue the replacement debit card while there were 
discrepancies in his address. The investigator found that Mr J hadnt chased up the 
replacement card until the end of September 2020.
Overall, the investigator was satisfied that the compensation paid by Nationwide was 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr J didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. He didnt consider the compensation 
offered was enough in light of the length of time hes been a Nationwide customer and the 
amount of credit he has with the society. Mr J asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide has accepted that it didnt properly correct Mr Js address when he provided the 
details in May 2020, and its paid £250 in recognition of that.
Mr J contacted Nationwide in July 2020 to ask for a replacement debit card. In response to 
his message Nationwide said:
I can certainly help you with this however, Ive noticed that the address youve provided is 
slightly different to the address we hold under your profile:
[address details]
.If your address needs to be updated please follow these steps on your Online Banking:
.As soon as your new address is showing on your Online Banking, please get back in 
touch and wed be more than happy to replace your card.
As far as Im aware Mr J didnt contact Nationwide again until September 2020, after his 
address had been updated correctly.
I dont consider it was unreasonable for Nationwide not to send a replacement debit card 
while there was a discrepancy with Mr Js address. I accept that the discrepancy existed 
because of Nationwides mistake (for which its paid compensation), but for security it had to 
be sure it was sending the card to Mr J at his correct address.
Im also satisfied that Nationwide gave Mr J clear instructions on how to correct his address 
details. It also said it would replace the card when Mr J got back in touch after the address 
had been corrected.
When I take all of these points into account, I consider £250 is reasonable compensation for 
Nationwides failure to properly correct Mr Js address. 
But Im not persuaded that it should pay compensation for failing to send a replacement 
debit card sooner than it did.
I realise this will be disappointing to for Mr J, but I wont be asking Nationwide to do anything 
else.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman