DRN-4441546
The complaint
This complaints about a mortgage debt held by the estate of Mrs R. The mortgage is 
administered by Barclays Bank UK Plc on behalf of a separate legal entity that is part of 
Barclays wider business group. There are two broad elements to the complaint  Ill detail 
them below  which has been brought by the executors of the estate.
What happened
The two components to the complaint are, in summary:
the terms of the mortgage relied on a falsely deflated property valuation at the outset; 
and
Barclays has unduly delayed its administration of the account since Mrs R died, resulting 
in financial loss to the estate, and considerable stress, worry and financial loss to the 
executors.
When the case came to us, our investigator was of the opinion that we could only consider 
the point about how Barclays had administered the account since Mrs R died. He explained 
that any aspect of the complaint that related to the terms on which the mortgage came into 
force fell outside our jurisdiction, as the lending business was not one that was covered by 
our scheme. In a separate view on the account administration, the investigator wasnt 
persuaded Barclays was the primary cause of the delays that the executors is complaining 
about. 
The estate of Mrs R asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. By way of a 
decision dated 1 November 2023, I confirmed that my remit to consider the merits of this 
complaint was confined to the second bullet point listed above; i.e., the allegation that 
Barclays has unduly delayed its administration of the account since Mrs R died, resulting in 
financial loss to the estate, and considerable stress, worry and financial loss to the 
executors.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Under our rules, we can consider a complaint from a consumer. Mrs R was a consumer 
when she was alive, so met the definition of an eligible complainant set out in our rules. 
That eligibility now vests solely in the estate of Mrs R, which is represented here by the 
executors..
Our rules say that a complaint may be brought on behalf of an eligible complainant by a 
person authorised by the eligible complainant or authorised by law. In this respect, the 
executors are bringing the complaint on behalf of the estate of Mrs R, under the grant of 
probate
I must explain that, although the executors represent the estate of Mrs R, it is the estate that 
is Barclays customer. Its the executors role is to bring the complaint on behalf of the estate, 
in the same way that other consumers might instruct a solicitor or accountant to represent 
them in a complaint. 
But this does not entitle the executors to consider it their complaint or to air their own 
grievances about Barclays, because he is not its customer. This is the estates complaint, 
and their role is limited to putting it forward on the estates behalf. It also means that I cannot 
order Barclays to pay compensation to the executors for any out-of-pocket expenses they 
have incurred personally or any distress and inconvenience they have experienced whilst 
dealing with the business on behalf of the estate.
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory (or simply disputed) we reach our 
findings on what we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of 
probabilities. Thats broadly the same test that the courts use in civil cases.
We dont automatically find in favour of one party if the other party hasnt provided all the 
evidence weve asked for. Its for us to assess the reliability of evidence, from both sides, 
decide how much weight should be attached to it, and also when we have enough evidence 
to reach a fair conclusion. When doing that, we dont just consider individual documents in 
isolation. We consider everything together to form a broader opinion on the whole picture. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. That means I dont have to address every individual question or issue 
thats been raised if I dont think it affects the outcome.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
That includes listening to recordings of phone calls between the executors and Barclays, 
albeit some of those calls werent relevant to the mortgage. They were about other accounts 
Mrs R held with the business. Also, many of the calls took place before the Grant of Probate 
(GOP) was issued to formalise the executors authority to act for the estate.
If Im to find in favour of the estate of Mrs R and make an award against Barclays in the 
way the executors are seeking, I have to be satisfied of two things:
that there were errors and omissions on Barclays part in how it administered the 
mortgage following Mrs Rs death; and 
that such errors and omissions are the sole or primary cause of financial detriment to 
the estate, and that other external factor didnt play any contributory part. 
The first thing to keep in mind is that whilst Mrs R died in March 2022, Barclays could not 
take any substantive action of any sort on the mortgage unless and until it had received the 
GOP confirming that the executors were authorised to act for the estate. The GOP was 
issued on 28 July 2022, and received by Barclays during August 2022 (the exact date is not 
apparent from the available evidence). In a phone conversation on 30 August 2022, the first call on record after Barclays received 
the GOP, one of the executors asked Barclays to arrange for the mortgage property to be 
valued. This was a necessary step to determine how much money the estate would need to 
pay Barclays to redeem the mortgage when the property was sold. Barclays instructed an 
independent surveyor on 9 September 2022; thats a little longer than ideal, but Barclays 
was carrying out validation checks during this period. In any event, for reasons Ill set out 
next, it wasnt a long enough interval to affect the overall outcome. 
What happened next was outside Barclays control. Firstly, despite chasers, the independent 
valuer didnt carry out the valuation until 5 October 2022. Barclays received it on 
11 October 2022, and acted immediately by issuing a redemption statement for the 
mortgage on the same day. What is regrettable, but again outside Barclays control is that 
the governments mini-budget had taken place in the interim, and in the instability in the 
mortgage market that followed, the potential buyer of the property had their mortgage offer 
withdrawn.
Even if I take out the seven-day interval between the executors requesting the valuation and 
Barclays instructing the valuer, the mini-budget would still have taken place before Barclays 
would have been in a position to issue a redemption statement, and the potential buyer 
would still have had their mortgage offer withdrawn before a completion date could have 
been agreed and reached.
Soon after that, the executors began the complaint, a key element of which was that the 
redemption amount was unfairly high and should be reduced. Barclays didnt reduce it on the 
grounds that it considered the amount to be fairly due under the terms and conditions of the 
original mortgage agreement. 
For reasons Ive already explained in the decision setting out our jurisdiction relating to this 
complaint that preceded this final decision, I have no remit to consider the fairness or 
otherwise of the mortgage terms, or the redemption amount Barclays is seeking in reliance 
on them. But it does seem to me that in the period that followed the complaint being raised, 
the executors were genuinely torn between completing a sale and persuading Barclays to 
agree a lower redemption amount.
I imply no criticism of the executors and none should be inferred. But if there were 
opportunities for a sale to be agreed and completed, and these were passed on because the 
executors were disinclined to pay the full redemption amount Barclays has asked for, thats 
not something I can fairly hold Barclays to account for. 
Aside from the likelihood of the afore-mentioned market instability impacting on other 
potential buyers  and having a detrimental effect on house values  a sale could still have 
gone ahead with the mortgage being redeemed at the amount Barclays had quoted. That 
need not have prevented the estate from being compensated if it were later found (whether 
by this service or a court) that the redemption balance was excessive and should be 
reduced.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a material effect on 
the outcome. I can see how strongly the executors feel. They see error or wrong-doing in 
almost everything Barclays has done (or not done). 
Thats a natural, subjective reaction, and entirely understandable. Its also natural to 
emphasise individual statements or comments that appear to support a particular viewpoint, 
whilst at the same time paying less attention to those that support the opposite viewpoint. But look hard enough and its possible to find inconsistencies and/or anomalies in what both 
sides have said and done from time to time. 
Be that as it may, I have to take a different approach. Im impartial and I have to look at 
things objectively, sometimes taking a step back from the minutiae, focussing on the broader 
picture. Thats what Ive done. Having done so, for all the reasons Ive set out, I cant find in 
favour of the estate of Mrs R in the way the executors think I should. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs R 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 December 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman