DRN-3749217
The complaint
Mr A says the advice given by F2 Capital Ventures LLP (F2CV) to switch funds from his 
Greyfriars Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP), into a Matoli Woods (MW) SIPP, for the 
purpose of facilitating an investment in a Dolphin Trust Loan Note was unsuitable.
Mr A is represented by CPF Claims (CPF).
What happened
Firstly, Id note that whenever a case comes to an Ombudsman, they will consider various 
aspects of jurisdiction before they move on to the merits of a complaint. Thats to ensure this 
Service has the power to consider a case  that its within our ambit. As such, I think its 
helpful here to specifically set-out the regulated status of the firm Mr A has brought his case 
against.
Mr A received advice from The Complete Financial Player (TCFP) in October 2018. Up until 
June 2018 this had been an Appointed Representative of F2CV. However, F2CV took on the 
name of TCFP as a trading style between June 2018 and April 2019. I note the person who 
gave Mr A advice was a regulated individual and is shown in the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) register as working for F2CV at the time of the events complained about. 
Further, I can see the invoice for services to Mr A was raised by and paid into an account of 
F2CV. And various items of paperwork, including the suitability report produced for Mr A and 
the application he made for a new SIPP gave the registered firm number for F2CV.
So, this complaint has been brought against the appropriate firm.
Mr A asked F2CV for advice in October 2018. He wanted the investments held in his 
Greyfriars SIPP reviewed. He was said to want to move provider and so was looking for a 
recommended alternative. And he had a strong preference to invest a large proportion of his 
available pension funds in the Dolphin Trust and wanted to know if this would be possible 
and appropriate as part of his pension plans.
Mr A had around £200,000 in his Greyfriars SIPP. About half was in cash, £50,000 in a 
Quanta Property Bond (which would shortly mature), £23,000 in gold and £21,000 in a 
Dolphin loan note (which was due to mature in May 2021). His SIPP provider wouldnt allow 
further investment in Dolphin Trust.
F2CV reviewed Mr As circumstances, objectives and attitude to risk. It made the following 
recommendations:
- To establish a SIPP with MW. It said it was the most flexible in terms of 
understanding all investments (including non-standard holdings). It didnt however 
allow switching in specie  so Mr A would have to liquidate his existing investments 
and move cash across to his new provider.
- Dolphin could be suitable to form part of his portfolio, but as it was considered as 
high a risk as direct investment into equities, it recommended his exposure be limited 
to no more than 50% of the available funds.
- Further, that the residual pension pot should be invested through a discretionary fund 
management (DFM) arrangement using Managed Portfolio Service (MPS) via the 
Seven Investment Management Platform (7IM). And the funds placed in a balanced 
portfolio (below his assessed attitude to risk) to offset his Dolphin holding exposure.
- It recommended an ongoing advice service.
Mr A accepted the recommendations. On 15 February 2019 his MW SIPP received about 
£131,000 from his Greyfriars SIPP. On 7 March 2019 F2CVs initial advice fee of about 
£3,300 was paid from his fund. On 29 March 2019 around £64,000 was invested in a 
Dolphin Trust loan note. On 8 April 2019 about £60,000 was invested in the 7IM portfolio.
In June 2019 Mr A raised a complaint with F2CV. He was concerned hed been advised to 
open a SIPP when he already had one. He hadnt been informed in detail about the charges, 
which he says also changed midway through the process. The cost of the switch had been 
unreasonable. And he says he was advised to open a Small Self-administered Scheme 
(SSAS), but he first required a SIPP, which he subsequently learned wasnt the case.
After some exchanges between the adviser who had completed the suitability report and Mr 
A, F2CV became involved in October 2019. It sent him a message on 12 November 
acknowledging his request for a copy of relevant paperwork, noting it no longer had any 
dealings with its former adviser and seeking additional documentation from him in order that 
it could properly respond to his complaint.
Unhappy with F2CVs response, Mr A instructed CPF claims to act on his behalf. CPF 
contacted our service on 25 March 2020 and provided us with a copy of the documentation it 
had secured under a Subject Access Request (SAR) from F2CV. 
At this point the terms of Mr As complaint were re-focussed. It was asserted the only reason 
another SIPP was recommended was to enable his investment in Dolphin Trust. And this 
investment had been unsuitable for his needs and risk appetite. It was maintained that 
establishing the MW SIPP had been unnecessary and had incurred unreasonable costs.
An Investigator considered Mr As complaint but didnt uphold it. He thought the 
establishment of the SIPP had been necessary in order for him to have been able to invest 
in Dolphin Trust as he wanted to. While he thought F2Cv couldve been clearer on all the 
fees payable in its suitability report, he believed Mr A wouldve received information about 
the adviser and SIPP fees. He also thought he was an experienced investor who wouldve 
proceeded without advice.
CPF on behalf of Mr A disagreed. It said:
Whilst Mr A indeed had a property portfolio, he had no formal investment qualifications and 
no experience in pensions and investments products or markets. It is entirely erroneous to 
suggest that an understanding of 'bricks and mortar translates to 'an understanding of the 
risks of a single asset, unregulated, offshore debt-instrument offering (which itself invested in 
foreign property).
We are aware of other clients who were advised by F2 with respect to Dolphin, so we are in 
a position to prove that this is not an isolated incident where F2 acted on client instructions. 
In any case, it is not simply a question of who first raised the idea of the Dolphin investment, 
given that the advisor should have advised against the investment due to its unsuitable 
profile and not simply facilitated it to proceed. Instead, the advisor sourced and arranged a 
SIPP for Mr A that specifically allowed investment into Dolphin.There was further two and fro between the Investigator and CPF. But as both parties 
couldnt agree with the Investigators view, Mr As complaint was passed to me to review 
afresh and to provide a decision. This is the final stage of this Services involvement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, 
my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of 
probabilities, whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats 
deliberate; ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial 
businesses and their customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive 
concentrated my findings on what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr As complaint. Ill explain why.
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by F2CV for Mr A. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for 
businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G 
in the FCA Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2 - which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care 
and diligence.
- Principle 6 - which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7 - which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of it s 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at 
the relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like F2CV. As 
such, I need to have regard to them in deciding Mr As complaint.
Further, COBS 2.1.1 R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment 
business carried on for a retail client. The definition of designated investment business 
includes arranging (bringing about) deals in investments.
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same things that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the 
advice was suitable. In summary, the business must obtain the necessary information 
regarding: the consumers knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to 
the advice; their financial situation; and their investment objectives.
When I consider a case where someone has switched their pension funds, I look at 
their circumstances at the time. Why were they interested in switching? Were those 
wants or needs reasonable? And so, should the adviser have recommended the 
switch?In 2009 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), then the Financial Services Authority, 
published a checklist for pension switching that I think is still helpful today. It highlighted 
four key issues it thought should be focussed on:
-Charges - has the consumer been switched to a pension that is more expensive 
than their existing one(s) or a stakeholder pension, without good reason?
-Existing benefits - has the consumer lost benefits in the switch without good 
reason? This could include the loss of ongoing contributions from an employer, a 
guaranteed annuity rate or the right to take benefits early.
-Risk - has the consumer switched into a pension that doesnt match their 
recorded attitude to risk (ATR) and personal circumstances?
-Ongoing fund management - has the consumer switched into a pension with a 
need for ongoing investment reviews but this was not explained, offered or put in 
place.
There are several documents relating to F2CVs transaction with Mr A that are important 
to my consideration, these include the suitability report and application for his new MW 
SIPP.
F2CV recorded that in October 2018, Mr A was 68 years old, married and with no financial 
dependents. He was a self-employed accountant. He chose not to disclose his income from 
the accountancy firm. He received about £25,000 per year from investments and £40,000 a 
year from property rental. He was assumed to be a higher-rate tax payer. 
Mr A had a home worth around £650,000 with an outstanding mortgage of £290,000. He had 
a buy-to-let portfolio worth around £1 million, this was encumbered with mortgage liabilities 
of around £700,000. He had other savings and investments including £200,000 in Individual 
Savings Accounts (ISAs), £100,000 in Venture Capital Trusts (VCTs) and £40,000 in cash in 
his bank accounts.
Mr A was said to be planning to retire when he reached 75. Aside from his other assets, he 
had a SIPP with St. James Place worth around £450,000. And a SIPP with Greyfriars worth 
around £200,000. 
One of the arguments advanced by Mr A was that he already had a SIPP and so F2CVs 
recommendation to open another with MW was unnecessary. Based on the information Ive 
seen, I dont think this accurately reflects the engagement between the parties in October 
2018.
I say this because its recorded Mr A had invested in Dolphin Trust previously and had been 
happy with his investment. Based on his positive experience he wanted to invest again. His 
Greyfriars SIPP entered into administration in October 2018 and was then purchased by 
Hartley SAS. At this time, Hartley didnt allow investment into Dolphin Trust.
It follows the only way Mr A couldve achieved what he wanted to was to establish a SIPP 
with another provider that did allow investments with Dolphin Trust. That said, there are 
questions about whether such an investment was suitable for him, which he now argues it 
wasnt.
From January 2014, the FCA banned the promotion of unregulated collective investment 
schemes (UCISs) and non-mainstream pooled investments to retail investors. That meant, 
these forms of investments could usually only be promoted to sophisticated and high net 
worth investors.At the time, the FCA defined a certified high net worth investor as having an income of 
£100,000 or more, or net assets of £250,000 or more. Ive not seen that Mr A signed a 
statement confirming such, but from the available information its clear he qualified.
Mr A did sign a self-certified sophisticated investor statement on 11 October 2018, indicating 
he had made more than one investment in an unlisted company within the last two years. 
This document confirmed he accepted that he could lose his funds when making an 
investment based on financial promotions.
So I cant say there was something wrong with F2VC exploring the potential Dolphin Trust 
investment for Mr A. And as we know hed already invested in the vehicle and was keen to 
do so again  he raised the prospect with F2VC, not vice versa. 
I can see that Mr As concern about the suitability of the Dolphin Trust recommendation 
appears to have begun to emerge shortly after receiving a notification from the company in 
August 2019 that for the following 3 months there would be no further interest payments 
made against his loan note. This seems to have heralded further problems that emerged 
with the investment. But, for my purposes, I need to avoid the benefit of hindsight.
The suitability report records Mr A had a highest-medium appetite for risk. Ive not seen a 
detailed analysis of how this assessment was arrived at. But Ive seen evidence of the range 
of assets that he held, including within his Greyfriars SIPP. I think its more likely than not the 
profile was a reasonable fit for him.
I note F2CV noted the equivalence of the Dolphin Trust investment with the risk of investing 
directly in equities. It also told Mr A:
In my opinion, Dolphin could be suitable to form a proportion of your fund as part of a 
suitably balanced portfolio provided you do so with full understanding of the risks involved 
with such an investment
you must still consider that the investment may fail, and should it do so, you would need 
to make significant pension contributions to replace the lost pension fund. This could cause 
financial concern and as such your income and standard of living in retirement could be 
affected.
I think the absence of a more detailed assessment of Mr As capacity for loss is a weakness 
in F2CVs analysis. But I note the suitability report did record:
You have confirmed you often take risks and that you could afford to withstand a large loss. 
Given what was recorded about his overall position, as already set out, I think its more likely 
than not he did have reasonable capacity for loss.
F2CV noted that it would usually recommend someone with Mr As risk appetite invest 65%-
75% of their pension funds into equity-based holdings, with the remainder placed in other 
asset classes. However, it was Mr As preference to invest a larger amount into the non-
standard Dolphin Trust.
To mitigate his exposure, F2CV recommended two measures. Firstly it said he shouldnt 
invest more than 50% of the funds available from his Greyfriars SIPP into the Dolphin Trust. 
And it said the residual funds should be placed in a balanced portfolio, below his headline 
risk tolerance. This was designed to bring his overall position back in line with his risk 
outlook. I think this was a reasonable approach for someone with Mr As experience of 
investments.Due to the lack of regulation and the types of assets they invest in, UCISs can be complex 
and high risk. The FCA has generally regarded UCISs as showing a high degree of volatility, 
illiquid or both. They are therefore usually speculative investments and, in practice, rarely 
regarded as suitable for more than a small part of a portfolio.
In July 2010 the FCA issued guidance about unregulated investments in a Good and Poor 
Practice report. This contained examples of good practice in relation to unregulated 
investments, for example where a firm had robust controls in place and limited client 
exposure to 3% to 5% of their portfolios, where those clients had been assessed as being 
suitable for unregulated investments. An example of bad practice given by the FCA was 
where up to 100% of a clients holdings were invested in a single UCIS.
Ive thought about Mr As exposure to the Dolphin Trust given his overall circumstances and 
requirements. I think this was within a reasonable tolerance of his total net worth, so like the 
Investigator Ive concluded the recommendation wasnt unsuitable.
Mr As initial concerns about what happened in 2018 were around the fees he was charged. 
This was stimulated by a bill he received from MW his SIPP provider in May 2019 for around 
£3,400 (including VAT). This covered a core administration fee (£564); multiple/bespoke 
assets fee (£516); non-standard investment administration fee (£648); SIPP establishment 
fee (£336); and a specialist non-standard investment review (£1,284). 
Ive reviewed the suitability report produced for Mr A in October 2018. The total fees related 
to the MW proposition were detailed and totalled over £2800 (including VAT). So there was a 
discrepancy of around £600 (this appears to relate to the multiple/bespoke assets fee), 
which wasnt identified in the report. 
F2CV did provide links to MWs key facts documentation, which wouldve included its 
charging regime. However, I think the way it set out the SIPP fees for Mr A wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. This is another weakness in its approach. But I havent seen any 
evidence that the charges MW sought were incorrect.
As for F2CVs fees. These were clearly identified in the suitability report. And initially they 
dont appear to have been a concern to Mr A after they were paid in March 2019. They 
became an issue given the overall quantum of fees and charges required of him. But again I 
cant see there was anything at odds with what hed agreed to at the outset.
Even if I considered that the advice F2CV provided to Mr A in October 2018 had been 
unsuitable  and Ive set out why on balance I dont think that was the case given his 
circumstances and requirements  Ive also thought about what hed most likely have done if 
F2CV had given him an explicit recommendation not to proceed with the Dolphin Trust 
proposition.
I think given Mr As previous favourable experience with Dolphin Trust, he wouldve gone 
ahead with the investment anyway. I say this because he had a track record of investing in 
property. As identified in the suitability report, he was confident making investment 
decisions, with and without taking financial advice. Hed previous experience of investing in 
unregulated holdings. He was a self-certified sophisticated investor. And he had significant 
financial capacity.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, Im not upholding Mr As complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman