DRN-2979638
The complaint
Mr B complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined his pet insurance claim. My 
references to UKI include its agents.
What happened
Mr B had pet insurance for his dog, insured by UKI. His first policy ran from 28 January 2019 
to 27 January 2020. Mr B didnt renew his existing policy but took out a completely new 
policy which started on 10 February 2020. Both policies were taken out on-line and each 
policy gave cover up to £8,000 for each new condition as long as the policy was in force.
In June 2020 Mr B claimed for vet treatment for his dogs cruciate ligament rupture. UKI 
declined the claim. It considered the dogs medical history, spoke to Mr Bs dogs vet and 
decided that the treatment claimed related to the dogs lameness in October 2019. UKI said 
the claim was for a condition that was pre-existing when Mr B took out the policy in 
February 2020 and the policy didnt cover pre-existing conditions.
Mr B complained to us. In summary he said:
he had insurance for his dog with UKI in October 2019 so the treatment should be 
covered
the vet notes in October 2019 say the cranial movement test was negative so there 
was no cruciate problem at that time and the 2019 lameness wasnt the start of the 
condition hes claimed for.
Our investigator said UKI fairly declined the claim.
Mr B disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision. He said:
his dog didnt have cruciate disease in October 2019 as the dog was back to normal 
in 10 days and had no further problems until 2020. One of the vets said it could be a 
spinal issue with no pain shown from his dogs leg and that point hadnt been looked 
into
if the cruciate condition had started in October 2019 UKI should be paying the claim 
under the policy which ran from 28 January 2019 to 27 January 2020. He said he 
couldnt claim in October 2019 for the cruciate problem as the vet didnt think there 
was a cruciate problem
after he made the claim his dogs cruciate ligament had been operated on by a 
specialist vet. He provided new evidence from that vet who said the injuries in 2019 
and 2020 might be different injuries.
Before I made my provisional decision I asked that the specialist vet evidence be sent to UKI 
for its comment and asked UKI for clarification about policy cover and treatment claimed for 
in October 2019. Its response about the policies informed some of the background detail 
above on that matter and I referred to the remainder in my provisional findings below.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision that I was intending to not uphold the complaint. I said:
Policy cover
Mr Bs queries why the treatment isnt covered under either policy he had with UKI.
Both of Mr Bs policies specifically exclude any claims in connection with or arising from any 
pre-existing condition.
The policy defines pre-existing condition as Any condition or symptoms, or signs of injury 
or illness, that happen or exist in any form before the pet was covered by this insurance.
Mr B didnt renew his policy number ***833 when it approached the end date on 27 January 
2020. Instead he bought policy number ***801 to start about 14 days later which was a new 
policy and a new contract with UKI.
As Mr B didnt renew policy number ***833 theres no continuous cover under that policy. 
Which means the pre-existing condition exclusion applies for any condition that began 
before he took out policy number ***801 on 10 February 2020.
The treatment Mr Bs vet claimed for is from October 2019 to 3 June 2020. So treatment 
from October 2019 to 27 January 2020 would be covered by policy ***833. Ive now seen the 
claim invoice and the only relevant treatment in that period was on 24 October 2019 which 
cost £67.68. UKI says Mr Bs policy excess is £95 so the treatment cost under policy ending 
***833 is less than the excess meaning theres nothing for UKI to pay to Mr B under policy 
***833.
All other treatment for the cruciate problem occurred from May 2020 onwards, after policy 
***833 had ended. That treatment should be and was assessed under the completely new 
policy number ***801 which started 10 February 2020. So if I decide the signs of Mr Bs 
dogs cruciate problem did start in October 2019 the 2020 treatment under policy number 
***801 wasnt covered as the dog had a pre-existing condition.
Can UKI fairly rely on the pre-existing condition exclusion to decline the claim?
Mr Bs dogs vet notes of 24 October 2019 say:
History: after laying down he is hopping holding LH (left hind leg) up (medication 
details)
 History: lameness LH past 2 days
Examination: disco on LH stifle hypertext
cran draw -ve.
The vet notes of 23 May 2020 say:
lame back in October, healed in a couple of weeks been fine since then but 
started limping again 2 weeks ago had more (medication) dispensed but hasn't made 
any difference advise pos cruciate vs other soft tissue injury, would probably need 
x-rays and exam under ga to assess further. advise o(wner) seemed to show most sensitivity lumbar/saccral spine and hips, could be muscular or hip dysplasia?? also 
can't rule out anything specifically with the left hind advise (medication and x-ray if no 
improvement).
Unfortunately there was no improvement and Mr Bs dog continued limping badly. On 3 June 
2020 he was x-rayed and diagnosed with partial cruciate tear.
Mr B says his dog may have had a spinal problem. The above vet notes show that in 
May 2020 one of the vets at Mr Bs regular vet practice did mention the possibility of a 
muscular or hip dysplasia problem as the dogs spine was sensitive. But further tests 
showed the problem was with his cruciate ligament which the vet had also given as a 
possible cause.
On the evidence UKI had at the time it assessed the claim I think it fairly and reasonably 
concluded the dogs lameness in October 2019 was a symptom or sign of the cruciate 
disease claimed for in 2020 because:
UKIs vet team accepts that after October 2019 the dog had no further lameness until 
May 2020 but says thats not unusual for a dog with cruciate issues as a dog can 
often show no symptoms for months in between. Ive no vet evidence to the contrary. 
So I think the lack of symptoms for those interim months doesnt mean the 
October 2019 lameness couldnt be a sign of cruciate disease
UKIs vet team say although the cranial drawer test of 24 October 2019 was negative 
that doesnt mean a cruciate problem wasnt present and other symptoms of cruciate 
disease were noted at that time including discomfort on stifle extension and hopping 
and discomfort on rising. UKI provided information from a vet website which I think 
supports that a false negative result for cranial drawer cruciate instability can occur 
and examination under sedation gives a more accurate result. Mr Bs dog wasnt 
sedated when he had the cranial drawer test in October 2019. Im persuaded that the 
negative cranial drawer test didnt mean the dog didnt have cruciate disease and he 
was showing other symptoms of the disease in October 2019
when Mr Bs vet practice completed the claim for treatment on UKIs on-line portal it 
said the claim was for cruciate disease of the left hind and gave the condition start 
date as 24 October 2019. The practices claim submission also said the dog was 
treated for pain in October, the pain got worse and x-rays diagnosed cruciate disease 
of the left hind leg. The vet also included the costs of treatment in October 2019 for 
the claim for the condition. In addition UKI spoke to Mr Bs vet who agreed the most 
likely cause of the dogs lameness in October 2019 was cruciate disease. The vet 
was unable to provide any evidence to suggest a different and unrelated condition as 
the cause. Theres no record at the time of an external injury taking place that would 
cause such symptoms.
As I think UKI reasonably understood that the dogs lameness in October 2019 was a 
symptom of the cruciate disease diagnosed and treated from May 2020, UKI fairly used the 
pre-existing condition exclusion to decline the claim.
Mr B has now provided new evidence from the specialist who operated on his dogs cruciate 
ligament. The specialist vet answered specific questions Mr B asked and his opinion was 
that:
I went through (the dogs) history and X-rays to check if the lameness on his left hind 
limb could be considered as a recent accident. On the X-rays that your vet took in 
May 2020 there are mild signs of osteoarthrosis which can happen as early as 2 to 4 weeks after the cruciate rupture. I think that if there was a complete cranial cruciate 
ligament in October 2019, signs of osteoarthritis would have been more severe.
Knowing that, we cannot exclude that there was a trauma in May which led to 
complete rupture of the cruciate ligament. Progressive degenerative disease of the 
cruciate ligament is the main cause of rupture in 5 to 8yo dogs. (The dog) is a 
younger dog which would also suggest a traumatic injury.
Mr B also told the specialist vet that UKI declined the claim as it thought the damage that 
occurred in May 2020 was as a result of the very mild injury the dog received in October 
2019. He asked if the specialist vet thought that was correct or whether there were two 
isolated incidents/injuries. The specialist vet replied that:
Unfortunately both options are possible and its very difficult to say that one is more 
likely than the other. But the fact that he is a young dog would tend to go towards two 
different injuries.
UKIs now seen the specialist vets evidence. In summary, it still thought in looking at the 
overall evidence it was more likely than not that the October 2019 symptoms were related to 
the cruciate disease 2020 diagnosis. UKI also noted the specialist vet hadnt commented on 
the fact that the dog had clear discomfort on hyperextension of the left hind stifle joint in 
October 2019, which was a clear symptom of cruciate disease.
I acknowledge the vet is a specialist. But he says its very difficult to say if the two incidences 
were related and its reasonable for me to look at the overall evidence to decide if his 
evidence is enough to outweigh all the other evidence. I dont think it is because:
the specialist vet didnt comment on the hyperextension of the left hind stifle joint in 
October 2019, which I think is a clear sign of cruciate disease
theres no suggestion that the dog had a complete cranial cruciate ligament in 
October 2019 so I dont think the specialist vets comments about the signs of 
severity of osteoarthritis are relevant
theres no record at the relevant times of Mr Bs dog having an injury which caused 
the lameness in October 2019 or around May 2020 which would cause a partial 
cruciate ligament tear to a healthy ligament.
I dont think the specialist vet evidence is persuasive enough for me to say UKI should pay 
the claim. UKI can still fairly conclude its more likely than not that the dogs October 2019 
lameness was a sign or symptom of cruciate disease and the pre-existing condition 
exclusion applies to the claim.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr B didnt respond. UKI accepted my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr B didnt respond to my provisional decision and UKI accepted it Ive no reason to 
change my mind. For the reasons Ive given in my provisional findings and these findings Im 
satisfied UKI fairly and reasonably declined Mr Bs claim and I dont uphold the complaint.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman