DRN-3720291
The complaint
Mr AD and Mr BD (the trustees) complain Scottish Widows Limited trading as Clerical 
Medical (Clerical Medical) took too long to remove trustees of the D Trust and provided poor 
customer service. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in detail 
again here. 
In summary, two professional trustees of the D Trust sought to retire. Mr AD corresponded 
with Clerical Medical but became unhappy when he was asked to provide identification for 
retiring trustees for Anti-Money Laundering (AML) checks. Mr AD was also unhappy with the 
service because he said his phone calls werent returned and he didnt receive an answer to 
correspondence. So, he complained to Clerical Medical. 
Clerical Medical responded to Mr ADs complaint on 21 December 2021 and offered £100. 
Clerical Medical issued a final response to the complaint on 13 April 2022 and offered an 
additional £300 (to make a total payment of £400 compensation). This was paid to Mr AD. 
Mr AD remained unhappy and asked our service to investigate. Our Investigator felt Clerical 
Medical had reasonably resolved the complaint and didnt ask them to do anything further. 
Mr AD didnt agree the compensation was fair and explained what he felt would be more 
appropriate. Therefore, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr AD has set out in detail and made a number of points about why he feels the 
compensation would be higher. I want to assure him Ive thought carefully about his 
complaint. Where a specific point has not been mentioned, it is not because it hasnt been 
considered but because I dont think I need to refer to it to reach the right outcome here. 
I note in their final response Clerical Medical accepted they should have taken a different 
approach of requiring AML identification. Theyve explained the case handler was following 
procedures, but after discussion with senior management it was agreed there was minimal 
risk. 
I agree this has caused distress and inconvenience. Mr AD spent further time corresponding 
on this point. For example, he had to make repeated efforts to explain the circumstances 
and I understand why he felt he hadnt been listened to. 
Moreover, Clerical Medical agreed not returning calls or answering correspondence was 
unacceptable. Ive also seen evidence of this. For example, there were issues initially 
logging the complaint and there was delay responding to Mr AD. I agree he could have 
expected a reasonable response to his correspondence. This caused further upset and 
meant Mr AD spent considerable time chasing. 
Id note in their response of 13 April 2022, Clerical Medical confirmed they had removed the 
retired trustees as of 7 April 2022. I can see it took a considerable amount of time to remove 
the trustees since Mr ADs initial enquiry about removing the trustees on 4 August 2021. I 
note he also returned the deeds of retirement on 9 September 2021. 
I appreciate Mr AD has asked for an apology from the individual responsible for the 
department. I understand he feels strongly about this. However, I can see from the final 
response letter that Clerical Medical apologised for the service provided. They also 
confirmed the case had been discussed with senior management and they would revamp 
some of their internal processes. In light of this, I wont be asking an individual at the firm to 
issue a further apology as Im satisfied the apology, assurances it had been discussed at 
senior management level and the compensation is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. 
I understand Mr AD has requested a higher level of compensation to reflect the worry 
caused and the period of time it took to resolve things. However, Im satisfied the £400 
already paid to Mr AD is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. It falls in line with our 
approach to such awards and appropriately reflects the frustration and inconvenience 
caused, as well as the length of time these issues were ongoing. 
Overall, Im satisfied Clerical Medical have already reasonably resolved this complaint by 
apologising and making a payment of £400 to Mr AD. Therefore, I wont be asking them to 
do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr AD and Mr BD 
as trustees of the D Trust to accept or reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman