DRN-3211134
The complaint
Miss K complains Trading 212 UK Limited (Trading 212) unfairly reduced and then 
withdrew trading facilities available to her, causing her loss.
Background and circumstances
Miss K was trading the price of a particular companys shares (company A) using contracts 
for difference (CFDs). When I refer to contracts here and below, I refer to those contracts. 
On Monday 23 November 2020, when looking at the contracts with a view to placing a trade, 
Miss K found there was a limit of 100 on the buy (or long) contracts she could open. This 
restricted her ability to hedge an existing sell or short position of 600 contracts she says 
she had opened on Wednesday of the week before. She says the limit was reduced to zero 
later the same day. 
The changes meant Miss K was unable to open the buy contracts she says she would have 
opened that day to hedge her short position  so she lost more money when the price of the 
shares linked to the contracts increased more. She says she routinely managed her risk by 
opening buy contracts if her sell contracts were losing money. She says Trading 212s 
hedging mode specifically encouraged or catered for this. She also says in sizing her 600 
contracts short position the week earlier, she had been influenced by having been able to 
open a long position of the same size a few days before that. She says she wouldnt have 
opened this large a short position had she known that buy positions were to be restricted.
Trading 212 agrees Miss K wasnt given prior notice of the changes to the availability of buy 
contracts before she encountered the changes on Trading 212s system. Miss K says in the 
absence of this or a clear explanation of what Trading 212 was doing or why, it wasnt clear 
to her that the changes were deliberate and not an error or system error. She says as a 
result she didnt close her sell contracts because: had I closed my positions purely 
because at that specific moment I wasn't able to hedge my position, I would have realised 
my losses. If, however, two minutes later the platform updated and allowed me to hedge my 
positions, I would have realised those losses unnecessarily
Miss K says information about the situation, as well as being absent from Trading 212s 
platform, wasnt available through Trading 212's usual channels. She has said: I attempted 
to contact Trading 212 via twitter as well as online chat on their platform for two days in an 
attempt to find out the reason. She says the chat facility was removed later that day. She 
says all she got in reply was an email later apologising for not giving a timely reply, which it 
said was due to demand, and referring to apparently unrelated delays in order execution.  
Miss K says Trading 212 put an updated FAQ online but not until at least a day after the 
changes, and she says she found out about this not from Trading 212 but from other users. 
The FAQ said: Maximum trading quantities for both long and short positions are subject to 
immediate change, without prior notice. It can depend on multiple factors such as: 1. 
Underlying market conditions  which include insufficient liquidity and unfavourable trading 
conditions. 2. Control of exposure  Trading 212 manages its market risk to ensure it is not 
over-exposed to movements in any one particular stock. We have a regulatory obligation to 
minimize the risk of a single event causing us to fail.
Miss K says: My decision to keep my positions opened until a response was received from 
Trading 212 was based on the facts that Trading 212 had been experiencing technical 
issues since 3rd November and in the past any planned changes were announced in 
advance.
Miss K suffered losses after opening her short position when the share price rose. On the 
basis that Trading 212 didnt make clear it could make changes of the kind it made or didnt 
have valid reasons to make them or shouldve given her notice before she opened her short 
position, Miss K seeks redress for all losses she incurred - she has said she lost more than 
£50,000. Alternatively, on the basis that Trading 212 ought to have given clearer information 
about the changes at least shortly before making them or at the time it made them, Miss K 
seeks partial redress because she says she would have reduced or closed her short position 
as soon as she realised Trading 212 was, and for a time would be, deliberately restricting or 
withdrawing the facility to buy the long positions. She has said she could have restricted her 
losses to around £20,000 if she had been properly informed at the start of the day on which 
the changes were introduced, for example. 
Trading 212s complaint response said the changes were due to exceptional market 
conditions that we are experiencing now. It didnt specify what those conditions were, but it 
did say: In some circumstances it becomes extremely difficult to safely hedge the risk due to 
the sheer volumes of exposure. So without specifying what the particular circumstances 
were, it hinted at changes to do with volumes of exposure and unusual market conditions.
Trading 212 said its client agreement permitted it to act as it had due to a term that says: 
We shall have the right to modify at our sole discretion the Margin requirements, Interest 
Rate Swaps, commissions, minimum and maximum trading amounts, minimum and 
maximum number of units of each Financial Instrument and alike. Miss K points out this 
doesnt say these changes can be made without prior notice, unlike the updated FAQ.
Trading 212 said it wasnt liable for any losses caused to Miss K by it taking these steps 
because this is a regulatory requirement and its terms exempt it from liability for losses 
arising from our compliance with any statutory or regulatory requirements. 
Trading 212 pointed out that Miss K, being unable to open buy positions, could have closed 
her sell positions instead with the same economic effect  and, due to the interest saving, 
wouldve been financially better off doing this compared to holding a market neutral position. 
Trading 212 has also said it couldnt have notified Miss K a week in advance because the 
market doesnt give us prior notification of future market movements and that it is unable 
therefore to predict the risk that any subsequent market movements would present to us in 
advance, as until they happen, we do not know what impact they will have. As far as we are 
aware, no broker is able to predict market movements in advance.
Trading 212s terms allow it to impose a close-only limitation on accounts but it maintains 
the changes here werent covered by those terms but by the terms Ive noted above.
Miss K says Trading 212 didnt act in accordance with Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
handbook provisions, including Principles 1 to 3 and 6 and 7. The parties will be familiar with 
these, but for reference they provide as follows: 
1. A firm must conduct its business with integrity.
2. A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.3. A firm must take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly 
and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
6. A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
7. A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading. 
Ive outlined below the main ways in which Miss K says Trading 212 fell short of these and 
other obligations it had. Ive not included every point Miss K has made, but Ive considered 
every point and I focus here on those I consider to be most relevant. 
Firstly Miss K says Trading 212 ought to have given her timely prior notice of the changes to 
the availability of the contracts. Her reasons for saying this include:
Trading 212 had in the past notified users in advance when trading quantities were likely 
to be restricted for a time, so it shouldve given notice here too. For example, before the 
United States election it told users trading quantities might change without prior notice  
and she took smaller positions and hedged faster in response. Also Trading 212 told 
users of changes being applied to crypto derivatives, and explained these, the day 
before the changes she complains of here.
The changes werent a response to unanticipated market conditions occurring at the 
time, so advance notice could and should have been given. The changes were 
implemented at market open on Monday, so there had been no trading on the market 
that day and the market was closed at the weekend. Also there was no drastic change 
over the weekend or in the previous week in the underlying markets. A price difference of 
2.16% at market open from the previous market close was normal at that time.
Trading 212 wasnt directly exposed to market price risk in 2020. Instead it matched its 
client positions with positions at an associate company within the same group, according 
to its risk disclosures and the group annual reports. As part of the same group, sharing 
directors and with access to intrusive analysis of its associate, Trading 212 was or ought 
to have been fully aware of its associates situation and ability to provide the hedging (or 
back-to-back) arrangement for Trading 212s trades. By knowing this, Trading 212 knew 
or ought to have known when or whether it might restrict positions and should have been 
able to clearly communicate this to its customers in advance. In not doing so, 
Trading 212 acted unfairly towards its customers - contrary to Principle 6.
Trading 212s regulatory obligations, including those arising from the Principles set out in 
the FCAs handbook, in their own right and in light of each point above, mean 
Trading 212 shouldve given Miss K notice of the changes. For example, Trading 212 
was required to pay due regard to the information needs of customers and communicate 
information in a clear, fair and not misleading manner, in line with Principle 7.Secondly, for broadly the same reasons, Miss K says Trading 212 shouldve also given her 
clear information about the changes once they had been made. She points out a recent 
version of the terms that promises: we will exercise our best efforts to inform you as timely 
as possible by email or through our Trading Platform. She says if shed had, in a timely 
manner, information that was clear and not misleading and in line with the FCA rules and the 
documentation, she would have closed her positions, taken the loss and moved on. She 
says instead in the meantime she reasonably believed - based on her experience of past 
changes having been announced and of technical problems being common, and as there 
were no notable market moves that day - that the changes were an error, for example a 
mistaken extension of the crypto asset restriction being applied at the time. 
Miss K says if she had known the changes were intentional and would apply for an unknown 
period (or a period that could be months) and she had been given an explanation as to why 
they had been imposed, I would have closed or reduced my positions. For example she 
says if Trading 212 had explained the removal of restrictions depended on its associates 
ability to stabilise its exposure  I would have started reducing my positions and eventually 
closed them depending on how the markets would have moved and whether I would have 
found the reasons for the changes compliant.
In contrast Miss K says that if she had been told the change was an error that would be 
resolved in a few hours, she wouldve kept her short positions open - which is what she did - 
on the basis that she would hedge when the ability to hedge was restored. 
Thirdly, Miss K says Trading 212 didnt have a legitimate reason for having to make the 
changes it made. She was aware the terms allowed Trading 212 to change the quantities of 
contracts she could trade, but she says if shed thought it could do this without good reason 
(or without appropriate communication), she wouldnt have used its service. In relation to this 
she makes a number of points, including:
Trading 212s client positions were matched with mirror positions with its associate which 
took on Trading 212s market price risk. So Trading 212 had no exposure to market price 
movements of its customers positions and so couldnt have been exceeding any limit it 
had for this exposure and so had no need to restrict trades to protect itself from such 
market movements. 
If excessive exposure rested with Trading 212s associate, the limits should have been 
imposed on its own customers and not on Trading 212s customers. Instead they were 
implemented across a shared platform, impacting Trading 212 inadvertently. So Miss K 
hadnt been impacted by Trading 212s own risk exposure but its associates exposure. 
The limits imposed were imposed in the interests of the associate company and not 
Trading 212 or its customers. So there was a conflict of interest. There may have been 
an incentive to generate losses for Trading 212 customers so they would close positions.
Trading 212s associate could risk manage by implementing limits or hedging externally. 
The 2020 group annual report says of the associates management of its CFD risk: Daily 
retail client exposure limits have been put in place and are monitored regularly 
throughout the day. The group monitors the relevant markets/asset classes for signs of 
volatility and unusual daily trading volumes using various market data sources available 
and can amend these limits accordingly, or indeed choose to follow a hedging strategy 
by placing hedging trades with external counterparties. The changes Trading 212 made 
were the result of its associate seemingly failing to manage its risk and failing to meet its 
obligation to provide the back-to-back facility for Trading 212s trades. This points to 
Trading 212 failing to comply with FCA principles 2, 3 and 6. Trading 212 should have 
managed its own risk better and hedged with third parties. If Trading 212s associates situation wasnt a surprise, Trading 212 failed to reduce 
harm to its customers and acted contrary to Principle 6. If its associates position was a 
surprise, Trading 212 failed to comply with FCA Principles 1 to 3. Also Trading 212 didnt 
highlight or explain that she could be exposed to these risks relating to its associate. 
No market event had taken place anyway. Other brokers didnt implement limitations like 
Trading 212 and actually advertised that they werent doing so and were able to offer 
trading in the contracts to customers frustrated with limits elsewhere. So there was no 
single unexpected event that happened on 23 November or immediately before, that 
would have resulted in Trading 212  needing to take this action There was no issue 
with liquidity in the underlying markets, and this change was implemented across tens of 
instruments, so it's not even related to positive news within one sector. 
Trading 212s terms gave it discretion to change the number of contracts available, but it 
was reasonable for her to expect Trading 212 not to do this without a justifiable reason if 
it would negatively affect customers. A recent version of the term includes something like 
this, specifying a reasonable discretion and that its use is to be based on some 
considerations including (but not limited to) market conditions. 
Trading 212s business benefited from the volatile market conditions, so it doesnt make 
sense that it wished to restrict business in those circumstances.
The platforms hedging mode was a reason she signed up for it and the withdrawal of 
the ability to open long contracts removed her ability to hedge her short position and 
fundamentally changed the service that was being provided to her. 
Trading 212s term allowing it to change trading quantities didnt say anything about 
notification or the conditions under which it would apply. This means the term lacked 
enough detail to be binding or else its meaning was for her to interpret and her 
interpretation is that notification would be provided because other clauses specified 
Trading 212 did not have to give notification but this term did not specify that. 
It wasnt clear that a Close-only Limitation - defined as a limitation, where Your ability 
to open new positions or place new Buy orders is restricted or disabled - wasnt being 
imposed on her account. Trading 212 has referred to Close Only Mode when restricting 
the ability of all customers to open long positions in contracts linked to all shares, so it 
cant be argued to only apply to a situation where a particular account is restricted for 
reasons specific to that account. The situations in which the terms allow for a close-only 
limitation didnt apply in her case  so the changes werent justified.
Our investigator didnt think Miss Ks complaint about the changes Trading 212 had made 
should be upheld. But he suggested an award for distress and inconvenience might be 
appropriate given how hard it was for Miss K to get a reply from Trading 212 to her queries. 
Trading 212 didnt agree because it didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said, in brief, 
the changes were due to unprecedented market activity, imposed correctly in line with 
terms presented to Miss K and werent directed at Miss K in isolation but affected all clients. 
Miss K didnt agree and still thought Trading 212 should compensate her for her losses. As 
the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, like our investigator Ive concluded Trading 212 wasnt at fault for making 
the changes it made or for doing so without notice. Also I dont think Trading 212 was at fault 
for not giving Miss K more information than it did initially. But I think Trading 212 should have 
done more to respond to Miss Ks requests for clarification sooner and should compensate 
her for distress and inconvenience caused because of this. Ill explain my reasons briefly.
From what Trading 212 has said, I understand the changes were introduced due to difficulty 
Trading 212 would otherwise have had in hedging its exposure to the price movements of 
the contracts, due to the sheer amount of exposure it would otherwise have had to hedge. 
Miss K says market price moves in the shares linked to the contracts werent unusual or 
remarkable at the time  and Ive seen nothing to suggest that they were. But this doesnt 
mean Trading 212 cant have had high demand from its customers for contracts of the kind 
Miss K wanted to open such that demand had reached a level at which it exceeded or might 
exceed what Trading 212 could provide with the arrangements it had in place at the time. 
In saying this I note that investing in the contracts allowed leveraged exposure to share price 
movements. This means a given deposit could generate more market price risk than using 
that deposit to buy the shares themselves. So even if the underlying market for the shares 
themselves was liquid and shares were available, it doesnt follow that Trading 212 ought to 
have been able to hedge in the market all exposure that might arise from the contracts if it 
continued to offer them. In saying this I make no comment or finding on how exposure 
generated by Trading 212s contracts was actually hedged in practice. I simply observe that 
a liquid market in the underlying shares isnt evidence that Trading 212 was negligent in not 
being able to continue to offer contracts in the face of high demand or at fault for deciding to 
manage its exposures instead by restricting the contracts available.
Miss K makes the point that Trading 212 wasnt directly exposed to market price movements 
in any case, due to the arrangements it had to hedge that exposure with its associate. But 
this doesnt mean there could be no limit to the exposure Trading 212 could take on. It would 
mean the limit would depend on the capacity its associate was able to provide  either in its 
own right or by virtue of any arrangements it had to hedge exposure externally.
So, having considered all Miss K has said and sent us, Ive no reason to doubt Trading 212s 
suggestion that its reason for reducing and then ceasing to offer the contracts Miss K wanted 
was that it didnt have the capacity to continue to offer the contracts. This would seem to me 
to be a legitimate reason for deciding not to continue to offer the contracts and to exercise its 
discretion, provided for in its terms, to reduce to 100 and then to zero the maximum quantity 
it was offering. I note here that the changes didnt affect existing contracts already open, but 
only customers wanting to open more contracts. Id add that if in contrast Trading 212 had 
believed it could still offer the contracts to its customers, I dont see why it wouldn't have 
done so - given that offering contracts like this was its business so not offering them reduced 
the business it did. Also Ive seen nothing to make me think Trading 212 would benefit from 
its customers losing money or acted unfairly to induce them to close positions.
If the company Trading 212 was using to hedge its market price risk was an associate, and 
Trading 212 stopped offering the contracts because its associate had reached the limit of the 
risk it could take from Trading 212, I dont agree that this means Trading 212 is at fault for its 
associate reaching capacity (including due to not increasing its capacity externally) or is at 
fault for not finding more capacity elsewhere itself. If Trading 212 reached the capacity of its 
existing arrangements, it could try to manage this by increasing capacity but it wasnt obliged 
to do so given that it also had the option (provided for in its terms) to manage this by capping 
the number of contracts it was offering instead. Trading 212 never promised to continue to 
offer a particular number or contracts - its terms specifically provided otherwise. Also I 
accept there could be practical obstacles to increasing capacity, so the fact capacity wasnt 
increased (directly or indirectly) doesnt in itself point to negligence or fault by Trading 212.Miss K was aware trading quantities might sometimes be restricted and had recently been 
alerted to that possibility in connection with a US election. I note what Miss K has said about 
Trading 212s hedging mode  which kept trades in an instrument separate rather than 
combining them and showing an average price. But I dont think this amounted to an 
undertaking that Trading 212 would ensure it always made available to her enough units of 
any given instrument to allow her to hedge any open positions she had. Rather, as Ive said, 
the terms made clear there was a general power to vary and so restrict the maximum size of 
positions in any instrument. Ive noted what Miss K has said about the terms relating to a 
Close-only limitation and the use of the phrase Close Only Mode. But this doesnt change 
my view that Trading 212 had a discretion within its terms to make the changes it made, and 
this wasnt and didnt depend upon the scope it also had to impose a close-only limitation on 
individual accounts in certain circumstances.
The term giving Trading 212 discretion to modify trading quantities, didnt say Trading 212 
would give advance notice of such changes. It didnt say anything about notice, and I dont 
agree with Miss K that this implies there would be advance notice. Also I dont agree that to 
be valid the term needed to refer to notice or outline in more detail the circumstances in 
which it might be used. In my view the term is clear in making provision for changes to be 
made of the kind that were made, including without notice. I note the announcement about 
the US elections noted an increased risk of changes to trading quantities, and gave notice of 
that risk, but it didnt give notice of any specific or particular restriction  for example of any 
particular contract or of the amount it would be limited to or of the dates on which those limits 
would start or continue to apply. 
Overall I dont find the terms themselves implied that advance notice of some kind would be 
given. But I do agree Trading 212 had a duty to act fairly and pay due regard to Miss Ks 
interests  in accordance with the regulatory principles to which Miss K has referred. So Ive 
considered whether Trading 212 nevertheless ought to have given Miss K notice.
Trading 212 has said market conditions drove the changes and couldnt be anticipated  so 
advance notice was impossible. It has also said changes like these were sometimes made 
many times a day and the situation was dynamic and didnt give it time to warn consumers in 
advance. From what Ive seen and what Trading 212 has said, at root the changes were due 
to limited capacity and related to demand. Even if Trading 212 had no market price risk 
exposure, market price movements could affect demand. A positive move in the value of buy 
contracts could lead to more demand for those contracts for example or a fall in the value of 
the contracts might reduce demand for them. Based on all Ive seen, Im persuaded the 
situation was likely a dynamic one, like Trading 212 says. Changeable and unpredictable 
demand could affect whether its capacity to offer contracts was sufficient for that demand.
Miss K says Trading 212 ought to have had insight into its associates ability to accept 
matching trades and supply capacity, so Trading 212 knew or shouldve known in advance 
the capacity it had or chose to have as a group. But even if that is right as far as supply is 
concerned, Trading 212 couldnt know how much demand there would be in advance. 
Miss K says the changes on Monday, if in response to market conditions, were in response 
to conditions at close of trading the previous Friday as the market hadnt opened since then. 
Even if this were right, it doesnt make me think Trading 212 had so much time to decide and 
implement the changes that it was unreasonable or unfair for it not to have done this sooner 
or given earlier notice. In any case I dont think it is right to say that there couldnt have been 
developments outside of market open hours that were relevant to Trading 212s ability to 
offer the contracts. In short, the timing of the changes doesnt in itself or for the reasons 
Miss K has given, persuade me that Trading 212 acted unfairly or unreasonably in not 
making the changes sooner or not giving more notice of them.Overall I dont think Trading 212s obligation to provide clear information and meet Miss Ks 
information needs or to treat her fairly and in accordance with the Principles, required 
Trading 212 to give advance notice of the changes. The possibility of changes in general 
was outlined in the terms and Miss K was aware of it. Also I dont overlook that advance 
notice of scarce capacity could affect demand and I accept there were practicalities for 
Trading 212 to handle and it was entitled to reasonable time for those. 
Turning to what Miss K says about clear information not being provided about the changes, 
she refers to instances where advance announcements were made explaining that changes 
were being made, such as with crypto derivatives, or had more chance of being made, such 
as in the period during the US election. But those were events occurring on prescheduled 
dates and of which Trading 212 had known for some time before it made its announcements. 
The US election date was fixed and known in advance and the crypto regulatory changes 
had been announced some weeks earlier after a longer period of consultation. The changes 
Miss K complains of were, in contrast and as Ive found above, a response to a developing 
and dynamic situation. With that in mind, I dont think Trading 212 was at fault for not 
announcing those changes in the way it did the other changes to which Miss K refers. 
Miss K has said exposure to risks arising from the firms associates not being able to supply 
capacity to allow it to offer contracts, wasnt explained in Trading 212s risk disclosures and 
instead Trading 212 provided reassurances about their management of this. She says she 
was misled or not given proper information about this and wouldnt have used Trading 212s 
service otherwise. But in my view the terms Miss K signed up to had flagged that trading 
quantities, margins and other aspects of Trading 212s trading offering might be varied from 
time to time  and the changes in this case were made in accordance with those terms. 
Looking at what Miss K did know, she was aware when she first logged-in that there was a 
limit on how many buy contracts she could open, and she was aware this had been 
restricted further by the time the market opened. She has explained she sent two messages 
to Trading 212 on the morning of the changes asking for the reason for the restrictions. The 
messages she sent asked why the contracts had been restricted so much and noted limits 
for two other contract types as well as for a limit of 100 for company A. She said this wasnt 
much to trade with and noted a crypto derivative restriction had been explained and invited 
Trading 212 to explain the company A restrictions. A message later during market open from 
Miss K said: My question regarding the limitation of longs on CFDs has not been answered. 
Can you please respond why long position have been restricted with me only being able to 
purchase 25 for [company A] This is not to protect customers during volatility, otherwise 
you wouldnt have restricted longs in an uptrend and left shorts unrestricted
Miss K says she didnt know the changes were deliberate and there ought to have been 
information to explain why they had been made. She says knowing the changes were 
deliberate wouldve been significant for her as it wouldve had a bearing on the question of 
how long the changes might last  as Ive noted above: had I closed my positions purely 
because at that specific moment I wasn't able to hedge my position, I would have realised 
my losses. If, however, two minutes later the platform updated and allowed me to hedge my 
positions, I would have realised those losses unnecessarily 
In essence Miss K says she wouldnt have continued to trade if shed known she would be 
trading for a sustained period without being able buy long contracts to hedge in the way she 
usually would when trading  and Miss K believes Trading 212 had and should have given 
her information about the changes from which she couldve established that the contracts 
wouldnt be freely available again for some time  with the result that she wouldve closed 
her positions and accepted the losses accrued at that point, rather than trying to recoup 
them or go into profit by continuing to trade.Ive thought about this carefully. But Im not persuaded Miss K continued to trade believing 
the changes were likely to be a very short-lived error. In terms of the possibility of an error, 
Miss K didnt find out about the limits by having an order fail or something else go wrong on 
the platform that wouldve pointed to an error. The messages she has drawn to my attention 
dont refer to a presumed error but ask why the limit has been put in place and why it is so 
low. Miss K disagrees with my interpretation of her messages, but I remain of this view. 
Also, in terms of believing it would be short-lived, Miss K continued with her positions not 
only for a moment or a few minutes after seeing the new limits - but for the rest of that day 
and into the evening of the following day at which point she received a margin call due to 
losses accrued by her at that stage. She made her complaint the day after that. What Ive 
seen doesnt persuade me that Miss K believed the changes would be imminently reversed 
and continued to trade only because of this belief. If that were so, she would surely have 
closed her positions sooner in my view.
So if Trading 212 had known it would be imposing the limits for more than a few minutes, or 
for a few days, Im not persuaded that telling Miss K this wouldve made a difference to the 
outcome of her trading in the way she suggests and believes. Also Im not persuaded Miss K 
wouldve traded differently or not traded at all if Trading 212 had told her the changes were 
deliberate  in my view it was apparent the changes were deliberate even if the reasons for it 
werent apparent.
I accept Miss K didnt know why the limits had been imposed and she wasnt expecting limits 
like this to be imposed. It is plain she was reluctant to close her positions and take losses  
and that is understandable. Still, she knew if she continued to trade she wouldnt for the time 
being be able to balance losses on her short position by opening new buy contracts like she 
usually could. If she didnt wish to trade in those circumstances, she knew she could instead 
close her positions and take her existing losses. She chose to continue to trade and to do so 
with the future availability of the contracts, in terms of time and number, being uncertain. 
Miss K has said that if she had been told in general terms that the changes were made to 
manage Trading 212s liabilities  in the way in which Trading 212 responded in a tweet she 
saw a day later about a different situation - she wouldve closed her positions. But that tweet 
said merely that quantities may change when market conditions permit it and so didnt give 
any indication of how long the changes might last. Such information like that left the future 
situation open and uncertain and Miss K chose to continue to trade with that uncertainty. So 
Im not persuaded that had Trading 212 given information like this it wouldve altered things.
In light of all Ive already said above, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable to 
require Trading 212 to compensate Miss K for losses she made when she decided to trade 
knowing she wouldnt be able to cover her positions. Miss Ks increased trading losses were 
in my view, in the circumstances here, caused by her decision to carry on trading rather than 
by, for example, Miss K seeking to mitigate a loss caused to her by an information failing on 
the part of Trading 212.
In saying this I take into account also that in the dynamic situation that gave rise to the 
changes, it isnt obvious to me that Trading 212 was or ought to have been in a position to 
give Miss K an indication of how long the changes would last or when they might be lifted. 
Insofar as that would depend on future demand for different positions, Trading 212 wouldnt 
have been in a position to know that. But in any case, Im not persuaded an information 
failing was at the root of the increased losses Miss K suffered in the period when she 
continued to trade, or held her positions, after becoming aware of the changes.Miss K says more information to clarify the situation did appear from Trading 212 in the days 
that followed. I note that before then Miss K tried to find out more but without success. Weve 
asked Trading 212 about the difficulty Miss K says she had getting a response from it and it 
hasnt said anything in reply to contradict what Miss K had said about trying to contact it on 
its usual channels and not receiving a timely reply. I have found Trading 212 was entitled to 
make the changes it made, but this doesnt mean it didnt need to respond to Miss K in a 
timely manner. It has said little to suggest that its communication with Miss K was timely or 
to suggest that a failure to provide reasonable and timely replies wouldnt have likely caused 
her inconvenience and distress at the time.
With all this in mind, I find Trading 212 didnt do enough to reply to Miss K and to treat her 
fairly in that regard and caused distress and inconvenience as a result.
So I uphold Miss Ks complaint on that basis and to that extent.
I appreciate that my outcome will disappoint Miss K. Im grateful to her for her patience and 
assistance throughout our investigation. Also I thank Trading 212 for all its responses.
Putting things right
Trading 212 UK Limited should pay Miss K £200 to compensate her for inconvenience and 
distress caused to her by the failings I have outlined above. 
My final decision
I uphold Miss Ks complaint. Trading 212 UK Limited should put things right by doing what 
Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman