DRN-1740948
 
The complaint
Mr D complains that Nationwide Building Society has reported information about him to 
credit reference agencies which isnt true. He says this has affected him applying for a 
mortgage, and its defamation of character. 
What happened
Mr D says Nationwide is responsible for recording one of a number of defaults on his credit 
file. He said he had no business relationship with Nationwide, he hadnt opened an account 
with it, and he hadnt lived at the address that it held for him. He told us he brought this to 
Nationwides attention early in 2019, and sent information to support what he was saying 
about having been impersonated by someone. So Nationwide said it would update his credit 
file within six weeks. But in late August 2019 he applied for a mortgage, and was turned 
down. He found out that the defaults were still on his credit file. Mr D said that this was 
defamation. He wanted Nationwide to take this off his credit file straight away, and he 
wanted Nationwide to pay for what he said were very substantial losses. 
Nationwide said it had records of Mr D applying for a credit card in 2013. The application 
was declined and closed in May 2013. It had believed the application to be genuine. So it 
had notified the relevant credit reference agencies (CRAs). 
Nationwide said it couldnt remove the fraudulent address linked to Mr D from CRA records. 
The CRAs would have to do that. But it had taken other steps. It had changed the status of 
the account to impersonation fraud. And it had removed the search done at the time of the 
application, from Mr Ds credit file. Those actions had been completed before summer 2019. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said Nationwide had told 
the CRAs about Mr Ds card application in 2013, because it thought then that the application 
was genuine. It had also notified the CRAs promptly once it was told that this application 
wasnt made by Mr D. It had done all it could. 
Our investigator knew Mr D also wanted us to consider defamation of character, but she 
thought that a court was best placed to make a finding on a legal issue like that. 
Mr D didnt agree. He said that if an organisation shares information that could harm 
someone else, it has a duty of care. He said that this happens a lot, and our outcome 
wouldnt change the behaviour. He said hed never done business with Nationwide, but his 
good name was being dragged through the mud. 
As Mr D didnt agree with our investigator, this case was passed to me for a final decision.
 
 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive reached the same overall conclusion 
on this complaint as our investigator, and for broadly the same reasons. 
Nationwide didnt know in 2013 that the application for a credit card account hadnt been 
made by Mr D. I havent seen anything to suggest to me that Nationwide shouldve known. 
Mr D has told us that someone obtained identity documents in his name, so I can 
understand how someone else couldve made this application without Nationwide realising 
this. I dont think Nationwide did anything wrong when it recorded information from that 
application on Mr Ds credit file. 
But the application didnt go through successfully. So there is no default associated with this 
account, or with Nationwide. that fits with what I can see on Mr Ds credit file. 
Mr D then told Nationwide that the application was fraudulent, and, as Ive noted, supported 
this with corroborating information about identity theft. Nationwide no longer thinks the 2013 
application was made by Mr D.
Nationwide has removed the search from Mr Ds credit file. And it has noted this account as 
impersonation fraud. I think those are appropriate steps for Nationwide to take.
Nationwide says that it cant remove the address used on this application from Mr Ds credit 
file, and asked him to discuss that with the CRAs. Ive not seen anything to make me think 
that Nationwide has made a mistake about that. 
I think Nationwide has taken all the steps I would expect it to take, in response to the new 
information it has about the 2013 credit card application. 
If Mr D was turned down for a mortgage after Nationwide amended his credit file, then I dont 
think thats likely to be Nationwides fault. And, like our investigator, I dont think it would be 
appropriate for me to reach a view on whether Nationwides sharing of information with 
CRAs constituted defamation. I agree with her that a court would be better placed to fully 
examine this concern, and reach a view on that, than our service would be. 
I've considered this case carefully, and I dont think Nationwide has to do any more now. I 
know Mr D will be disappointed, but I dont think his complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman