DRN-4452502
The complaint
Ms C is unhappy with how Legal and General Assurance Society Limited handled a review 
of her income protection claim.
What happened
Ms C has been in receipt of income protection benefit for many years. The decision to pay 
benefit to her has been reviewed a number of times over the years. 
In 2022 Legal and General asked Ms C to take part in a review of her condition at her home 
address. Ms C says, in summary, that the assessment was inappropriate and harmful. Her 
claim benefits were terminated, and Ms C is unhappy that the report was shared with her 
employer as she feels it was reputationally damaging. Ms Cs claim was subsequently 
reinstated, but Ms C is unhappy with the process and inappropriate treatment of disabled 
people. Overall, Ms C didnt think Legal and General had acted in line with the Equality Act 
2010. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold Ms Cs complaint. She thought 
Legal and General were entitled to periodically review the claim and had instructed an 
appropriate person to provide a report. She also thought it was reasonable for Legal and 
General to share a copy of the report with Ms Cs employer as they were the policyholder 
and didnt think the report indicated Ms C was a malingerer, liar or faking a traumatic brain 
injury. She also noted that Legal and General reinstated the claim, and backdated payments, 
on receipt of further medical evidence from Ms C. 
Ms C didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review her complaint. In summary she said: 
A disabled person shouldnt be caused harm by their insurer or their agents 
A request for reasonable adjustments should be accommodated, or responded to 
The assessment shouldnt be forced on a disabled person when theyve been told 
their benefit will be cut off immediately if they dont comply 
The insurance company has a duty of care to appoint an appropriately educated 
agent and perform appropriate assessments 
Reports asserting that a person is being untruthful or pretending shouldnt be sent to 
someones employer. 
Legal and General reiterated that the assessor who carried out the assessment was trained 
and qualified to do so. The test (referred to as a CPAD assessment) is evidence based and 
Ms C was advised that she didnt have to undertake any tests she was unable to complete. 
Finally, Legal and General said they were required to share the outcome with Ms Cs 
employer and that, in any event, the benefit was reinstated.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Legal and General has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly.
Its not my role to say whether a business has acted unlawfully or not  thats a matter for the 
Courts. My role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. In order to 
decide that, however, I have to take a number of things into account including relevant law 
and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. So, although its for the 
Courts to say whether or not Legal and General has breached the Equality Act 2010, Im 
required to take the Equality Act 2010 into account, if its relevant, amongst other things 
when deciding what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. 
Ms C says she feels Legal and General has discriminated against her. I can understand why 
Ms C feels this way but having looked at all the evidence I dont think Legal and General has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably. However, I hope that it helps Ms C to know that someone 
impartial and independent has looked into her concerns. 
Im not upholding Ms Cs complaint because: 
The assessment was completed by a Registered Osteopath with the General 
Osteopathic Council and Accredited Functional Capacity Assessor. I appreciate 
that Ms C feels that this wasnt a suitably qualified expert. Theres no requirement 
for Legal and General to instruct a particular kind of expert or undertake a 
specific type of test. So, I dont think it was an unreasonable instruction in the 
circumstances of this case.
Ive considered what Ms C has said about her concerns about taking part in the 
assessment, which she outlined during a call with the relevant company and in an 
email. Ms Cs email enclosed the NICE guidelines and included information about 
her experience of her condition. However, this communication was between Ms C 
and the independent third party who was due to carry out the test. And, in any 
event, as Ive outlined above, the test was taking place with a suitably qualified 
expert. 
I appreciate that Ms C feels the CPAD test wasnt appropriate for her condition 
but, having considered the scope of the report I dont think it was an 
unreasonable request as it was designed to assess her functionality and ability to 
work. Ms C provided further evidence from a consultant, after the tests had taken 
place, which says that the tests should have taken place daily over a full working 
week. However, this medical opinion wasnt available to Legal and General prior 
to the assessment taking place. And, in any event, I dont think they decided on 
or had significant input into the specific format of the test. Therefore, I dont think 
this additional evidence means the initial planned tests were unfair or 
unreasonable. I can understand why Ms C was concerned about going ahead with the 
assessment as the benefit payments were her source of income and she was 
aware that payments could be terminated if she didnt take part in the 
assessment. But, Legal and General is entitled to review the claim and complete 
assessments in order to establish if the claim remains valid. So, whilst I can 
appreciate Ms Cs concerns about feeling under pressure to take part, I dont 
think I can fairly conclude Legal and Generals request for an assessment, in 
itself, was unreasonable.   
I dont think it was unreasonable for Legal and General to provide the report to 
Ms Cs employer. They are the policyholder to whom benefit is paid. Legal and 
General were going to stop paying benefit and therefore I think it was reasonable 
for them to supply the report to her employer. I think it was presented fairly as an 
opinion on Ms Cs condition. I dont think it suggested Ms C was faking a 
traumatic brain injury, lying or faking her condition. The opinion of the expert was 
set out in detail and with the evidence he relied on in support of those findings. 
When Ms C provided more information from a different medical expert Legal and 
General reinstated the claim and backdated it. But I dont think it means their 
decision to ask Ms C to attend the tests they did was unreasonable in all the 
circumstances.
Im satisfied Ms C had sufficient information to make contact with Legal and 
General if she needed to do so, including access to the relevant phone numbers.
My final decision
Im not upholding Ms Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman