DRN-3715997
The complaint
Miss B is unhappy Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited (Mulsanne) avoided her motor 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss B took out a motor insurance policy with Mulsanne via an insurance broker. While 
investigating a claim in May 2022, Mulsanne established Miss B had an undisclosed criminal 
conviction that wasnt spent. This conviction involved a 15 month custodial sentence. 
Miss Bs policy was then avoided, her claim declined, and premiums retained. Mulsanne said 
this was necessary as Miss B had made a qualifying deliberate or reckless 
misrepresentation.
An investigator at our service then considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. He said 
having checked all the relevant information, Mulsanne had applied the Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) fairly. So, he didnt think theyd done 
anything wrong. 
In response, Miss B accepted Mulsanne were entitled to avoid the policy and decline the 
claim. However, she felt strongly that her premiums should be refunded as the 
misrepresentation, wasnt deliberate or reckless. She said she answered  no to the relevant 
question as she assumed her conviction was spent. This was based on the fact she was no 
longer on probation or in contact with the police. She also argued that because she declared 
her motoring convictions and previous claims, she would have declared the non-motoring 
conviction, if she knew it was relevant.
Our investigators opinion remained the same, he said Mulsanne had acted fairly by 
concluding the misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, based on the question she was 
asked, and the timescales involved. He also clarified that while Mulsanne had taken her 
previous claims and motoring convictions into consideration, she didnt disclose them when 
she applied for the policy. He said hed seen evidence they were only identified as part of 
later verification checks.  
Miss B then requested a final decision. She said she only wanted the ombudsman to 
address her concern about the way the misrepresentation had been categorised. She said it 
wasnt fair and needed to be changed. 
So, Ive considered the complaint afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss B has accepted Mulsanne acted fairly by avoiding her policy and declining her claim, so 
I will simply say, I agree. This is based on my consideration of the question she was asked, 
the underwriting criteria and CIDRA. Ill therefore focus this decision, as Miss B has 
specifically requested, on whether Mulsanne acted fairly by classifying her qualifying 
misrepresentation as either deliberate or reckless.
CIDRA explains that  A qualifying misrepresentation is deliberate or reckless if the 
consumer- 
a) knew that it was untrue or misleading, or did not care whether or not it was untrue 
or misleading, and 
b) knew that the matter to which the misrepresentation related was relevant to the 
insurer, or did not care whether it was relevant to the insurer.
It is for the insurer to show the above applies.
When applying for the policy Miss B was asked the following question:
Do you have any non-motoring criminal convictions, except for those considered to 
be spent under the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974?
Next to the question was a purple exclamation mark that gave the following information.
 A spent conviction is a conviction which, under the terms of Rehabilitation of 
Offenders Legislation, can be effectively ignored after a specified amount of time. A 
prison sentence of four years or more, will never become spent.
As such, Miss B should reasonably have been aware, the term spent referred to the above 
legislation and she would need to check ( if she wasnt already aware) how it applied to her 
conviction. As she didnt do this, Im satisfied Mulsanne concluded reasonably that she either 
knew her answer was untrue or misleading or did not care whether it was true or misleading. 
Based on the fact she was asked a clear question; Im also satisfied Miss B should 
reasonably have known the information about her conviction was relevant to Mulsanne. So, I 
dont think they acted unreasonably by classifying the misrepresentation as either deliberate 
or reckless. 
Miss B has said the fact she disclosed her motoring convictions and previous claims history, 
supports her position. However, as Mulsanne have provided evidence which shows this 
information wasnt disclosed by Miss B, and only identified as part of later verification 
checks, Im satisfied this isnt the case.
CIDRA explains that an insurer, can avoid a policy, refuse all claims, and retain the policy 
premiums if a qualifying deliberate or reckless misrepresentation has taken place. As that  
reflects the circumstances here, Im satisfied Mulsanne have acted fairly and there are no 
grounds to direct them to refund the policy premiums. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Claire GreeneOmbudsman