DRN-3084404
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about the advice they received from Capital Professional Limited, 
trading as Ascot Lloyd, referred to as the business. 
In short, they say the business gave unsuitable advice to remain invested in the Woodford 
Equity Income Fund  referred to as the fund or WEIF  to which their bond was overly 
exposed to.  
Mr and Mrs H say that theyve suffered a substantial financial loss as a result of the 
unsuitable advice and would like compensation for their losses. 
What happened
In October 2013, Mr and Mrs H invested £100,000 in a bond. In 2015, they invested a further 
£89,520  of this sum around 65% of it was invested in WEIF, which it started in 2014. 
Historically, the fund performed well for a number of years, yielding returns of up to 8.09% 
according to the business, until around mid-2017 when it started to underperform. By late 
2018 returns had reduced to 2.17%. 
In June 2019 the fund was suspended in an attempt to protect investors in the fund, 
following an increased level of redemptions that the fund was unable to meet.  
The business didnt uphold the complaint. In short, it said:
It hadnt done anything wrong. 
The adviser met Mrs H in her home in June 2018. Although it was a matter of record 
that she (and Mr H) had a large exposure to the fund, it was discussed and agreed 
that it had dropped in value slightly, but it would be a poor time to switch out the fund. 
In due course, the adviser met with Mr H in October 2019, when Mr H questioned 
why he (and Mrs H) hadnt been taken out of the fund. But at that stage the fund had 
closed, and there was nothing it could do. 
Whilst it sympathised with the drop in value, based on the available information it was 
unable to uphold the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the businesss response and referred their complaint to our 
service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Based on the agreement Mr and Mrs H had with the business, it had a responsibility 
to regularly discuss their investment and assess its suitability. 
The fund, which launched in 2014  the same year they switched to it  wasnt as 
risky as it became in later years. 
The fund was (at the outset) broadly in line with their risk profile  namely a three out 
of seven  and it performed well. 
Given the above, hes unable to say that the initial advice  given by the predecessor 
business subsequently acquired by the business  to invest in the fund was 
unsuitable. 
Having reviewed the meeting notes with Mrs H from the June 2018  hes been 
unable to find any mention of her/their exposure to the fund, or any consideration of 
switching out of it. The notes focus on Mrs Hs financial future following her divorce 
from Mr H. 
The meeting notes show:
oAn attitude to risk assessment was conducted and found Mrs H as being a 
moderate risk investor. However, she expressed she didnt want to take too 
much risk and had infinite time to make her money grow. She didnt want to 
risk losing it all.  
oOn paper Mrs H had a high capacity for loss, but in reality given her 
circumstances, it was moderate.  
oIt was recorded she wants the money to grow relatively smoothly without 
taking too much risk and does not really want any shock drop in the value 
over the coming months and years. 
The bond was intended to be used to assist their children through university and after 
they graduate  a record from January 2016 supports this. Withdrawals previously 
made have also been used to pay for university accommodation. In the 
circumstances, it was unlikely that they wanted to take more risk. 
In April 2018, the fund was categorised by the Investment Association (IA) as a UK 
ALL Companies Fund rather than a UK Equity Income Fund, to reflect the lower 
income paid by the fund. 
Because of the fund risk, Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances and Mrs Hs attitude to risk  
the high exposure to the fund at that time wasnt suitable. But theres no evidence 
that this or the fund was specifically discussed at the June 2018 meeting. 
Whilst the business wouldnt have known what was about to happened  so it wasnt 
unreasonable not to advise them to move out of the fund altogether  the business 
ought reasonably to have advised them to move half of their investment in the fund to 
a less risky investment. 
In other words, the business failed to provide suitable advice, so to put things right it 
should:
oCompare the performance of Mr and Mrs Hs investment - namely half of their 
holdings in WEIF as of June 2018  with the 50/50 benchmark, and if there is 
a negative difference, pay them the loss. 
oAlso, pay Mr and Mrs H £500 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
The business disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. In summary, it said:
It was important to note that Mr and Mrs H had just completed their divorce  they 
were in the process of dividing their assets and refused to meet together. Their main 
priority was to complete the divorce sharing order and to arrange for these monies 
to be invested, as evidenced by the recommendation report for Mrs H.
It wouldve been logical to suffer small losses rather than to make a 50% change on 
the fund. It wouldve been akin to a knee jerk reaction. 
The adviser confirmed that in a meeting with Mr H in June 2018 it discussed the fact 
that the fund had started to drop, however decided that it needed time to recover and 
not crystalise any losses. Therefore, they decided to do nothing and give it time to 
recover.  
Theres nothing to say that Mr and Mrs H wouldve chosen to switch funds, even if it 
had been recommended. Its an unfortunate consequence of investing in the WEIF and nothing that the business has done wrong. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. In summary, he said:
In June 2018, the IA had already re-categorised the fund. So, by the time the meeting 
took place, the fund was riskier than it was at the outset. 
Despite what the business says, theres no evidence that the fund was specifically 
discussed at the meeting. 
In response, the business said it cant provide additional documentation relating to the 
matter but wished to reconfirm its position. In short, it made the following key points:
The fund has performed well until 2018. 
Whilst Mrs H may have reduced her capacity for loss, Mr Hs capacity for loss hadnt 
been re-assessed and as this was a joint investment, no change in investment could 
be recommended in the circumstances. 
Mr H had declined to meet up and discuss the bond and this made things difficult. 
It cant agree that a change in capacity for loss  from high to medium  necessarily 
meant a reduction in the proportion of the portfolio held in the fund. 
In hindsight a recommendation couldve been made, but the adviser believed the 
fund to be strong enough to bounce back. 
Given the circumstances at the time, the adviser was correct not to reduce the 
holding in WEIF by half.   
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the business says, Im not 
persuaded that it behaved reasonably. In other words, on balance Im not persuaded that the 
advice to remain fully invested in the WEIF  without any reduction in exposure to the fund  
was reasonable in the circumstances.  
Before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much
recognise Mr and Mrs Hs strength of feeling about this matter. They and the business have 
provided detailed submissions in respect of the complaint, which Ive read and considered 
carefully. However, I hope they wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be 
the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point or question raised under a
separate subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this
case. I appreciate this can be frustrating, but it doesnt mean Im not considering the
pertinent points.
My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr and Mrs H and the business and reach 
what I think is an independent, fair, and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case,
rather than take any side. I think Mr and Mrs H were willing to take a risk with their investment  in order to achieve 
their objective for growth  but given their change in circumstances, a reduction in capacity 
for loss for Mrs H, and reclassification of the fund, I think this rendered their continued 65% 
investment in the fund unsuitable. Its also questionable whether Mr and Mrs H understood 
the risks involved in light of the changes. 
 
I note the business in its latest response accepts that in hindsight a recommendation could 
have been made but the adviser believed the fund to be strong enough to bounce back. I 
appreciate there was nothing concrete to suggest that the fund definitely wouldnt recover  
Im aware that it had in the past  but Im not suggesting that the business is at fault for not 
being able to predict the future. 
I also dont think it was unreasonable for the business not to advise Mr and Mrs H to 
completely disinvest in the fund  there was nothing to suggest the fund would be 
suspended  but thats not why Im upholding this complaint. However, in the circumstances, 
and on balance, I dont think the advice to maintain the status quo was reasonable for them.     
Despite what the business says, Im not persuaded that its explanation justifies why Mr and 
Mrs H werent advised to reduce their joint exposure to a single fund. In other words, I dont 
agree with the businesss suggestion that in June 2018, doing nothing other than waiting and 
hoping for the best, was a suitable course of action for them  particularly given the change 
in circumstances, fund reclassification and the reasons for it. 
I also dont agree with the business that it was simply a case of dealing with small losses 
versus changing funds  the latter would not have been a knee jerk reaction but a swift 
considered one in light of the changes mentioned above. It could be argued that a change in 
Mrs Hs appetite for loss was likely to be mirrored in Mr Hs, so its not an excuse that only 
Mrs H was assessed and not Mr H. 
I appreciate the business only met with Mrs H at the material time, but it probably couldve 
done more to see Mr H, even if he didnt want to meet with Mrs H  I dont think he had to, in 
order to discuss the bond with the business, after their divorce. 
I note the fund had undergone the reclassification in April 2018 - when the fund was 
reclassified as a UK ALL Companies Fund instead of the Equity Income Fund  which was a 
couple of months prior to the business meeting with Mrs H in June 2018. Yet its remains a 
question mark whether the specific fund was discussed.  
On balance, I think the business ought reasonably to have advised Mr and Mrs H to swiftly 
reduce their exposure to the fund  by 50%, which I believe is a fair amount  due to the shift 
from larger cap exposure (generally companies with a market capitalisation of more than 
$10 billion) within the fund, to smaller unquoted companies (generally companies that have 
issued equity shares that arent officially listed on a particular stock exchange). The fund was 
also probably more likely to be more volatile than the previous Equity Income funds, but 
these issues werent addressed by the business.
On balance, Im persuaded that the reclassification (more likely than not) represented a 
change to the original expectation Mr and Mrs H probably had for their investment in this 
fund, and therefore the adviser ought reasonably to have advised them to reduce their 
exposure to this, but failed to do so. 
To put things right, I think the recommendation by the investigator is broadly fair and 
reasonable. Its in relation to 50% of Mr and Mrs Hs holdings in WEIF, which Im persuaded ought to have been taken out and invested elsewhere with less risk  probably by late June 
2018, hence the date of 29 June 2018. 
I also think £500 compensation  which equates to £250 each for Mr and Mrs H  is broadly 
fair and reasonable given the distress and inconvenience suffered as a result of the 
unsuitable advice and uncertainty surrounding their investment. 
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr 
and Mrs H as close to the position they would probably now be in if they had not been 
given unsuitable advice.
I take the view that Mr and Mrs H would have invested differently. It is not possible to say 
precisely what they would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out 
below is fair and reasonable given Mr and Mrs H's circumstances and objectives in June 
2018.
I think its fair that any changes would have been made by the end of June 2018.
What must the business do?
To compensate Mr and Mrs H fairly, Capital Professional Limited trading as Ascot Lloyd 
must:
Compare the performance of Mr and Mrs H's investment with that of the benchmark 
shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of 
the investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Pay to Mr and Mrs H £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by the business failing to provide suitable advice. 
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr and Mrs H in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Half of the 
holdings in 
the 
Woodford LF 
Equity 
Income FundStill exists For half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate 
from fixed 
rate bonds29 June 
2018Date of 
settlementNot 
applicable Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr and Mrs H agree to Capital 
Professional Limited trading as Ascot Lloyd taking ownership of the investment, if it wishes 
to. If it is not possible for Capital Professional Limited trading as Ascot Lloyd to take 
ownership, then the business may request an undertaking from Mr and Mrs H that they 
repay it any amount they may receive from the investment in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Capital 
Professional Limited trading as Ascot Lloyd should use the monthly average rate for one-
year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that 
shown as at the end of the previous month. Capital Professional Limited trading as Ascot 
Lloyd should apply those rates to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal, income, or other payment out of the investments should be deducted from 
the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on.
If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, I will accept if 
you total all those payments and deduct that figure at the end instead of deducting 
periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr and Mrs H wanted capital growth with a small risk to their capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified 
indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government 
bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk 
to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr and Mrs H's risk profile was in between, in the sense that they 
were prepared to take a small level of risk to attain their investment objectives. So, 
the 50/50 combination would reasonably put Mr and Mrs H into that position. It does 
not mean that Mr and Mrs H would have invested 50% of their money in a fixed rate 
bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a 
reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr and Mrs H could 
have obtained from investments suited to their objective and risk attitude.Further information 
The information about the average rate can be found on the Bank of Englands website by 
searching for quoted household interest rates and then clicking on the related link to their 
database, or by entering this address www.bankofengland.co.uk/boeapps/database, 
clicking on: Interest & exchange rates data / Quoted household interest rates / Deposit 
rates - Fixed rate bonds / 1 year (IUMWTFA) and then exporting the source data.
There is guidance on how to carry out calculations available on our website, which can be 
found by following this link: https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/businesses/resolving- 
complaint/understanding-compensation/compensation-investment-complaints. Alternatively 
just type compensation for investment complaints into the search bar on our website: 
www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk. Im upholding the complaint, but its important to note 
there might not be redress due for financial loss depending on the outcome of the 
calculations Ive asked the business to carry out.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold the complaint. 
My decision is that Capital Professional Limited trading as Ascot Lloyd should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Capital Professional Limited trading as Ascot Lloyd should provide details of its calculation 
to Mr and Mrs H in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman