DRN-3546024
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that their joint Platinum Account (PA) was not closed by TSB Bank 
plc (TSB) in 2015 after their complaint about the sale of the PA was upheld.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs G had a complaint about their PA upheld in 2015 and received redress from 
TSB. They say that TSB should have downgraded their account then but didnt and have 
charged them for it since.
TSB says that it told Mr and Mrs G what they needed to do to downgrade the account in 
2015, but Mr and Mrs G havent done it, and so the PA remained open.
Ive looked at the letter that Mr and Mrs G were sent by TSB about their complaint in 2015 
and it does clearly state what they should do to downgrade the account according to their 
procedures at the time.
Mr and Mrs G acknowledge they havent done what TSB asked them to do. And Im aware 
that a bank cant change an account without proper authorisation. So, I think its more likely 
than not that Mr and Mrs G have not provided the required authorisation in a suitable form.
Between 2015 and 2021 Mr and Mrs G received copious communications from TSB about 
the account through their chosen communication channel, and so I think its more likely than 
not that they were aware the PA was open and they were being charged for it.
Through this period Mr and Mrs G say that they travelled abroad regularly and had a car. 
The PA benefits included substantial travel insurance cover for both, and AA car breakdown 
cover in the UK, without the need to register. So, had they had a problem they could have 
claimed on either.
So, while I appreciate from Mr and Mrs Gs testimony that it may have been difficult for them 
to go a branch together to downgrade the PA, I dont think TSB has done anything wrong in 
not downgrading it without their appropriate authorisation. And I dont think it would be fair to 
ask TSB to repay their account fees after 2015.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 October 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman