DRN-3470360
The complaint
Mr J complains about the advice given by Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd 
(WFM) to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) scheme with British Steel 
(BSPS) to a Self-Invested Personal Pension SIPP.) He says the advice was unsuitable for 
him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Js employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In October 2017 Mr Js employer sent out Time to Choose information asking members of 
the DB scheme what they wanted to do with their preserved benefits  either remain in 
BSPS which would then move to the PPF, join the BSPS2 or transfer their BSPS benefits 
elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 11 December 2017 (and was later 
extended to 22 December 2017.)
Mr J was concerned about what this meant for the security of his DB scheme, so he sought 
advice. Mr J first met with another business  but because they didnt have the necessary 
regulatory permissions to advise on pension transfers they referred Mr J to WFM. Mr J met 
with WFM on 13 December 2017 and it completed a fact-find to gather information about his 
circumstances and objectives. In summary it noted Mr J was 38, married with two children, 
he owned his own home with an outstanding mortgage of around £100,000 and his preferred 
retirement age was 58. WFM also carried out an assessment of Mr Js attitude to risk, which 
it deemed to be moderately adventurous.
On 4 January 2018 WFM advised Mr J to transfer his BSPS benefits into a SIPP and invest 
the proceeds in a managed investment portfolio which WFM deemed matched Mr Js 
attitude to risk. In summary the suitability report said the key reasons for this 
recommendation were: to provide the potential for a higher cash lump sum; to address Mr 
Js concerns about the BSPS moving to the PPF; to provide for early retirement; to provide 
flexibility both now and at retirement; and to ensure Mr Js family benefitted from his pension 
upon his death.
Mr J accepted the advice and around £221,900 was transferred to his new personal pension.
In 2021 Mr J complained to WFM, through a representative, about the suitability of the 
transfer advice.
WFM didnt uphold Mr Js complaint. In summary it said that Mr J made it clear from the 
outset that he was not prepared to entrust his future pension provision to the BSPS or the 
PPF. It said the recommendation was suitable because it met Mr Js stated objectives, 
including providing greater flexibility, offered tax efficiency and ensured that his family would 
benefit in the event of his death. It said Mr J was clearly made aware of the risks of 
transferring away from the DB scheme.
Dissatisfied with its response Mr J asked this service to consider his complaint. And an 
investigator upheld it and said WFM should pay Mr J compensation. In summary they said 
they didnt think the advice was suitable. They said Mr J was likely to receive lower overall 
benefits at retirement as a result of transferring and there were no other particular reasons to 
outweigh this  for example there was nothing to show that Mr Js plans for retirement were 
known given his age and there was nothing to show that he needed flexibility.  They said that 
Mr J shouldve been advised to remain in the DB scheme and that had things happened as 
they should have, Mr J wouldve followed that advice. 
While WFM indicated it disagreed with the investigators conclusions and it said it would be 
providing a response, it hasnt provided anything further. Weve recently reminded WFM that 
it can provide a response, but again nothing has been received. Im satisfied WFM has been 
given the opportunity to respond and I think that if it wanted to do so it wouldve done so by 
now.
Because things couldnt be resolved informally, the complaint was referred to me to make a 
final decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of WFMs actions here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19, which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as the investigator. My reasons are set out below. The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, WFM should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Js 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not persuaded that it was 
in his best interests.
I firstly want to address what I consider is the important matter of the timing of the advice in 
this case. As I said above, in October 2017 Mr J received his Time to Choose information 
asking him what he wanted to do with his preserved DB scheme benefits. And the deadline 
to make his choice was 11 December 2017, later extended to 22 December 2017. Mr J met 
with WFM in December 2017, which was during this period.
But none of WFMs advice paperwork refers to him having to make this decision about his 
preserved benefits - there was no reference to the Time to Choose period, no mention of 
the deadline or any sense of urgency about things when I consider there should have been. 
Mr J sought advice because of the decision he was being asked to make by the December 
deadline. I accept that when Mr J approached WFM time was running out and its possible 
that WFM was unable to complete its advice process even it had hurried things and 
prioritised its advice to Mr J.
But I dont think this means WFM shouldve ignored the looming deadline and so remove
Mr Js choice to opt into the BSPS2. I think if it wasnt possible to hurry its advice process, at 
the very least, I think WFM shouldve considered whether it was in Mr Js best interests to 
opt into the BSPS2 as a precautionary measure while it completed its advice (the time to 
choose leaflet says someone can opt in but cancel their choice if they decide to transfer out 
before the new scheme started.). WFM understood Mr Js circumstances and objectives 
because it had completed a fact-find. It also had Mr Js Time to Choose leaflet - so I think 
its fair to say WFM was in a position to advise Mr J on his choice here.
As I will explain in my decision, I think it was in Mr Js best interests to opt in to the BSPS2 
rather than remain in the scheme and move with it to the PPF. This is because if Mr J took 
his full pension, which it what I think he would likely do, at his documented preferred 
retirement age of 58, I think the income was likely greater than was available under the PPF. 
While Mr J has provided a copy of his Time to Choose leaflet, which contained the 
information about the benefits he could receive under the BSPS2, the examples shown are 
at ages 55, 60 and 65  not 58. So I cant say for certain this was the case.
But based on this and the analysis WFM did of Mr Js benefits had the existing scheme 
stayed in place, it appears to me that if Mr J took his full pension at 58, the benefits available 
to him through the existing scheme were better than those provided by the PPF. The 
analysis shows Mr J could take a full annual pension of £10,061 through the existing scheme 
and £9,181 through the PPF. And while the BSPS2 wouldnt provide Mr J with as generous 
benefits as the existing scheme (because of the lower revaluations and escalations), at 58 I 
think the BSPS2 would produce benefits somewhere between the existing scheme and the 
PPF (but closer to the existing scheme.) So I think its likely the BSPS2 benefits wouldve 
been higher than those provided by the PPF.
This means I think it is more likely than not the BSPS2 would provide Mr J with greater 
benefits in the circumstances Ive described.
Of course at the time of the advice in January 2018, Mr Js choice to join the BSPS2 had 
expired  so his only option at this stage was to remain in the scheme and move with it to 
the PPF or transfer out. But if things had happened as they should have and WFM had 
advised Mr J to opt into the BSPS2 as a precaution in case it wasnt in his best interests to 
transfer out, it wouldve been appropriate for WFM to refer to and compare the benefits available to him under the new scheme. So this is what Ive considered here.
Financial viability
WFM carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing how 
much Mr Js pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same 
benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). But this was based on his existing scheme 
benefits and as I discussed above, Mr J didnt have the option to remain in the BSPS  at 
this stage he would move with the scheme to the PPF.
 
But because of what I discussed above about what I think ought to have happened, it is the 
benefits available to Mr J through the BSPS2 that shouldve been factored in with this advice 
so that he was able to make an informed decision.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers,
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr J was 38 at the time of the advice, and the paperwork records that his preferred 
retirement date was 58. WFM produced a Transfer Value Analysis (TVAS) report, which 
show that that growth rate required to match Mr Js benefits under the existing BSPS at age 
58 if he transferred to a personal pension was 6.28% assuming he took a full pension and 
4.91% if he took tax-free cash and a reduced pension. The critical yield required to match 
the benefits provided through the PPF was 4.6% if Mr J took a full pension and 4.36% if he 
took tax-free cash and a reduced pension.
But as Ive said above, Mr J remaining in his existing DB scheme wasnt an option. So, the 
critical yields applicable to the BSPS2 benefits shouldve been provided instead. The lower 
annual increases under the BSPS2 wouldve likely decreased the critical yields to some 
degree, but I still think they wouldve likely been higher than those reflecting the PPF 
benefits.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given, which I can refer to was
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and
was 4.4% for 19 years to retirement. For further comparison, the regulator's upper
projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection
rate 2% per year.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Js 
recorded moderately aggressive attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. In my view 
there would be little point in Mr J giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB 
scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme.
Here, the critical yield if Mr J took a full pension (which is what I think he would likely do as I 
will discuss later on) through his existing scheme at age 58 was 6.28%. So, if Mr J were to 
opt into the BSPS2 and take the same benefits at age 58, I think the critical yield wouldve 
been somewhere between 6.28% and 4.6%, but most likely closer to 6.28%. This figure was 
higher than the discount rate and higher than the regulators middle projection rate. 
I can see that WFM classified Mr J as a moderately adventurous risk investor. But while I 
accept Mr J was relatively young and the term to retirement was reasonably long, Mr J lacked any investment experience. In my view he was inexperienced. Im mindful too that in 
assessing Mr Js attitude to risk in which he was asked a number of questions to arrive at a 
risk profile, he was specifically asked the question about which statement best described his 
attitude to risk. And he answered that he was willing to accept a moderate risk  the middle 
answer of five possible answers. So taking everything into account, I think a medium risk 
attitude, or moderate risk as WFM described it, was appropriate here and more in line with 
the level of risk I think Mr J was prepared to take with his pension. 
Given this I think it was clear Mr J was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower 
overall value than those provided by the BSPS2 if he transferred to a person pension, as a 
result of investing in line with a medium or moderate attitude to risk. Because of the required 
sustained growth rate, I think it is clear the transfer was not compatible with Mr Js attitude to 
risk. To have come close to achieving the level of growth needed, in my view it would have 
required Mr J to take a higher level of risk than his recorded appetite. And even then I think 
its likely Mr J would have been no better off financially at retirement if he transferred out.
The critical yield required to match the benefits provided through the PPF was 4.6% if Mr J 
took a full pension and 4.36% if he took tax-free cash and a reduced pension. 4.6% is still 
above the discount rate. And while I accept both rates were lower than the regulators middle 
projection rate, they were lower only by what I consider to be a small margin. Its also the 
case that these rates are only those to match the PPF benefits  not exceed them. So given 
the small difference, I think its likely that, at best Mr J would end up receiving benefits of 
broadly the same overall value as those he would receive through the PPF, as a result of 
investing in line with a medium or moderate attitude to risk. There of course still remained 
the real risk that Mr J might end up with benefits of a lower overall value than those provided 
by the PPF.
So given Mr J was likely to receive lower overall retirement benefits by transferring to a 
personal pension, or at best match those if the scheme moved to the PPF, for this reason 
alone I dont think a transfer out of the DB scheme was in his best interests. Of course, 
financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. I accept there might 
be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable and in Mr Js best interests, 
despite providing overall lower benefits. And it appears WFM believed to be the case. I say 
this because in the suitability letter, the adviser appears to acknowledge that the annual 
growth rate might not be achieved - albeit the reference to the critical yield was the one to 
age 65 and not 58. The adviser doesnt appear to have expressed an opinion on the 
likelihood of this figure being achieved, which was the more relevant figure in this case given 
the advice was predicated on Mr J retiring early at 58.
Ive considered below whether such other reasons applied here.
Flexibility and income needs
One of the key reasons WFM recommended the transfer was because it would provide 
Mr J with flexibility  it would meet his need to choose his level of income and provide the 
ability to alter it according to his circumstances at the time.
But I dont think Mr J knew with any certainty whether he required flexibility in retirement. 
And in any event I dont think he needed to transfer his DB scheme benefits to achieve it.
Importantly in this case Mr J was only 38 years old and theres nothing to show or suggest 
that he had anything that could reasonably be described as concrete plans for retirement. 
And this isnt surprising  he still had a significant period of his working life in front of him. 
Because of this, I think it was too soon to make any kind of decision about transferring out of 
the DB scheme. So, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for Mr J to give up his guaranteed benefits now when he didnt reasonably know what his needs in retirement 
would be.
The suitability letter said a reason for recommending the transfer was because the tax-free 
cash lump sum available through a personal pension arrangement was larger than the DB 
scheme offered. But the fact-find records that when asked about how much and what Mr J 
needed a cash lump sum for he said it was too early to decide. Again this demonstrates in 
my view that it was too soon to make any decision about transferring. I can see Mr J had a 
mortgage with around £100,000 outstanding balance. But Mr J has said the mortgage was 
on a repayment basis, so its possible this wouldve been repaid by the time Mr J wanted to 
retire, so he might not have needed a lump sum. But if he did, its possible the cash lump 
sum available through the DB scheme wouldve met any needs Mr J might have had once 
he reached retirement, so there was no need to risk his pension at this stage for the potential 
of a higher amount that it wasnt clear he needed anyway.
Furthermore Mr J also had his workplace defined contribution (DC) scheme, which both he 
and his employer were contributing at a combined rate of 18%. At Mr Js current income and 
with the potential of 20 years contributions ahead, this had the potential to be worth in 
excess of £160,000 not accounting for any growth. Given the nature of a DC scheme, this 
already provided Mr J with flexibility  he wasnt committed to take these benefits in a set 
way. He couldve taken lump sums as and when required and adjusted the income he took 
from it according to his needs. So, I think if Mr J retained his DB pension, this combined with 
his new workplace pension, wouldve given him the flexibility to retire early - if thats what he 
decided  and meet his income needs.
So in any event, Mr J didnt need to transfer his DB scheme benefits at this stage to a 
personal pension arrangement in order to achieve flexibility in retirement. Of course, if Mr J 
did in fact have a greater need for flexibility beyond that which he already had, I think this 
couldve been explored closer to his intended retirement age, which as Ive said was still 
many years away. While this wouldnt have been possible if Mr Js scheme moved to the 
PPF, if he opted to join the BSPS2 he wouldve retained the ability to transfer out nearer to 
retirement, if indeed it was required. This ought to have been explained by WFM.
Turning to Mr Js income need  while Im not persuaded Mr J could reasonably know with 
any degree of certainty what his income need in retirement would be, it was recorded that he 
would need £1,200 based on his expenditure at the time. Looking at Mr Js circumstances, 
Ive seen nothing to indicate that he needed variable income. And nothing to indicate that 
either opting into the BSPS2 or moving with the scheme to the PPF wouldnt have provided 
Mr J with a solid income foundation upon which his other provision could supplement, to 
meet his overall need.
 
For example, at age 58 under the existing BSPS Mr J would receive an annual pension of 
£10,061 if he took a full pension  under the PPF it was £9,181. Under the BSPS2 I think 
Mr Js income would likely been between these two figures and closer to the BSPS. Given 
Mr J didnt have any known need for a cash lump sum, I think Mr J couldve met his income 
needs until his state pension became payable at age 68. I think any shortfall couldve been 
met by accessing income and/or by taking his tax-free cash entitlement from his DC scheme. 
Mr J wouldve likely had a not insignificant pension to draw on flexibly, as and when he 
needed, to top up his income or take additional lump sums. So, I think its also the case that 
Mr J didnt have to sacrifice flexibility in retirement by opting into the BSPS2.
If Mr J had opted into the BSPS2 and it hadnt gone ahead, he wouldve moved with the 
scheme to the PPF. At age 58 Mr J wouldve been entitled to a pension of around £9,181 a 
year. This was likely to be lower than the pension hed be entitled to under the BSPS2. But I 
dont think it was substantially lower such that it shouldve made a difference to the recommendation. As Ive said above, Mr J wouldve had his DC scheme to draw on until his 
state pension became payable. So, I still think Mr J couldve met his needs in retirement 
even if the scheme moved to the PPF.
Overall, I think Mr J couldve likely met his income needs in retirement through the BSPS2 or 
the PPF based on a retirement age of 58. So, I dont think it was in Mr Js best interests for 
him to transfer his pension just to have flexibility, that Im not persuaded he really needed. 
Death benefits
The suitability report said that Mr J wanted to ensure his family benefited from his pension in 
the event of his death, by obtaining the best death benefit options.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr J. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr J might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his BSPS benefits to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr J about what was best for his retirement provisions. 
A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement not as a legacy provision 
tool. So I dont think the potential for greater or different death benefits should have been 
prioritised over this and Mr Js security in retirement. And I say potential, because the sum 
left on Mr Js death was dependent on investment returns  so if he lived a long life, and/or 
investment performance was lower than expected, there may not have been a large sum to 
pass on anyway.
I also think the existing death benefits within the DB scheme were underplayed. I think the 
spouses pension provided by the BSPS2 scheme wouldve been useful to his spouse if Mr J 
predeceased her. They were guaranteed and escalated  under the BSPS2 the spouses 
pension would also be calculated as if no tax-free cash had been taken. Its also the case 
that it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death 
in a personal pension was.
Furthermore, I think WFM ought reasonably to have known that Mr J had generous 
death-in-service cover through his employer if he died before retirement. So he already had 
lump sum death benefits available, which he could nominate his wife to receive if he hadnt 
already done so. And it also knew that Mr J was paying into his DC scheme and he wouldve 
been able to nominate his wife as beneficiary of this plan too  again if he hadnt already 
done so. 
Furthermore, if Mr J genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his spouse over and above that 
which was already available, and which didnt depend on investment returns or how much of 
his pension fund remained on his death, I think WFM shouldve instead explored additional 
life insurance. And in my view the starting point ought to have been to ask Mr J how much 
he would ideally like to leave to his family, after taking into account the above existing 
means. 
And this couldve been explored on a whole of life or term assurance basis, which was likely 
to be cheap to provide, particularly as Mr J was relatively young and in good health. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr J. And I dont think WFM 
did enough to explore or highlight the alternatives available to Mr J to meet this objective.
Control and concerns about financial stability of BSPSI have no doubt that Mr J was concerned about his pension. His employer had recently 
made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and he was worried for his pension 
given the general uncertainty. There was also lots of negative sentiment about the PPF. 
So its quite possible that Mr J was leaning towards the decision to transfer because of the 
concerns he had about his employer and what might happen. But it was WFMs obligation to 
give Mr J an objective picture and recommend what was in his best interests.
As Ive already explained, by this point details of the BSPS2 were known and it seemed 
likely it was going ahead. So, the advice shouldve properly taken the benefits available to 
Mr J through the BSPS2 into account, and I think this wouldve alleviated Mr Js concerns 
about the scheme moving to the PPF.
In any event, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that WFM 
shouldve reassured Mr J that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he 
thought or was led to believe.
As I set out above, the income available to Mr J through the PPF wouldve still provided a 
solid base, which his other means could supplement to likely meet his income need at 
retirement. He was also unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out. And although 
the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the income was still guaranteed and was 
not subject to any investment risk. So, I dont think that Mr Js concerns shouldve led to 
WFM recommending he transfer out of the DB scheme altogether.
Summary
I accept that Mr J was likely motivated to transfer out of the BSPS and that his concerns 
about his employer were real. And I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for 
higher or different death benefits on offer through a personal pension would have sounded 
like attractive features to Mr J. But as I said earlier, WFM wasnt there to just transact what 
Mr J might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr J 
needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr J was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income, whether through the BSPS2 or the PPF. By 
transferring to a personal arrangement Mr J was, at best, likely to receive broadly the same 
overall retirement benefits at his preferred retirement age of 58. And I dont think there were 
any other particular or compelling reasons which would justify the transfer and outweigh this. 
So, I dont think it was in Mr Js best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal pension at this time when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
So, as I discussed earlier on I think WFM shouldve advised Mr J to opt into the BSPS2. I 
appreciate that the BSPS2 wasnt guaranteed to go ahead when the advice was given. But I 
think it was clear to all parties that it was likely to be going ahead. Mr J had around 20 years 
before he expected to retire, and he didnt know what his needs in retirement would likely be.
So, I don't think that it would've been in his interest to accept the reduction in benefits he 
would've faced by the scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more 
favourable reduction for very early retirement. And by opting into the BSPS2, Mr J wouldve 
retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme nearer to his retirement age - if he needed 
to. Also, because Mr J was married his wifes pension would be set at 50% of his pension at 
the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was taken at retirement 
(if Mr J chose to do so). The annual indexation of his pension when in payment was also 
more advantageous under the BSPS2.Of course I have to consider if things had happened as they should have, whether Mr J 
wouldve gone ahead in any event, against WFMs advice.
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr J wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the BSPS against WFMs advice. I say this because, while Mr J was 
motivated to transfer when he approached WFM, on balance, I still think Mr J wouldve 
listened to and followed WFMs advice if things had happened as they should have and it 
recommended he opt into the new scheme. Mr J was an inexperienced investor who in my 
view neither possessed the necessary knowledge, skill nor confidence to go against the 
advice they were given. Furthermore Mr Js pension accounted for the majority of his 
retirement provision at the time. So, if WFM had provided him with clear advice against 
transferring out of the BSPS, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he 
wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Js concerns about his employer were so great that he wouldve 
insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought 
out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. If WFM had 
explained that Mr J could meet all of his objectives without risking his guaranteed pension, 
I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr J would have insisted on 
transferring out of his scheme against WFMs advice.
In light of the above, I think WFM should compensate Mr J for the unsuitable advice, using
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. And as per the 
above, it is the benefits available to him through the BSPS2 that should be used for 
comparison purposes.
I can see the investigator also recommended an award of £250 for the distress and
inconvenience the matter has caused Mr J. 
So Ive also thought about whether its fair to award compensation for distress and 
inconvenience - this isnt intended to fine or punish WFM  which is the job of the regulator. 
But I think its fair to recognise the emotional and practical impact this had on Mr J. Taking 
everything into account, including that I consider Mr Js retirement provision is of great 
importance to him, I think the unsuitable advice has caused him distress. So I think an award 
of £250 is fair in all the circumstances.
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr J whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance /rules to come into effect. 
Mr J has chosen not to wait for the new rules to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr J.
 A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr J, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for WFMs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr J would have 
most likely transferred his benefits into BSPS2 if suitable advice had been given. So WFM 
should use the benefits offered by BSPS2 for comparison purposes.
WFM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance, compensation should be 
based on a normal retirement age of 65 in this case. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Js acceptance of the decision.
WFM may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Js 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Js SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Js pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr J as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So 
making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr J within 90 days of the date WFM receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 
90 days, that it takes WFM to pay Mr J.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect WFM to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Wealthmasters 
Financial Management Ltd to pay Mr J the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd should also pay Mr J £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused in this matter.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd to pay Mr J any interest on that amount in full, as 
set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require 
Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd to pay Mr J any interest as set out above on the 
sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd pays Mr J the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr J.
If Mr J accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Wealthmasters Financial 
Management Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr J can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr J may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman