DRN-3477439
The complaint
Mr S complains that Redmayne-Bentley LLP did not provide a prompt and efficient service 
when he wanted to place a trade. He also complains that the representative he initially spoke 
to was rude, abusive, and failed to carry out his instructions.
In order to put matters right, Mr S wants Redmayne-Bentley to pay him £222.30 to 
compensate him for the movement in the share price between the time he first tried to speak 
to a representative and the price he actually achieved.
What happened
Mr S holds a share dealing account with Redmayne-Bentley. 
On 6 August 2021, Mr S called Redmayne-Bentley and instructed its representative to buy 
stock that he had previously sold. Once the trade had been placed Mr S asked the 
representative to confirm that he had not been charged any commission on the trade. The 
representative queried this with Mr S. It then came to light that Mr S wanted to buy-back 
stock he had previously sold on a T+10 settlement (T+10 means the trade would settle ten 
working days after the transaction date). The representative explained that she hadnt 
realised Mr S wanted to place a buy-back and had placed the trade with a T+2 settlement 
date.
It appears that Mr S thought the representative should have known that he wanted to place a 
buy-back as he told her, I thought you would automatically know this.
The representative explained that she would need to contact the market maker regarding the 
trade as it had been placed on a T+2 basis and she would call Mr S back once she had 
spoken to the market maker to amend the trade. Having spoken to the market maker the 
representative telephoned Mr S and re-confirmed that he wanted to purchase stock he had 
previously sold within the T+10 settlement period. There was a further misunderstanding in 
this call as initially the representative didnt realise that Mr S didnt have sufficient funds 
available to buy back the same amount of stock he had previously sold.
She then called Mr S again and left a voicemail confirming that she would resolve the matter 
and apologising for any misunderstanding.
However, Mr S had already called another Redmayne-Bentley office and had instructed it to 
place the buy-back using the available funds in his account. During this call Mr S said he 
wanted to complain about the representative he had originally contacted. He explained that 
he was unhappy with the way she had spoken to him and her failure to answer his calls.
In order to put matters right Redmayne-Bentley apologised to Mr S and offered to waive its 
commission on his next trade as a gesture of goodwill. Initially Mr S said he was satisfied 
with this offer to put matters right, but when he received a written response to his complaint, 
he referred the matter to this service.
Having considered Mr Ss complaint our investigator said she felt the offer Redmayne-
Bentley had made was fair and reasonable and she didnt think it needed to do any more to 
resolve this complaint.
Mr S was not satisfied with our investigators response. He asked for a copy of the 
recordings of the telephone conversations he had with Redmayne-Bentley in relation to this 
matter. He also noted that it appeared the investigator had not reviewed the recording of the 
conversation he had with Redmayne-Bentley when he had raised his complaint and he 
noted the investigator incorrectly said he had first raised a complaint when he spoke to his 
usual account manager about the problems he had experienced when placing the buy-back 
trade.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have listened to all the call recordings that Redmayne-Bentley has provided in relation to 
this matter, including the call Mr S made on 6 August to its Leeds branch. In this call he gave 
the buy-back instruction and complained about the problems he had experienced with the 
representative he had first spoken to.
Having done so, I think there was a genuine misunderstanding when Mr S first spoke to the 
representative on 6 August. As Mr S explained later in this call, he thought she  would 
automatically know... that he wanted to place a buy-back. It appears that Mr S had 
previously discussed a buy-back with the representative, but as she explained to Mr S, she 
hadnt recalled that Mr S had previously bought this stock with a T+10 settlement and had 
therefore placed the trade with a more usual T+2 settlement. 
It is unfortunate that this misunderstanding arose, but I do think it was a genuine 
misunderstanding. I note that the call ended with the representative explaining that she 
would need to contact the market maker to put matters right. When a problem arises, this 
service would expect a business to act promptly to rectify the situation and I am satisfied that 
the representative made clear to Mr S that she would correct the error.
I note that when the representative phoned Mr S back, to query the amount of stock he 
wanted to buy, there was further confusion as she initially thought Mr S wanted to buy back 
the same amount of stock. Mr S then explained that he didnt think this would be possible as 
he didnt have sufficient funds in his account. I appreciate that Mr S found it frustrating that 
he had to re-confirm that he wanted to use the available funds in his account for the buy-
back, but I dont think it was unreasonable for the representative to have re-confirmed Mr Ss 
instruction, particularly in light of the initial misunderstanding.
In his call with the Leeds office it is clear Mr S was frustrated that the first representative had 
not realised that he wanted to place a buy-back and that this misunderstanding had caused 
a delay. 
I understand that the buy-back was transacted at £32.915 per share. The price of the stock 
Mr S wanted to buy-back was fluctuating that morning, I note that the price Mr S actually 
achieved was slightly higher than the price he was quoted in his call with the first dealer 
(£32.899). However, I cant safely find that Mr S would have been able to buy-back the stock 
for £222.30 less than he actually paid. I note Mr S says he would have been able to achieve 
a lower price if he had been able to get through to a representative sooner, but I must take 
into account that Redmayne-Bentleys terms and conditions say:4.18 Please note that demand for our services and market conditions may fluctuate. We 
cannot accept responsibility for any actual or potential loss or expense you incur if for any 
reason, other than our negligence, there is a delay or change in market conditions before the 
execution of your order is completed.
In view of this, I cant reasonably require Redmayne-Bentley to compensate Mr S for the 
difference between the price Mr S says he would have been able to buy-back the stock at if 
he had been able to speak to a representative sooner, and the price he actually paid.
I have also very carefully considered the conversations Mr S had with the first representative 
he spoke to. I appreciate that Mr S feels the representative was rude and talked over him. It 
is not in dispute that at various points in the conversations both Mr S and the representative 
were talking at the same time  and on one occasion both Mr S, his family member and the 
representative were all talking at the same time. 
I note that Redmayne-Bentley does not dispute that the service Mr S received was below the 
standard it aims to provide and has already apologised to Mr S. 
I am also mindful that the representative explained that she was working on her own and her 
focus was on rectifying the initial error and then (in the subsequent telephone conversation) 
re-confirming Mr Ss instruction. As the price of the stock was fluctuating, I think the 
representative was trying to act in Mr Ss best interests by focussing on completing the trade 
promptly and checking that she fully understood the instruction, so that no further errors 
were made. 
Having carefully considered this matter I think the apology Redmayne-Bentley has provided 
to Mr S and the commission free trade he was offered is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I dont think Redmayne-Bentley needs to do any more to 
resolve this matter.
I do understand that this is not the decision Mr S was hoping for, but in determining 
complaints I am required to be fair to both parties.
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not think Redmayne-Bentley 
LLP needs to do any more to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman