DRN-2364874
The complaint
Mr Is complaint is about a forex/CFD trading account he says he was misled, by Introducing 
Brokers (IBs), into opening with Fortrade Limited (FL) in 2015 and about the 
inappropriateness of the account; especially as he was in a state of ill health at the time; and 
especially as FL is not authorised to operate in his home country (outside the UK) where he 
resides, where he was induced to open the account and from where he opened the account.  
What happened
FL disputes the complaint and its response to Mr I mainly said as follows:
It had/has arrangements with IBs who introduce clients to it; all clients have to read 
and agree its terms and conditions, and legal documents, in order to open an 
account; after their agreement they are bound by the terms and legal documents; Mr 
I opened his account after reading, agreeing and being bound by those terms and 
documents.
Mr I was free to make deposits into and withdrawals from his account as he saw fit, 
and he did so; he was aware of trading risks during his trading and had the benefit of 
educational material on FLs website if needed; he placed a total of 1,281 trades 
between 22 January 2016 and 18 April 2017, with a 74.6% success (profit) rate 
overall.
Mr I determined his own trading decisions and responsibility for risk management in 
the account was solely his.
One of our investigators looked into the matter and mainly said as follows:
Mr Is reference to FL having no authority to operate in his home country is noted  
without further comment  but our regulators rules say we can consider complaints 
about firms who provide their services from within the UK; FL provides such services 
so the complaint can be considered with regards to the appropriateness of FL 
opening an account for him.
Mr Is application for the account confirmed he had no previous trading experience, 
however the regulators rules say a firm can allow a customer to open an 
inappropriate account as long as the customer has been given a suitable warning 
and has agreed to it.
There is evidence of a prominent risk warning in the terms Mr I agreed, and there is 
no evidence that FL was informed about his ill health. 
Mr I considered that his complaint highlights FLs wrongdoings in wider aspects  money 
laundering, unlawful transfer of funds and terrorist financing  beyond the matter of 
appropriateness; he also referred to FLs alleged wrongdoings by operating in his home 
country.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman (to me). I conducted a preliminary consideration 
of the complaint and, with the investigators assistance, sought evidence from FL about how 
it conducted and concluded any appropriateness assessment in the course of opening Mr Is 
account. 
Initially, FL referred us to a copy of Mr Is application form of 27 August 2015. It said he 
submitted it online, alongside a know-your-client process; that the application process also 
involved its verification of Mr Is character; that a risk warning was prominently displayed to 
him on the online application form and website; and that he had use of a risk free demo 
account to practice on. FL also repeated Mr Is trading record (as stated above).
The investigator assisted me further by conveying my response to FL as follows:
Mr Is application form shows that the account was inappropriate for him.
In this regard, risk warnings were not enough, he ought to have been warned that the 
account was inappropriate for him and FL does not appear to have given such a 
warning.
FL is invited again to provide evidence focused on how the appropriateness 
assessment for Mr Is account was conducted and concluded; evidence to show he 
was warned that he had failed the appropriateness test; and evidence that he chose 
to continue despite that warning.
FL is given notice that in the absence of the above evidence I am minded to uphold 
the complaint and to award Mr I compensation to put him back to the position he had 
before he opened the account.
FLs subsequent response mainly:
Repeated its summary of how Mr I had opened the account (as reflected above).
Referred to another account Mr I attempted to open subsequently, in June 2016, but 
did not complete opening; it provided a copy of the welcome email sent to him for the 
second account as evidence of the risk warning within it and the hyperlink it had to 
the Risk Disclosure document on its website.
Repeated Mr Is trading record, as evidence of his experience and awareness of 
risks.
Confirmed that it had no knowledge of his ill health.
Repeated its core argument about the risk warnings issued and available to Mr I and 
his acceptance of them.
Invited me to consider the merits of the complaint in the context it presented and to 
consider that Mr I wanted to open the account and to  trade aggressively 
regardless of the risks involved .
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so and having considered FLs responses to my queries, I retain my preliminary 
view and I uphold Mr Is complaint. His account was inappropriate for him at the outset; FL 
failed to warn him about this; I have not seen evidence to suggest that, in 2015, Mr I was 
intent upon opening the account at all costs or that he would have done so even if he was 
warned the account was inappropriate for him; on balance, I consider that he would not have 
proceeded with the account if he had been given such a warning. I will elaborate on these 
findings further below.
First, I address Mr Is allegations about FL (and the IBs he says were part of FLs operations) 
committing regulatory (and/or criminal) wrongdoings in his home country. Such matters are 
beyond this services territorial jurisdiction, so I do not address them in any way. I also do not 
address, in any way, his allegation about FL committing wrongdoings in terms of money laundering, illegal transferring of funds and terrorist financing; because this services 
jurisdiction does not extend to regulation of the industry or to investigating alleged criminal 
activity (which is what arises from what Mr I has said about these alleged wrongdoings).
The second point to note is that, like the investigator, I too have not seen evidence that FL 
was informed about Mr Is ill health at the time he opened the account in 2015. He says one 
of the things FL did wrong in allowing him to open an inappropriate account is that it took 
unfair advantage of his vulnerability at the time  caused by his ill health. I do not question 
his ill health and the effects of that upon him, but in the absence of evidence that FL knew 
about it I cannot reasonably conclude that FL took advantage of it.
Appropriateness is assessed on information about whether (or not) a client has sufficient 
knowledge and experience to understand the risks involved in the service or product offered 
by the firm. In this respect, the following information is relevant:
Information about the type of service(s) and investment(s) the client is familiar with.
Information about the nature, volume, frequency and length of the clients experience 
in the familiar service(s) and investment(s).
Information about the clients profession or the level of the clients education.
The above summarises the regulators Conduct of Business Rules within COBS 10A.2. 
COBS 10A.3 then says a firm is obliged to warn a client if the appropriateness assessment 
concludes that its service or product is not appropriate; that this warning can be in a 
standardised format; and that if, despite the warning, the client wishes to proceed with the 
service or product the firm has discretion to do so  having regard to the circumstances. 
The regulators rules are to be applied as stated.
In Mr Is August 2015 application form, the following are noteworthy:
In the section for knowledge of trading he left the response space blank.
In the section for demo experience he responded No.
He said he had traded 5 or less times in the past 12 months; but in the section for 
other online trading experience he left the response space blank; three sections 
later he stated I have never traded online before; and in the section for CFD trading 
experience he responded None.
On balance, a reasonable conclusion from the above is that at the time of his application for 
the account Mr I had no familiarity with online trading, had no experience of CFD trading; 
had no knowledge of trading he could refer to; had no experience of using a demo account; 
and, overall, lacked the knowledge and experience needed to understand the risks involved 
in the trading within the account.
The matter is not about awareness of risks  as was stressed to FL prior to this decision. 
Risk notices are not enough. The regulator requires an assessment of whether (or not) a 
customer for a risk-based service or product has past knowledge and experience required to 
understand the reality of such risks. Available evidence establishes that the account was 
inappropriate for Mr I in 2015. Any knowledge, experience and/or trading record he 
thereafter acquired is irrelevant. The complaint is about FL doing wrong by granting him an 
inappropriate account at the outset (in 2015).
Despite repeated requests, FL has been unable to show evidence of an appropriateness 
assessment being conducted and concluded for Mr I. On balance, I consider that no such 
assessment was conducted. FL appears to have relied on its risk warnings as a substitute 
for an appropriateness assessment. Mr I did not receive an inappropriateness warning  despite repeated requests FL has been 
unable to show evidence of one. A distinction must be drawn between, on the one hand, a 
risk warning which highlights risks in a venture and perhaps defines them and, on the other 
hand, a warning that tells an applicant that an account that has been applied for has been 
assessed as inappropriate for him/her. FL provided the former but not the latter. In terms of 
its obligation to assess appropriateness, the regulators rules required it to provide the latter.
My concluding consideration is about whether (or not) there is available evidence that shows 
Mr I would have proceeded with the account in any case  and even if he had received an 
inappropriateness warning. FL has invited me to consider this. The starting point must be the 
profile depicted in his application form. In a nutshell, he was an applicant without knowledge 
or experience of forex/CFD trading and arguably without online trading experience. I accept 
that by applying for the account he showed an interest to venture into such trading, but that 
does not automatically mean he was determined to do so at all costs. I have not seen 
evidence that he was determined to do so at all costs. I consider it more likely (than not) that, 
as a novice (or near novice) applicant, if Mr I had received notice that the account was 
inappropriate for him he would not have proceeded further with it. I have not seen evidence 
that defeats this conclusion.
I uphold Mr Is complaint because FL wrongly allowed him to open an inappropriate trading 
account, it failed to warn him that the account was inappropriate and had it done so he 
probably would not have proceeded with the account.
Putting things right
Having upheld Mr Is complaint on the above terms, the aim is to put him back into a position 
based on the notion that he never opened the account and never traded within it. The basis 
of compensation is to ensure he has/receives a refund of his deposits into the account.
FL must calculate the total of all deposits made by Mr I into the trading account. The 
result will be a.
FL must then calculate the total of all withdrawals, if any, Mr I made from the trading 
account. The result will be b; and the assumption is that Mr I has exhausted 
withdrawals from the account.
If a is greater than b FL must calculate the difference and pay Mr I the difference in 
compensation. If b is greater than a, no compensation is due to Mr I.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Is complaint and I order Fortrade Limited to pay 
him compensation as set out above. Fortrade Limited must also provide him with a 
calculation of the compensation in a clear and simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2020.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman