DRN-2178276
The complaint
Mrs S complains about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) regarding its offer 
of settlement. Mrs S wants Lloyds to increase its offer of settlement and to pay 
compensation for her distress and inconvenience. Mrs S complains via her representative, 
Mr S. 
What happened
Mrs S held a home and contents insurance policy with Lloyds. This policy included cover for 
personal possessions and had an excess on each claim of £250. 
In late 2018, Mr and Mrs S noticed that a ring belonging to them was missing. They looked 
for the ring and ultimately concluded that it had been lost. 
In March 2019, Mr and Mrs S contacted Lloyds and submitted a claim. They provided 
photographs of the lost ring. 
Lloyds requested that the loss be reported, so that the claim could be processed. Mr and 
Mrs S reported the loss. 
Lloyds obtained a valuation of the ring, based upon the pictures. This valued the ring at 
£950. 
Lloyds advised Mr and Mrs S that it would be possible to obtain a replacement ring. Mr and 
Mrs S initially agreed to this but later changed their minds and requested a cash settlement 
instead. 
Lloyds offered Mr and Mrs S a cash settlement of £551 (minus the excess) on the basis that 
that would have been the cost to Lloyds for the ring to be remade. Lloyds offered the 
alternative of vouchers to the value of £741 if Mr and Mrs S wanted to purchase a 
replacement from other suppliers. 
Mr and Mrs S were not happy with this offer and complained to Lloyds. They had identified 
similar rings on sale for round £1200 and so they disputed the settlement offer. 
Lloyds sent its final response to their complaint in June 2019. Lloyds did not uphold Mr and 
Mrs Ss complaint and advised that without further evidence of the rings value it would not 
revise its valuation. 
Mrs S complained to us. She and Mr S felt that the offer of settlement was unfair and noted 
that once they had reported the ring as lost this affected their premiums of any future 
insurance. They were upset that this effect would not be reversed even if they withdrew their 
claim for the ring. 
One of our investigators has looked into this matter and set out his view to the parties. While 
he was investigating, Lloyds increased its cash settlement offer to match the value of the 
vouchers offer. They also offered £50 compensation for not having offered this settlement at 
an earlier point. 
Mr and Mrs S did not accept Lloyds revised settlement offer.
The investigator considered that Lloyds had acted reasonably and in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy, which allowed Lloyds to choose whether to replace the item or to 
pay the cost that they would incur replacing the item. He therefore did not ask Lloyds to do 
anything further. 
Mr and Mrs S did not accept this view and asked for an ombudsman decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have paid particular attention to the terms and conditions of Mrs Ss policy, and to the 
validation report assessing the lost ring. 
The report confirms the value of the ring, at April 2019, as being £950. It makes clear that 
the cost to Lloyds for a replacement, taking into account Lloyds discount, would be £551. 
It further sets out that if the policy holder did not want a replacement, then a voucher would 
be issued, at a cost to Lloyds of £741. 
The terms and conditions for the policy set out, in relation to settling claims for personal 
possessions, that:
Your insurer will not pay for: 
The excess in respect of each and every incident of loss or damage as set out in the 
Schedule of Insurance. 
The terms also say:
Your insurer will at their option:
i) Replace as new;
ii) Pay the cost to your insurer of replacing as new;
iii) Repair; or
iv) Pay the cost to your insurer to repair. 
These terms are clear and Mrs S accepted these terms when purchasing her policy. 
Lloyds offered Mrs S a replacement item, or the cost that Lloyds would have had to pay for a 
replacement, minus the excess. This is in line with the terms. 
Lloyds initially drew a distinction between the cost it would pay to Mrs S as a cash settlement 
instead of replacement, and the cost of vouchers to replace, but it has subsequently 
increased its offer of cash settlement to match the cost of replacement using vouchers. I 
think this is reasonable and Lloyds has offered £50 compensation to reflect the delay in 
bringing the two offers into line. 
I understand how disappointing it would be to Mr and Mrs S to find that they are entitled to a 
lower proportion of the value of insured items than they expected, but I think that Lloyds is 
entitled to choose the way it settles claims, in line with the published terms and conditions. This does mean that in this case the settlement is lower to reflect the discounts Lloyds 
benefits from when replacing items through its suppliers. Whilst I understand that this is 
disappointing, I cannot say that Lloyds has done anything wrong in the way it has applied the 
terms to its offer of settlement. 
Mrs S has also complained that the value of gold, and consequently the value of the ring, 
would have increased over the period when their complaint has been being considered. 
They think that this should be taken into account by Lloyds. 
I again understand their view but the relevant date for consideration of a claim is the date of 
loss. I therefore cannot say that the valuation should be adjusted due to changes in the price 
of gold. 
Finally, Mr and Mrs S are concerned that their premiums have increased due to reporting a 
loss and they say that they were not told this would happen. This was not part of the 
complaint they raised with Lloyds in April 2019 and Lloyds has therefore not had the 
opportunity to respond formally to this. If Mr and Mrs S feel that they were wrongly advised 
about the impact of reporting a loss they will need to raise a further complaint with Lloyds 
and allow Lloyds the chance to respond. 
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold Mrs Ss complaint and do not ask Lloyds to do 
anything further. I understand that this decision will be disappointing to Mrs and Mr S, but I 
hope that it clearly explains the reasons I have reached it. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold Mrs Ss complaint and do not ask Lloyds Bank 
General Insurance Limited to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman