DRN-3237720
The complaint
Mr T complains to Barclays Bank UK PLC that payments on his own account were impacted, 
when trying to manage his late mothers banking affairs following her passing.
What happened
In September 2021 Mr T visited a Barclays branch to register the death of his late mother. 
Barclays were unable to deal with the matter straight away, so Mr T was asked to return a 
few days later. But upon attending, Mr T says Barclays were still unable to help him, and he 
was asked again, to come back in a couple of days. Mr T returned two days later, and the 
registration was completed, and he was told hed receive confirmation of the registration by 
post. However, before leaving, Mr T received mobile notifications showing that payments 
from his own account had been cancelled.
Barclays realised while Mr T was still in branch, that theyd incorrectly registered him as 
deceased, and they assured him theyd resolve the matter within 24 hours. But, the following 
day, he was still unable to access his account. So, after several calls and visits to Barclays, 
and the various companies he had payments set up with, Mr T complained. 
Barclays responded and apologised to Mr T in writing. They restored access to his account 
that day, and offered him £450 in compensation (£300 general compensation for the error; 
£75 for any costs hed incurred; and an additional £75 to reflect the time hed taken to 
contact the various payees). However, following this letter, Mr T was still unable to withdraw 
money from an automatic teller machine (ATM), which he says impacted a social 
engagement he had arranged. So, he complained to Barclays again.
Barclays issued a further final response letter, and explained that whilst theyd re-instated 
Mr Ts card, unfortunately, his withdrawal limit had been set to £0, and it was this that was 
now preventing him from withdrawing funds. They wrote a further letter apologising to Mr T, 
and confirmed they had now re-instated his withdrawal limit to £300. They also increased 
their offer of compensation by a further £50, to a total of £500. But Mr T still remained 
unhappy, and said the matter had caused him not only financial loss, but severe stress 
which had impacted his physical health. So, he brought his complaint to our service. 
An investigator considered Mr Ts complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He said that 
he accepted the issues Mr T experienced were due to Barclays errors, and that their errors 
had added to what was already a stressful situation. But he felt the £500 Barclays had 
offered Mr T was a fair sum to compensate him for the distress they had caused. So he 
didnt recommend they do anything further.
Mr T remained unhappy, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by saying that Im sorry to hear of Mr Ts mothers passing. I appreciate this 
must be a difficult time for him, and that the additional pressure of not being able to access 
his account must have only added to this stress. And, Im pleased to see that Mr T now has 
full access to his account, and has been able to re-instate his regular payments. Albeit, I 
appreciate this took a number of weeks to resolve. 
As it seems no further action is needed to restore Mr Ts accounts to the correct status, my 
decision will focus solely on what compensation I think is due for the errors made. 
When Mr T first attended the branch in September 2021, he was asked to come back on 
another date. While frustrating, given the nature of Mr Ts enquiry, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Barclays to have asked Mr T to return at a later time. Matters such as this 
can take some time to process, and an advisor may not always be able to address this type 
of query immediately without a pre-booked appointment. 
Following his first visit, it seems Mr T did agree to come back a few days later, but it doesnt 
appear a specific appointment was made. And again, he was unable to be seen. Mr T said 
he then returned a further two days later and at this point, the registration was processed. 
Its clear, and not in dispute, that during Mr Ts first meeting with Barclays, they mistakenly 
registered him as deceased, which subsequently blocked access to his accounts. And as 
Ive set out above, I appreciate this must have been very frustrating for Mr T, especially 
when he was already quite distressed as a result of his personal circumstances. So I would 
have hoped to see Barclays take care to ensure this was processed correctly. And where 
mistakes occurred, for them to put them right quickly. 
Following Barclays initial error of registering Mr T as deceased, they did assure him that the 
matter would be resolved within 24 hours. However, by their own admission, whilst they 
were able to restore access to his account, they didnt check the ATM withdrawal limits that 
were set. This left Mr T in a position where he was unable to withdraw cash at an ATM from 
his own account. 
Given the mistakes Barclays had already made, its disappointing that this matter wasnt 
resolved correctly. As a result, Mr T had to make further calls, not just to Barclays, but to 
third parties, in order to restore regular payments he had set up on his account. I think 
Barclays should have done more to ensure the initial errors hadnt occurred, and following 
their mistake, I think they shouldve taken extra care to ensure things were resolved 
correctly. So I do think Mr T is entitled to some compensation. 
But looking so far at what Barclays have done in an attempt to resolve matters. I can see 
that they initially offered to pay Mr T £300 compensation for their failings, along with a further 
£75 to cover some of the costs hed incurred in dealing with the matter, and a further £75 to 
compensate him for the calls he had to make to third parties. I can also see that following 
Barclays not reinstating Mr Ts withdrawal limit correctly, a further £50 was offered. So, Mr T 
has now been offered £500, which I think is a considerable sum of compensation. 
So, while I think the issues Mr T experienced were as a result of Barclays errors, I feel that 
the total compensation they have offered him is considerable, and ultimately, is fair in the 
circumstances. 
I appreciate this may come as a disappointment to Mr T, and once again, Im very sorry to 
hear about what Mr T is currently going through. But for the reasons set out above, Im not 
instructing Barclays to pay anything further. My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC have already offered to pay Mr T £500 in compensation to settle his 
complaint, and I think this is fair in the circumstances. So, my decision is, that I uphold this 
complaint, and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr T the £500 theyve offered. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman