DRN-2666518
The complaint
Mr E complains that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt respond fairly when he made efforts to discuss 
his options when the term of his interest only mortgage expired. 
What happened
Mr E took out an interest only mortgage with Lloyds in late 2007. The mortgage had a 10-
year term which expired in 2018. Mr E says due to the economic situation and the effect this 
had on his business he hasnt been able to repay the mortgage as hed intended. Hed like 
the term extended until he dies, or at least until hes 75 years old when he would downsize. 
Mr E wrote to Lloyds about his mortgage, and says it failed to respond to his letters.
Lloyds accepted its service had been poor at times and offered £225 compensation. Lloyds 
said it needed Mr E to complete a review, including his income and expenditure, to see what 
options it could offer him to repay the mortgage. 
Our investigator said Lloyds should pay a further £150 compensation for the upset caused 
by its delays in replying to Mr E. He said Mr E should contact Lloyds to complete a review, 
and consider taking independent advice.
Mr E didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman. This is the 
last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E has expressed strong views about the banking industry, the regulator and this services 
remit. I understand his frustration. But this service is an informal dispute resolution service. 
We arent a regulator and we dont have the powers of a regulator. 
Mr E took out an interest only mortgage in late 2007. He made payments to reduce the 
balance, however the term expired in 2018 with an unpaid balance.
Mr E has been writing to Lloyds about his mortgage, and the term expiry. Hes unhappy with 
Lloyds responses, which he says took too long and didnt answer the points he made. Mr E 
is also unhappy about letters he receives from Lloyds which he finds threatening, and that it 
says he has to contact its end of term team. 
Rules on mortgage regulation changed in 2014. The regulator (the Financial Conduct 
Authority or FCA) sets out in its rules that it expects stringent assessments of affordability 
and, for interest only mortgages, repayment strategy before lenders agree to enter into or 
vary mortgages. Mr E wants to vary his mortgage by extending the term.
Theres an exception to this which might allow Lloyds to agree to extend the term of Mr Es 
mortgage if this is in his best interests. 
This doesnt mean Lloyds cant consider affordability, and ask for information about Mr Es 
circumstances to do so. Lloyds can fairly take this into account when considering whats in 
Mr Es best interests. I should also say that while the exception allows Lloyds to agree to 
vary the mortgage despite concerns about affordability it isnt required to do so. It could still 
fairly decline to extend the term for another reason. 
However, for Lloyds to consider what options, if any, it can offer to Mr E it needs information 
from him to assess whether a term extension would be affordable or in his best interests. 
Lloyds process for this is to ask customers to call its end of term team to complete a 
mortgage review. It asked Mr E to do this. 
It seems Mr E prefers to write to Lloyds, and hes also said Lloyds should allow customers to 
meet with an adviser locally. Mr E hasnt said theres any reason why he cant call Lloyds 
end of term team or that this would be particularly difficult for him. I think its reasonable and 
fair for Lloyds to ask Mr E to contact its end of term team and complete a mortgage review.
Lloyds has accepted there were several occasions when it didnt respond to Mr E within an 
acceptable timescale, or it sent letters which caused unnecessary confusion. Lloyds offered 
£225 compensation, and agreed to pay a further £150 recommended by our investigator. I 
think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr Es mortgage term expired in 2018, about three years ago. While Mr E said in late 2019 
he intended to sell the property, a sale hasnt yet completed. Mr E should keep Lloyds 
informed of the steps hes taking to repay the mortgage.
Lloyds put recovery action on hold while the complaint has been with us. Due to the Covid-
19 pandemic and related Government restrictions, the regulator issued guidelines to lenders. 
Current guidelines say other than in exceptional circumstances lenders shouldnt enforce 
repossession before 1 April 2021. Lloyds should take this, and any further guidance, into 
account.
Mr E can still contact Lloyds end of term team and complete a mortgage review with the aim 
of exploring what options might be available to him. He could also consider taking 
independent financial advice. 
I must remind Lloyds of its duty to treat Mr E fairly. And it should of course take guidance 
issued by the regulator into account. But ultimately if Mr E isnt able to repay his mortgage 
Lloyds will be entitled to take possession as a last resort.
Putting things right
Lloyds should pay compensation of £375 (less any amounts already paid) to Mr E for the 
upset caused by its poor service. 
My final decision
My decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC should pay £375 to Mr E (less any amounts already 
paid).  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman