DRN-3108227
The complaint
Mr W complains that, in 2006, Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a packaged bank account 
(PBA). 
What happened
Mr W had had a bank account with Lloyds since the 1980s. At some point in the 1990s this 
became a Gold PBA with a monthly fee (Lloyds records dont go back fully enough to say 
exactly when this happened). In 2021 Lloyds agreed it had mis-sold this account, saying that 
it hadnt been suitable for Mr W, and it refunded the fees with interest.
In 2006 the Gold account was changed into a different kind of PBA, which cost more each 
month  a Platinum account. Mr W says the Platinum account card just arrived and he 
assumed he had been upgraded because of a pay rise. He says he didnt ask for it, and he 
also assumed that he didnt have a choice about it  in the same way he had believed hed 
had to have the Gold PBA.
The Platinum package cost £15 per month and came with a number of benefits. These 
included:
Worldwide family travel insurance
AA breakdown (with Relay and Home Start) 
Mobile phone insurance
Sentinel Card Protection
£250 interest free overdraft (subject to application)
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and said they thought the complaint shouldnt 
be upheld. Mr W didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive 
kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
The way Mr W has expressed his complaint, and the further comments he has given us, 
convince me that he is giving an honest account of what he remembers  namely that he 
is sure he was never given a choice about the PBA. But Im also aware that memories of 
details about such matters can fade, especially when its about something that happened 
many years ago  and this change in the account happened in 2006 (and the original 
change to the Gold account happened even further back). 
This means it wouldnt be fair, in such a situation, to rely only on what someone 
remembers happening. Id need other supporting evidence before I decided its likely the 
bank acted wrongly in the way Mr W believes. 
And, in fact, there is evidence the other way, supporting Lloyds assertion that it had a 
discussion and gave a choice about upgrading to the Platinum account. Mr W believes 
that these records are false because they mention a plan to go away to Spain for a 
holiday  whereas he says he would never have wanted such a holiday and doesnt go 
abroad with his family. First, I think its unlikely that a bank worker would take that kind of 
personal risk, falsifying the records to that extent and with that detail. It would be more 
likely that the wrong customers records had been amended. But that wouldnt explain the 
actual records that Ive seen, which make it very likely that the change to the Platinum 
account was done properly. The April 2006 record says:
Gold upgraded to Platinum to benefit from family TI [travel insurance] and 
enhanced AA cover. Benefits pack issued and upgraded card ordered. As [Mr W] 
works away and [Mr Ws close family member] in effect operates the account, 
have agreed that when card received [Mr W] will hold and not use, and I will 
arrange for a replacement card which [close relative] will have access to, thereby 
allowing ID for AA. 
The records show that in 2001 Mr W had, because of the nature of his work, had difficulty 
keeping track of his account, in particular the schedule of direct debits compared to the 
cycle of when his salary was paid. The note says he was advised to allow his close 
relative to have authority to monitor and manage the account for him, and it appears this 
is what happened. 
So I dont believe the Platinum upgrade happened without a discussion and agreement. 
Ive looked at other ways the Platinum PBA might have been mis-sold but, having done 
this, I dont think this shows that there was a mis-sale. I think Lloyds recommended the 
PBA to Mr W (or his family representative) and this means wed hold it to a higher 
standard  it had to make sure the recommendation of the PBA was a reasonable fit for 
Mr Ws circumstances and needs. 
The nature of a package is that there are likely to be some aspects that are potentially useful 
and others that are less useful, or of no use at all. But I do think there were aspects of the 
Platinum PBA that were potentially useful to Mr B  such as the AA breakdown cover, the 
cheaper overdraft and possibly the travel insurance (the note suggests a holiday abroad was 
at least contemplated, although this may have been a misunderstanding by the bank 
adviser) and mobile phone insurance.  So there were aspects of the PBA that were 
potentially useful and, in my view, a recommendation was reasonable  it would then have 
been up to Mr W to decide if the useful aspects and convenience were worth the overall 
cost. 
My final decision
For the reason Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Timothy BaileyOmbudsman