DRN-3766315
The complaint
Miss C complains about HSBC UK Bank Plc. 
She says that HSBC didnt do enough to protect her when she became the victim of a scam 
and would like HSBC to refund her the money she has lost.
What happened
In February 2020, Miss C made contact with an individual through a genuine dating website. 
This individual instigated a romantic relationship with Miss C, before asking her to send 
money to them through WR  an Electronic Money Institution (EMI) for a variety of 
supposed needs.
In total, Miss C made a total of 30 payments, totalling £5,508.74.
Unfortunately, this individual turned out to be a scammer, who had manipulated Miss C into 
sending her money.
Miss C complained to HSBC. She said that it didnt do enough to protect her from becoming 
the victim of a scam, and that it should have stepped in and prevented the payments from 
being made. She says that she had not made any payments to WR prior to the scam taking 
place and that the payments should have stood out as being unusual.
HSBC didnt uphold her complaint. Unhappy, Miss C brought her complaint to this Service. 
Our Investigator looked into things but didnt think that the complaint should be upheld. 
Miss C asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint, so it has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Cs complaint, for broadly the same reasons 
as our Investigator. I know this will be disappointing for her, so Ill explain why.
It isnt in dispute here that Miss C has been the victim of a cruel scam  and unfortunately 
has lost a significant amount of money as a result. I am very sorry to hear of what has 
happened to her, and I understand that she was in a vulnerable place at the time the scam 
took place. I was pleased to hear that she is now doing better, although I know that the loss 
of the funds has had an ongoing impact upon her too.
However, in order for me to uphold this complaint, I would need to find that HSBC missed an 
opportunity to prevent Miss Cs loss  and Im afraid that I dont think that it did. 
Miss C agrees that she authorised the payments in question here. So, while I understand 
that Miss C had been tricked by the scammer into instructing HSBC to make the payments  
and she didnt realise at the time they were being made to a scammer, this doesnt change 
the fact that she authorised them in the first instance. 
I understand that Miss C feels that HSBC should have intervened when she was making the 
payments to WR  and that this would have brough the scam to light and prevented her loss. 
So, Ive considered if HSBC should have prevented the loss before it happened.  
Generally, banks are expected to act upon their customers requests to make payments, 
however there are some circumstances where a bank should take further steps before acting 
on a request  although there is a balance to be struck and they cant reasonably be 
involved in every transaction. 
The regulatory landscape, along with good industry practice, sets out a requirement for 
account providers to protect their customers from fraud and financial harm. And this includes 
monitoring accounts to look out for activity that might suggest a customer was at risk of 
financial harm, intervening in unusual or out of character transactions and trying to prevent 
customers falling victims to scams. So, Ive also thought about whether HSBC did enough to 
try to keep Miss Cs account safe.
In my opinion, the payments in question just werent sufficiently unusual, uncharacteristic or 
suspicious to reasonably say HSBC should not have processed them without first getting in 
touch with Miss C to ensure they were legitimate and not related to a scam. The values of 
the transactions ranged from around £50 to just over £400 which are not particularly high. 
And when compared with Miss Cs normal account activity, they do not stand out as unusual, 
as there were other payments for similar amounts being made on the account  and while I 
understand that the total of the payments adds up to a significant amount of money, they 
were spread out over a number of months.
I know that Miss C considers that the payments are unusual, as they were going to WR  
and that this should have stood out to HSBC. But I dont agree. WR is a legitimate business 
which offers transfer facilities  and not every payment made to it will be of a result of a 
scam or fraud, and as I have explained above, businesses cant be expected to be involved 
in every transaction. The payments were also going to an account in Miss Cs name.
So, I dont think that HSBC missed an opportunity to prevent the loss that Miss C has 
suffered, and I dont direct it to refund the transactions in question here.
I also dont think that the funds were recoverable one the payments had been made  
Miss C made the majority of her payments via debit card to her own account with WR, 
before sending the funds on to the scammer  and she didnt make her complaint to HSBC 
until after the time limit for making a chargeback request (120 days) had already passed. 
And even if Miss C had raised the issue earlier, I dont think that any such request would 
have likely been successful. 
The initial payment Miss C made was by bank transfer  but again the funds were 
transferred on to the scammer on Miss Cs request from her account with WR, so even if 
HSBC asked WR to return the funds, they had already left the account
I am very sorry for the situation Miss C now finds herself in  she has been cruelly tricked by 
an individual she believed to be a romantic partner and has lost money as a result of this. I 
can understand that she is devastated by not only the loss, but the deception too. But 
ultimately, the loss she has suffered has been caused by the scammer  not HSBC. And I cant ask HSBC to refund this loss to Miss C when I dont think that it has done anything 
wrong.
I understand that HSBC has offered Mr Miss C £100 in respect of its handling of his 
complaint, I know that this will not be a satisfactory resolution for her, but as Ive set out 
above, I wont be asking HSBC to do anymore. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman