DRN-4329969
The complaint
Mr C has complained about his car insurer West Bay Insurance Plc as he feels the total 
settlement it paid him after his car was damaged beyond repair in an accident, is too low.
What happened
Mr Cs car was damaged in an accident in August 2022. His car is electric, he leases the 
battery. He made a claim to West Bay. On inspection West Bay decided the car was beyond 
repair and told Mr C it would settle with him for its market value. It said that was £15,250.
Mr C said he had seen a value in another trade guide of £22,300. He noted other cars for 
sale, similar to his, all in excess of the market value offered by West Bay. He asked that 
West Bay revise its valuation. West Bay wasnt prepared to do that. It noted that it doesnt 
use the guide Mr C had referred to. It felt it had fairly and reasonably assessed the market 
value at £15,250. Mr C complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
On referral to this service our Investigator felt there was an error in West Bays reasoning for 
the market value reached, which meant Mr C had been paid less than he otherwise should 
have been. So she asked West Bay if it felt able to increase its offer. It said it would pay 
£16,121 based on an average of market values returned by two trade guides. The offer was 
put to Mr C. He, noting he was still paying for the battery, wasnt minded to agree to it. 
Our Investigator explained that she felt the revised offer from West Bay was fair and 
reasonable. She wasnt minded to make it increase that further.
Mr C noted that one of the trade guides our Investigator had referred to gives market values 
for his type of car with and without the battery. He noted the value for cars not subject to a 
battery lease was greater than those which were. He felt West Bays offer of £16,121 would 
leave him with only just over £13,000 to replace his car as hed need around £3,000 to 
replace the battery. Our investigator noted that West Bays cover was for Mr Cs car, and 
whilst he could have taken out separate cover elsewhere for the battery, he hadnt done so. 
But she asked West Bay for more detail about its settlement.
West Bay said the car as a whole, including the battery had been declared a total loss. It 
said the trade guides used had given values inclusive of the battery, as such its offer 
represented a value for the car including the battery. 
Our Investigator confirmed that her view on the complaint had not changed. The complaint 
was passed to me for an Ombudsmans decision. I felt it should be upheld, with West Bay to 
settle based on an increased market value, plus interest, along with it paying £1,000 loss of 
use and £150 compensation.
In reply West Bay said it generally agreed with my findings  but thought interest should only 
be applied from a later date. It said it will need detail from Mr C about what is owing on the 
battery  it will pay that to the finance company, deducting that sum and the policy excess 
from the market value before paying any balance remaining to Mr C. Mr C said he had told 
West Bay before about what was owing on the battery lease.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings were:
In considering the complaint I was mindful that Mr C had said his car was sold with an 
option to buy the battery or lease it. I asked one of our Investigators to make some enquiries 
with the trade guides about the market values returned for Mr Cs car, with two of the three 
contacted responding. A fourth guide often relied upon for market valuations has previously 
told us it cant value this model at all. Having reviewed the detail received, Im not persuaded 
that the settlement value West Bay offered does reflect the market value for the car including 
its battery. As such Im not persuaded that West Bay has offered fair settlement for Mr Cs 
claim and Im issuing this provisional decision to explain my views to both parties.
My starting point for this decision is West Bays clarification that it intended to provide a 
market value to Mr C for the car including its battery. And that it thinks the guides it used 
gave such a value, which informed both its initial and then revised settlement figures. So, to 
be fair and reasonable, the settlement offered, logically, has to do just that  be an inclusive 
value for the car with its battery. 
West Bay referred to two trade guides to get a value for the car (including the battery). Ill 
refer to them as G and C. Our Investigator also obtained a value for guide A.
Ive seen the original data from G and C. Also from A (the value it originally returned was 
£17,314).
Gs data referred to the make and model in question having an electric battery. But didnt 
confirm if the value given was for the car only, or the car including the battery. Cs data 
referred to the make and model of this car being subject to a battery lease. Which suggested 
to me, at the very least, that the associated value returned would be unlikely to include the 
value of the battery because the battery was not being sold. This was similar for A. 
An Investigator made some enquiries with the valuation guides. C is yet to reply. But G has 
explained that unless an i is included in the model reference number of the valuation, its 
value is for the car only, where the battery is not being sold as it is subject to a lease. The 
valuation West Bay obtained did not include the i and was for the sum of £13,500. G has 
shown the market value for the car, where its sale includes the battery because the battery is 
not subject to a lease (marked with an i), is £17,680.
A has confirmed in a similar fashion that it will offer values for this make and model both with 
and without the battery. Its confirmed that where the battery is also sold, so is not subject to 
a lease, that the market value is £21,013.
Its unfortunate that C has not replied as yet. But I understand there are some current 
changes which may be delaying that. Im not hopeful a reply will be returned soon. But 
I dont think a reply from it is necessary for me to reach a fair and reasonable decision here. 
The clarification from G and A point to my initial understanding of Cs value being likely 
correct. That it doesnt include the battery value. West Bay has offered Mr C £16,121. 
West Bay felt that was fair given the original values returned from G and C of £13,500 and 
£16,993. But its now clear that that value from G, and likely that from C too, is for the car 
alone. With G and A stating that the market value for a car including its battery is, respectively, £17,680 and £21,013. Both values being in excess of West Bays settlement 
offers. Which is why I said at the start, I think its revised settlement offer is not fair.
I then have to think about what a fair and reasonable resolution is in the circumstances here. 
As noted, we only have two confirmed market values for Mr Cs car, where wed usually see 
three or four. And those values, from G and A, are quite far apart. So Ive looked to see what 
other data is available which might assist in reaching a fair and reasonable resolution here.
  
Mr C has obtained a value from a trade guide, Ill reference as P. But it isnt a guide usually 
relied upon by this service. However, that is often because it returns up to date market 
values for cars only  so where it is only checked some while after the fact it cant 
reasonably be relied upon as showing the likely market value as it was at the point of loss. 
With the point of loss date being what cover is usually provided for. But each situation has to 
be taken on its own merits and here the valuation seems to have been done quite soon after 
the loss, and Mr C used an estimated mileage which was slightly higher than that his car had 
actually travelled. So I think it is fair here to take the detail from P into account. P gave a 
market value for Mr Cs car of £22,300.
I also note the adverts Mr C has presented. Hes shown three but explained there arent 
many cars of his model available for sale, so two of the three are not the same as his. The 
one remaining includes the letter i and is for a car with similar but slightly higher mileage to 
Mr Cs. Ill call it X. X has an asking price of £19,995. Im satisfied this advert is for a car 
similar to Mr Cs and I think its reasonable to include Xs sum along with the market values 
returned from G, A and P (£17,680, £21,013 and £22,300).
In the circumstances here, I propose that the market value for Mr Cs car is seen as an 
average of all four sums referenced G, A, P and X, set out in the paragraph above. That is  
£20,247. If my final decision remains the same and Mr C accepts it, West Bay will have to 
work with this as the market value for Mr Cs claim  with the subsequent claim settlement 
being subject to the usual policy excess and any other relevant terms.
I understand that West Bay has yet to pay anything in settlement of the claim as it is waiting 
on detail from Mr C as to any finance on the car and any sum owed for the battery lease. 
I know Mr C has said the car itself is not subject to finance. Mr C will need to deal with 
West Bay direct on this matter to further the settlement.
I think West Bay should also compensate Mr C for not having had a car since the loss. Its 
settlement offer was not fair or reasonable. And had it paid off any sum due to the battery 
lease company, there would have been even less of that insufficient settlement available to 
Mr C to replace his car. Im satisfied that hes been unreasonably without a car in the months 
since his evidence was reviewed by West Bay and it concluded his complaint as not upheld. 
Im currently minded to say it should pay him £1,000 for that loss of use.
Theres Mr Cs frustration with West Bays unfair settlement offers to think about too. I think it 
should pay Mr C £150 compensation. 
Im not minded though to make West Bay reimburse any costs Mr C had for keeping paying 
the battery lease in the months since the loss. I appreciate Mr C wasnt happy with the 
overall settlement being offered by West Bay  and Ive found it was unfair and 
unreasonable. But had he given West Bay detail of how to settle the battery lease, it would 
have made a without prejudice payment, thereby ending Mr Cs liability. Im not persuaded 
that West Bay is fairly responsible for Mr Cs liability having continued.I note West Bays concern regarding interest  but I remain of the view it should be applied 
from the date of loss. The market value is assessed as at date of loss and Mr C is only 
receiving settlement for his claim following delay because West Bays initial offer was unfair.
I note West Bay needs detail from Mr C regarding the battery lease. I know Mr C sent detail 
to West Bay from the lease provider which detailed the purchase price of the battery as of 
that date in September 2022 (£3,250). But West Bay needs a settlement figure which would 
likely be expressed in that sort of way. In saying that I note the battery lease agreement 
refers to this type of situation leading to a termination sum or Total Loss Sum being due 
to the lease provider. Given the detail shared I cant reasonably blame West Bay for not 
acting earlier to settle the lease agreement. West Bay and Mr C will need to work together to 
determine what is owing on the lease and now needs to be paid as part of the settlement of 
Mr Cs claim. 
Having reviewed the parties responses to my provisional findings, my views on the 
complaint have not changed. As such, my provisional findings, along with my further 
comments here, are now the findings of this, my final decision.
Putting things right
I require West Bay to:
Record the market value for Mr Cs car as £20,247 and continue to settle the claim on 
that basis, adding interest* to any settlement made from the date of loss until payment.
Pay Mr C £1,000 for loss of use.
Pay Mr C £150 compensation.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs may require West Bay to take off tax from this 
interest. If asked, it must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require West Bay Insurance Plc to provide the redress set out 
above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman