DRN-3353695
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Trading 212 UK Limited (Trading 212) blocked him from buying 
GameStop (GME) and other stocks on 28 January 2021. As a result, he has suffered a 
significant loss and would like for this to be put right.
What happened
Mr A says that on 28 January 2021 he had placed a limit order to buy GameStop (GME) but 
was prevented from doing so. Trading 212 has said this was because of highly unusual 
volumes which Mr A says could be construed as market manipulation and which resulted in 
Trading 212 acting in an advisory rather than execution only role. Mr A didnt agree that the 
events were unforeseeable and as such Trading 212 couldnt rely on its terms (clause 25). 
Mr A complained to Trading 212 who responded to his complaint. It said;
On 28 January 2021 it made the decision to prevent customers purchasing GME and 
other stocks because of irregular volatility, the circumstances of which were outside 
of its control. 
Its own liquidity provider restricted access to GME which impacted on Trading 212s 
ability to offer GME for trading and as such referred to its terms and conditions 
(clause 25) as it wasnt liable for such force majeure events.
It also referred to clause 5.12 of its terms to suspend trading at its sole discretion.
It was able to take such action where it considered it would reduce market disruption 
and it was prudent for it to have done so.
It wasnt obliged to continue to offer an investment for trading that was experiencing 
market volatility. And in line with its terms and regulatory guidance, and market 
practice it was able step in to prevent harm to its client and markets, so it had 
responded appropriately. 
Not satisfied with the outcome, Mr A brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
Our investigator who considered the complaint didnt think it should be upheld. He said;
In January/February 2021 the stock market was extremely volatile, caused by social 
media platform comments which increased interest in several companies including 
GME.
The unprecedented market activity in GME caused an extreme strain on the entire 
trade execution ecosystem worldwide and effected almost all trading platforms. 
As examples, the impact of this were additional equity/liquidity requirements, FX 
providers exchanged large amounts of currencies, trading halts and market makers 
not willing to offer prices.
Trading 212 was obliged to take reasonable steps to trade, but if its terms allowed, it 
had some discretion to not execute a trade. But this must be applied fairly. 
Trading 212 had said the outsized trading volumes in the shares generated 
substantial risk exposures at firms that clear these trades. 
Many execution intermediaries, including the business used by Trading 212, had to 
stop accepting buy orders until additional funds were cleared and transferred. 
The enhanced funding requirements were put in place by the regulator to ensure 
market stability as for settlement purposes, the broker had to have sufficient equity in 
place to support the trade. 
And this volatility could impact on a brokers equity for all markets it was trading in 
and not just those shares. 
As trading 212s execution intermediary couldnt process buy orders because of the 
increased volatility, this meant it wasnt allowing Trading 212 to trade either. At that 
time sales were allowed as they reduced equity requirements. There was little 
Trading 212 could do about it and it was outside of its control. 
Trading 212 didnt have direct access to the market which meant it was reliant on a 
third party to execute trades on its behalf and it had an agreement with one execution 
intermediary. 
It would be unrealistic to expect Trading 212 to reach agreement with a different 
execution intermediary during this short period of time when such restrictions were in 
place. And as it was a worldwide issue, its unlikely trades could have been 
completed via a different execution intermediary in any event. 
It was Trading 212s commercial decision about what intermediary broker or broker it 
chose to use.
The investigator didnt agree with Mr As assertion that Trading 212 was acting as a 
financial adviser. It wasnt giving any recommendations or advising whether the 
transaction was suitable. It wasnt giving advice based on Mr As own circumstances 
and objectives.
Overall, the investigator couldnt conclude Trading 212 had done anything wrong. 
Mr A didnt agree. He referred to Trading 212s clause 5.14 about its ability to place a sell- 
only limit in certain circumstances which didnt include being outside of Trading 212s 
control. Force majeure wasnt listed (clause 25) as a valid reason for placing a sell-only 
limitation on an instrument. But had been recently added in Trading 212s latest agreement. 
He wanted clarification of which clause the investigator was referring to which would justify 
Trading 212 putting on a sell-only limitation. 
Our investigator clarified how he had reached his conclusion and the terms he had 
considered. Whatever the terms were, the result would have been the same in that the 
purchase wouldnt have completed. It wouldnt have been fair to its customers if Trading 212 
had removed GME from its platform completely as at that time sales were permitted. The 
investigator thought that any other options that were available to Trading 212 would have 
had a greater impact on more customers.
It was the execution intermediary that had to introduce restrictions due to the increased 
liability which was imposed on it by the clearing house. That amount of funds couldnt be 
exchanged immediately so restrictions had to be imposed and which all came about 
because of the sudden and increased interest in a few shares. As such it was outside of 
Trading 212s control which is why the investigator wasnt able to conclude it had acted 
incorrectly.Mr A sought clarity on force majeure and wanted his case to be considered based on what 
happened. The investigator clarified that force majeure could apply as the clauses didnt 
state they could only be imposed if another clause referred to them. He didnt agree there 
had been a breach of contract as he was satisfied the terms allowed Trading 212 to take the 
action it did. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but its for me to decide, based on the information and evidence that I have 
been given, whats more likely than not to have happened. 
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for broadly the same reasons. 
Based on the evidence Im unable to agree with Mr A that Trading 212 acted unreasonably. 
Im satisfied that it behaved fairly and in accordance with its own terms and conditions and in 
line with the regulators statement issued at the time. 
And after consideration, Im satisfied that Trading 212 acted fairly and reasonably in taking 
the action that it did in response to unprecedented circumstances during which the regulator 
issued a statement noting that firms were exposed to greater risk during such abnormal 
market condition and werent obliged to offer trading facilities if it thought it necessary or 
prudent to do so and in line with its terms. I say this rather than concluding that Trading 212 
took a course of action that was more convenient for it, or to its own advantage, it was 
permitted to do so in line with its terms and conditions. And I dont find that it resulted in 
Trading 212 acting in an advisory rather than execution only role as suggested by Mr A. Ill 
explain why.
As a background to the events, during January 2021, and 27/28 January in particular, the 
stock market was extremely volatile in certain stocks including GME. NYSE halted trading in 
GME over 20 times on 28 January 2021 on the limit up limit down basis in order to prevent 
share price volatility from reaching extreme levels. There had been considerable and 
unprecedented interest generated in the shares caused by social media platforms and, as I 
understand it, as share prices increased, short sellers had to close their positions in order to 
prevent bigger losses  a so-called short squeeze. Overall, Im satisfied that these were 
market conditions that were outside of Trading 212s control. 
As such, Ive reviewed Trading 212s share dealing service  terms of business to consider 
how Trading 212 can act when matters are outside of its control. Below are what I consider 
to be relevant to this complaint, but not limited to;
Clause 5.4. We shall not accept Instruction to Deal when: the relevant market is 
closed for trading; or you do not have enough money in your account to execute the 
Transaction; or there are events described as Force Majeure in Clause 25.
Clause 5.12. We shall have the right to introduce new Financial instruments and 
Market Hours for trading at the Trading Platform and to suspend and/ or remove from 
the Trading Platform any Financial instrument and Market Hours at our sole 
discretion.
Clause 5.14. We reserve the right to place a Sell-only Limitation in the following 
cases, but not limited to:a. Where We have a suspicion of unlawful activity;
b. Where We have suspicions of restricted or abusive trading activity;
c. Where We have reasonable grounds to believe that allowing You to 
continue trading will be detrimental You as a client; or
d. Where You have not provided your express consent whenever we have 
requested such, including but not limited to, in the event that we need to 
obtain express consent in order to introduce new features on the Trading 
Platform.
Clause 25.1. Whilst we endeavour to comply with our obligations in a timely manner, 
we shall incur no liability whatsoever for any partial or full default of our obligations by 
reason of any cause or event beyond our reasonable control, including but not limited 
to any communications, systems or computer failure, market default, suspension, 
failure or closure, or the imposition or change (including a change of interpretation) of 
any law or governmental or regulatory requirement and we shall not be held liable for 
any loss you may incur as a result. In addition to and notwithstanding any of the 
above the Force Majeure definition shall include, but shall be not limited to any 
superior force, any event that encompasses acts of god (such as earthquakes or 
tsunamis, etc.), certain acts of man of a disruptive and unforeseeable nature, 
industrial action, epidemics, pandemics, actions by government agencies, or work 
stoppages, any material change in economic conditions or any other event, that is 
beyond the reasonable control and was and whose effects could not be avoided by 
reasonable measure.
Clause 25.2. Force Majeure shall include any of the following: the suspension or 
failure of any financial instrument, whether underlying or not, the suspension or 
closure of any markets, exchanges, the nationalisation and/or government 
sequestration, the failure of any of our suppliers, and if applicable our intermediate 
broker, agent or principal, dealer or any custodian, sub-custodian, clearing house or 
regulatory or self-regulatory organisation, for any reason, to perform its obligations. 
Whereas in any such event we will try to take reasonable steps to mitigate the effect 
of the said event in order to continue our operations and to continue to provide you 
with services and where we may therefore alter some of the (trading) terms and 
conditions as per this agreement.
Ive included clause 5.14 as it was referred to by Mr A with reference to Trading 212s right 
to place a sell-only limitation on an instrument. He said clause 5.14 didnt include force 
majeure as being a valid reason. Whatever Mr A thinks about those terms and Trading 212s 
right of implementation, in all practicalities, Trading 212 quite simply wasnt in the position to 
offer the instrument which was a situation outside of its control. 
I explain in more detail further down but in conclusion, having reviewed those terms, I dont 
find that the action taken by Trading 212 was outside of those terms and conditions as on 
balance I think its not unreasonable to conclude there was sufficient leeway in those terms 
for force majeure to apply. The terms are relevant insofar as they form the contract 
governing the relationship and theyre something I must take into account. And Mr A agreed 
to those terms at the outset of his relationship with Trading 212. But my decision is based on 
what's fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. I think it was fair for Trading 212 to take 
the action it did bearing in mind the terms of the account. And more broadly, given what was 
happening  and what Trading 212 could and couldnt do  I dont think it was unreasonable. 
In response to stock market turbulence, on 29 January 2021 the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) issued a statement which said;
Broking firms are not obliged to offer trading facilities to clients. They might withdraw 
their services, in line with customer terms and conditions if, for instance, they consider it necessary or prudent to do so. Firms are exposed to greater risk and 
therefore more likely to need to take such actions during the periods of abnormally 
high transaction volumes and price volatility.
We will of course take appropriate action wherever we see evidence of firms or 
individuals causing harm to consumers or markets.
And while it could be considered that Trading 212 was being prudent in not offering the 
GME shares for trading on its platform, I think in reality the cause was because its execution 
intermediary restricted its access to the shares, albeit the outcome being the same as 
referenced in the regulators statement  about being prudent  and in line with its own terms 
of business. 
I think Trading 212 took all reasonable steps that it could and in the best interests of its 
customers. I say this because the unique, unprecedented interest and market activity in 
GME  and similar affected stocks  caused an extreme strain on the entire trade execution 
ecosystem worldwide and affected almost every trading platform. 27/28 January 2021 saw 
the most trading volume ever in the history of GME so overall, I dont think its unreasonable 
to conclude that these were not normal market conditions. 
Bearing this in mind, Trading 212 used the services of an execution intermediary and was 
reliant on that service in order for it to trade. Trading 212 didnt have direct access to the 
market. And it was the execution intermediary that wouldnt allow trading in GME (and other 
stocks that had been subject to extreme volatility) until its own capital adequacy and other 
issues were resolved. Additional collateral was required by the US clearing houses in order 
to ensure firms had sufficient liquidity to settle trades which took place two days after the 
actual trade date. 
This requirement tallies with Trading 212s comment that the outsized trading volumes in the 
shares generated substantial risk exposures at firms that clear these trades. Trading 212 
has given us a copy of its conversation trail with its execution intermediary which makes 
clear it repeatedly made contact to try and resolve the issue after it was made aware there 
was a problem. And I am satisfied this is an example of Trading 212 taking reasonable 
steps to execute trades and in my opinion, is consistent with its contractual obligation under 
the force majeure clause and to take reasonable steps to mitigate the impact. 
Mr A has said the events werent unforeseeable and short squeezes werent new or 
infrequent. I accept that is his view, but I dont think it alters the fact that the events, and the 
subsequent impact on Trading 212 being able to offer its service, was beyond its reasonable 
control. 
I am satisfied that such market conditions were so unusual it satisfied the force majeure 
clause (25) and therefore Trading 212 wasnt obliged to accept a deal instruction under 
clause 5.4  whether that be to buy or sell. In any event Trading 212 was simply unable to 
trade in those shares on its platform but I am satisfied that the circumstances were such that 
Trading 212 has fairly applied its terms by not accepting Mr As dealing instruction. 
Trading 212 used the services of one execution intermediary, which I am satisfied it was 
entitled to do as its own commercial decision. And bearing in mind the market turmoil on the 
day, I think its unlikely Trading 212 could have engaged the services of a different 
intermediary or that a different intermediary would have been more successful in trading 
during this time than the intermediary Trading 212 did use. 
And while I accept that Mr A wont be happy with the outcome. I am satisfied that his inability 
to trade in GME was outside of the control of Trading 212 who, in my opinion, didnt act 
unfairly. The unprecedented volatility in the shares and the impact of that on trading was, in my view, one of the vagaries of stock market investment and is one of the risks that an 
investor takes when investing in the stock market. 
On balance, I am satisfied that Trading 212 did all that it reasonably could to mitigate the 
position but the situation was outside of its control and it probably had very little practical 
choice in the matter so I dont find that it is responsible for any losses Mr A says he incurred. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman