DRN-3919736
The complaint
Mrs S complains about the service provided by HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) when she was 
trying to set up a standing order. 
What happened
Mrs S lives abroad and on a monthly basis she needs money to be transferred from her 
HSBC account to her foreign bank account. 
She had previously set up a monthly standing order for that to happen however it expired 
(around October 2022) so she wanted to set up a new one. However Mrs S says she had 
much difficulty contacting HSBC by phone to do so and she was unable to set it up online. 
Mrs S complained and outlined the impact the situation was having on her including being 
left without the money she needed, international call costs and the inconvenience of long 
wait times to speak to HSBC but no resolution was achieved. 
HSBC apologised for the long wait times, stating they were very busy. They said Mrs S could 
contact them via their online messaging service or if the standing order was for a major 
beneficiary, then this would need to be set up by phone. As a gesture of goodwill, they paid 
£60 compensation to Mrs S.
Unhappy with their response, she referred the complaint to our service. The investigator 
recommended the complaint wasnt upheld. She acknowledged Mrs S frustration about the 
situation but said she was satisfied HSBC had provided alternatives to set up the standing 
order  by online banking or by contacting their online messaging service. She provided a 
copy of HSBCs guide to create the standing order online and said there was insufficient 
evidence it couldnt be set up by that method.
Mrs S disagreed. She maintained her position and also commented she had tried to set it up 
online but it wouldnt accept the IBAN number so she had no alternative but to call HSBCs 
relevant team however they never answered their phones.
Since the investigators opinion, HSBC has told our service the standing order has now been 
successfully set up following Mrs S contacting them by phone in January 2023. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Im aware Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than has been provided and Ive 
done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated 
on what I think are the key issues. This reflects the nature of our service as an informal 
alternative to the courts. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every detail to be able to 
reach what I think is a fair outcome in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a starting point, I wish to say Im sorry to hear about the difficulty Mrs S experienced in 
trying to set up the standing order. From the level of communication to our service and 
HSBC, its clear it was causing her much worry, upset and inconvenience. 
I must make it clear its not our services role to punish financial firms or tell them how to 
operate their business, that is the role of the financial regulator. Instead, I must consider the 
individual circumstances of a complaint and decide whether the firm has treated their 
customer fairly. In this case, I find they have. 
HSBC offers different means for their customers to bank with them. That includes by phone, 
by visiting a branch and online banking (including use of their app). As Mrs S is abroad, 
visiting a branch wasnt a feasible option meaning she must rely on the other methods. From 
my understanding she is unable to download the HSBC app on her mobile device but she 
can access online banking via the desktop version. 
I note Mrs S comments that the IBAN number wasnt accepted via the online banking. She 
also said she doesnt get the required assistance via the messaging service as it directs her 
to call HSBC. I have insufficient evidence from either party to say why the IBAN number 
wasnt accepted online. Its unclear whether it was an user error or a technical issue with 
HSBC. Their call notes suggest they had asked Mrs S to provide more evidence so they 
could identify the cause of the issue but it doesnt appear she was able to do so. I find 
HSBCs request to be reasonable.  On balance, I suspect its a technical issue with HSBC as 
the same details were previously accepted by phone and most recently when the standing 
order was eventually set up. 
On the face of it, Mrs S had a few options to set up the standing order but in reality that 
wasnt necessarily the case so I can understand her frustration and upset about this. But I 
find thats down to Mrs S unique circumstances as opposed to HSBC doing something 
wrong. 
HSBC acknowledged they were experiencing high call volumes and long wait times resulting 
in delays to answering calls from their customers. They said they were working to improve 
the situation. In the absence of contrary evidence, I accept this explanation in good faith. 
Such situations are unfortunate but from time to time, they do happen.
 
Im glad to see Mrs S eventually managed to set up the standing order in January 2023 
following a call to the relevant HSBC team. Its disappointing it took this length of time to do 
so. Although not mandatory, in the interest of their customer Im surprised HSBC didnt step 
in sooner such as arranging somebody to call Mrs S at a mutually convenient time. Had they 
done so, this situation couldve been resolved a lot sooner. 
Overall, I dont find the level of service provided by HSBC was profoundly poor to warrant 
compensation. However as theyve offered £60 compensation as a gesture of goodwill, I 
cant say they havent been fair. I wont be asking HSBC to do anything further to resolve this 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs S complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Simona Reese
Ombudsman