DRN-3272963
The complaint
Mr P complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi 
Financial Services (VWFS) unfairly recorded a hire purchase agreement as having 
been voluntary terminated on his credit file following the car being rejected due to faults. 
He says that this marker resulted in him being declined for a mortgage.
This complaint has been brought on behalf of Mr P by his wife but for ease of reference I 
will only refer to Mr P as the credit agreement was in his name.
What happened
In July 2019 Mr P entered into a hire purchase agreement with VWFS for a car. 
Unfortunately, the car was found to have a number of faults and in January 2020 it was 
agreed that Mr P was entitled to reject the car and the agreement cancelled. VWFS 
informed Mr P that it would voluntary terminate (VT) the agreement.
Mr P told VWFS that he didnt want to a have a VT marker on his credit file as he was 
aware that it could be viewed negatively by other credit providers. VWFS agreed to 
remove the account entirely from his credit file so that the VT wouldnt show. VWFS noted 
that this amendment had been made at the end of January 2020.
In August 2020 Mr P applied for a new mortgage but was advised by the broker that it 
had been declined at the in-principle stage, and that he should check his credit file. When 
Mr P checked his credit file, he discovered that the account with VWFS was still showing 
and had been marked VT. He complained to VWFS and after some discussion VWFS 
agreed to remove the account from his credit file and this action was completed around 
three days later.
Mr P says that because of the VT recorded on the account with VWFS he lost out on the 
mortgage product hed wanted and had to apply to a second mortgage provider who 
agreed the loan but at a higher rate of interest.
Mr P complained to VWFS. VWFS upheld his complaint and apologised for the delay in 
removing the VT information from his credit file. Mr P was unhappy about VWFSs response 
and the service hed received from it regarding the rejection of the car and the subsequent 
way this had been recorded as a VT. He complained to this service.
Our investigator recommended that Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. He said that 
VWFS had provided conflicting information about the impact of the VT marker on Mr Ps 
credit file and hadnt acted swiftly when Mr P raised his concerns about it. Our 
investigator said he thought it was likely that the first mortgage application would have 
been approved if the VT marker hadnt been on Mr Ps credit file in August 2020. He said 
Mr P had been left with no option but to take a mortgage at a higher rate.
However, as Mr P hadnt been able to show exactly what the difference would have 
been between the two mortgages, our investigator said he thought £400 compensation 
was a fair amount to reflect the impact the poor handling of this matter by VWFS had 
had on Mr P.
VWFS accepted our investigators view, but Mr P disagreed. He said £400 
compensation was insufficient when the difference between the two mortgage rates 
now meant he would be £1000s out of pocket.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint was passed to me and I 
issued a provisional decision along the following lines.
Mr P raised a number of issues about his contact with VWFS which had resulted in a VT 
marker being recorded against this account on his credit file, despite assurances from 
VWFS that it would remove all the information. Mr P felt strongly that it hadnt provided 
him with the service he should reasonably have been able to expect. However, I thought 
VWFS had accepted that things hadnt gone as they should have.
I also thought it was agreed that Mr P hadnt VTd his hire purchase agreement with 
VWFS because he had rejected the car due to the various faults he had experienced with 
it. VWFS said it considered the agreement was VTd as that had allowed it to cancel the 
credit agreement. But treating the ending of the agreement in this way wasnt an accurate 
reflection of the events and had led to the cause of this complaint. Here, the agreement 
had been unwound when the car had been returned meaning in effect it had never 
existed. This agreement should, therefore, have been removed from Mr Ps credit file 
once the car had been returned.
Id seen that in January 2020 VWFS had written to Mr P agreeing that he would reject the 
car by way of VT. Mr P had contacted VWFS and said he didnt want to have a VT 
marker on his credit file. VWFS said the credit file could be amended so that the VT 
wouldnt show. They informed him that it wasnt really relevant how the agreement was 
treated on termination, as this wouldnt show on his credit file. VWFS also said that a VT 
marker wouldnt have any impact on a credit file though Mr P had disputed that.
Id seen that VWFS had set out in its notes for Mr Ps account that all records of this 
agreement had been removed from the credit reference agencies during January 2020. Id 
also seen that following Mr Ps rejection of the car, there had followed some further 
discussions between him and VWFS about the return of his deposit, an excess mileage 
fee that was in error and unhappiness on the part of Mr P as to how agents had dealt with 
his calls about the account.
In April 2020 Mr P had repeated that he was unhappy the agreement was being treated 
as having been VTd. VWFS confirmed that there would be no record of this account on 
Mr Ps credit file. However, Mr P said he had then discovered the account was still 
showing as VTd in August 2020 following his mortgage application being declined.
VWFS accepted it hadnt removed the information about this account from Mr Ps credit 
file as it should have, and it agreed that compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by that was reasonable. Mr P said that VWFS was responsible for the higher 
mortgage payments he now had to make. VWFS said there wasnt sufficient evidence to 
show that its action was the sole cause of the mortgage being declined.
When making an award to compensate for a financial loss, I must be satisfied that it was a 
direct result of the business failing. Here, that would mean I would need to be satisfied 
that had it not been for VWFS failing to remove the record of this account and the VT 
marker from Mr Ps credit file, he wouldnt have been declined for the joint mortgage hed 
applied for with his wife.
Looking carefully at the evidence that Mr P had been able to supply Id seen that the mortgage broker noted that the application was refused due to adverse credit, there 
wasnt a letter from the mortgage company itself providing an explanation. And while I 
appreciate this will be of disappointment to Mr P, I didnt think the brokers note was 
sufficient for me to reasonably say that this mortgage was declined solely because of the 
information recorded on his credit file regarding the account with VWFS.
Having undertaken some research I didnt think it was clear that a VT marker would 
always be treated as adverse information. Id seen that various websites that provide 
general information about credit agreements to consumers state that theres no negative 
impact from voluntarily terminating a credit agreement since this wasnt necessarily an 
indication of financial hardship. However, I appreciated Mr P strongly believed that a VT 
marker would have had an impact on his credit rating and said this was based on his own 
personal experience of the financial industry. And while I accepted that it may have had a 
negative impact, I couldnt say with any certainty this was the only reason for the declined 
mortgage application. I havent seen anything from the proposed lender confirming that its 
decision to decline the mortgage application was due to the VT marker on Mr Ps credit 
file. The decision to lend for a mortgage, is a commercial decision by a financial business 
and while an individuals credit score will undoubtedly be a consideration, there are many 
other factors that are taken into account.
It was agreed that VWFS had caused Mr P unnecessary distress and inconvenience with 
the way it had reported the termination of the hire purchase agreement to the credit 
reference agencies when it had said it would remove this information. And I accepted it 
was possible that the report of the VT had had an adverse impact on Mr Ps credit file. 
However, I didnt have enough evidence to say that this was the sole reason the 
mortgage application was declined. So, in light of that, I thought compensation of £400 
for distress and inconvenience was fair for Mr P when looking at the impact on him of 
having a VT marker recorded on his credit file after being told this would not be the case 
by VWFS. I appreciated that finding the VT had been recorded many months after the 
car had been rejected would have caused Mr M frustration and disappointment.
For the reasons given while I was intending to uphold Mr Ps complaint regarding 
the VT marker showing on his credit file, I didnt intend to increase the award of 
compensation.
VWFS hasnt asked me to look again at my provisional decision, but Mr P has 
disagreed with it. He says that £400 compensation is inadequate for the additional 
costs he now faces with his mortgage. 
Mr P says that he matched the affordability criteria for the original mortgage product 
that he and his wife had applied for and strongly believes it was the VT marker on 
his credit file that caused the bank to decline that application. Mr P says that once 
the VT marker was removed, he was able to secure a mortgage with another 
provider although the rate was higher.
Mr P has also asked me to listen to a copy of a call that was held with a manager at 
VWFS. He says that during that call VWFS admitted that the VT marker can have a 
negative impact on a consumers credit file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked again carefully at my conclusions and my reasons for reaching them that are set 
out in my provisional decision. Ive also listened to the August call with VWFS as requested by Mr P. And although I appreciate this will be of disappointment to Mr P, Im afraid I havent 
changed my view.
Listening to the August call, I dont think I can reasonably say that VWFS agreed that the VT 
marker was the cause of Mr Ps mortgage being declined. The manager said that a VT 
marker on a credit file wouldnt have a negative impact on a credit file because it wasnt 
adverse information. I accept that later on in the call, during a fairly lengthy conversation, the 
manager says that it was possible some credit providers may decide to treat a VT marker as 
negative information which would be a matter for them. But I think VWFS was clear that a VT 
marker isnt recorded negatively. 
So, although I appreciate the strength of Mr Ps feelings on the matter of the impact of the 
VT on his credit rating when the bank considered his mortgage application, I still dont think I 
have enough evidence to reasonably say the VT was the sole reason for the application to 
be declined. 
And although Ive seen that a different bank approved Mr Ps mortgage application after the 
VT marker had been removed, I dont know whether that application would have also been 
declined had the VT marker still been showing. Different credit providers will have different 
criteria for its lending decisions so its possible this bank would have agreed to lend with the 
VT marker still showing. As I have set out above, Im not able to say that a VT marker is 
always treated as adverse information by credit providers.
VWFS has accepted that it didnt deal with Mr Ps account as it should have, and that this 
resulted in distress and inconvenience regarding the removal of the VT marker. I still think 
£400 compensation to Mr P is fair and reasonable in these circumstances, and Im not 
asking VWFS to increase that amount.
Putting things right
Im asking VWFS to pay Mr P £400 compensation for the unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience it caused to him by the way it reported this account to the credit reference 
agencies and its delays in then removing the VT marker.
My final decision
For the reasons given above Im upholding Mr Ps complaint. Im asking Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial Services to pay Mr P £400 
compensation for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience it caused to him by the 
way it reported this account to the credit reference agencies and its delays in then 
removing the VT marker.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman