DRN-2890583
The complaint
Ms C is unhappy with the way Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) handled her 
claim under her buildings insurance following an escape of water in her kitchen, and she 
doesnt think its offer fully compensates her for the delays she experienced.
What happened
Ms C had an escape of water in her kitchen, causing damage to the floor and skirting. Lloyds 
accepted the claim under her buildings insurance.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Lloyds accepted that it didnt handle the claim as well as it shouldve done, and it 
offered Ms C £250 compensation.
Ms C doesnt think that adequately compensates her for the delays, and unsafe 
conditions her home was left in for six months.
Having considered the photos and description of the floor damage, I agree that it was 
in poor condition and wouldve been an inconvenience for a young family. But the 
evidence doesnt show a clear or significant trip hazard.  
Ive looked at the timelines provided by both Ms C and Lloyds, which broadly agree 
on events. Therefore, Im satisfied I can rely on the timelines as an accurate 
reflection of the delays and inconvenience Ms C experienced.
Given the nature of the damage, there wouldve always been some delay from Ms C 
making her claim until the repairs were completed. Thats because Lloyds had to 
make sure the floor was fully dried and the asbestos containing material safely 
removed before repairs and laying new flooring.
That said, its clear from both timelines that there were avoidable delays of several 
weeks between some steps of the process; additional damage caused during the 
work, and a general lack of communication between Lloyds and its contractors 
resulting in confusion about responsibility for actions. For this shortfall, I think 
compensation is warranted.
Ms C would like £2,400 which equates to £100 per week from the start of her claim to 
completion. Thats because she wasnt offered alternative accommodation (AA) to 
minimise the inconvenience.
AA is considered when cooking and washing facilities arent available, which doesnt 
appear to be the case here. So, I cant see any reason to ask Lloyds to pay an 
equivalent amount.
Any compensation awarded is for inconvenience and avoidable delays experienced 
above and beyond that which wouldve been reasonable in the circumstances of the 
claim, not for the overall time it took to settle.
The compensation isnt intended to cover the excess as thats due under the policy 
terms for an escape of water.
Overall, Im satisfied that Lloyds offer of £250 compensation is fair in the 
circumstances and I wont be asking it to increase its offer.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank General Insurance 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman