The complaint
Mr P complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) has tried to unfairly settle a 
claim he made under his HomeCare policy, alongside providing poor service.
What happened
In July 2019, Mr Ps fridge freezer broke down. So he contacted British Gas under his 
HomeCare agreement to have it repaired. 
Mr P was initially told there were no available appointments for over a week. But after he 
explained that he used his fridge to store his medication, British Gas arranged for an 
engineer to attend a few days later and replacement parts were ordered. A repair attempt 
was made but this was unsuccessful. 
Following this, Mr P says further appointments were scheduled but missed. As the fridge 
wasn't working Mr P bought a mini fridge to use in the meantime. 
Mr Ps fridge freezer was later deemed beyond repair. So British Gas offered to pay 30% of 
the cost of a replacement fridge in line with the policy terms. As the original appliance was 
no longer being sold, it offered a settlement of £668.02 based on the cost of similar 
replacements it had sourced. 
Mr P disagreed and said British Gas based its offer on the value of a free-standing fridge 
freezer when he had an integrated appliance. British Gas said whilst Mr P had attached 
wooden panels to the doors of the appliance, it was a still free-standing fridge freezer. So it 
was satisfied its offer was fair. 
British Gas then offered to pay £89 towards the cost of the mini fridge as a gesture of 
goodwill. And it paid a further £95 that Mr P had incurred for a third party to inspect the 
appliance. Mr P then brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator agreed that Mr P had received poor customer service as hed experienced 
delays and missed appointments. Whilst she acknowledged the gesture of goodwill already 
made, she recommended that British Gas pay an additional £50 to compensate Mr P for his 
trouble and upset. 
But the investigator was satisfied that British Gas had found suitable replacement fridge 
freezers which were a reasonable match as the original wasn't integrated, saying it didn't 
have the characteristics of an integrated appliance as it didn't sit within a cupboard or 
kitchen unit nor was it concealed. 
British Gas accepted our investigators view. But Mr P didn't, disagreeing with her definition 
of integrated  and saying the replacements hed been offered were not a like for like as they 
DRN-1710038weren't able to incorporate doors that would match his kitchen. So the complaint has been 
passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I'm upholding this complaint. I'll explain why.
Mr P holds a HomeCare agreement with British Gas which covers all repairs to the kitchen 
appliances named in his policy schedule  including his fridge freezer. The policy says if a 
repair isn't possible, British Gas will source a replacement from an approved supplier and 
make a contribution of 30% based on the current retail selling price. It further says that the 
contribution can be used towards an alternative model of Mr Ps choice as long as its from 
an approved supplier, there is no cash alternative.
Under the policy definition of replacement  it says in the case of Kitchen Appliance Cover 
well provide a contribution towards a replacement appliance with similar functionality from 
our approved supplier.
I appreciate that much of this dispute relates to whether or not Mr Ps original fridge freezer 
was free-standing or integrated. Im not persuaded, based on the photos Ive seen, that it 
was integrated. This is because it has the characteristics of a free-standing appliance, but 
with the customised feature of wooden panel doors that Mr P had arranged to be added. 
But in any case, under the terms of his policy, Mr P is entitled to a replacement appliance of 
similar functionality. I would expect this to take into account things like the energy rating of 
the fridge, the size, and features relating to the functioning of the appliance. In this particular 
case Im not persuaded this similar functionality extends to the ability to add panels to it. So I 
wont be asking British Gas to increase its offer. However, I would highlight that Mr P has the 
option to choose an alternative model from the approved suppliers if he wants to pay any 
additional costs himself. 
Its clear to me British Gas didn't offer the best service to Mr P when handling this claim. 
From what Ive seen engineers failed to turn up to a number of occasions and I imagine this 
would be frustrating. So Ive thought about what British Gas has done since recognising its 
mistakes. It covered the cost of a third party visit. And it made a contribution towards Mr Ps 
mini fridge, which isn't something covered by the policy, in an attempt to put things right and 
I think this was a positive step on its part.
However, its possible Mr P wouldn't have needed to buy a mini fridge at all had the claim 
been deal with promptly. So overall I dont think this contribution towards a financial loss 
goes far enough to resolve the complaint. For that reason, Im directing British Gas to pay an 
additional £50 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct British Gas Insurance Limited to 
pay Mr P compensation of £50, in addition to the offer its already made. 
British Gas Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr P accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman