DRN-4145774
The complaint
Miss B complains about a decision by Klarna Bank AB (publ), who Ill call Klarna to reject a 
claim she made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Creation, but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a fixed sum loan, as was the 
case here, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer 
Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement 
has a like right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
If the dimensions of the bath that Miss B received were different than she ordered I would 
think the bath hadnt been of satisfactory quality. In those circumstances I would think 
thered been a breach of contract. But whilst the nominal length of the bath was 1690mm the 
tolerance stated in the drawings, on the merchants website, show that the length could vary 
between 1680mm and 1705mm. Miss B has demonstrated that the bath was 1700mm and 
as thats within the acceptable range I dont think Klarna were unreasonable to decide there 
hadnt been a breach of contract.
I can see Miss B is also unhappy that Klarna have reported some adverse information to her 
credit file in relation to this issue. Klarna have an obligation to report account performance 
accurately and, whilst I can see that there were times payments were paused whilst Klarna 
reviewed Miss Bs disputes, there were also times when the account was reactivated, and 
payments werent made. Klarna didnt advise Miss B that the account had been reactivated 
after her final dispute was dismissed but, as Miss B had already cancelled her direct debit by 
that time, I dont think its likely the failure to advise of reactivation would have impacted on 
her decision not to make a payment, and Im not therefore asking Klarna to take any action 
regarding their credit file reports.
Klarna did make some mistakes when dealing with this issue. They failed to inform Miss B 
that the account had been reactivated and they didnt call Miss B ack when they said they 
would. In the circumstances I think they should pay Miss B £50 in respect of the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and tell Klarna Bank AB (publ) to pay Miss B £50 to 
compensate her for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman