DRN-3559603
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Ald Automotive Limited trading as Kia Contract Hire (Kia) didnt 
inform her about arrears or missing payments on her Hire agreement for 16 months. She 
doesnt believe its fair that she should have to pay the arrears now. 
What happened
Mrs R entered into a hire agreement in May 2017 with Kia for a new vehicle. It was a 3 year 
hire agreement with regular monthly payments of £270 per month. 
In January 2020, the direct debit failed for the monthly payment, and the same happened 
again in February 2020. This prompted Kias internal systems to pause the direct debit 
instruction. Later in February 2020, Mrs R contacted Kia and made the two missing 
payments by card over the phone. On this call she confirmed the monthly payments would 
be fine going forward and asked Kia to start the direct debit again. 
Unfortunately, the direct debit wasnt reinstated. The agreement was due to end in May 
2020, and Mrs R contacted Kia shortly before the end date and arranged to extend the hire. 
They agreed to what is known as a late hire, which meant she could continue to pay 
monthly payments to keep the car and let them know when she wanted to end the 
agreement and return the car. 
There was no discussion about the missed payments since February however, and with no 
direct debit in place, no further payments were taken during the late hire.
In December 2020 Mrs R contacted Kia to arrange collection of the car, but this didnt 
happen until March 2021. In June 2021, Kia sent Mrs R a notice for sums in arrears, totalling 
£3228.91. This was made up of the three missed monthly payments from the original 
agreement (March/April/May 2020) totalling £810, £1886.98 late hire charges, an excess 
mileage invoice of £181.93 and an appraisal invoice of £350 (which theyve said was due to 
missing service history as per the terms and conditions).
Kia sent reminders about this debt later in June 2021 and in July 2021, and after this, Mrs R 
complained to them. She said they hadnt told her any arrears were building up and so she 
didnt feel she should pay the arrears on the rentals, or the late hire, as it was Kias fault 
these had built up. 
She also said that if theyd told her about the arrears of the last 3 rentals that werent paid in 
May 2020 when she spoke to them about the late hire, she never would have arranged the 
late hire. 
Kia answered her complaint in August 2021, and partially upheld it. They said that for the 3 
missed regular payments of £810, they should have issued a statutory default notice and 
had not done so. 
However, they said there was no requirement to issue statutory notices for late hire or 
excess mileage/appraisal invoices. They listed attempts they had made to contact Mrs R in 
writing and by phone and said that she hadnt made an attempt to make payments during 
the late hire, so they felt it was fair to expect these to be paid. They also said that the excess 
mileage and appraisal invoices were fairly calculated as per her contract terms, so these 
also remained payable.  
As a resolution, they offered to write off £1000 from the invoice, and positioned this as 
covering the original missed regular payments of £810, plus some extra as a gesture of 
goodwill.     
Unhappy with this response, Mrs R brought her complaint to our service. She felt that as this 
was Kias error, it wasnt fair she was now expected to pay over £2,000, and her financial 
situation had changed and been impacted by the pandemic and this situation created by Kia. 
An investigator here investigated the complaint and did not uphold it. They said that they 
agreed that Kia had made errors and felt that the £1,000 offered was a fair resolution. They 
felt that some responsibility should be taken by Mrs R for not recognising that payments 
werent being taken, and shed benefitted from having use of the car, but hadnt made any 
payments for it. As such, they felt it was fair that Mrs R paid the remaining invoice charges. 
Mrs R didnt agree with this and asked for the case to be passed to an Ombudsman for a 
final decision. She said she could accept that the excess mileage charges and appraisal 
invoices were fair but would expect a more significant sum towards the late hire charge of 
£1886.98 to recognise and address Kias error.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised. The purpose of my decision
is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them. I also focus on what I think is
material and relevant to reach a fair and reasonable outcome. So, although I have read
everything that has been supplied to me, I may not address every point that has been raised.
I know the timeline Ive given above is set out in less detail than given by both Mrs R and by 
Kia in their submissions. Ive read the full detail of Mrs Rs complaint and considered the 
timelines provided as well as the information each side has sent us. I want to assure Mrs R 
Ive read and considered everything shes sent and said. If I havent responded to a specific 
point it isnt because I havent considered it, because I have. Im going to focus on what I 
think are the key issues in Mrs Rs case. My approach is in line with our rules and role as a 
free alternative to the courts. I want to assure all parties that no discourtesy is intended.
What has happened here is a breakdown of administration and communication during the 
Covid-19 pandemic. Kia have admitted that they should have issued a default notice for the 
regular payments not made, but they didnt do this. They also didnt re-set up her direct debit 
when she asked them to do this. This was immediately prior to the pandemic in February 
2020, so its reasonable to believe that these administration errors came about, and were not 
spotted or dealt with properly, due to the business needing to find a way to continue to work 
and serve their customers at the beginning of the pandemic. 
Kia have provided us with some communications sent to Mrs R, but not all of the 
communications they claimed in their final response letter that they had sent. So, Ive based 
my decision on what theyve been able to provide us, what Mrs R has told us, and most 
importantly, whats fair.Mrs R has said that if she had known there were arrears on the account when she called to 
talk about the late hire agreement, she wouldnt have entered the late hire agreement. 
However, in their final response, Kia have said they have written off all the arrears from prior 
to that call in May 2020. On this basis, Im not persuaded that Mrs R has been 
disadvantaged in any way here. Equally, she proactively asked to extend the hire of the 
agreement, which suggests she wanted or needed to keep a car at that point. 
Mrs R was aware that she would have to make late hire payments but doesnt appear to 
have realised that she wasnt making any payments. Whilst the administration error sits with 
Kia for not ensuring the direct debit was set up, Im not persuaded that this should mean that 
Mrs R isnt liable for the hire payments still. 
I agree with the investigator that there is some responsibility on a consumer to recognise 
whether they are making payments or not. If it was for a period of a month or two, I can 
appreciate that it might not get noticed, but there were no payments for a year. Kia have said 
that they flagged balances owing to Mrs R at points during the late hire but havent supplied 
any evidence of this communication. But Mrs R was aware during this whole period that 
monthly hire charges were applicable after she had proactively arranged the late hire. 
Without evidence of some of the communications mentioned by Kia, Ive based my decision 
on what they have been able to provide us. There was an email sent in early November 
2020 asking Mrs R to contact them about the outstanding balance on her vehicle finance. I 
think thats clear that there is outstanding monies owing, and I would expect that if Mrs R felt 
she was up to date with payments, this would at least prompt her to check her payment 
history to see what they might be referring to.  
But fundamentally, Mrs R has had use of this car throughout the period in question but 
hasnt paid for it. As such, its fair to expect her to pay for that use. She also knew what the 
payments for this period were supposed to be. Its also fair however that Kia compensate her 
for the errors theyve made in administering her account, that have led to them only billing 
her for those payments after the agreement had ended.  
Ive also taken into account the unprecedented situation of the Covid-19 pandemic and the 
effect this may have had both on Mrs R, and also Kia. Mrs R hasnt noticed that the 
payments werent being taken, which I am sure is in part due to the unprecedented 
circumstances going on in the world. 
It would seem that Kias processes broke down somewhere, to allow Mrs R not to make any 
payments for a year, without them keeping clear records of informing her about this or doing 
anything about the lack of payments. Theyve also said that whilst they should have issued a 
default notice for the three missed regular payments, its possible this didnt happen because 
they were aware of the need to show forbearance to customers, particularly during the early 
months of the pandemic. 
As Kia have said in their response, not issuing the default wasnt the right action in those 
circumstances. But I can also appreciate the confusion and the desire on their part to try to 
do the right thing, while trying to operate their business in unprecedented times. Alongside 
this, Mrs R has told us that the pandemic has had a fundamental impact on her and her 
finances as well. Im sorry to hear this, and I would expect Kia to come up with a fair solution 
to resolve this complaint.  
So, Ive considered the resolution provided by Kia, to reduce the balance outstanding by 
£1,000. I think this adequately compensates Mrs R for the distress and inconvenience of 
being billed in arrears for all the costs of the hire from March 2020 to March 2021. Mrs R feels that because Kia have positioned this offer as writing off the £810 regular 
payments, that the remaining £190 theyve offered doesnt adequately compensate her for 
the distress and inconvenience caused by the late hire payments not being taken. I think 
perhaps there has been some confusion here. The fact that Kia didnt issue a default notice 
for the regular payments that were missed doesnt mean they have to write the debt off. 
Clearly, not issuing the notice was an error on their part, but its fair that the full amount 
owing would still need paying by Mrs R, as she had use of the car for the whole period. 
Overall, I feel that the offer to reduce the outstanding balance by £1000 is a fair compromise 
in this situation. The Covid-19 pandemic has impacted both parties during this period, and I 
think a compromise solution like this is the only fair way of resolving things. 
With regards to the other charges for excess mileage and the appraisal invoice, Ive seen no 
evidence that these have been raised incorrectly. Alongside this, Mrs R said she was 
prepared to accept these charges in her last response to us, and I think this is fair and 
correct, so I wont be asking Kia to do any more here. These charges would always have 
been invoiced after the hire had ended and once the car was returned, so Ive no concerns 
here.  
I believe the balance is still outstanding, and I know Kia offered in their final response letter 
to discuss the possibility of a payment plan for Mrs R should she be unable to pay the 
balance off in one payment. Id expect them to honour this offer to discuss things with her, 
and to treat her fairly in these discussions.  
Im sorry for the distress and confusion caused here to Mrs R, but I am satisfied that the 
actions already taken/offered by Kia to reduce the invoice by £1000 is a fair resolution to this 
complaint. I wont be asking them to do any more than honour what theyve already offered.  
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman