DRN-3046844
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund the money hes lost to a scam.
Whats happened?
In August 2019, Mr H was contacted by a fraudster pretending to work for Barclays Head 
office over a 4-day period. They knew his name, address, telephone number and that he 
banked with Barclays, and they told him that the reason his local branch had closed recently 
was because the cashiers had been selling customers personal information. They said 
Mr Hs details had been compromised and they asked for his help to catch the employees 
involved.
On the morning of Saturday 17 August 2019, Mr H was told to move the money in his 
Barclays savings account, starting with £10,000, to a safe account opened in his name with 
a third-party bank. Mr H usually banks in-branch, he doesnt normally use online banking. So 
the fraudster told him to go to a Barclays branch urgently and his taxi fare would be 
reimbursed. They told Mr H to say that he was transferring the money to get a better interest 
rate with the third-party bank if asked for a reason, and not to say that hed been told to 
transfer the money by someone else. The fraudster convinced Mr H not to tell anyone what 
was happening, and that he couldnt trust Barclays employees. He was told that if the 
cashier tried to stop him from moving his money, then they were involved in the fraudulent 
activity.
Mr H says that he doesnt remember the cashier that processed the transfer on 17 August 
giving him any warnings and they only asked him two questions  has anyone told you to do 
this? and whats the reason for it? He lied because the fraudster told him to, and theyd 
convinced him he couldnt trust the cashier. He was concerned that they were going to take 
all of his money.
When Mr H returned home, he was greeted by a family member who recognised that hed 
been scammed. Mr H contacted Barclays fraud department but was unable to pass security 
and was asked to attend his local branch with identification documents when it was open 
again (it was closed over the weekend)  on Monday 19 August 2019.
Mr H says he thought what the fraudster was saying was reasonable and feasible at the 
time, especially as his local branch had in fact closed recently. He also says that this matter 
has affected his physical wellbeing.
What has Barclays said?
Barclays declined to reimburse Mr H because it said, in summary:
Mr H didnt verify or challenge the caller to confirm he was a genuine member of 
staff.
He authorised the payment.
Its contact notes record that the cashier read a scam statement out to Mr H, he said 
he wasnt being coerced into doing the transfer and explained the reason for the 
transfer was to get a better interest rate in an account he holds with a third-party 
bank.
It contacted the third-party bank in an effort to retrieve Mr Hs funds on                     
19 August 2019 but unfortunately, no funds remained in the beneficiary account.
Below is a copy of the scam statement Barclays says it read to Mr H:
In order to keep your money safe from fraud and scams, I need to ask you the purpose of 
this payment and if you have been asked to make this by someone else today? The bank or 
police would never ask you to transfer money to another account, or safe account. We 
recommend you check new payee details with someone you trust in person, before making a 
payment. If you are not 100% certain that you want to make this payment then stop, rethink, 
and talk to someone impartial.
Additional customer prompts:
Do you really know who you are paying?
Has the payment request come unexpectedly?
Has somebody put you under any pressure?
Is there a more secure way available to pay them that offers you more protection?
What did our investigator say?
Our investigator thought it was likely that Barclays read out the scam warning it says it did to 
Mr H, but he wasnt satisfied that the warning was impactful enough in the circumstances to 
be considered an effective warning under the Lending Standards Boards Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM Code). So he didnt think Mr H had ignored an effective 
warning, and he thought that Mr H had a reasonable basis for belief. He concluded that 
Barclays should have reimbursed Mr H under the CRM Code. And, as he thought Barclays 
could have prevented the scam altogether, he said interest should be paid from the date of 
loss to the date of settlement at the account rate.
Barclays didnt agree. It said that its scam warning was relevant to the type of scam Mr H fell 
victim to, and was a strong, clear warning. But Mr H didnt listen to its advice. And he didnt 
attempt to verify or challenge the caller to confirm he was a genuine member of staff either, 
so he didnt complete due diligence. The complaint was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on 10 August 2021.
I said that Barclays is a signatory of the CRM Code, which requires firms to reimburse 
customers who have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the 
one Mr H has fallen victim to, in all but a limited number of circumstances. Barclays has 
argued that two of the exceptions apply in this case. Its said that Mr H ignored an effective 
warning it gave during the payment journey and he made the payment without a reasonable 
basis for believing that the payee was the person he was expecting to pay, the payment was 
for genuine goods or services and/or the person or business he was transacting with was 
legitimate.
The CRM Code says:
SF1(2)(e) As a minimum, Effective Warnings should meet the following criteria
(i) Understandable  in plain language, intelligible and meaningful to the 
Customer(ii) Clear  in line with fair, clear and not misleading standard as set out in 
Principle 7 of the FCAs [Financial Conduct Authority] Principles for 
Businesses
(iii) Impactful  to positively affect Customer decision-making in a manner 
whereby the likelihood of an APP scam succeeding is reduced. This 
should include steps to ensure that the Customer can reasonably 
understand the consequences of continuing with an irrevocable 
payment;
(iv) Timely  given at points in the Payment Journey most likely to have 
impact on the Customers decision-making;
(v) Specific  tailored to the customer type and APP scam risk identified 
by analytics during the Payment Journey, and/or during contact with 
the Customer.
Mr H doesnt remember hearing the scam warning Barclays says it read out to him. But 
having looked at the evidence Barclays has presented and considered what Mr H has said 
about the questions he was asked, I thought it was likely that it was read out.
I acknowledged that Barclays tried to give Mr H a warning in this case but overall, I wasnt 
satisfied that the requirements of the effective warning exception were met. Specifically, 
I didnt think the warning Barclays gave was impactful enough to be considered an effective 
warning under the terms of the CRM Code.
I said there are elements of the scam warning that relate to the type of scam Mr H fell victim 
to. It mentions the words fraud and scams, asks if someone else has requested the 
payment and whether the customer has been put under pressure to make the payment, and 
it says the bank will never ask its customers to make payments to a safe account. But the 
warning doesnt really bring to life what this type of scam looks like or highlight the common 
features of the scam. For example, it doesnt explain that fraudsters contact their victims 
pretending to be employees of the bank and convince them that they need to move their 
money to a safe account with urgency to keep it safe. It doesnt say that customers may be 
told to distrust bank staff, given a cover story or told to keep what theyre doing secret. And it 
doesnt say how convincing this type of scam can be or mention the prevalence of this type 
of scam. It also doesnt set out the potential consequences of continuing with an irrevocable 
payment if it turns out a scam is underway as it is required to do under the CRM Code. I was 
persuaded that the absence of such information meant that the warning wasnt likely to 
positively affect a customers decision making in a manner whereby the likelihood of the 
scam succeeding was reduced.
I thought that the circumstances of the scam made the warning Barclays gave even less 
effective. I said that Mr H was convinced by the fraudster, from the information they knew 
about him and the details they gave about why his branch had closed, that he couldnt trust 
Barclays cashier. He was told they might be involved in the fraudulent activity he was 
helping to stop, particularly if they tried to prevent him from making the payment. So 
I thought he was less likely to take notice of a standard warning containing general 
information about fraud and scams. He was persuaded to protect his money and help catch 
the employees involved in the fraud. I thought it wouldve taken a lot to break the fraudsters 
spell, but more impactful information would probably have led him to the realisation that all 
was not as it seemed, and he should explain the full circumstances to the cashier or 
someone else he trusted before making the payment. If Barclays had really brought to life 
what this type of scam looks like and explained the potential consequences of going ahead 
with the payment, then I thought this wouldve been important information in the context of 
this scam that wouldve affected Mr Hs decision making.
I was satisfied, from the evidence Id seen, that Mr H had a reasonable basis for belief. I acknowledged that he doesnt appear to have attempted to verify the caller or challenge 
them in any way. But he was convinced they were genuine from the details they knew about 
him and the closure of his branch. Hes said he thought what the fraudster was saying was 
reasonable and feasible at the time. So there was nothing to make him suspect that the 
caller wasnt who they said they were. And he was told to keep what he was doing a secret 
and act quickly to assist in catching the employees involved, so I didnt think it unreasonable 
that he didnt give information to the cashier or take further steps to protect himself. Mr H is 
elderly and lives alone, making him vulnerable to the techniques the fraudster was using to 
make him part with his money. Overall, the fraud was cruel and sophisticated, and I didnt 
think it unreasonable that it went undetected by Mr H.
Looking at everything, I was persuaded that Barclays should have refunded the money Mr H 
lost under the terms of the CRM Code. I was not satisfied that any of the permitted 
exceptions to reimbursement applied in the circumstances of this case.
In addition, I was persuaded that Barclays ought reasonably to have done more to prevent 
this scam. Mr Hs savings account received regular credits but there had been no withdrawal 
activity in the 12 months prior to the scam. And £10,000 is not a small sum. So I thought the 
transaction Mr H was instructing was unusual enough to have alerted Barclays to the 
possibility that he was at risk of being scammed. I said Barclays ought to have asked more 
questions and done more to adequately explain the risk to Mr H, or challenge the purpose of 
the payment. As set out above, I was satisfied that Mr Hs decision making would have been 
affected if Barclays had gone further, and Barclays could have led him to the realisation that 
he should explain what was happening to the cashier or someone he trusted before making 
the payment. If he had done so, I thought the scam wouldve quickly unfolded and he 
wouldnt have gone ahead with the payment.
I explained that the relevance of this finding is that Barclays ought to have prevented the 
loss, rather than just reimbursed Mr H under the provisions of the CRM Code. It follows that 
Barclays should pay Mr H interest from the date of loss, rather than the date it decided not to 
refund him under the CRM Code.
In all of the circumstances, I thought the fair and reasonable outcome was to uphold this 
complaint and require Barclays to refund Mr Hs loss of £10,000.
The payment was made from Mr Hs savings account. The account keeps a credit balance 
and withdrawals are made very rarely. So I thought it was likely that the money wouldve 
remained in that account if Mr H hadnt been defrauded and I thought it fairest to award 
interest at the savings account rate, compounded from the date of loss to the date of 
settlement.
I also thought it was appropriate to make a modest award of £200 for the trouble and upset 
Mr H has experienced in this matter. I was mindful that his loss was ultimately caused by the 
callous acts of fraudsters, but Barclays, at least, should have refunded the loss under the 
provisions of the CRM Code and, I was persuaded, it ought to have prevented the scam 
altogether. Had it done so, much of the trouble and upset caused to Mr H would have been 
avoided.
I invited Mr H and Barclays to send me any further information they wanted me to consider 
before I made my final decision.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr H agreed with my provisional decision and didnt have any further comments. But Barclays didnt agree. It said, in summary:
The cashier carried out their duty and followed the correct process. The scam 
statement read out to Mr H says The bank or police would never ask you to transfer 
money to another account or a safe account. This is exactly relevant to the type of 
scam Mr H fell victim to and is a strong, clear warning which mentions safe account. 
The warning also told Mr H to stop and speak to someone impartial about the 
payment, but Mr H continued with the payment without following that advice.
Mr H confirmed to the cashier that he had not been coerced into making the 
payment.
Mr H didnt complete due diligence before making the payment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Barclays doesnt agree with my provisional findings. But in responding, 
it hasnt given me any new information that I havent already had the opportunity to consider, 
or that would change my mind. And as Mr H has accepted my provisional decision without 
providing any new information either, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out 
in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct 
Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
reimburse Mr Hs loss of £10,000 within 28 days of receiving notification of his 
acceptance of my final decision; plus
pay interest at the savings account rate on that sum, compounded from the date the 
payment was made to the date of settlement*.
pay Mr H £200 for any trouble and upset this matter has caused him.
*If Barclays considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
the interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should also give him a certificate 
showing this, if he asks for one, so that he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman