DRN-4373793
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the cash settlement offered to him by Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited following a claim he made on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H has explained that his car was involved in an accident in December 2022. The car was 
sitting stationary in traffic, when the vehicle behind collided with it, causing damage to Mr Hs 
car.
Because of the damage caused to the car Mr H raised a claim with his motor insurer, 
Admiral. Admiral considered Mr Hs claim and accepted it. Admiral declared the car was a 
total loss, and made a settlement offer to Mr H. This offer was £6,070. This was based on 
Admiral noting the pre-accident value of the car was £6,420, minus a £350 policy excess. 
Mr H didnt consider this settlement to be fair  because he felt the valuation Admiral had 
placed on his car was incorrect. Mr H felt the market value of his car was worth more than 
what Admiral had said it was. And, Mr H said that Admiral hadnt taken some key factors into 
account when arriving at a pre-accident value for his car  these being that the car was silver 
in colour, and had parking assist, with a rear camera.
Because Mr H was unhappy with the settlement he was being offered, he raised a complaint 
with Admiral. It responded and maintained its position. Admiral said it had arrived at the pre-
accident value based on use of motor trade guides, in line with the terms of Mr Hs policy. 
And it was satisfied the valuation it had arrived at was fair. So, it didnt look to increase this. 
In addition, Admiral offered Mr H £50 compensation for some communication issues 
experienced. 
As Mr H remained dissatisfied, he referred a complaint to this service for an independent 
review. This complaint was only in relation to the cash settlement being offered in settlement 
of his claim. 
Our investigator considered Mr Hs complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. The 
investigator said Admiral had acted as per the terms and conditions of Mr Hs policy, and 
had provided a fair and reasonable settlement offer to Mr H. So, she didnt recommend that 
Admiral do anything more. 
Mr H didnt agree with the investigators outcome. Mr H reiterated that he didnt necessarily 
think using trade guides to provide a pre-accident value for his car was fair. He questioned 
the data that sat behind these trade guides  for example, whether the guides used a large 
enough amount of data, and over what period. And Mr H noted that at the time of his claim 
there was only a handful of cars, with the specification of his one, available nationally.
In addition to this, Mr H said that a value arrived at by one guide, which Ill call guide one, 
shouldnt have been discounted from our investigators considerations.
And lastly, Mr H said that when working out the value of a car, it should be possible to work 
out a margin for negotiation in an advertised price and arrive at the correct value for a car. 
Because Mr H didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. In this I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending on deciding that Admirals settlement offer is fair. So, Im 
intending on requiring Admiral to pay Mr H £6,070.
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr H. Its clear he feels strongly about the matter. 
But Id like to reassure the parties that Ive considered all information provided to be by both 
parties when coming to my intended decision. However, Ive only referred to what I consider 
necessary to explain my reasoning. This isnt intended as a discourtesy. But is a reflection of 
the informal nature of this service.
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly, and not unreasonably decline it. So, 
Ive thought about whether Admiral acted in line with these requirements when it agreed to 
settle £6,070 for Mr Hs claim. 
Ive also reviewed the terms and conditions of Mr Hs insurance policy, as this is the contract 
Admiral and Mr H entered into. On doing so, I can see that Mr Hs policy explains how a 
claim will be settled by Admiral. It explains it will either repair a vehicle or provide a cash 
sum to replace the car.
Mr Hs car was declared a total loss. So, it was decided repairing the car wasnt an option for 
Admiral, and instead it would provide a cash settlement, for Mr H to replace the vehicle. 
When providing a cash settlement, the policy explains the following:
If we give you a cash sum, the most we will pay is the market value of the vehicle
The policy also explains what is meant by market value. It says this is:
The cost of replacing your vehicle, with one of a similar make, model, mileage and 
condition based on market prices immediately before the loss happened. Use of the term 
market refers to where your vehicle was purchased. The value is based on research from 
industry recognised motor trade guides.
Given the above, Im aware that Admirals cash settlement, offered to Mr H, needed to be 
based on the cost to replace Mr Hs vehicle, immediately before the loss. And its clear that 
motor trade guides will be used when making this assessment. 
Our service doesnt value cars. Instead, we check to see whether the insurers valuation is 
fair and reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. So, Ive needed to 
do that in this case.
Ive therefore needed to consider whether Admirals settlement offer was in line with these 
policy terms.I understand Mr H has concerns about the use of trade guides. But its also important to note 
that it isnt unusual for an insurer to use trade guides when calculating the market value of a 
vehicle. The trade guides base values on specific information, including the make, model, 
age, specification, mileage and pre-loss condition of a car. And are based on nationwide 
research of prices. 
So, I usually find this persuasive evidence. And this service considers it reasonable for trade 
guides to be considered when an insurer values a vehicle, alongside any other information 
provided to evidence the pre-accident value of a car. Mr Hs policy also makes it clear these 
will be used.
From reviewing the evidence provided to me, Im aware Admiral used a trade guide, which 
provided the value £6,420.
Ive also re-run the valuation using this trade guide, as well as some additional trade guides. 
And the following values were provided for Mr Hs car:
Guide one  £7,218
Guide two  £6,420
Guide three  £5,925.
When re-running these guides, I ensured the colour of Mr Hs vehicle was noted, and where 
possible (guide two) I also included the additional parking technology Mr H had. So, Im 
satisfied the trade guides were provided with the relevant details  including colour, make, 
model, age, particular specifications, mileage and pre-loss condition of the car. As well as 
the parking assistance technology on guide two. 
I understand Mr H feels the parking technology would increase the value of his car. But, 
looking at the guide, the additional technology doesnt make a difference to the value arrived 
at. 
Admirals offer is the middle of the three values provided by the guides. As the value Admiral 
has arrived at is in line with the range of valuations detailed by the trade guides, I think 
Admiral took a fair and reasonable approach when coming to its decision on the pre-accident 
value of the car. 
Ive also considered whether there is any other persuasive evidence that settling the claim 
as above leads to an unfair settlement in this case. And I havent seen any. Ive havent seen 
persuasive evidence that it isnt possible to purchase the car for £6,420.
I appreciate that Mr H feels the settlement is too low. And Im aware that he has provided 
information from a website that advertises cars for sale. I have considered those carefully. 
But the cars Mr H has pointed to from that website were either of a different age, or different 
mileage to Mr Hs car. So, Im not satisfied this information shows that the pre-accident value 
of his vehicle was more than Admiral has detailed. Or that Mr H wouldnt be able to source 
the car for that value. So, I dont think Admiral has done anything wrong in this regard.
Admiral has offered Mr H £6,420, minus the £350 policy excess. Meaning the settlement 
provided to Mr H would be £6,070. Looking at the policy documents, I can see the applicable 
excess is £350. So, Im satisfied the settlement of £6,070 is a fair and reasonable one.
Admiral didnt respond to the provisional decision. Mr H responded and explained he didnt 
agree. In summary, Mr H said he didnt feel Admiral taking the middle range of the values 
from the motor trade guides was appropriate. He felt Admiral should pay the higher of the values from the motor trade guides. Mr H also reiterated his concerns about the data behind 
the trade guides.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain satisfied that Admirals offer is fair. So, I require Admiral to pay 
Mr H £6,070.
Mr H has reiterated his concerns about the use of trade guides. Its important to note I have 
considered this point when arriving at my decision. And I addressed this point in more detail 
in my provisional findings  which can be found above. 
But this service does consider it reasonable for trade guides to be considered when an 
insurer, such as Admiral, values a car  alongside any other information provided to 
evidence the pre-accident value. And Mr Hs policy is clear that trade guides will be used  
which isnt unusual. So, my decision on the use of trade guides here remains unchanged.
Trade guides arent an exact science - but are based on nationwide research of selling 
prices. So, as mentioned previously, I do find the information they provide persuasive 
evidence in respect of vehicle valuation. And I find it reasonable for Admiral to provide a 
settlement within the range of those guides.
I understand Mr H now feels Admiral should value his vehicle at £7,218, given that is the 
highest figure that comes out from the guides. But to find Admiral should increase its offer to 
this, Id have to be satisfied it wouldnt be possible for Mr H to replace his car for the £6,420 
(minus the excess) offered. And Im not satisfied thats the case. I havent seen any firm 
evidence it wouldnt be possible to purchase the car for the amount Admiral has offered. So, 
Im not requiring it to increase its offer.
As there hasnt been any further comments or evidence from either party, to alter my 
findings on this complaint, or the reasoning for it, my decision remains the same as that in 
my provisional decision. And for the same reasons.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I consider Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds 
settlement offer of £6,070 to be fair and reasonable. So, I require Admiral to pay this to Mr H, 
if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman