DRN-3992732
The complaint
Mr C, a sole trader, complains about the service received from Handelsbanken plc 
(Handelsbanken) in relation to a payment he was expecting to be made into his account.
What happened
In the second half of 2021, Mr C asked Handelsbanken to send him correspondence 
confirming his account details, and explained he was expecting an international payment 
following some work he had completed for a client. As requested, Handelsbanken provided 
Mr C with his account details.
Mr C issued an invoice to his client in March 2022 and was told to expect payment the 
following month. However, Handelsbanken rejected the payment in April 2022, explaining 
that Mr Cs account wasnt suitable for receiving some international transfers. 
Handelsbanken apologised to Mr C and wrote a letter to his client explaining that it had failed 
to tell Mr C his account wasnt able to accept the payment. The letter also said 
Handelsbanken was in the process of opening a new account for Mr C which would be 
suitable for accepting the funds.
Some further discussion then took place, before Mr C was told in May 2022 that following a 
conversation with Handelsbankens risk team, a new account couldnt be opened. The 
advisers Mr C was speaking with said they would challenge this, however, ultimately, the 
decision remained. Unhappy about matters, Mr C complained to Handelsbanken.
Handelsbanken reviewed things and, in summary, said it wasnt able to open a new account 
for Mr C for regulatory reasons. In relation to international payments, it said it had a list of 
countries from which it couldnt facilitate international payments  one of which included 
where Mr Cs client was making a payment from.
In further correspondence, Handelsbanken acknowledged that it should have identified that 
Mr C was intending to receive an international payment at the time he asked for his bank 
details. To put matters right, Handelsbanken paid Mr C £500 compensation and offered him 
a fee-free account. It also offered Mr C an interest-free overdraft on his account. 
Mr C didnt think this was sufficient, so he brought his complaint to this service. He also 
pointed out that whilst Handelsbanken had suggested opening an account with another 
provider to facilitate the payment, he wasnt able to because its online nature meant it 
couldnt provide the documents his client required. So, he says he was left with no option but 
to receive the payment through his wifes account with a different provider in October 2022. 
He said this was inconvenient as it involved some complications, including having to provide 
various pieces of documentation.
One of our investigators reviewed matters. In summary, he thought Handelsbanken could 
have explained its policy on international payments sooner to Mr C, which would have 
enabled him to make alternative arrangements to accept the payment earlier. However, he 
thought Handelsbankens offer to put matters right was fair.
Handelsbanken didnt dispute our investigators view, but Mr C did, and mostly repeated his 
earlier points. I discussed matters informally with Mr C. In summary, I explained that 
Handelsbanken restricted some international payments, which was a commercial decision it 
could make. I also explained that whilst I appreciated Handelsbanken could have handled 
matters differently, I thought how it had put matters right was fair. Mr C disagreed and asked 
me to issue a formal decision. He also provided further submissions in support of his 
position, which mainly reiterated some of his earlier points and the timeline of events.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr C for providing the detail he has in his submissions to this service. I have 
read and taken into account all that both parties have provided, however, my findings will 
only address matters I consider central to the outcome of this complaint. So, I wont address 
every point that has been raised, although I have taken every point into account when 
coming to my decision. I trust this wont be taken as a discourtesy, but this reflects the 
informal nature of our service.
The terms of Mr Cs account state that Handelsbanken has the right to refuse a payment into 
the account in the event that the payers account, the bank of the payer or any 
correspondent bank is located in a restricted country. The terms also outline that 
Handelsbanken may make changes to its restricted countries list, and, in summary, it could 
be contacted to obtain details of the restricted countries at that given time. 
Here, Handelsbanken has said the payment couldnt be received as Mr Cs account wasnt 
suitable for receiving international transfers from where the payment was being sent. It 
further explained that, in summary, the procedures associated with processing payments 
from the country in question would be too costly, given that the payment flows were on such 
a small scale. So, whilst I appreciate the frustration this would have caused Mr C, having 
considered the reasoning Handelsbanken provided, Im persuaded that this is a legitimate 
commercial decision that its entitled to make. 
That being said, Mr C made Handelsbanken aware that he was expecting the international 
payment in the second half of 2021, when he asked for his account details to send to his 
overseas client. So, its unfortunate that Handelsbanken didnt explain to Mr C that it 
wouldnt be able to facilitate the payment and, instead, just provided Mr C with his account 
details. Had Handelsbanken explained that it couldnt accept the payment, its likely 
Mr C would have found an alternative way to receive the funds sooner, and hed have done 
this before he sent an invoice to his client, which would have likely avoided the funds being 
returned. 
Ive considered that following this, there was a lot of discussion between the parties about 
how best to facilitate the payment. Handelsbanken explored whether opening a new account 
for Mr C was possible, albeit its risk team then said this couldnt be done. I appreciate the 
disappointment this would have caused Mr C. But having reviewed the correspondence 
between the parties, Im persuaded that Handelsbanken was doing its best to try and help 
Mr C in the circumstances and it was exploring ways that it might be able to facilitate the 
payment.
However, the fact remains that Handelsbanken could have told Mr C that it wouldnt be able 
to facilitate the payment sooner than it did, which both parties are in agreement with. And its 
not in dispute that Mr C was caused a degree of embarrassment and inconvenience as a result of this. Therefore, whats left for me to decide in the circumstances is whether what 
Handelsbanken has done is enough to put matters right.
In summary, and amongst other points, Mr C estimated that he has spent around 12 days 
trying to find a suitable method for payment to be made, over a period of around seven 
months, which he says is how long it took between when Handelsbanken first rejected the 
payment and when the payment was received. Mr C has also said he is still having to deal 
with matters several months following this. In addition, he says that the situation has affected 
his relationship with his client. Overall, Mr C has asked for a total of £10,500 compensation. 
This comprises of £5,500 for the time spent remedying Handelsbankens errors, and £5,000 
for the loss of future consultancy work and associated fee income. 
Whilst I acknowledge that Handelsbankens actions have impacted Mr C, Ive also 
considered that Mr C wouldnt have been in a position where the payment would have 
successfully credited the account because of Handelsbankens procedures. So, whilst I 
accept Mr C could have received the payment sooner, Im persuaded he would have always 
needed to find an alternative way to receive the money which would have involved some 
degree of inconvenience. And whilst I accept Mr C says he had trouble opening other 
accounts, I think that it was ultimately his decision to have the payment made to his wifes 
account, which  as our investigator noted  came with its own complications. 
Ive also considered that Mr C says the situation has affected his relationship with his client 
and has resulted in a loss of future revenue. But Ive not seen evidence to persuade me that 
Mr Cs client isnt placing further work with him due to the situation in question. So, on 
balance, whilst Ive considered Mr Cs comments here, Ive not been presented with enough 
to persuade me that this is something I can fairly hold Handelsbanken responsible for.
Deciding compensation isnt an exact science and can be subjective by nature. In order to 
reach a fair and reasonable outcome, Ive carefully considered all the circumstances and, 
importantly, the impact that I think Handelsbankens actions in particular have had on Mr C. 
Having done so, Im persuaded that the £500 Handelsbanken has already paid is a fair and 
reasonable way of compensating Mr C for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
matter.
I acknowledge Mr C has asked for significantly more than this and he says hes spent 
several working days trying to resolve the situation  so some of his calculations are based 
on his daily contracting rate. When considering compensation, we look at the overall impact 
caused and award an overall figure for what we think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. As I understand it, Mr C is saying he would have otherwise spent the time in 
question on being paid for his work. But, ultimately, Ive not been presented with enough to 
persuade me that he has lost out financially here, in the sense that he would otherwise have 
spent this time on being paid for work but for this issue. And, as outlined above, even if Mr C 
had been given the correct information earlier, he would have still needed to spend the time 
to find an alternative way to receive the payment given that Handelsbanken wouldnt have 
accepted it. So, with that in mind, Im satisfied that compensation of £500 is fair to recognise 
the impact caused.
Handelsbanken also says it agreed to waive Mr Cs account fee and provide an interest-free 
overdraft facility. I think this is reasonable and, arguably, more than fair in the circumstances. 
With this in mind, Im not going to direct it to continue to do this moving forward. But if it 
wants to do this as a matter of good customer service for Mr C, then it can choose to do so if 
it wishes.My final decision
Handelsbanken plc doesnt need to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman