DRN-3969807
The complaint
Mrs A complains that St James's Place UK plc (SJP) has failed to administer her pension 
savings in an effective manner. Specifically she has complained about two aspects of the 
administration of her pension savings. She complains that;
SJP failed to complete the transfer of her pension investments into a money market 
fund before trading in one of those investments was suspended.
SJP failed to transfer her pension savings to a new provider in a reasonable period of 
time.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in January 2023. In that decision I explained 
why I thought some of the complaint should be upheld and what SJP needed to do in order 
to put things right. Both parties have received a copy of the provisional decision but, for 
completeness and so those findings form part of this decision, I include some extracts from it 
below. In my decision I said;
One of our investigators has explained to Mrs A that her complaint about the transfer 
of her pension savings into the money market fund has been made too late. Mrs A 
hasnt disagreed with that assessment, so I wont be considering that part of her 
complaint any further. In this decision I will only be looking at the transfer of Mrs As 
pension savings to the new provider.
Mrs A held pension savings with SJP. She received advice and support on those 
pension savings by an appointed representative of SJP Wealth (a separate regulated 
firm). So this complaint does not deal with any aspects of the advice Mrs A received 
from her financial advisor. It only deals with the administration of her pension savings 
by SJP.
In October 2020 Mrs A decided to transfer her pension savings to another provider. 
SJP received a request for information on Mrs As pension savings from the new 
provider. But its initial response failed to provide all the information that had been 
requested. But SJP says that each stage of the transfer was ultimately completed in 
line with its normal expectations. The transfer completed on 26 November 2020.
It seems to me that both parties are now generally in agreement with what happened, 
and more importantly what should have happened, when Mrs A asked to transfer her 
pension savings to the new provider. So in this decision I only need to decide what 
SJP needs to do in order to put things right.
SJP has agreed that, considering its normal processing timelines, it would have been 
reasonable for Mrs As pension savings to be transferred to the new provider and 
reinvested by 16 November 2020. The actual transfer of her funds didnt complete 
until 26 November.
So I think it is right that SJP should compensate Mrs A for any investment returns 
she missed out on due to the delays to the transfer. Mrs A has explained that her 
agreement with her new financial advisor was that her pension savings would be 
reinvested as soon as they were transferred. And I can see that is exactly what 
happened. I have no reason to doubt that Mrs A would have taken the same 
investment approach had her pension savings been transferred sooner.
The investment approach that Mrs A took was based on the use of a model portfolio. 
So it is relatively straightforward to estimate the performance that Mrs As pension 
investments would have achieved by looking at the performance of the model 
portfolio. There is no need to consider the individual investments that Mrs A actually 
made since they would mirror those in the model portfolio. And taking that approach 
also ensures that any changes Mrs A made to her pension investments over the 
following years are fairly represented in the calculation of the loss she made.
 
SJP accepted our investigators findings, based on the redress methodology that Ive 
set out above, on 21 March 2022. At that point Mrs As new advisor provided details 
of the growth that would have been seen on Mrs As pension savings if they had 
been transferred on time, compared with their actual value. Those calculations, that 
have been shared with SJP, showed that Mrs As total investment loss at that time 
equalled £1,481.70.
But I think it reasonable that loss estimate should be recalculated as at the date of 
any final decision along these lines. And due to market conditions since the original 
calculation was performed, I think it is possible that a revised calculation might show 
that the loss has been reduced. But, in the specific circumstances of this complaint, 
I think that would lead to a fair outcome for Mrs A. The pension plan will have simply 
performed as it always would.
SJP accepted our investigators findings in March 2022. At that time it should have 
paid the compensation that was due to Mrs A. But, that compensation would most 
likely have been added to Mrs As existing pension investments  Ive not seen any 
reason such as conflicts with any existing protection or allowance that would make 
that unreasonable. So Im currently persuaded that it would be fair to assume that the 
compensation that was due in March, would have experienced a similar change in 
value to that seen by Mrs As other pension investments.
So I am currently minded that the compensation due to Mrs A should reasonably be 
recalculated as at the date of any final decision that I issue. So that means it should 
be based on the investment returns to that date, and so a further assessment will be 
required from Mrs As investment manager.
I also consider that a further payment should be made in respect of the distress and 
inconvenience that Mrs A has been caused by the delay to her pension transfer. 
I think a further payment of £100 would be fair here.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. 
Mrs A has been assisted in making her complaint by her husband (Mr A), who has also 
made a similar complaint about his pension savings. Mr A has provided us with a single 
response to my provisional decisions on both complaints. But I am satisfied that his 
comments do relate to Mrs As circumstances, as well as his own. In this decision, for ease, 
I will refer to all communications as if they were with, and from, Mrs A herself.Mrs A accepts my provisional decision, but asked for some further clarification on how the 
redress will be calculated - I will deal with those queries later in this decision. SJP also 
accepted my findings, but said that it didnt agree with how Id asked it to compensate Mrs A. 
Its response to Mrs As complaint was largely the same as that for Mr A. So I am sure that 
both parties will understand why my responses to SJPs comments on both complaints are 
similar. 
For ease, Im reproducing below a part of what SJP has said. But I want to reassure SJP 
that I have read, and carefully considered, the entirety of its response. SJP said;
We have to try and put a client into as closely as possible to the financial position 
they would have been in had things turned out differently. In circumstances like this 
one, we would typically compare the latest overall valuation of the units added by the 
actual transfer against latest overall valuation of the units that would have been 
added by an assumed earlier transfer if this was invested on the same basis. This 
confirms the investment performance achieved by each transfer and we provide 
redress for the difference if the assumed value is higher.
 
We obtain the detail needed to allow for the assessment by either asking the 
receiving scheme confirm the investment details or for the client for the contract note 
they received when the investment was confirmed to them. It either are not available, 
we will look at alterative measurements such as the model portfolio investment 
performance data you have used or benchmarking. 
This approach allows us to capture the ongoing impact of an investment delay is one 
that is aligned with the approach we have been asked to use by FOS when 
assessing potential losses. This is different from the one used in the proposed 
resolution as the main element essentially only captures the investment performance 
achieved while the transfer was held out of investment. 
This element captures the investment growth achieved from assumed investment 
date to the actual investment date. Had this growth been held in in the pension, the 
potential for this to be realised is only available if it was withdrawn to access this as a 
pension benefits. 25% of this would be taken as a tax-free cash sum from the 
uncrystallised transfer growth and the remaining balance from this and the full 
crystallised transfer growth would be taken as a taxable income. The tax deduction 
from the taxable income is calculated using the clients marginal rate of income tax at 
retirement and it is normally reasonable to assume they would be basic rate tax 
payer at this time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As in my provisional decision, in deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully 
considered the submissions that have been made by Mrs A and by SJP. Where the 
evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the 
surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have 
happened.
Ive thought carefully about what SJP has said about the form that the redress payable to 
Mrs A should take  the basis of which I have set out above. Having done so I cannot agree that SJPs proposals form a fair method of compensating Mrs A as I will now go on to 
explain.
Mrs As pension transfer was delayed by SJP. During that time her pension savings were 
effectively held in cash so didnt benefit from the investment returns that her proposed 
investments would have generated. It is clear that the missed investment returns Mrs A 
experienced during the delay are the responsibility of SJP.
But Mrs As losses didnt end at that point. Her pension savings would have continued to 
have been invested after that time, so any growth that had been achieved would have 
gained further compounded returns from future investment performance. So it is right that 
the assessment of Mrs As lost investment returns continues to the date of this final decision.
The approach that SJP has suggested would imply that, once the transfer had been 
completed, Mrs A withdrew the additional growth from her pension. That is unlikely in my 
opinion, and not supported by her actual actions. So leaving her funds invested would mean 
they wouldnt be subject to any income tax on withdrawal (nor would they benefit from the 
tax-free status of a pension commencement lump sum).
I also dont think it appropriate to simply take a snapshot of Mrs As investments at the time 
of transfer. Mrs A has appointed an investment manager to look after her pension savings. 
One of the obvious potential advantages of that approach is that her pension investments 
can be altered from time to time to reflect changing sentiment in the markets and ensure her 
investments are spread across different asset classes to match her attitude to risk at any 
time. That has been achieved through the use of a model portfolio. It is the performance of 
that model portfolio that best represents the investment performance of Mrs As pension 
savings from the date the transfer should have happened, to the date of this final decision.
The calculation of the performance of Mrs As pension investments will need to be 
undertaken as at the date of this final decision. I understand that Mrs A has already liaised 
with her investment manager, and it stands ready to provide the necessary information to 
SJP. However, taking account of Mrs As concerns about the time it has taken so far for her 
complaint to be resolved I think it reasonable to set a four-week deadline for the payment of 
any compensation to her. If that time is exceeded then I will direct SJP to pay additional 
compensatory interest to Mrs A.
Putting things right
I think that Mrs As pension savings should have been transferred to the new provider 
sooner than they were. I think that, had the transfer progressed as might reasonably be 
expected, Mrs As pension savings would have been reinvested on 16 November 2020. So, 
to put things right, SJP should;
Calculate using the information to be provided by Mrs As investment manager, as at 
the date of this final decision, the notional current value of Mrs As current pension 
plan had her pension funds been transferred and reinvested in line with the approach 
taken by Mrs A by 16 November 2020. This is the notional value.
Compare this value to the actual value of Mrs As pension savings at the date of this 
final decision.
If the notional value is greater than the actual value of Mrs As pension, then Mrs A 
has suffered a loss and should be compensated accordingly. If the notional value is 
less than the actual value of Mrs As funds, then theres no loss and no investment 
compensation is due.Should SJP fail to pay the compensation to Mrs A within four weeks of receipt of Mrs As 
acceptance of this final decision, and the performance data from her financial advisor, it 
should add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to the compensation from the date of 
my final decision to the date of settlement. HM Revenue & Customs requires SJP to take off 
tax from this interest. SJP must give Mrs A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if 
she asks for one
The compensation should be paid into Mrs A's pension plan. The amount paid should allow 
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If SJP is unable to pay the total amount into Mrs A's pension plan, it should pay that amount 
direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable 
income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax 
that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs A's expected marginal rate of tax at 
retirement. I think its reasonable to assume that Mrs A is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at 
retirement, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, as Mrs A would have been able to 
take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, 
resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
SJP should pay Mrs A a further sum of £100 in respect of the distress and inconvenience 
this matter has caused to her.
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons given above and in my provisional decision, is that I uphold 
Mrs As complaint and direct St James's Place UK plc to put things right as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman