DRN-4056113
The complaint
Miss D has complained about Asurion Europe Limiteds (Asurions) handling of a claim she 
made under her mobile phone insurance policy.
What happened
Miss D made a claim on her mobile phone insurance policy which was accepted. Asurion 
sent out a replacement phone which it says was delivered to a neighbour of Miss D on 
7 December 2022.
Miss D says she was at home waiting for the delivery, but it wasnt attempted to be delivered 
to her address. She also says the phone couldnt have been delivered to the address 
Asurion says it was as nobody was living there. She also says nobody by the name recorded 
on the delivery system has ever lived there. 
Miss D says she eventually discovered the phone was with a different neighbour on 
3 January 2023. But because of Asurions error, she was without her phone for almost a 
month which left her isolated and caused her distress and inconvenience.
One of our investigators considered Miss Ds complaint and thought it should be upheld. She 
said Asurion hadnt sufficiently evidenced that the phone was safely delivered. So, she 
recommended Asurion should pay Miss D £50 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience she had suffered.
Asurion didnt accept our investigators opinion. So as no agreement has been reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss D has said she incurred significant call charges on her landline in attempting to resolve 
this issue. But all parties have agreed that this part of her complaint needs to be raised 
separately as Asurion hasnt had the opportunity to investigate or respond to it. So, Im 
unable to consider or award the call charges as part of this complaint. Instead, this complaint 
focuses on whether or not Asurion has made an error, and if it has, whether Miss D has 
suffered undue distress and inconvenience as a result.
In cases like this, where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, Ill reach my decision 
on the balance of probabilities. That is, what do I consider is more likely based on the 
evidence which is available.
Asurion says it has investigated with its delivery agent who has confirmed the GPS data 
obtained from the delivery driver shows he was in the correct area at the time of delivery. It 
says Miss D had leave with a neighbour or leave in a safe place enabled on her account 
and it has sent a photo which it says shows the phone was delivered to the address it says it 
was. Asurion says the fact Miss D didnt activate the phone until 3 January 2023 doesnt 
prove it was not delivered, just that it wasnt activated.
Miss D has provided a signed statement from the family at the neighbouring property 
confirming nobody would have been at the house on 7 December 2022 and that nobody by 
the name recorded on the delivery notice has lived at that address either. Im persuaded by 
this evidence that the parcel was not left with the person the delivery agent says it was.
Ive thought carefully about the evidence and arguments from both sides. I dont think its in 
dispute that the phone was delivered somewhere in the vicinity of Miss Ds property. The 
issue seems to be that it wasnt appropriately delivered to the place Asurion says it was. So, 
the GPS data isnt particularly helpful in these circumstances.
Ive seen the photo provided by the delivery driver. And while I accept Asurions argument 
that this appears to show the same property it says the phone was delivered to, by virtue of 
the pebble dash render and alleyway which can be seen on the property on online mapping 
services, I also agree with our investigator that the photo doesnt show that the phone was 
appropriately delivered to the neighbour Asurion claims it was.
I say this because the photo doesnt show the door as being open or that the neighbour was 
present, just a low-resolution image of what seems to be a parcel on a doorstep in an 
alleyway. Ive also considered the terms and conditions of the delivery agent. These suggest 
that the phone may be left with a neighbour, but I dont think they suggest it can be left 
unattended on a neighbours doorstep. And my interpretation here seems to be supported by 
the fact that a neighbours name was recorded on the delivery drivers system, despite the 
fact that nobody lived at the address by the name which was recorded. If it were acceptable 
for a phone to be left unattended on a neighbours doorstep, then I see no reason for a 
neighbours name to have been captured or recorded at all. And if it were acceptable to 
leave the parcel unattended on a doorstep, I fail to see why it would be more acceptable to 
do so on a neighbours doorstep, than on the doorstep of the intended recipient.
In any event, my remit as an ombudsman is to decide what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. And I dont consider, in the circumstances of this case, that a phone left 
unattended on a neighbours doorstep can fairly or reasonably be considered to have been 
safely delivered to the intended recipient.
Based on everything Ive seen, Im not persuaded that Asurion has demonstrated the phone 
was appropriately delivered to Miss D or to the neighbour it says it was. I also think Miss Ds 
actions are consistent with her version of events, as I can see that she was promptly 
contacting Asurion to advise the phone had not been delivered and that nobody of the 
suggested recipient name appeared to exist. So, taking all of the evidence into account, Ive 
decided to uphold this complaint.
I think being without her mobile phone throughout December, including the Christmas and 
New Year period, would have been inconvenient and upsetting. But Im also mindful that 
Miss D still had access to a phone, and so wasnt completely out of contact. So, in these 
circumstances, I think Asurion should pay Miss D £50 compensation to put things right.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold Miss Ds complaint.
 
Asurion Europe Limited must pay Miss D £50 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it has caused her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman