DRN-3500146
The complaint
Mrs D has complained about the service provided by UK Insurance Limited (UKI) and that 
it failed to reimburse legal costs under her home insurance policy following an incident.
What happened
Work was being carried out by the landlords insurers in November 2020 at the rented home 
in which Mrs D and her children lived. Mrs D moved with her family to another property on a 
temporary basis whilst her possessions remained at her rented home. Mrs D visited her 
rented home and found water pouring out of the front door. The mains water supply hadnt 
been closed off completely by the workmen and the toilet hose had not been capped. 
The escape of water caused substantial damage to the property and to Mrs Ds furniture and 
personal belongings. She reported the matter to UKI and asked about alternative 
accommodation as the flat was no longer habitable. UKI told Mrs D that she couldnt make a 
claim on her policy and that the matter should be handled by her landlords insurers.
Mrs D stated that she was eventually referred to UKIs legal expenses department who 
advised her to appoint her own solicitor. She did so, and this cost £540. UKI said it hadnt 
authorised instruction of a solicitor and declined to cover these legal fees. It said that Mrs D 
had confirmed that shed decided not to pursue a claim against UKI at that stage. It said it 
offered to help towards the costs of alternative accommodation and to look to claim this back 
from Mrs Ds landlord at a later date. It acknowledged certain service failures however and 
paid £300 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs D.
Mrs D complained to this service. Our investigator provided varying views about the 
complaint, however after considering further evidence she ultimately upheld it. She 
considered that, on the balance of probabilities, Mrs D had been referred by UKI to its legal 
team. She recommended that UKI pay the legal costs of £540 and increase the level of 
compensation paid to £550 as she didnt think that UKI had done enough to assist Mrs D. 
Our investigator said that on a number of occasions Mrs D had asked for help with her 
situation, however UKI had been unsympathetic. She said it didnt explain to Mrs D that if 
she made a claim under contents insurance for her damaged furniture, then she also had 
alternative accommodation cover as her home was uninhabitable.
UKI didnt agree with our investigators view and the matter was referred to me to make a 
final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This case involved a complicated and traumatic train of events for Mrs D and her family. The 
key issues for me to determine are firstly, whether UKI acted in a fair and reasonable 
manner by refusing to reimburse Mrs D for the £540 cost of instructing her solicitor. The 
second question for me to determine is whether the compensation which UKI paid to Mrs D 
was adequate to cover its acknowledged service failings. I dont consider that UKI acted 
fairly and reasonably in all respects and Ill explain why.
The starting point for me in coming to my decision is the policy itself. I note that the relevant 
terms and conditions of the policy state the following under the heading; - Family Legal 
Protection, that it will provide legal cover as long as a claim has reasonable prospects of 
success ... It includes cover in relation to contract and property disputes but doesnt include 
cover for claims relating to; leases, tenancies or licences to occupy land or buildings. Under 
the heading Other Losses not covered; it also refers to any dispute with us about this 
insurance policy. and loss or damage that is insured under any other insurance policy.
Mrs D explained that she was already in temporary accommodation when the incident 
occurred due to a previous leak at her home. It was during the repair of this leak, arranged 
by the landlords insurers that the extensive damage occurred, and Mrs Ds furniture and 
certain personal possessions were ruined. She also experienced traumatic events around 
finding extended emergency accommodation for herself and her family over the Christmas 
period and during the pandemic. She said she had to arrange moves, storage, drying and 
replacement of damaged items without assistance from her insurers. In addition, she said 
that she experienced the distress and inconvenience of being pushed from pillar to post.
Mrs D stated that although pleasant in their dealings with her, UKI had refused to process 
her claim, and that despite several phone calls it said that her losses should be covered by 
her landlords buildings insurance policy. She said that the landlords insurers initially gave 
an indication that they would be covering her losses but then abruptly changed its stance 
and referred her back to UKI and the contractors who had caused the escape of water.
Mrs D said that UKIs claims agents eventually referred her to its legal advice line. She said 
the lawyer she spoke to said that her only recourse was to appoint her own lawyer to start 
proceedings against her landlady, with whom shed previously had a good relationship. She 
said that she was advised that she had £100,000 of legal cover and that the lawyer she 
appointed would be able to obtain an indemnity against her policy. She said she therefore 
appointed a lawyer in December 2020 as advised. When she then looked to UKI to cover the 
cost of this appointment, she said that it immediately repudiated the claim stating that 
landlord and tenant disputes were specifically excluded from cover.
In summary, Mrs D said that; despite quite desperate pleading, the emotional and financial 
stress was overwhelming.  She also stated that: - This litany of stress, costs, 
inconvenience, disruption, illness and shambles could have been avoided had [UKI] 
attended to [her] claim immediately and properly advised me from the outset.
Turning to what UKI have to say about the matter, in its final response letter in July 2021, it 
said that it didnt agree that the advice she was given was wrong. It denied that thered been 
a discussion about appointing and paying for a solicitor to prepare a claim. It said that her 
legal expenses policy wouldnt cover costs before UKI had agreed to meet them and any 
advisor on the legal advice line would have known this.
As to the service Mrs D had received, UKI said that the claim was originally being handled 
by the landlords insurer and this was the correct process. It acknowledged that it initially 
advised Mrs D in December 2020 that no part of the claim would be covered by UKI, 
however it said that the following day, it corrected this and said that there was cover. In view 
of this, it stated that there would have been no need for Mrs D to seek legal advice.
UKIs file notes showed that at the end of December 2020, UKI agreed that it could pay a 
contribution and set up a recovery if Mrs D wished to claim with UKI for her contents. It also 
recorded that Mrs D didnt want to claim just now for her contents as she felt the landlords insurers should be covering the damage due to their contractors negligence. It stated that it 
wouldnt cover a claim for alternative accommodation as it had no control over the time 
scales for the building work. It also said that it was unable to intervene in a dispute Mrs D 
was having with the landlords insurer. UKI considered that the legal fees related to the issue 
of accommodation and not contents for which it was responsible as insurer. It was 
unfortunately unable to produce relevant telephone records from its legal advice line.
In summary, UKI said that Mrs D was told in early December 2020 that there was cover for 
her lost and damaged contents. It considered that Mrs Ss on-going dispute with her landlord 
was unrelated to the cover she had with UKI. It remained of the view that it wasnt 
responsible for the legal costs incurred by Mrs D.
Having carefully considered what both UKI and Mrs D have to say, I broadly concur with our 
investigators final conclusions. I sympathise with Mrs D and can see that through no fault of 
her own, she has suffered a distressing and traumatic train of events at an extremely difficult 
time. Difficulties and misunderstandings can sometimes occur in relation to insurance claims 
which involve rented accommodation. However, we would expect the tenants insurers to 
provide clear guidance and assistance to their policyholders in such circumstances. I can 
see that UKI did attempt to provide such assistance, however the guidance was not always 
clear and consistent. In this case a difficult and inconvenient situation became traumatic and 
distressing, partly due to the way it was handled by UKI.
UKI doesnt dispute that it referred Mrs D to its legal assistance line. I also have no reason to 
disbelieve Mrs Ds account that the advice line representative did indeed take a sympathetic 
approach having heard Mrs Ds account. Im satisfied on the balance of probabilities that the 
representative advised that the only remaining recourse for Mrs D was to instruct a solicitor 
to resolve her remaining issues and that this action would be covered by her insurance 
policy, with cover of up to £100,000. It does appear that, having taken this action as advised, 
the deadlock was resolved, and the various remaining elements of the claim were settled.
In the circumstances, I note that the policys legal expenses terms and conditions do not 
cover landlord and tenant disputes or disputes about the policyholders insurance policy. The 
terms dont specifically exclude disputes with the landlords insurers. It may be that it was 
intended that such disputes were excluded under the broad heading of landlord and tenant 
disputes. Regardless of the correct interpretation of the definition however and the elements 
of claim which Mrs D was still pursuing, Im satisfied that Mrs D reasonably believed she was 
acting upon UKIs advice. On the balance of probabilities, I consider that Mrs D was led to 
believe by UKIs legal advice helpline representative, that her instruction of a solicitor to try 
to resolve the outstanding issues was covered by her policy. It would be fair and reasonable 
for UKI to cover this sum of £540 in all the circumstances.
On top of the distress and trauma caused by the escape of water, I agree that Mrs D was 
pushed from pillar to post by the insurers involved in this case. Its unfortunately inevitable 
that some additional correspondence, dispute and negotiation takes place in complex 
landlord and tenant insurance scenarios of this nature where contractor negligence is also 
alleged. I can see from the file notes that UKI were applying the terms and conditions of its 
policy, whilst also generally showing a sympathetic stance towards Mrs D. Having said this, 
it also made some errors such as initially repudiating Mrs Ds contents claim and then 
realising that it had made an error in this respect. Im satisfied that UKIs customer service 
was not clear and consistent and that this will have added to the stress and inconvenience 
caused to Mrs D.
In conclusion, I uphold Mrs Ds complaint. Im satisfied from all the available evidence that 
UKI didnt handle Mrs Ds claim in a fair and reasonable manner in all respects. I note that 
Mrs D asked UKI for help on many occasions about her stressful set of circumstances, however the advice she received from UKI wasnt always adequate, accurate or 
sympathetic. I can see UKI have paid £300 compensation in recognition of some of the 
service issues. I consider that this amount is too low however, and Im satisfied that £550 
would represent reasonable recognition of UKIs service failings here. I appreciate that UKI 
did engage with Mrs D on a number of occasions and was generally sympathetic towards 
her. Nevertheless, Im satisfied that UKI didnt handle Mrs Ds claim fairly and reasonably in 
the respects noted above, and this added to the considerable stress and inconvenience 
shed already experienced
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mrs Ds complaint and require UK Insurance 
Limited to; -
-Reimburse Mrs D the £540 she paid to her solicitor within 28 days of her acceptance 
of this Final Decision.
-To pay 8% a year simple interest* from the date she paid the sum of £540 to her 
solicitor (following production of a receipt by Mrs D), to the date of settlement.
- Pay further compensation of £250 in addition to the £300 already paid to Mrs D to 
ensure an overall compensation payment of £550 within 28 days of her acceptance 
of this Final Decision. If UKI pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of this Final Decision to the date of payment at 8% a 
year simple interest*.
*If UKI considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from
that interest, it should tell Mrs D how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs D a
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue &
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman