DRN-2886248
The complaint
Ms T complains about Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money and way they classified 
her payment made to an existing finance provider.
What happened
In February 2021, Ms T opened a credit card account with Clydesdale. She was approved 
for a credit limit of £4,200.00. Ms T took out the credit card to pay part of a finance 
agreement she took with another lender when purchasing a car, who Ill refer to as S. 
On 15 February, Ms T used her credit card to pay S £4,200.00, taking her up to her credit 
limit. But the payment was classified as a cash transaction, meaning Ms T was charged a 
5% cash advance transaction of £210.00. As this exceeded Ms Ts credit limit, she received 
a notification from Clydesdale.
On 17 February, after discovering shed exceeded her limit due to the transaction fee, Ms T 
paid £4,200 off her Clydesdale credit card account. She also paid an additional £1.15, which 
she felt covered the interest her account wouldve accrued for the two days the £4,200.00 
was on the account. But she didnt think the £210.00 transaction fee was fair, considering 
shed cleared the original balance in full. So, she raised a complaint.
Ms T didnt think Clydesdales terms and conditions made it clear how a payment used to 
pay an existing finance agreement would be classified. So, she didnt think it was reasonable 
for Clydesdale to charge her the £210.00 transaction fee. She thought the transaction she 
made shouldve been blocked, as Clydesdale shouldve realised this wouldve exceeded her 
credit limit once the transaction fee was applied. So, she wanted the £210.00 transaction fee 
refunded to her, as she paid this to avoid any further interest charges.
Clydesdale didnt agree. They explained S had classified the transaction as a cash 
transaction. And as Ms T was using credit card to pay off other credit, they thought this was 
reasonable. They thought their terms and conditions made it clear how a transaction fee for 
a cash transaction would be calculated, as well as the interest on any outstanding balance. 
So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Ms T remained unhappy with this 
response, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He recognised Ms Ts upset 
and he didnt doubt her belief that she could make use of the promotional rate of 0% interest 
on her credit card account. But he thought Clydesdale had acted within the terms and 
conditions of the account when they classified the transaction as a cash advance. So, he 
thought Clydesdale acted reasonably when charging a transaction fee within that. So, he 
didnt think they needed to do anything further.
Ms T didnt agree. She maintained her view that the terms and conditions were unclear and 
didnt specify what charges would be applied to a finance payment. And she didnt think the 
£210.00 transaction fee was fair, when shed cleared the original payment balance within 
two days. 
Our investigator responded to these points, explaining the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
rules dont stipulate that every kind of transaction needs to be set out in the terms of an 
agreement. So, he thought the terms and conditions made it reasonably clear that a finance 
payment didnt fall into the other categories so it was reasonable to assume it would be 
classified as a cash transaction. And because of this, the transaction fee was fair no matter 
how long the balance remained on the card. So, his view remained the same. Ms T 
remained unhappy, so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Ms T. Ive no doubt Ms T 
believed the payment she was making qualified as balance transfer or money transfer, 
meaning shed be able to make use of the promotional rate of interest applied to the card. 
So, when she received a notification stating shed exceeded her credit limit, I can appreciate 
the worry and upset this wouldve caused. And I can understand why shed hold Clydesdale 
responsible for this, as finance payments arent specifically outlined in the terms and 
conditions of the agreement she entered into.
But for me to say Clydesdale have done something wrong, Id need to be satisfied that the 
way they classified the payment, and the charges they applied, fell outside of the terms and 
conditions of the agreement Ms T entered into. Or, if it did, that Clydesdale acted unfairly by 
doing so. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive seen the credit agreement Ms T wouldve signed, as well as the terms and conditions of 
that agreement. And within these, it explains how different types of payments are classified. 
The payment Ms T made wasnt purchasing goods or service, as she was paying off an 
existing finance agreement. And it was paid in sterling, meaning it couldnt be classed as a 
non sterling transaction. And the payment wasnt being transferred into another UK 
account, so it couldnt be classed as a money transfer.
This leaves two types of payment classification, a balance transfer or a cash advance. A 
balance transfer is when a balance on a credit or store card is transferred over to another. 
This wasnt the case in this situation, as Ms T was using her credit card to pay off a finance 
agreement, which was a loan with a set monthly payment over a set term. So, I dont think 
the payment Ms T fell under this classification.
So, this left cash advance as the last remaining classification. Clydesdale have explained it 
was S who classified the transaction in this way. And this is how the payment process works. 
The receiving party, in this case S, would receive notification of the pending payment and 
make Clydesdale aware of the type of transaction using a code through a merchant. So, I 
dont think I can say Clydesdale have acted unfairly by processing the transaction in this 
way.
I understand Ms Ts unhappiness that a finance payment wasnt included under the cash 
advance section, which she feels is unclear. But I think the agreement, and the terms and 
conditions, make it reasonably clear of what each payment classification includes. And by doing so, I think its reasonably clear that the cash advance classification would be the only 
one the payment would fall under by process of elimination. 
Clydesdale describe cash advances as cash you withdraw using your credit card, including 
an ATM, buying foreign currency or travellers cheques and gambling transactions. The use 
of the word including suggests this isnt a definitive list of all possible cash advances. And 
there is no requirement set by the FCA that says Clydesdale needed to provide the entire list 
of what may be included. The payment Ms T made to S was essentially a cash payment, as 
she was paying off an existing finance agreement. And as Ive explained above, Ms T wasnt 
buying goods or services, or transferring her balance to another card. 
I understand Ms T has held other credit cards with different providers, whove included a 
section which explains how finance payments would be charged. So, I can understand why 
she thinks Clydesdale shouldve included this. But this isnt a requirement set by the FCA. 
And I think the terms and conditions provided enough information for Ms T to work out how 
her payment would be processed. So, again, I dont think Clydesdale have acted unfairly by 
classifying the payment as a cash advance.
Because of this, I think Clydesdale were entitled to charge a transaction fee, in line with the 
terms of the agreement. These terms state Clydesdale will charge a transaction fee equating 
to 5% of the total payment. Ms T made a payment of £4,200.00 and Clydesdale have 
charged a transaction fee of £210.00, which is 5%. So, I think theyve acted in line with the 
terms of the agreement.
I understand Ms T feels this transaction charge is unfair, as she paid the balance within two 
days. And she calculated the interest to be worth £1.15, which shes paid. But this fee is 
charged per transaction, not based on the time a balance is held on a card. So, although I 
understand Ms Ts frustration, I dont think it would be fair for me to say Clydesdale should 
refund this amount, as it was charged fairly in line with the terms of the agreement.
Im also aware that Ms T thinks Clydesdale shouldve blocked the transaction as they 
shouldve realised it would take her over her limit. But this isnt something Clydesdale have 
to do. Its a customers responsibility to ensure any payments they make remain within the 
credit limit theyre provided. And although I appreciate Ms T wasnt aware of the impending 
charge, I dont think Clydesdale wouldve known this at the time. Ive seen Clydesdale made 
Ms T aware shed exceeded her limit, and this gave Ms T the opportunity to make a payment 
to fall back below her limit on the same day. This is what I wouldve expected Clydesdale to 
do.
So, Im satisfied Clydesdale acted with the terms and conditions of the agreement when they 
classified the payment Ms T made as a cash transaction and charged the relevant 
transaction fee. And I think acted fairly when doing so as I think it was made reasonably 
clear in the terms of the agreement. Because of this, I dont think Clydesdale need to do 
anything more. 
I understand this isnt the outcome Ms T was hoping for. And I recognise this leaves Ms T in 
a position where shed paid more than she intended to, when she was attempting to arrange 
her finances to minimise the interest shed have to pay. But I hope this decision explains why 
I dont think Clydesdale did anything wrong on this occasion and provides some closure to 
Ms T.
My final decisionFor the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Ms Ts complaint about Clydesdale Bank Plc, 
trading as Virgin Money.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman