DRN-2712825
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy Lloyds Bank PLC trading as Scottish Widows Bank (SWB) has not be 
able to locate his account. 
What happened
Mr G recently found a statement from 2001 which suggested he had £518.72 in a Scottish 
Widows VIP Premier Account. He contacted SWB and asked for the money to be paid to 
him. 
SWB let Mr G know that it couldnt find an active account in his name. Mr G was unhappy 
with this and brought his complaint to this service. He was also unhappy SWB didnt respond 
to an earlier letter hed sent.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and let Mr G know she was satisfied based on the 
searches SWB had performed, it was likely the account had been closed or the funds 
transferred out of the account. She didnt think SWB needed to do anything more. She let 
Mr G know that this service couldnt look at the way SWB had handled his complaint.
Mr G asked for an ombudsman to review the case. He said he was disappointed the account 
hasnt been found and feels it has been left frozen all this time. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at everything, I wont be upholding Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why. 
In cases like this, where the evidence about what happened is incomplete and inconclusive,
I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to
have happened, based on the limited information available and the wider surrounding
circumstances.
Businesses dont have to retain information indefinitely and its common industry practice that 
records are usually only kept for around six years. SWB has confirmed it has information 
from 10 years ago, so its searches have been more thorough than what wed usually see in 
cases like this. 
The role of this service is to look at what checks SWB has done to try and trace what
happened. Im satisfied it has done all the checks it can, including checking its dormant 
account register. I also note that Mr G hasnt changed address in this time, so I would have 
expected had the account still been open, he would have received correspondence about it 
in the meantime. 
This doesnt mean I know where the money went, and after more than 19 years we most 
likely never will know. But Im satisfied SWB has done all it can to find out what happened to 
the account and the money that was in it.
Having reviewed everything, I think it is more likely than not the account was closed, or the 
funds were transferred elsewhere. While I can appreciate Mr G may not be able to recall 
what he did with them, Im satisfied SWB hasnt done anything wrong here. 
As the investigator has explained to Mr G, it isnt within my remit to look at how SWB dealt 
with his complaint. It has explained it didnt receive his initial letter and that is why it didnt 
respond to him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC trading as 
Scottish Widows Bank.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman