DRN-3275173
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) for pursuing them for an 
outstanding premium, which they say has been paid. They want Aviva to accept that 
payment has been made and stop pursuing the debt. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B held home insurance with Aviva. Their policy was set to automatically renew in 
March of each year. 
Aviva sent Mr and Mrs B their quote for 2020/2021. The monthly premium was £452.26. Mr 
and Mrs B did not cancel the policy, so Aviva auto renewed their policy in March 2020. 
Aviva wrote to Mr and Mrs B to advise that their direct debit had been cancelled and that 
monthly premium payments were falling into arrears. The letter explained that if Mr and Mrs 
B wanted to cancel the policy they would need to get in touch and that cancelling the direct 
debit did not cancel the policy. 
Aviva did not hear from Mr and Mrs B and wrote to them again in July 2020. This warned 
that if the outstanding premiums were not made then the policy may be cancelled. 
In August 2020, as the premiums remained outstanding, Aviva cancelled the policy.
Mr and Mrs Bs broker contacted Aviva and requested that the policy be reinstated. This was 
agreed on the condition that the outstanding premium be paid. 
Aviva did not receive the premiums so wrote to Mr and Mrs B again in October and 
November 2020. Aviva advised that if payment was not made then the policy would be 
cancelled. 
Mr and Mrs B say that payment of the outstanding premium was paid in early November 
2020. 
Aviva did not receive this payment, and requested that Mr and Mrs B provide further details 
about the payment, and initiate trace action on the payment with their bank, so that the 
payment could be identified and attributed to Mr and Mrs Bs account. 
Mr and Mrs B did not provide the additional information and Aviva cancelled the policy in 
December 2020. Aviva has subsequently pursued Mr and Mrs B for the outstanding 
premium, up until the date of cancellation.
Mr and Mrs B complained to Aviva. They said that they had paid their premiums up to date. 
Aviva responded and repeated that the payment had not been received. Aviva asked Mr and 
Mrs B to initiate trace actions with their bank. 
Mr and Mrs B were not happy with this and contacted us. Aviva has paused debt recovery 
action while this complaint is considered. 
One of our investigators has looked into this matter and set out her view to the parties. This 
was that Aviva had given due warnings that it had not received payment and that it intended 
to cancel the policy. She considered that Aviva had not acted unreasonably and did not 
recommend that Aviva do anything else. 
Mr and Mrs B did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed the file of evidence and my colleagues view. I have particularly considered 
the screen view of Mr and Mrs Bs bank statement showing payments in November 2020. 
My colleague has previously explained that she passed this screen view evidence to Aviva 
and that Aviva has explained that it remains unable to locate the payments. Aviva has 
requested additional information and has asked that Mr and Mrs B instruct their bank to 
initiate a search for the payments, as the payments do not appear to have arrived with Aviva. 
This explanation given has been clear and both Aviva and my colleague have explained why 
further information is needed. My colleague also allowed further time for this to be provided. 
Mr and Mrs B have not provided that further information or shown that trace action has been 
initiated. 
As my colleague explained, businesses are entitled to cancel a policy if payment has not 
been received, and Aviva gave warnings that it would do this. Businesses are also entitled to 
pursue debts of unpaid premiums for cover provided. 
I appreciate that this will be disappointing to Mr and Mrs B but for these reasons I agree with 
my colleagues conclusions and do not uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.  
If Mr and Mrs B now provide the requested information to Aviva, and they remain unhappy 
with Avivas action in response they are entitled to make a further complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint and I do not ask 
Aviva Insurance Limited to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman