DRN-4403722
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Aviva Life & pensions UK Limited (Aviva) is only paying a small 
proportion of her late husbands pension to her and she is dissatisfied with Avivas 
explanation of how it arrived at the figure payable.
What happened
Mr W purchased a pension annuity with Aviva in 2009. He passed away in December 2022 
and had been receiving a pension of around £370 per month. But Aviva said the 
dependents pension payable to Mrs W would only be £14.68 per month. Unhappy about this 
Mrs W complained to Aviva.
Aviva didnt uphold the complaint. It said Mr Ws pension plan had comprised two parts. A 
smaller protected rights part and a larger non-protected rights element. It said when the 
annuity was set up the protected rights part provided a pension for Mr W of £29.36 per 
month with a mandatory 50% spouses pension of £14.68 which was now due to be paid. It 
said the larger non-protected rights element hadnt provided for any spouses pension, which 
was why payments had stopped.
Mrs W wasnt happy with this explanation and referred her complaint to our service. She said 
her husband had saved thousands of pounds into his pension and only received around 
£400 per month in payments. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint, but she didnt uphold it.
She said unfortunately Aviva didnt have full records. But it had provided a copy of a 
confirmation letter dated 25 November 2009, sent after it had set the annuity up. And based 
on this, it appeared to have been set up correctly. She said Mr Ws pension had in part been 
contracted out of the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS) and this had given 
rise to the protected rights element in his plan. The original rules about contracting out had 
stated that a dependants pension of 50% had to be provided from protected rights funds. 
The confirmation schedule confirmed that Mr Ws pension was split £93,888.86 in non-
protected rights and £8,422.80 in protected rights. From the non-protected rights fund Mr W 
had taken tax free cash of £23,472.22 and purchased an annuity on his life only with the 
balance. This provided a pension of £4,442.88 per year before any income tax. But because 
no dependants pension had been selected this income stopped on his death. The protected 
rights element provided tax-free cash of £2,105.70 and an income of £352.32 per year 
(£29.36 per month). With a 50% dependants pension of £14.68, which was now due for the 
rest of Mrs Ws life. 
Our investigator said whilst Aviva hadnt been able to locate copies of the application forms 
completed by Mr W, she thought it fair to conclude things had been set up properly. Because 
Mr W hadnt raised any queries after hed received the confirmation schedule or tried to 
cancel the setting up of the annuity as he could have done. She said the confirmation 
schedule confirmed the annuity couldnt be cashed in at any time or have a surrender value. 
So, she said she didnt think Aviva had made any error.
Mrs W didnt agree. She said it was unfair that Aviva only had to pay her £14.68 a month 
which was too little to live on. She said it didnt have enough evidence to justify this, and that 
her husband had received only a small amount of money that had been in the pension.
Our investigator said she would query why Aviva didnt have the application paperwork 
completed by Mr W. Aviva searched its records and did locate some application details 
which it provided. This didnt set out details of the annuity profile that Mr W had selected. 
Our investigator said whilst this didnt confirm the type of annuity Mr W had wanted to set up, 
she still didnt think Aviva had made an error.
As Mrs W doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint.
I understand how distressing all this must be for Mrs W, but I dont think Aviva has made an 
error or treated her unfairly. Ill explain why.
Aviva wasnt providing Mr W with advice about his pension plan or setting up the annuity. As 
our investigator has explained when a pension annuity is purchased various options are 
available. And at the time Mr W purchased his annuity these could only be selected at 
outset. Options included whether a dependants pension would be paid if the person buying 
the annuity died or whether the pension will increase in payment. Adding options like these 
will reduce the amount of income the annuity pays. And at the time it wasnt possible to 
guarantee that the annuity would return the full amount paid into it. So, the longer a person 
lived the better value the annuity would be. And until 2012, when the rules changed, 
protected rights benefits had to provide for a 50% spouses pension if the person buying the 
annuity was married. 
It's frustrating that Aviva doesnt hold full records, but that isnt surprising given the time that 
has passed since Mr W set the annuity up. Data protection laws have increasingly 
discouraged the retention of records that are more than six years old. But the records it does 
have confirm that Mr W did apply for an annuity. These include an application form signed by 
both Mr and Mrs W dated 15 October 2009.
This form doesnt ask for the specific annuity options required to be entered. Instead, it asks 
for a quotation reference to be given in a section titled:
Quote ID of how benefits are to be set up printed on the bottom of each page of your 
illustration. 
And a handwritten reference number has been entered. The form also has a section for the 
approximate pension values split between protected and non-protected rights to be entered. 
With £8,116.00 and £92,672.00 have been entered respectively. I think its likely that these 
values were taken from the illustration provided to Mr W. 
I did note that the Quote ID noted on the confirmation letter differed from that on the 
application form. So, I asked Aviva about this. It said that annuity illustrations were only guaranteed for a certain period of time and if a 
requote was prepared on the same basis the second part of the Quote ID number would be 
updated. And that the number would also be updated each time the quote was recalled on 
the system, for example when the funds were received to set the annuity up. The 
confirmation schedule dated 25 November 2009 confirmed the application date was 15 
October 2009, so its likely the original quotation Mr W would have received would have 
expired and been updated more than once between him receiving it and the annuity being 
set up. So, I think this is a reasonable explanation for the different number.
And once the annuity had been set up Aviva did send Mr W confirmation details setting out 
what was to be provided. It would also have provided him with cancellation documents giving 
him the right to change his mind it the arrangements werent what he wanted. As Mr W didnt 
contact Aviva, I think it is reasonable to assume he was content with what had been 
arranged. 
 
I asked Mrs W if shed been able to locate any more records from the time, but she hasnt 
responded. So, from the evidence available there is no indication that Aviva has made any 
error and it simply set up the type of annuity profile that Mr W applied for. That means I cant 
uphold this complaint and Aviva neednt do anything further.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman