DRN-3901232
The complaint
Mr F complains about incorrect information given by Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) when his 
sole trader account overdraft facility was withdrawn.
What happened
Lloyds wrote to Mr F in May 2021 to notify him that they were withdrawing his sole trader 
overdraft facility and that he was required to repay the outstanding balance within 14 days. 
On receipt of the letter Mr F called Lloyds to discuss his repayment options given his 
personal and financial circumstances. But Mr F says that Lloyds provided incorrect 
information about how repayment of the overdraft could be handled.
In response to Mr Fs concerns Lloyds apologised for incorrectly informing him that his credit 
file wouldnt be affected. They offered Mr F £100 for the upset and frustration caused. 
Unhappy with Lloyds final response and the compensation offer, Mr F contacted our service. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Fs complaint. They said there had been some 
miscommunication between Mr F and Lloyds. But that once the situation was made clear, 
they thought Lloyds had taken reasonable steps to aid Mr F with solutions to repay the 
outstanding debt in a manageable way. And they said the £100 offered by Lloyds to Mr F 
was fair.
Mr F rejected the investigators findings. So, the complaint has been passed to me and I 
issued a provisional decision.
What I said in my provisional decision dated 28 October 2022
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since Mr F has brought this complaint to our service, its come to light there are other issues 
that Mr F feels need to be addressed. Mr F will need to raise these with Lloyds for them to 
investigate and issue a final response. For clarity, these additional concerns are in relation to 
the opening of the limited company account and historic mortgage arrears. I wont be 
commenting on these points, as they are yet to be reviewed by Lloyds.
Withdrawal of the sole trader account overdraft
Mr F says Lloyds cancelled the overdraft on his sole trader account without notice. Ive 
looked at the terms and conditions of the account in relation to overdraft and charges. It says 
under section 11 of Borrowing from us: 
At any time we may withdraw or restrict any right to an overdraft or ask you to repay your 
overdraft. We do not have to give you advance notice before we do, but we will tell you in 
writing if we require repayment of your overdraft.
Lloyds have sent a copy of the formal demand notice sent to Mr F on 28 May 2021. This 
says: The Debt must be repaid within 14 days of the date of this letter. So, Im satisfied 
Lloyds hasnt acted incorrectly or treated Mr F unfairly when it called in the sole trader 
account overdraft. It followed the terms and conditions which Mr F would have agreed to 
when he opened the account and provided him with 14 days notice to repay the outstanding 
balance.
Impact on credit file
Its not in dispute that Mr F was given the wrong information when he asked about whether 
his credit file would be impacted if he let the overdraft pass onto Lloyds recoveries team. 
Lloyds have compensated Mr F £100 for this error, and I think this is fair. Ultimately, Mr F 
wasnt in the financial position to repay the overdraft in full, so any repayment plan put in 
place would negatively impact his credit file. So, I wont be asking Lloyds to do anything 
more regarding this part of the complaint.
Repaying the overdraft using the Limited company account
One of Lloyds call handlers suggested that Mr F could use the lending facility associated 
with his limited company account to repay the outstanding overdraft balance on his sole 
trader account. Lloyds have sent us a copy of the call recording which Ive listened to. And 
Ive noted when the call handler makes this suggestion to Mr F, he recognises that this isnt 
a feasible option as he couldnt use a company account to repay a debt that he was 
personally liable for. I appreciate the call handler suggested something that wasnt viable 
and, therefore, Mr F lost faith as to whether Lloyds were able to help him with the repayment 
of the debt. But this incorrect information hasnt made a difference to the fact Mr F still needs 
to find a way of repaying the overdraft. So, I dont think Mr F has lost out because of what 
the call handler said, as he was already aware that the call handlers suggestion wasnt 
viable.
Repaying the overdraft off using a personal loan
Another option suggested to F was to apply for a personal loan to repay the balance. 
Following this suggestion, Mr F made an appointment to attend a branch meeting to make 
an application for a personal loan. Mr F says the branch submitted an application, but it was 
declined. Initially Lloyds said they didnt know why the application had been declined. But on 
further investigation, Mr F was told that the application was declined due to historic adverse 
credit information on his credit file.
Lloyds say they dont have any record of telling Mr F to apply for a personal loan, or any 
details or notes of the meeting Mr F says he had in branch. But I can see from the contact 
notes Lloyds have sent us, that on 12 July 2021 it says, was suggested to do it as a 
personal loan. And Mr F says he had an appointment with the branch on 30 July 2021 
where the application was declined. So, Im persuaded that Mr F was told to visit a branch to 
apply for a personal loan.
Ive looked at Lloyds criteria for the application of a personal loan. The terms and conditions 
say that Personal loans are available for almost any purpose except; illegal use, speculation 
(i.e., gambling) and business purposes. So, Im not satisfied that Lloyds acted fairly in 
suggesting Mr F apply for a personal loan for business use, when the terms and conditions 
say that personal loans cant be used for business purposes. And it follows, that Im 
persuaded that Lloyds mismanaged Mr Fs expectations and caused him the trouble and 
inconvenience of going to a branch where there was no prospect of him being accepted for a 
personal loan.se. Because of this I think Lloyds should pay Mr F an additional £100 as an 
apology for the inconvenience caused.Moving forward
Our service isnt a debt advice service, and its not for us to  tell Lloyds what remedies it 
should offer Mr F to help repay what he owes. Its for Mr F and Lloyds to work together to 
agree on a repayment plan for the outstanding balance. I think it would be helpful for me to 
explain that this could mean Mr Fs account is defaulted and this would be reported on his 
credit file. But it would mean that Lloyds may be able to agree to repayment of the 
outstanding balance on terms more achievable for Mr F. And further interest and charges 
are generally stopped at this point. But there may be other remedies that Lloyds may want to 
explore with Mr F that would be acceptable to both parties.
Mr F says that he accepts that the outstanding debt is his responsibility. What he finds 
concerning is the service hes received from Lloyds when trying to work with them on how he 
can repay the debt in a way thats affordable for him with the least financial impact.
I agree that the service Lloyds have given Mr F when he asked them for help isnt 
satisfactory. Lloyds have already compensated Mr F £100, but I think £200 overall is a fairer 
reflection of the trouble and upset and inconvenience that impacted Mr F during a stressful 
situation due to the misinformation he was given.
Responses to my provisional decision
I invited both parties to send any additional comments or evidence they had before reaching 
a final decision. Lloyds responded to say they didnt have anything further to add and that 
theyd be happy to resolve the complaint in the way I recommended in my provisional 
decision.
Mr F responded and made further comments about the way in which Lloyds have handled 
the situation and his accounts from the start  particularly, because hes been a customer of 
the Lloyds for more than 30 years. And he feels the right thing for Lloyds to do would be to 
cancel the debt, right it off and remove any adverse information from his credit file.
Mr F also said that he didnt understand or agree that there were some issues that couldnt 
be dealt with within this complaint as they are linked and part of the overall complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The remit of this decision relates to the incorrect information given by Lloyds when Mr Fs 
sole trader account overdraft facility was withdrawn. Any other issues that Mr F feels need to 
be addressed hell need to raise with Lloyds directly to give them an opportunity to resolve 
the issue without the need for our intervention.
I appreciate Mr F feels that the further issues hes raised are all one complaint. But the 
matter regarding the repayment of the overdraft, would still need to be resolved and wouldnt 
be dependent on the outcome of the other issues hes raised. 
As Ive previously mentioned its not for us to tell Lloyds what remedies it should offer Mr F to 
help repay what he owes. There are several ways a lender can help. As Mr F suggests, one 
of these is writing off a debt. But more commonly its about reaching a fair agreement as to 
what is an affordable repayment amount. Mr F has explained his financial difficulties and that he cant afford to repay the overdraft in 
full. So, he needs to contact Lloyds to discuss his financial situation with them to see how 
they can help. 
In relation to the information recorded on Mr Fs credit file, I cant see that the adverse data 
isnt a true reflection of what happened. Mr F has had the benefit of the money and it hasnt 
been repaid in line with the terms of the overdraft. So, I wont be asking Lloyds to remove 
any information thats been recorded because of the unpaid debt. 
Its not in dispute that the level of service Mr F got from Lloyds was inadequate. This is the 
reason I upheld Mr Fs complaint and proposed that Lloyds increased the amount of 
compensation for this from £100 to £200. Mr F hasnt provided me with any new information 
that would lead me to think further compensation is due.
When we look at awards, we look at whats been the impact of the business mistake on the 
consumer. And considering the incorrect information Mr F was given in an already stressful 
situation, and the impact thats been caused, I think the additional £100  total £200, 
compensation fairly represents this. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Lloyds Bank PLC should now settle the matter as set out above.  Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or reject my decision 
before 11 February 2023.
 
Helen Giles
Ombudsman