DRN-3874638
The complaint
Mr V is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed his bank account and applied a fraud 
marker against his name.
What happened
Mr V says that he was at a family gathering at his home when he wanted to buy some 
presents for one of the children. As he wanted the child to buy the gift themselves, he 
handed over his Barclays bank card. As well as this, he provided his mobile telephone and 
opened his mobile banking application for them to use.
The following day, Mr V says that he realised his account was in debt as transactions had 
been carried out above the balance in the account. He later contacted Barclays to query this 
and was informed that his account was being closed and hed have to pay off the 
outstanding balance owed. 
When Mr V questioned Barclays as to why it had decided to do this, it informed him that hed 
misled the bank and had carried out reversals on the payments falsely. Mr V told the bank 
that he hadnt carried out the reversal requests; this was done by the child hed given access 
to his card and telephone.
Barclays considered Mr Vs claim but felt it was unlikely to be the case. It remained of the 
opinion that his accounts were closed correctly and decided to load his details onto the Cifas 
database: a fraud prevention agency.
Mr V was unhappy with this, so he contacted our service to carry out an independent review. 
An Investigator considered the evidence and testimony provided by both parties, but felt that 
the account closure and Cifas loading were fair in the circumstances. Broadly, he felt that 
Mr Vs testimony portrayed events that he didnt think were likely. And as refund requests 
were made for items Mr V had decided to keep, he felt the test had been met to load a Cifas 
marker and close the account.
Mr V disagreed with the Investigator as he maintained that the refund requests were carried 
out by a third-party, and he had no knowledge of them until after the event. He also felt 
Barclays could have identified the multiple refund requests as unusual sooner and declined 
them.
As Mr V disagreed with the Investigators assessment, the matter has now been passed to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Recording of the Cifas marker
One of the relevant considerations here are set out by Cifas: the fraud marker database 
controller. In its Handbookwhich members must adhere to when loading markersit 
sets out the burden of proof the member must meet. The relevant standards regarding this 
complaint are:
1. That there are reasonable grounds to believe that a fraud or financial crime has 
been committed or attempted.
2. That the evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member 
[Barclays] could confidently report the conduct of the subject [Mr V] to the 
police.
Barclays has said that these standards have been met in that Mr V was knowingly 
submitting false disputes regarding legitimate transactions that had been made on his 
account.
Mr V contests this and says that he was not responsible for the dispute claims, as these 
were carried out by a family member hed handed over control of his mobile banking and 
card to.
Having considered the evidence and testimony available, I have concludedon the 
balance of probabilitiesthat Barclays has demonstrated it has met the bar to load the 
marker against Mr Vs name and close the account.
I would like to begin by reassuring both parties that my findings are not designed to 
make any accusations against Mr V. They are instead to weigh up the all the evidence 
available in this case and present what I find to be the most likely scenario here. I was 
not present during the events that took place, so I cant be certain what happened. 
Mr V has told our service that hed given a young family member access to his bank card 
to buy a gift for themselves online. He also provided them with his mobile banking 
application on his phone to allow for any approval that was required for purchases. Once 
several purchases were made, Mr V says that his family member then began disputing 
the purchases using the online chat function of his mobile banking application without his 
knowledge.
Considering the age of the child/children Mr V has told us his family member was, I find 
this to be an unlikely scenario. His family member was in their early teens and therefore 
would likely have been unfamiliar, not only with the functions of online banking, but how 
to dispute transactions and request a temporary reversal. I also find it compelling that 
Barclays has provided our service with evidence that Mr V was familiar with this process 
and had previously made a substantial number of dispute claims and requests for 
temporary reversals; some of which he provided no evidence or reason to support his 
claim. These were also in relation to the same merchants that had been paid as part of 
this dispute.
Mr V has also changed elements of his testimony several times over the course of his 
complaint. Having listened to the calls between Mr V and Barclays, Mr V originally 
claimed that the transaction was carried out by his son. When challenged regarding the 
implausibility around his age in comparison to his sons, Mr V then changed this to his 
nephew. Hes also been inconsistent around the age of the child/children that had carried 
out the payment reversals with ages ranging from 11 to 16 in different conversations with 
the bank.
Furthermore, Mr V was asked about the funds that had entered his account prior to the 
disputed transaction carried out by his family member. Initially, Mr V claimed that was a person he knew well and provided their first name. Later, Mr V changed this first name in 
correspondences to a different one hed originally given.
While I realise that mistakes can be made, and Mr V may have an innocent explanation 
for these numerous inconsistencies, I do place weight on this and deem it to diminish the 
reliability of his version of events.
Lastly, the transactions and disputes raised were carried out between 16:48 on 11 
December 2020 and 14:34 on 12 December 2020. I find it unlikely that Mr V would have 
given his phone and bank card to a family member for such a lengthy period of time to 
buy a present.  
Overall, when taking into account all the above factors in combination with each other, I 
find it more likely than not that Mr V raised these disputes himself. And as the 
transactions were authorised, and Mr V has told our service that he received the services 
paid for, I find it reasonable that Barclays interpreted these disputes as fraudulent in 
nature and loaded Mr Vs details to the Cifas database.
Mr V has argued that its irrelevant who carried out these reversals as Barclays breached 
its own terms and conditions by allowing so many disputes to go through without 
questioning them: but I dont agree. Barclays has a responsibility to investigate and deal 
with claims that a customer makes where they dont recognise or dispute a payment 
made on their account. If a customer raises a dispute knowing that the transaction was 
legitimately made and the services received, this does give it reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime has been committed or attempted, as this is a 
misrepresentation to the bank.
Account closure
Businesses have the right to close a customers account, as long as this is done so fairly 
and in line with the terms and conditions of the account or any relevant law and 
regulation.
In Barclays terms and conditions, it sets out that it can close a customers account 
immediately if it has reasonable grounds for thinking a customer has provided false 
information or has committed, or attempted to commit, fraud against it.
As Ive already highlighted above, Im persuaded that Mr V was likely the party raising 
the dispute claims against payments that had been legitimately made on the account, 
and this presented a risk to the bank. I therefore find that Barclays were reasonable in 
closing Mr Vs account regardless of notice given. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman