DRN-2525493
The complaint
Mr S complains that MBNA Limited incorrectly reported adverse information to the Credit 
Reference Agencies which resulted in declined mortgage applications.
What happened
Mr S says MBNA reported adverse information to the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) 
which resulted in declined mortgage applications. He says he was looking to take out a Buy 
to Let mortgage and a residential mortgage and says two applications were refused which 
has meant he has taken out a mortgage on less favourable terms.
MBNA accepts it made a mistake and upheld Mr Ss complaint. It has corrected the 
information on Mr Ss credit file and paid £100 compensation. But it says there is no 
evidence its mistake was the reason the mortgages were declined.
Mr S brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought it impossible to be sure why the applications were rejected as neither lender would 
give Mr S the reasons for the rejections. The investigator thought there were many factors 
taken into consideration by lenders and so it would be unfair to hold MBNA responsible for 
what took place. The investigator thought the compensation paid by MBNA fair and 
reasonable.
Mr S doesnt accept that view and says its clear it was MBNAs actions that led to the 
mortgages being refused and says we ought to be able to ask the businesses in question for 
their exact refusal reasons.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that its impossible to be sure that MBNAs 
actions resulted in the mortgages being refused. I appreciate Mr S will be disappointed by 
my decision.
There is no question here that MBNA made a mistake by reporting incorrect information to 
the CRAs. I accept Mr S would have been concerned about that and spent time telling 
MBNA about the problem. But Im satisfied MBNA has fairly apologised for what took place 
and fairly amended the credit file. Im also satisfied that its paid what I think is a fair and 
reasonable compensation amount which I think fairly reflects the level of its mistake and the 
impact it had on Mr S.
Lenders consider a variety of factors and carry out a number of checks when considering 
applications for credit, loans and mortgages. Those checks and factors will vary depending 
on the type and amount of the proposed lending. I can see here that the two lenders in 
question have told Mr S that they cant provide the specific reasons why they rejected Mr Ss 
applications. Without that evidence I cant be sure that the reason for the refusal to lend was 
due to MBNAs mistake and so I cant fairly hold it responsible for what took place. I have 
made clear that there are many variables and factors that are taken into account and I can 
see that some lenders did offer Mr S a mortgage which I think provides evidence of that.
I appreciate Mr S says we ought to be able to request the exact reasons for the rejected 
applications from the lenders. But I can see both lenders have said they will not provide that 
information and so we cant take that issue any further forward. I also think such lending 
decision criteria is likely to be commercially sensitive and that any lender is under no 
obligation to tell a would-be borrower the exact reasons for a refusal to lend.
Overall, I cant fairly conclude that MBNAs actions resulted in the refused mortgage 
applications. I can see that Mr S says he is considering court action in any event, and I think 
this brings an end to what we in trying to sort out this dispute informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman