DRN-3470113
The complaint
Miss S has complained that Everyday Lending Limited trading as George Banco lent to her 
irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss S was given a guarantor loan of £1,000 in July 2020. The loan was repayable over 12 
months with monthly repayments of around £103. If the loan ran to term, the total amount 
repayable including interest was just over £1,236.
Miss S complained that the loan wasnt affordable. One of our adjudicators looked into the 
complaint and didnt think that EDL had acted irresponsibly when it provided the loan. Miss 
S, through her representatives, disagreed with the adjudicators assessment.  As the 
complaint has not been settled, it has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about high cost credit and guarantor loans on our 
website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
Ive considered this approach when deciding Miss Ss complaint.
EDL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Miss S irresponsibly.  I 
think there are key questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
Did EDL carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss S 
was in a position to sustainably repay the loan? If not, what would reasonable and 
proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Did EDL make a fair lending decision?
Did EDL act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss S in some other way?
EDL was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment (and a similar assessment 
on the guarantor). This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check. 
The checks had to be borrower focussed  so EDL had to think about whether repaying the 
loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Miss S. In other 
words, it wasnt enough for EDL to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money 
back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Miss S. The existence of a 
guarantee and the potential for EDL to pursue the guarantor instead of Miss S for the loan 
payments doesnt alter, lessen, or dilute this obligation. 
EDL had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss S would 
be able repay the loan sustainably. There was no set list of checks that EDL had to do, but it 
could consider a number of different things such as the loan amount, the length of the loan 
term, the repayment amounts, and the borrowers overall financial circumstances. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough: 
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); and
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
Ive carefully considered all the evidence, arguments and information Ive seen about this 
matter and what it means for Miss S. 
EDL asked Miss S for information about her income and expenditure. It acquired a credit 
report and used ONS data in its affordability assessment. EDL says the checks it carried out 
before it agreed to lend to Miss S were reasonable and proportionate, and that the loan was 
affordable for her. 
Miss S told EDL that she was going to use its loan for household improvements. Ive 
reviewed the information that EDL gathered at the time including the credit report and notes 
from her application. I think EDL would have been aware that Miss S had previously had 
difficulties repaying credit and had defaulted accounts. But given the type of lending, I think a 
lender would reasonably expect to see some adverse information on a credit report.  And I 
think it would have been reasonable for EDL to have considered the adverse information on 
Miss Ss credit report to be largely historic, with debts that were being repaid on a regular 
basis. 
Ive thought about whether, given Miss Ss difficulties repaying previous credit, EDL ought 
reasonably to have looked further into her finances, for example by requesting a bank 
statement. But overall, given the relatively low level of lending, I think the checks that EDL 
carried out before lending to Miss S were reasonable and proportionate, in the 
circumstances. Given what Miss S had told the lender about her circumstances, as well as 
the information gathered at the time, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for EDL to 
ask Miss S for the amount of information that would be needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable before agreeing the loan. 
Ive also considered whether Miss Ss defaulted accounts meant that EDL ought reasonably 
to have concluded that she would be unlikely to repay her loan sustainably. Miss S told EDL 
that most of her defaulted debts had been cleared through working overtime and that she 
intended to continue to do this. It seems to me that EDL considered Miss Ss management of 
her largely historic defaulted accounts, the level of her income and the amount of disposable 
income available after all her expenditure was taking into account. Overall, I cant fairly say 
that EDL ought reasonably to have concluded from its checks that Miss S was having such 
difficulties managing her finances that she would be unable to repay the loan sustainably.Ive not seen anything which makes me think that EDL treated Miss S unfairly in some other 
way. And taking everything into account, I cant fairly say that EDL lent to Miss S 
irresponsibly. 
I know Miss S will be disappointed by my decision, but Id like to reassure her that I have 
carefully considered all the information that has been provided about this matter. Having 
done so, I do not uphold Miss Ss complaint about this loan.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint or make any award against 
Everyday Lending Limited trading as George Banco. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 July 2022.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman