DRN-3688877
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O have complained that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited unfairly declined a 
claim they made for storm damage under their home building insurance policy. 
What happened
In November 2021 Mr and Mrs O made a claim for storm damage which led to water ingress 
in their home from their roof. Their insurer Admiral declined the claim as it said the cause of 
damage was wear and tear. Admiral said it excluded cover for this cause of damage. 
Admiral also said storm conditions hadnt occurred at the time of the event. 
Mr and Mrs O asked us to look at their complaint as they were unhappy with Admirals 
decision. They said their roof was in a good state of repair. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. Although he found there 
was enough to show storm conditions had occurred, he thought Admiral had shown its 
decision to decline the claim was reasonable as a storm wasnt the main cause of damage. 
Mr and Mrs O disagree and want an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like most if not all insurers, Admiral doesnt provide cover for every eventuality. Insurers 
provide cover for specified insured perils such as storm, flood or fire. In other words, sudden 
unforeseen events. It isnt unusual for insurers to exclude cover for damage caused by 
gradual deterioration of materials or wear and tear.
We ask three questions when considering storm damage claims to help decide whether an 
insurer has acted in a fair and reasonable way. These are: 
 Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
 If so, is the damage being claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically 
causes? and;
 Were storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to all these questions is 'yes' then the claim is likely to succeed. But, if the 
answer to any of the above questions is 'no' - the claim for storm damage is unlikely to be 
covered.
Admiral provides a definition of a storm under its policy which says:
Storm - Wind speeds with gusts of at least 48 knots (55mph), or heavy rainfall at a 
rate of at least 25mm per hour, or snow to a depth of at least 30cm in 24 hours, or 
hail of such severity that it causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass.
Admiral says local weather reports show the wind gusts reached 53 mph. I dont think the 
difference of 2mph in the recording of local weather data here is enough to say that storm 
conditions didnt occur at the time of the event. So I think the answer to the first question is 
yes. 
A flat roof ripped off from Mr and Mrs Os property. I think this damage is consistent with 
damage that a storm might cause. So the answer to the second question is yes. 
Admiral instructed a Surveyor to visit Mr and Mrs Os property in order to validate the claim. 
The Surveyor provided photos of the flat roof which was damaged. The Surveyor reported 
that the roof had been deteriorating over a period of time and the cause was due to a 
breakdown of materials. 
Mr and Mrs O provided a copy of a homebuyers (HB) report from July 2019. They say this 
shows the roof was in a good state of repair. 
The HB report said the inspection was limited due to no access to the roof void or garage. 
The report said the property was in good condition for lending purposes. No other reference 
was made as to the condition of the roof. 
Ive looked at the photos provided by the Surveyor in December 2021. I think they support 
their professional opinion that the roof wasnt in a good state of repair. So I think it was 
reasonable for Admiral to rely on the Surveyors conclusion when deciding to decline the 
claim. I dont think the HB report proves Mr and Mrs Os claim. And Im mindful of the fact 
that it was an opinion on the property based on a very limited inspection from two and half 
years before the claim. 
Mr and Mrs O were unhappy that the Surveyor incorrectly advised on the level of cover they 
held. Admiral upheld this complaint. It said it was correct that Mr and Mrs O held accidental 
damage cover. But it explained that this cover excluded damage caused by water entering 
the home. 
Mr and Mrs O said the Surveyor incorrectly commented that the flat roof hadnt been 
declared. Admiral agreed this was incorrect. 
For the errors in identifying the correct level of cover under the policy, Admiral paid Mr and 
Mrs O £100 compensation. 
I agree Admiral is responsible for some poor service here. I dont think the errors change the 
outcome of the claim as I think Admiral reached its decision to decline the claim in a 
reasonable way. So I think the compensation Admiral paid is fair. 
I understand Mr and Mrs O will be disappointed with my decision. But based on what Ive 
seen, I dont think Admiral needs to do any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Geraldine NewboldOmbudsman