DRN-3156466
The complaint
Mrs B complains about how Nationwide Building Society dealt with an allegation in a branch 
in March 2021.
What happened
Mrs B says Nationwide wrote to her following an allegation made against her by staff 
members when she attended a branch on 9 March 2021. She says Nationwide told her she 
was behaving in a threatening manner and that it had a record of similar behaviour when she 
attended its Warrington branch. Mrs B says she asked that Nationwide write to her son 
about this complaint and disputes the earlier incident took place. She is unhappy about how 
Nationwide investigated what took place and its process for doing so. She also says there is 
a wider issue for customers being forced to us ATMs for transactions and says she lives 200 
miles away from Warrington and did not attend that branch.
Nationwide says it hasnt discriminated against Mrs B and says it asks all customers to 
consider using ATMs for certain transactions. It accepts the wording of its letter to Mrs B 
could have been more appropriate and says feedback has been provided to staff members. 
Nationwide has told us that the incident that it has recorded as Warrington in November 
2020 was in Mrs Bs local branch and is satisfied the incident involved her. It doesnt accept 
its staff dealt inappropriately with Mrs B when she attended its branch in March 2021 and 
says it wrote to the account holder rather than Mrs Bs son for security reasons.
Mrs B brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought it likely a recording mistake 
took place for the earlier incident and that Nationwide had accepted its letter about the 
March incident could have been written more appropriately. The investigator thought 
Nationwide could have explained why it continued to write to Mrs B rather than her son and 
recommended that Nationwide pay £100 compensation. She also thought Nationwide could 
have called Mrs B before sending the letter in March 2021
Nationwide says it will pay the compensation but says it cant call every customer in this type 
of situation.
Mrs B doesnt accept that view and in summary says she would like Nationwides complaints 
process investigated and says the earlier incident did not take place. She questions why the 
investigator has accepted what Nationwide says about that incident and says she should 
have been provided with the evidence related to it. Mrs B questions Nationwides process 
and legal obligations in recording information about allegations in this way and would like 
punitive damages ordered against it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to a similar overall view as the investigator. I appreciate that 
Mrs B will be disappointed by my decision and I also appreciate how strongly she feels about 
what took place.
It may be helpful if I explain to Mrs B that we are not Nationwides regulator and so its not 
our role to investigate its complaints process or make any findings on it. As we are not 
Nationwides regulator or a court then its not our role to impose punitive damages, as Mrs B 
suggests, on it. I also make clear that it would be for a court to decide if there had been 
discrimination.
I have looked at Nationwides records about the allegation in November 2020. I make clear 
that I do not intend to make any findings on what may or may not have taken place and I 
dont think this complaint was originally about the substance of that incident. I also dont 
think Nationwide has ever investigated that incident as a result of a formal complaint. And so 
I cant comment on the merits or not of it. I am satisfied that the allegation is about Mrs B 
and that it is said to have taken place in her local branch. And I am also satisfied that 
Nationwide has recorded the branch location information incorrectly. I accept in those 
circumstances that Mrs B would have been caused confusion when Nationwide told her 
about that earlier incident and that it took place in Warrington. And I also think Nationwide 
should be able to update its records to confirm where the incident took place and that a 
mistake took place. I appreciate Mrs B says she wasnt given any information from 
Nationwide about that incident, but I make clear that I have looked at its records and I am 
satisfied it concerns Mrs B. I also think that Nationwide is entitled to record such incidents 
and is obliged to do so.
I appreciate Mrs B says that she gave authority for Nationwide to speak to her son about this 
complaint, but It continued to write to her. I understand why Nationwide did so and for 
security reasons but equally I think it could have told her why it was doing so. I dont think 
that is the main part of this complaint or that Nationwides actions would have had a 
significant effect on Mrs B.
I dont think it possible to be sure what took place in the Nationwide branch in March 2021. 
There is no video footage of the branch available and both sides provide different versions of 
events. I have made clear that I think Nationwide is entitled to take steps if it thinks its staff 
members have been spoken to inappropriately. And I also think its entitled, when exercising 
its commercial judgement, to invite customers to consider using the ATM for some 
transactions. So, I think Nationwide was reasonably entitled to write to Mrs B to tell her about 
its concerns and of course Mrs B is entitled to reject those allegations and close her 
accounts as she is in the process of doing.
Overall, I think that Nationwide should pay £100 compensation for the mistake about the 
location of the earlier incident and for the tone of parts of its letter which it accepts. I find that 
award would be fair and reasonable and fairly reflects what took place and the impact of 
those mistakes. I cant fairly order Nationwide take the steps Mrs B would like for the 
reasons I have explained, and her acceptance of this decision would be in full and final 
settlement of this complaint. I also find this brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this 
dispute informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order Nationwide Building Society 
to pay Mrs B £100 compensation.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman