DRN-1631994
The complaint
Ms W is unhappy that a broker Policy Administration Services T/A Phones 4u Care (PAS) 
wont refund her premiums for her mobile phone insurance policy. Ms W said she never 
wanted the policy.
What happened
Ms W bought a mobile phone in a shop and along with the phone she bought a phone 
insurance policy. More recently Ms W noticed she was paying for this and thought it was to 
cover a washing machine. So, when she realised, she complained to PAS and asked for a 
refund for the policy. Ms W said shed had mobile phone cover all along as an added 
extension to her bank account. As PAS wouldnt refund her, she brought her complaint to 
this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said Ms W had signed a separate form for 
the insurance. He noted that the cover allowed for instore replacement, 24-hour delivery, 
damage and breakdown. Our investigator said it was noted on another form that Ms W did 
have some insurance cover through her bank account. He noted all the documentation was 
sent to Ms W along with annual details thereafter. Our investigator said PAS had acted 
reasonably and didnt need to refund the premiums.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms W has said she never wanted cover and didnt agree to it. Shes said she already had 
cover through her bank account before she took out the policy through PAS.
But the policy sales details show through the setting up of the direct debit, the registration 
form, and the separate form for the insurance policy that Ms W did take out such a cover 
when she bought a new phone. Some of the paperwork also notes that Ms W has some 
alternative cover through her bank account. It does seem as though the details were 
discussed, and Ms W still decided and went ahead with the policy purchase. All the details 
were sent to Ms W at the time including a certificate of insurance confirming the policy.
PAS also confirmed that later in the first year of the policy it sent an email to Ms W 
confirming that there had been a billing error where a payment had been missed, and that 
two payments would be taken in the next payment. I think when getting this Ms W would be 
concerned and likely to raise questions about what she was paying for if she was in any 
doubt. But it seems as though the double payment was made, and the policy continued. 
Added to this an annual email reminder was issued to Ms W confirming the insurance policy 
was still in place and the direct debit referring to phones 4u was still being taken. 
Based on these details PAS said it didnt think it needed to refund Ms W the premiums. And I 
think it has acted reasonably. PAS can show the details of the sale process confirming 
insurance was taken and at several points throughout the sale process Ms W has initialled 
the details to confirm agreement. It also confirms Ms W has some other insurance cover in 
place, it sent documentation at the start and throughout the lifetime of the policy and during 
that time Ms W had accepted a double charge when a payment was missed. So, I dont think 
PAS needs to take any further action.     
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make no award against Policy Administration Services T/A Phones 4u Care
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman