DRN-3863704
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs C have complained that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) unfairly declined a storm 
damage claim under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C and Mrs C contacted QIC to make a claim when they found damage to their roof 
following a storm. This included a cowl hitting the roof, which they thought had fallen from 
their chimney. QIC sent a surveyor to assess the damage and then declined the claim, as it 
said the main cause of the damage was wear and tear to the roof, which wasnt covered by 
the policy.
A short time later, Mr C and Mrs C contacted QIC again and said a roofer had now found 
that the cowl had come from a neighbours roof. They asked QIC to reopen the claim. QIC 
replied and said if the cowl was a from a neighbours roof, Mr C and Mrs C would need 
accidental damage cover, which they didnt have. When Mr C and Mrs C complained, QIC 
maintained its decision to decline the claim.
So, Mr C and Mrs C complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. She 
said the evidence indicated storm conditions had caused the cowl to hit Mr C and Mrs Cs 
roof. She said the damage should be dealt with under the storm part of the policy. She said 
QIC should pay for the damage caused by the cowl and pay interest on that amount and that 
it should also pay £100 compensation.
As QIC didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
Ive checked the weather conditions around the time the damage was found. This showed 
windspeeds of up to 74mph, which would normally be considered hurricane strength winds. I 
think hurricane winds could cause damage to a roof like those identified here. So, I think the 
answer to the first two questions is yes.
So, Ive thought about the third question, which is about whether the storm was the main 
cause of the damage. I should note that Im only considering the damage caused by the 
cowl. Mr C and Mrs C seemed to accept the damage to the rest of the roof was mainly due 
to wear and tear. But for completeness, having looked at the surveyors report, I think it was 
fair for QIC to decline the claim for the rest of the damage. 
Mr C and Mrs C initially thought the cowl, which had cement attached to it, had fallen from 
their chimney. When QICs surveyor visited, they assessed the condition of the roof and 
identified various areas of wear and tear, which they said was the main cause of the 
damage. A couple of weeks later, a roofer went onto Mr C and Mrs Cs roof and found that 
the cowl hadnt come from their roof, but was from a neighbours roof. Mr C and Mrs C told 
QIC what had been found. QIC said that if the cowl came from a neighbours roof, this would 
only be covered as accidental damage, but Mr C and Mrs C dont have that cover. QIC has 
also said that although it didnt inspect the neighbours roof, it wouldnt expect a cowl to 
detach from a chimney stack unless it had already been compromised. 
Although QIC has said damage caused by the neighbours cowl can only be covered if there 
is accidental damage cover in place, I dont agree. Mr C and Mrs C have cover for storm 
damage under the policy, so it needs to be considered whether the circumstances are 
covered by that. It is my understanding that during the hurricane force winds, a cowl with a 
sizeable amount of cement attached to it detached from a neighbours chimney, flew through 
the air and struck Mr C and Mrs Cs roof causing damage. In my view, the hurricane strength 
winds are more likely than not to have been the main cause of the cowl and cement striking 
Mr C and Mrs Cs roof, resulting in the damage caused. So, I think the storm was the main 
cause of the damage. Im also not persuaded it is fair to apply the wear and tear exclusion in 
the circumstances of this claim. As a result, I think QIC should deal with the damage under 
the storm part of the policy.
Having thought about the circumstances of this complaint, I uphold it. As Mr C and Mrs C 
have already had the work carried out to repair the roof, I require QIC to pay the cost of the 
damage caused by the cowl and cement hitting the roof and to pay interest on that amount. I 
also require QIC to pay Mr C and Mrs C £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to them by the handling of this claim.
Putting things right
QIC should pay a cash settlement for the damage caused by the cowl and cement hitting the 
roof and pay interest on that amount. It should also pay £100 compensation.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is upheld. I require 
QIC Europe Ltd to:
Pay a cash settlement to Mr C and Mrs C for the damage caused by the cowl and 
cement hitting the roof based on the amount they paid for the work to be carried out.
Pay 8% simple interest on that amount from the date on which Mr C and Mrs C paid for 
the work to the date on which the cash settlement is paid.
If QIC Europe Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr C and Mrs C how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr C and Mrs C a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Pay £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman