DRN-2640399
The complaint
Mr M says American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) mis-sold him a payment
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr M bought the policy in September 2000 at the same time as taking out a credit card by
postal application.
The policy cost 66p per £100 of Mr Ms outstanding monthly statement balance. And if he
was too ill to work or made involuntarily redundant, it would have paid off 5% of that balance
for up to 24 months.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion,
so the complaint has been passed to me. 
I issued a provisional decision on 26 January 2021 and explained that I agreed with the 
outcome reached by our adjudicator, but I provided some further clarification and gave Mr M 
and Amex an opportunity to respond. Below is an extract of what I said:
Amex had to make it clear to Mr M that the policy was optional, and it had to get his consent
before applying PPI to his account. Mr M says he was probably strongly advised to take PPI
and that he doesnt believe he was ever given the option to easily opt-out of PPI. Amex says
Mr M chose to take PPI.
Amex has provided a copy of the postal application Mr M completed. Unfortunately, its not
possible to clearly read the form due to the quality of the scanned copy. But Amex has
provided a sample from around the same time and it has transcribed what is said in the
payment protection section. The transcript reads:
Please enrol me in the American Express Credit Card Repayment Protection Plan. I confirm
that I am eligible in accordance with the Terms and Conditions shown in the enclosed leaflet.
Please tick the box.
There is a box next to this section of the application form on Mr Ms copy, which I can see
has been ticked  confirming that PPI was selected. Mr M has signed the agreement to
confirm that he agrees with the information on it. So, while I cant read the statement clearly
on Mr Ms copy, I am satisfied based on the sample and transcript provided that Mr M was
more likely than not aware he had a choice about whether to take PPI, and that he chose to
take it at the time.
Mr M says he received advice from Amex, but Amex says he would not have. Considering
this was a postal application, which Mr M completed and returned to Amex himself and I
havent seen anything to suggest Mr M spoke to anyone at Amex about it beforehand  I
think its more likely than not, no formal recommendations were made at the time of sale. So,
I have considered this case on the basis that Mr M did not receive any advice. That means
Amex didnt have to check the policy was right for Mr M. But it did have to give him enough
information about the policy, so he could decide if wanted to take it or not.
Its possible the information Amex gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have
been. But he chose to take out the PPI  so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. Based
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, it doesnt look like he was affected by any
of the main exclusions. So, the PPI could have been useful for him if something went wrong.
I also havent seen anything to suggest the PPI wasnt affordable for Mr M at the time.
Mr M says he was entitled to sick pay from his employer, but he could not remember how
much. He says he had some collections worth around £15,000 and other items worth around
£10,000 that he could have sold. He also says he had an Accident and Injury Plan.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr M has said, but I think it more likely than not that
he would have wanted to avoid selling his possessions to make his repayments if he could.
The Accident and Injury plan provided a different type of protection to PPI. And the PPI
would have paid out on top of any sick pay Mr M had and potentially for longer. For these
reasons, I think Mr M still could have found the cover useful if he fell on hard times. So, I
dont think better information would have changed his decision to take the policy.
Mr M raised a number of other points as part of his complaint. Our adjudicator said that he
would need to raise a separate complaint about the claim in the first instance and I agree. If
Mr M would like to pursue his complaint about the level of benefit he received while claiming
and the insurers decision to continue charging him premiums during his claim, hed need to
direct these points to the insurer
.
While the insurer would be responsible for any complaints about the claim, Id like to take the
opportunity to give Mr M a bit more information to help clarify some of the points hes raised.
Mr M says hes concerned he continued to pay premiums during the claim period, and he
wants to know why the policy wasnt cancelled until some years later even though he
remained unemployed. Mr M also wants to know how much he paid towards the policy and
whether he should have received more from his claim.
Amex says its record show Mr M paid £849.44 towards the policy. And that he received
£2,256.48 for his successful unemployment claim.
Looking at the terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy, it does say that while making a claim,
the policyholder would have to continue paying PPI premiums to keep the policy live. The
cost of this was built into the 5% benefit Mr M was paid as part of his claim, along with the
minimum payment due on his monthly statements. This might explain why Mr M was 
charged premiums while claiming, but this would not be something I can look into as part of
this complaint.
Amex has provided a copy of a letter dated April 2005, which contains a request to cancel
the policy as a result of Mr M having received his final claim payment. So, this might indicate
that the full 24 months benefit had been paid to Mr M and the policy was cancelled shortly
after. But for the same reasons Ive already mentioned, this isnt something I can look at as
part of this complaint.Mr M has also said that some research has revealed that he may not have been paid the full
amount he was entitled to under the policy terms. While I cant say for sure that this would
not have been the case, it appears as though the figures and statistics Mr M has mentioned
relate to the claims ratio (how many claims are made by policyholders during an insured
period) in the insurance industry and arent a reflection of the amount of Mr Ms claim which
he says hes lost out on. Again, this isnt something I can look into as part of this complaint,
but I hope the information Ive provided is helpful to Mr M.
Ive considered everything else Mr M has said, but I dont think Mr Ms PPI was mis-sold, so
Amex doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has not responded to my provisional decision and Amex has confirmed it has
nothing further to add. As Ive not received any new evidence or information, Ive reached 
the same conclusions I reached in my provisional decision, for the same reasons. That 
means I dont think Mr Ms PPI policy was mis-sold. So, Amex doesnt have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Amex has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because:
Amex got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr M about that. Because Amex didnt tell Mr M, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Amex has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair 
in this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint because the PPI policy wasnt mis-
sold  so American Express Services Europe Limited does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr M. 
American Express Services Europe Limited does have to pay back to Mr M any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman