DRN-2395740
The complaint
Mr B complained because Startline Motor Finance Ltd recorded a fraud marker against his 
name.
What happened
In May 2019, Mr B complained to Startline. Hed discovered that Startline had recorded a 
marker against his name with the fraud prevention agency CIFAS. 
In its final response to Mr Bs complaint, Startline refused to remove the marker. It said that 
between 3 September 2016 and 15 March 2019 it had received 14 applications in Mr Bs 
name, from various dealers.
Mr B wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. He said Startline had told him that hed 
applied for car finance in August, which wasnt true because hed obtained car finance in 
July. Mr B told us that Startline had said there was a discrepancy about his employer. Mr B 
said the place where he worked was in the same building as another organisation. So he 
thought that whoever input the application had just gone by the address when theyd input 
the postcode.
Mr B told our investigator that he hadnt been aware of the 14 applications which Startline 
had mentioned. He said he had made applications for car finance in the past, but not to that 
extent. The investigator explained that the guidelines set by CIFAS are that there have to be 
reasonable grounds for believing a fraud or financial crime has been committed or 
attempted. He didnt see what fraud or financial crime Startline was saying Mr B had 
committed. 
So the investigator upheld Mr Bs complaint. He said Startline should remove the CIFAS 
marker and any adverse information reported.
Startline didnt agree. It said that it had provided the full case file to CIFAS and unless wed 
contacted them, we couldnt claim to have considered the evidence. Startline said that the 
information was of a sensitive nature so it hadnt been provided to this service. Startling said 
that CIFAS had agreed the marker should remain, so it failed to see what jurisdiction this 
service has to state otherwise.
The investigator explained to Startline that CIFAS is not a dispute resolution service with 
statutory powers to investigate complaints between regulated firms and consumers. He told 
Startline where to find details of our jurisdiction and powers, and confirmed that we can ask 
for CIFAS markers to be removed if we deem it to be fair and reasonable. He pointed out 
that Startline had been asked for its file. He explained that if Startline didnt provide more 
information, Mr Bs complaint would be referred to an ombudsman just on the basis of the 
information already submitted.
My provisional findings 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. Before doing so, I considered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Evidence 
I asked for more information from both sides. I explained to Startline that I would need to see 
its information about the 14 applications which it said Mr B had made. I said that I was very 
open and willing to look at any evidence Startline had about Mr Bs applications, but without 
any such evidence my decision was unlikely to be different from that of the investigator. 
Startline provided a summary sheet of the 14 applications, and copies of the applications it 
had received from various introducers.
I also asked Mr B for full details of his employment from the date of the first application 
onwards, 3 September 2016. Mr B provided this information.
I then looked carefully at the details of all 14 applications. They showed identical information 
for Mr Bs name, marital status and date of birth.  
But there were other areas where the applications differed from each other. As Startline told 
Mr B, these differences mainly related to his employment: where he worked, what he did, 
and how long hed been there.
 
As Ive set out above, Mr B told this service that the place where he worked was in the same 
building as another organisation. So he thought that whoever input the application had just 
gone by the address when theyd input the postcode. This could explain one of the 
anomalies, but not all of them.
Looking at the other anomalies, Mr B also told us that he worked through a contractor 
umbrella company, and he sent us details of two contracts for part of the relevant period. 
One contract was for 6 months and the other for 5 months. This explained why some of the 
applications were in the name of the contractor umbrella company and some in the name of 
the company where he actually worked.
But there were still other anomalies. There were several finance applications which showed 
a different employer altogether. There were also significant differences in the pay figures  
up to around £1,400 a month net pay difference. 
And Ive also seen that every car finance application listed Mr Bs employment as 
Permanent  in the box headed Permanent/ contract.  From the evidence Mr B supplied in 
response to my request for more information, that wasnt correct.
There were other anomalies too: for example in the question about tenure relating to 
where Mr B was living, and some of the dates differed significantly too.
So, taking all these factors into account, I could understand why Startline had concerns 
about Mr Bs applications.
CIFAS marker  
CIFAS is a fraud prevention agency. It maintains a large database, in order to protect 
financial organisations and their customers against fraud. Organisations which belong to 
CIFAS have a responsibility to report suspicious incidents. As the CIFAS website sets out, 
the criteria for a marker on the database include:- There are reasonable grounds to believe that a fraud or relevant conduct has been 
committed or attempted;
- The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police or a relevant regulatory 
body. 
In the light of this, I looked at the evidence from the 14 car finance applications which were 
made to Startline. Some of the anomalies between them could be explained, as Ive set out 
above. But there were others where the detail on the application was too different to be 
explained by small factors such as a dealer picking the wrong employer from a postcode list; 
or small differences in monthly pay; or slight differences in remembering dates. 
I also bore in mind the fact that Mr Bs employment was categorised as permanent, which 
might be expected to be more likely to lead to a successful application for credit. But the 
evidence Mr B has provided clearly shows it was a contract. 
So I concluded that Startline had sufficient evidence to record a CIFAS marker against Mr 
Bs name, and I said that my provisional decision, subject to any further evidence I received 
in response, was that I did not intend to uphold this complaint. 
responses to my provisional decision
Startline accepted the provisional decision.
Mr B didnt agree with my provisional decision, and sent a detailed letter about it. His points 
included:
- The contracts which hed previously sent us, showing 6 months and 5 months, 
showed what they did because of his Visa status. Mr B said his Visa had expired. He 
said hed been in a permanent contract of employment at the time, but as a result of 
the Visa issues, his employer had told him hed have to work for them through a third 
party organisation. That third party organisation only ever issued 6 month contracts. 
Mr B sent a copy of the UK Visas and Immigration document showing he had the 
right to work in the UK between April and October 2017.
- Mr B had asked Startline for a data subject access request, and none of those 
documents had shown any income or outgoing information. Mr B said he understood 
that it was a legal requirement for all information to be sent to someone requesting a 
data subject access request;
- Mr B said hed never applied for finance directly through Startline and he hadnt made 
any application in August 2018. He explained that by then hed had his new car for a 
month, so wouldnt have made an application then.
In summary, Mr B said that he should be given the benefit of the doubt. He said the main 
reason why the marker had been added to his record was because of the discrepancies 
about the company he worked for. Mr B said hed been able to clarify this by explaining what 
could have caused it. 
Mr B explained that the CIFAS marker had put him in a very difficult situation because it 
meant he couldnt work in his normal sector. His mental stability had been affected. Mr B 
said that Startline hadnt mentioned anything about permanent or temporary roles, and he 
hadnt given any forged documents. Mr B said that third parties always run checks without 
the customers consent for marketing purposes, and he didnt even know some of the branches. Nor had he signed any applications, and there was no evidence by photo, video or 
phone to show that he made the applications.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Mr B feels his health and mental stability has been affected by this.
Ive looked in detail at Mr Bs points responding to the provisional decision.
Contractor status
I recognise that Mr B has explained why the documents hed previously submitted only 
show contracts of 6 months or less - because his Visa had expired and the government 
immigration service only confirmed the right to work, six months at a time. 
But if Mr Bs Visa had expired and he only had Visa and Immigration confirmation of his right 
to work in the UK for six months at a time, his work contracts couldnt be permanent. But 
every car finance application to Startline records his employment as Permanent.   
Data subject access request
Mr B has said that in his data subject access request, he didnt receive information from 
Startline showing income. The information Startline sent to us does show information it 
received about Mr Bs income. Its not for this service to decide whether Startline has 
complied with its obligations to Mr B under the relevant regulations. Thats the role of the 
Information Commissioners Office. But Ive relied on all the information provided by both Mr 
B and Startline, to reach a decision on what would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
August 2018 application
One of the applications which Startline received was dated August 2018. Mr B has said that 
he bought a car in July 2018, so he wouldnt have needed to do this. He sent a two page 
document which is a finance information sheet, and a page showing what monthly 
repayments would be on a loan of just over £15,000. But this document doesnt show that 
Mr B did in fact take out that car loan, nor is it dated. So I cant agree that this is proof that 
Mr B definitely wouldnt have applied to one of Startlines dealers in August 2018.
Mr B and not applying direct to Startline, and not knowing some of the branches 
As Startline provides finance, a customers applications would be carried out through the car 
dealer, not direct to Startline. And although Mr B says he didnt know some of the car dealer 
branches, the personal information about his name, marital status and date of birth, are 
identical on all the applications. I dont consider its likely that different car dealers would 
have circulated this information between themselves and falsified applications in Mr Bs 
name, which Startline rejected. Nor can I see any reason why Startline might have falsified 
applications in Mr Bs name. I also wouldnt expect Startline to have Mr Bs signature on the 
records of the applications made to it by its individual car dealers, nor to have a video or 
phone recording of every application.
ConclusionsAs I set out in my provisional decision, there are multiple anomalies in the applications. The 
fact that two organisations worked from one building might explain one of the anomalies, but 
not all of them. Some applications show a different employer altogether.  And the pay 
figures vary  up to £1,400 a month net pay difference.  The tenure where Mr B was living, 
and some of the dates, also vary significantly between applications. And Mr Bs new 
information, about only having six months right to work in the UK, doesnt persuade me that 
it was ok for the applications to say his employment was permanent, when it couldnt have 
been. 
Taking all these factors into account, I consider that Startline met the criteria for placing a 
CIFAS marker against Mr Bs name, and I dont require it to remove the marker.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman