DRN-2479253
The complaint
Mr F complains Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) failed to transfer the correct 
amount of his Individual Savings Account (ISA) to another provider. 
What happened
Mr F held an ISA with Nationwide and gave instructions for the balance of the ISA to be sent 
to a new provider. Mr F was told by the new ISA provider the full amount of the balance from 
Nationwide hadnt been received. Nationwide then informed Mr F they had sent the amount 
requested by the new ISA provider and it was the new ISA providers mistake. Subsequently, 
Mr F produced written documents to Nationwide proving the error in the amount sent was 
made by them and not the new ISA provider. Mr F says Nationwide then agreed to deal with 
the matter in a few days and failed to do so. Furthermore, it was only as a result of the 
trouble he had gone through was it then finally, Nationwide accepted their mistake and 
increased their compensation to a total of £250, plus an interest adjustment payment. Mr F 
doesnt feel the offer of compensation fairly reflects the trouble he had to go through to 
resolve the issue and was looking for a compensation figure of £500. 
Nationwide say they accept they didnt act correctly on the instructions given to them by the 
new ISA provider and provided poor service to Mr F when informing him in their initial 
response letter the error in making the ISA transfer was the new providers mistake and not 
theirs. Nationwide says they have apologised to Mr F and they feel the amount of 
compensation made was fair and reasonable. 
Mr F wasnt happy with Nationwides response and offer of compensation and referred the 
matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the information provided but didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
The investigator says Nationwide accepted they were responsible for the ISA transfer 
mistake but had apologised for this and put him back into a position he would have been in 
before the mistake. The investigator didnt feel there was any evidence to support 
Nationwide had deliberately misled Mr F as he had suggested in his complaint. She felt the 
compensation offered was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr F wasnt happy with the investigators response and asked for the matter to be referred to 
an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I can see  it would have been stressful and time consuming for Mr F to be told the error in 
not transferring the full amount of his ISA was a mistake made by the new ISA provider, 
when in fact after providing documentary evidence to Nationwide, he proved they had made 
the mistake. 
So, when looking at this complaint, I have considered if Nationwide have adequately 
compensated Mr F for the lengths he had to go through, to get this matter resolved.
I can see Mr F organised for his Nationwide ISA balance to be transferred to a new ISA 
provider. From the information I have seen, Nationwide misinterpreted the instructions 
received from the new ISA provider and didnt transfer the full balance of the account, 
resulting in £15,100 not being sent to them. Nationwide did suggest in an earlier response to 
Mr Fs complaint the error lay with the new ISA provider. I can see Mr F provided 
documentary evidence to Nationwide confirming it was their error and not of the new ISA 
provider. Following this Nationwide then accepted the error was theirs and apologised and 
increased their compensation offer to a total of £250, and an interest adjustment for the time 
it took to transfer the remaining balance. 
There is no dispute Nationwide made mistakes here and added to this when they told Mr F 
the error in the ISA transfer was not theirs, adding further confusion and stress for Mr F. 
Mr F has suggested to this service that he believes Nationwide knew all along they had 
made a mistake when they transferred the wrong amount to the new ISA provider, and this 
has added to the problems and time it has taken to resolve his complaint. I can see no 
evidence to support there was any intention on Nationwides part to have misled Mr F here 
or to intentionally cause unnecessary delays. 
Thats not to say they havent made mistakes or caused trouble and upset to Mr F. I am 
satisfied Nationwide have simply misinterpreted the transfer instructions and this was a 
genuine mistake, but a mistake nonetheless.
My role is to ensure that when mistakes are made, they are corrected in a way that puts 
customers back into a position they would have been in before the mistake was made and 
this is what happened here. While Mr F may not agree, it is not my role to penalise or fine a 
business, like Nationwide, but to ensure an adequate amount of compensation is made 
when mistakes like this happen. 
Its worth mentioning Nationwide have stated in their response letters to Mr F, he has been 
awarded compensation payments totalling £250 and not £100 as his initial call to this service 
suggests. I say this as their email dated 25 September 2020 confirms they have paid two 
payments of £100 and one for £50, plus the interest for the time taken to transfer the 
remaining balance of his ISA to the new provider. 
So, I am satisfied these payments are to cover both the mistake in not transferring the 
correct amount and for the trouble and upset this has caused Mr F as a result. 
I am satisfied this represents a fair and reasonable compensation for the mistakes 
Nationwide have made - if Nationwide havent made the level of compensation they agreed 
in their email, then Mr F should contact them so this can be arranged. 
While Mr F will be disappointed with my decision, I will not be asking any more of Nationwide 
here.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman