DRN-3138360
The complaint
Mr O complains that Coventry Building Society (CBS) has experienced IT issues with its 
online banking services which are preventing him from accessing his account.
What happened
Mr O tells us that hes unable to access his online banking when hes away from his home. 
He says this problem first occurred when CBS upgraded its system. Since then, he can only 
access his account when hes in his home or within a 50-yard radius. He says he has no 
other problems with any other website, so he doesnt believe its a problem with his mobile 
phone or his network connection.
CBS say its IT team have looked into the issues reported by Mr O but theyve been unable to 
find any problems with the website. It says no other customers have reported this issue and 
its records suggest that other customers have been able to access their accounts through 
the website.
Mr O wasnt satisfied with CBS response. So he brought his complaint to our service. But 
our investigator didnt uphold it. He wasnt persuaded that the problems Mr O is experiencing 
are due to an error caused by CBS.
Mr O doesnt agree. He says CBS hasnt proved that the customers who were able to log on 
to their accounts have done so outside their homes. Hes spoken to his network provider 
who has confirmed theres no issues with his phone or network. Hes asked that his 
complaint be referred to an ombudsman, so its been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise Mr Os strength of feeling in regard to this complaint. I appreciate it must be 
extremely frustrating for him to be unable to access his account outside his home, and I 
acknowledge that this has meant there are some things he cant do  like check his balance 
or transfer money  when he needs to. I have no doubt that this would cause him a great 
deal of inconvenience. 
My role is to determine whether CBS has done anything wrong or unfair, which has caused 
Mr Os inconvenience. And on the evidence available, I have nothing to suggest that it has. 
Ill explain why.
CBS has asked its IT team to investigate the issues reported by Mr O. And having done so, 
theyve been unable to find any errors which couldve caused the problem. In addition, 
records show that other customers have accessed their online banking and no similar issues 
appear to have been reported. I appreciate Mr O wants CBS to provide more evidence, but I 
dont think theres anything more it can reasonably do here. 
I cant say with any certainty what is causing Mr Os problems. I acknowledge that his 
network provider has confirmed theres nothing wrong with this phone or network 
connection. And he isnt experiencing problems with any other website. 
So I can understand why Mr O believes the problem lies with CBS. But without evidence that 
this is the case, I cant fairly ask CBS to do anything more to put things right. Im satisfied its 
carried out a sufficient investigation into the issues raised and its been unable to identify any 
problems with its website. Im not persuaded that theres anything more it can reasonably do.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman