DRN-2826768
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited mishandled his claim on
a home insurance policy.
What happened
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with an individual consumers complaint against a
regulated financial firm about a regulated activity.
Mr and Mrs H had a policy under which Lloyds was responsible for dealing with claims.
Where I refer to Lloyds, I refer to the insurance company mentioned above, and I include
claims-handlers and others insofar as I hold Lloyds responsible for their actions.
The policy covered home buildings and contents, with optional cover for personal
belongings.
On about 6 July 2020, Mr H reported to Lloyds that, while his car was parked and 
unattended at his local football club, someone smashed the back window and stole items 
including fishing equipment and electronic items.
Lloyds declined his claim, saying the items hadnt been hidden or locked away. Mr H
complained to Lloyds that it should pay his claim.
Lloyds wrote a final response dated 31 July 2020. It said it would pay £25.00 compensation
for giving incorrect information that it would contact him within five working days. But it
wouldnt pay the claim. So Mr H brought the complaint to us in late August 2020.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator said that she was unable to consider any complaint points regarding
complaint-handling as it isnt a regulated activity.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that the
£25.00 was reasonable in the circumstances. She didnt think that Lloyds had acted
unreasonably in declining the clam.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr and 
Mrs H and to Lloyds on 22 April 2021. I summarise my findings:
I didnt find it fair and reasonable to direct Lloyds to meet the claim or to pay any 
further compensation.
Subject to any further information from Mr and Mrs H or from Lloyds, my provisional decision 
was that I didnt uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct Lloyds Bank General 
Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Lloyds had no further comment.
Mr H disagrees with the provisional decision. He says, in summary, that:
If Lloyds had acted fairly and reasonably and in a timely manner, facts and records 
wouldve been easier to understand. 
The car was a company vehicle hence the lack of car policy information.
No items were on show with seats up hence the reference to the parcel shelf. 
At no time are there other cars in the photo as the club was shutting for the 
afternoon.
The access was through a locked blacked out boot which the policy covers.
The black rod is not the reason for the theft otherwise they wouldve gained access 
through the side and not the locked boot, therefore the items within the boot should 
be covered.
As a law abiding, tax paying resident of the UK, he finds this whole situation stressful 
and unjust.
This is personal and a lot of money to him and his family.
He will issue legal proceedings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Claim on motor policy
Mr H has said that the theft was from a company car. From what he has said, he didnt make 
any claim on the motor insurance policy for that car.
Policy Terms
Ive seen a note that the home insurance policy renewal date was in May each year. Lloyds
has sent us policy booklet issued in March 2019. But Mr H has sent us a policy booklet
issued in February 2020. I find it likely that the February 2020 booklet applied at least from
the renewal in May 2020. So the February 2020 booklet applied to the claim in July 2020.
The policy covered home buildings but thats not what Mr Hs claim was about.
The policy also covered home contents, including cover for theft. That included contents in
the home and contents temporarily removed from the home. The policy also included
contents whilst in the open within the boundaries of the home but thats not what Mr Hs
claim was about.
The policy also covered (as an option) personal belongings, while in or temporarily outside
the home, including cover for theft.The policy included the following definitions:
Contents
 Household goods (including garden machinery), valuables and personal
effects (items of a personal nature such as clothing and wheelchairs) all owned by
you
Personal belongings
Personal items worn, used or carried by you or your family in everyday life
Valuables
Jewellery, articles of precious metal, precious stones, clocks, watches, photographic
equipment, furs, pictures, works of art, collections of stamps, coins and medals
Contents
The section about cover for contents while temporarily removed from the home had an
exclusion as follows:
Loss or damage caused by theft or attempted theft other than from:
 An occupied private home or any building where you or your family are working
or temporarily living,
 Any other building, caravan or motor home but only if force and violence are used
to gain entry or exit,
 Any bank or safe deposit or while you, your family or domestic staff, are taking
the item to or from the bank or safe deposit.
So the policy section about cover for contents while removed from the home didnt cover
theft of items from a car (unless travelling to or from a bank or safe deposit).
The policy booklet had a simple system of two columns with a green tick to show what was
covered and a red cross to show what wasnt covered. So Im satisfied that the exclusion
was clear enough.
And insofar as Mr Hs items were contents I dont find that Lloyds treated Mr H unfairly by
turning down his claim. That is because they were stolen from his car (when he wasnt
travelling to or from a bank or safe deposit). And I find it likely that the items wouldnt have
been stolen if they had been at his home rather than in his car.
Personal Belongings
Lloyds has relied on the exclusion - in the personal belongings section - of the following:
Theft or attempted theft of personal belongings from unattended vehicles,
caravans or motor homes, where:
i) There was no force and violence used to get into the vehicle, caravan or motor
home; and/or
ii) The item was not hidden from view in a locked boot, locked luggage box or in a
glove compartment.
So the policy section about cover for personal belongings while removed from the home 
didnt cover theft from an unattended car of any item that was not hidden from view in a 
locked boot, locked luggage box or in a glove compartment.
As Ive said, the policy booklet had a simple system of two columns with a green tick to show
what was covered and a red cross to show what wasnt covered. So Im satisfied that theexclusion was clear enough.
From Mr Hs photographs, I accept that his vehicle was parked unattended but behind a
locked gate. The photographs also show that someone used force and violence to smash 
the rear tailgate windscreen to get into the car.
I accept Mr Hs statement that his car had privacy glass in the rear. And hed covered up the
items insofar as they werent in the boot. So the items were hidden from direct view. He also
locked the vehicle including the tailgate.
However, Mr H sent us a timeline that included the following:
Parcel shelf was in place, longer items covered and locked boot and parcel shelf
was in but the size of the rods was due to seats being down
That phrase seats being down suggests that he had put the seats down to store his items
in the back of the car. More recently he has said that none of the seats were down. I find that
his earlier statement is more likely to be correct.
I find it likely that the seats were down, and that Mr H later changed that detail. So I dont
accept that any of his items were hidden from view in a locked boot. They were only partly
hidden in the rear of the car. They werent in a locked luggage box or in a glove box. 
I find it likely that a thief looked into Mr Hs car and was able to see that there were items
partly hidden in the rear. I dont think it matters which windows the thief saw them through.
Mr H hasnt said that any other cars were broken into. So I find it likely that the thief
targeted Mr Hs car because that there were items partly hidden in the rear.
So insofar as Mr Hs items were personal belongings I dont find that Lloyds treated Mr H
unfairly by turning down his claim. That is because they werent hidden from view in a locked
boot (or locked luggage box or in a glove compartment) and thats why they were stolen.
Conclusion
I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Lloyds to meet the claim or to pay any further
compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 June 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman