DRN-3859111
The complaint
Mr C complains about the amount Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited are pursuing him for
after it paid out for a third party claim as the Road Traffic Act insurer.
What happened
Mr Cs brother borrowed his car and was involved in an accident with a third party. Mr Cs
brother looked at settling the damage caused in the accident with the third party directly but
this was unsuccessful, so the third party claimed on Mr Cs policy with Admiral.
Admiral reviewed the claim and said that as Mr Cs brother wasnt insured to drive Mr Cs car
it was responsible for dealing with the claim under the Road Traffic Act 1988 (RTA).
Because of this, Admiral paid for the repairs to the third partys car along with credit hire
charges while the car was in for repair. In total Admiral paid £19,621.44 and so has looked to
recover this from Mr C.
Mr C didnt think this was fair and complained. He said the quotes obtained from the third
party to repair the damage were for £500 and £600, so didnt think it was fair he was being
asked to pay over £19,000. He said around £15,000 of the costs were for the hire car the
third party used and didnt think Admiral had acted fairly by paying these as repairs should
have only taken one to two weeks. Admiral reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. It
said the quotes Mr C provided for the repair didnt include the full extent of the work needed,
Admiral didnt think the amount it had paid for repairs or the hire car was more than it should
have. Mr C didnt agree and referred his complaint here.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He found that
a large proportion of the amount paid was because repairs had taken longer than they
should and so the third party had been in a hire car for a few months. As the policy terms
allowed Admiral to recover what it had paid, he didnt think Admiral had done anything
wrong.
Mr C didnt agree, he said the amount he was being asked to pay was significantly higher
than the damage sustained to the third partys car and didnt think it was fair for Admiral to
ask him to pay it.
I issued a provisional decision on 5 May 2023 where I said:
The terms and conditions of Mr Cs policy says Admiral will not be responsible for any loss 
or damage sustained by Mr Cs car being used by someone who isnt shown on the 
certificate of insurance.
Its not in dispute that Mr Cs brother wasnt covered by this policy or that he didnt have
another policy which allowed him to drive other cars.
As Mr Cs car was insured by Admiral at the time of the incident Admiral is obliged under the
RTA to deal with the third partys claim. However, the terms of Mr Cs policy allow Admiral to
recover what it has to pay under the RTA. The term which allows this is called Right of
recovery and says:
If an incident occurs which is not covered by this policy and we are
required by the law of any country to make a payment, we can recover
that amount from you or any other insured person.
Im therefore satisfied Admiral is, in principle, able to recover what it pays from Mr C. Admiral
has shown that its paid £19,621.44 to the third party because of this incident and so Ive
looked at whether Admiral has done so fairly and reasonably.
Ill address the repair costs first. Mr C has said the third party obtained two quotes, one gives
a quote of £500 and the other £600. Hes also provided the quote for £500. Admiral has also
provided a quote from the repairing garage, which comes to £5,587.82. Admiral has also
paid £60 for the engineers assessment of the third partys car.
The quote Mr C has provided says, repair and paint rear bumper, boot lid and then says
this will cost £500. The quote Admiral has provided is several pages long and details each
part which needs replacing along with the associated costs and labour times to carry out the
repairs. Admirals report is also supported by photos and has been reviewed by its own
engineer who doesnt have any concerns with it. I understand Mr C thinks the costs are
inflated but the quote hes provided doesnt persuade me of that. I say this as it lists the
repair in 7 words, whereas the quote Admirals provided goes into detail about which parts
need replacing along with the labour time and costs.
When considering the two quotes, Im more persuaded by the one done by the repairing
garage as its more detailed and supported by photos. Im therefore satisfied it was fair and
reasonable for Admiral to pay it and so it follows Im not going to interfere with Admirals
decision to try and recover the £5,587.82 it paid for repairs, or the £60 it paid for the 
engineer to produce the quote.
Ive also looked at the hire car charges Admiral paid for a car for the third party to use while
their car was repaired. In total Admiral paid £13,973.62 for the hire car. This is because the
third party used this hire car for over two months. Admiral has said this was due to a delay in
getting a part to repair the third partys car, specifically the tail gate and that their car was
unroadworthy because of this.
Admiral hasnt shown why the delay in getting this part made the third partys car
unroadworthy. I can also see the engineers report on the third partys car says the damage
is Light and refers to the vehicle as Mobile. When considering the engineers report Im
not satisfied the third partys car was unroadworthy and therefore that they had a need for 
a like for like hire car while they waited for the part to be delivered. Admiral also hasnt 
shown the third party couldnt afford to hire a cheaper car themselves.
I asked Admiral to explain how it verified the hire car costs to ensure it had acted fairly and
reasonably in paying them. Admiral responded and said: due to agreements between [AMC]
and ourselves, and the fact liability was not in dispute, the hire aspect came across as an
excel spreadsheet entry which we were happy to settle with no concerns.
While Admiral may have an agreement with the AMC, Im not persuaded it has shown it was
fair and reasonable to pay the hire car costs, particularly taking into account that they
amounted to almost 3 times the repair cost. Im also aware that there are certain
requirements which need to be met for someone to use credit hire, and Admiral hasnt 
shown it checked the third party met these. So, when taking all of the above into account, Im 
not satisfied Admiral acted fairly and reasonably in paying the third party hire car costs. It
therefore follows that I dont agree its fair for Admiral to recover them from Mr C. Admiral
should therefore not recover the £13,973.62, it paid for the hire car charges, from Mr C.So, to be clear, out of the total £19,621.44 Admiral paid, Im satisfied its only fair and
reasonable for Admiral to recover £5,647.82 from Mr C for this incident. If Mr C has paid
more than this to Admiral already, Admiral needs to refund Mr C the difference plus interest
on the refund to compensate Mr C for not having the money. Ive also considered that by
trying to recover almost £20,000 from Mr C would be distressing, hes explained this is not a
cost he can afford, and the stress and worry has affected him. As Im not persuaded Admiral
acted fairly by doing so, it should also pay him £300 for the distress and inconvenience
caused by trying to recover almost £20,000 when it shouldnt have. When deciding on the 
fair amount of compensation I have taken into account that this issue only arose due to Mr C
allowing his brother to drive his car.
Mr C responded to my provisional decision and accepted it but said he still though the repair 
costs were exaggerated. He sent evidence hed also previously sent in which I hadnt 
commented on in my provisional decision. Specifically, photos and a video of the damage to 
the third partys car. Admiral didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure Mr C that while I hadnt commented on the photos or video hed 
previously sent, I had considered them before issuing my provisional decision. Ive also 
considered them again following my provisional decision and Im not persuaded to depart 
from my provisional decision. 
I say this because when comparing the photos and video Mr C has provided, theyre not 
supported by an engineers opinion of what needs repairing or replacing and why. The 
engineers report the third party supplied to Admiral also shows similar damage to that 
shown in the photos and video provided by Mr C. It also goes onto show further damage 
once the boot is opened which you cant see in the photos Mr C supplied. The report then 
lists the parts which need replacing/repairing along with the costs for this, including labour to 
fit the. Admiral has also had this report reviewed by a separate engineer who didnt have 
concerns with it. So while I understand Mr C thinks the costs are exaggerated, given the 
evidence provided by the third party to Admiral, Im not persuaded there is sufficient 
evidence to persuade me that the repair costs are exaggerated. Im therefore not going to 
interfere with Admirals decision to pay them.
Admiral didnt respond by the date requested but did respond after the required date. 
However, even though it responded late I have considered its comments and Ive not been 
persuaded to depart from my provisional decision. I say this because Admiral referred to the 
engineers report as saying the car was mobile but goes on to say when the car went in for 
repair, it was stripped, and a part was on back order which meant it wasnt mobile until the 
replacement part was fitted. 
While I understand this, Im still not persuaded it meant the TP needed a credit hire car or 
needed it for as long as they had it. I say this as there has been nothing from Admiral to 
show the reason they needed a like for like car and met the criteria for a credit hire car. 
Furthermore, the engineers report lists the parts needed for repair, including the one which 
wasnt available. The engineers report was completed the day before the car was stripped 
and so it appears the garage should have known it wouldnt be able to carry out the repair 
before work started on the car. And, as I cant see Admiral checked these before paying for 
the credit hire charges, we now have no way of knowing if it would have successfully defended them. For this reason, Im not persuaded to depart form the findings in my 
provisional decision.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to:
1. Not recover the £13,973.62 it paid for hire car charges
2. If Mr C has paid more than the remaining £5,647.82 then Admiral Insurance
(Gibraltar) Limited need to refund Mr C the difference between £5,647.82 and what
hes paid. If a refund is due to Mr C, interest at 8% simple per year should be added
to that amount, calculated from the date Mr C overpaid to the date payment is issued.
3. Pay Mr C £300 for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman