DRN-1781844
The complaint
Mr P complains that Zopa Limited (Zopa) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened 
In November 2017 Mr P applied on-line to Zopa for a £15,000 consolidation loan repayable 
over a four-year term. Zopa approved the loan and later that month the loan amount was 
paid into one of Mr Ps current accounts. Mr Ps monthly repayments were confirmed at just 
over £480.00 per month.  
Mr P made the first repayment in January 2018. But according to Zopa no further payments 
were received. The loan was defaulted in June 2018 and in October 2018 Mr Ps debt was 
sold to a debt collection agency. I understand proceedings have been launched to recover 
this debt, but theyve been paused pending the outcome of Mr Ps complaint at this service.
In July 2019, Mr P complained to Zopa that it shouldnt have granted him the loan because 
at the time he had a gambling problem. He said Zopa approved the loan without verification 
of his income as an apprentice electrician and neither did it ask to see his bank statements. 
Mr P felt that if Zopa had seen his bank statements it would have realised he had financial 
problems which were caused by gambling and therefore wouldnt have lent him the money.    
Zopa didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said when Mr P applied for the loan, checks 
on his credit file showed no adverse repayment information. Also, when Mr Ps outgoings 
were compared to his declared income there were no concerns regarding the affordability of 
the loan. 
Mr P wasnt happy with Zopas response and referred his complaint to this service.    
Our investigator was satisfied that Zopa took appropriate account of the information Mr P 
provided in his loan application. And he was also satisfied Zopa carried out appropriate 
checks to satisfy itself that Mr P was able to repay the loan. The investigator concluded 
therefore that Zopa had acted fairly when it offered Mr P the loan. 
Mr P didnt agree with the investigators conclusions and has asked for an ombudsmans 
review. He believes that based on his income and employment status at the time of the 
application he shouldnt have been given the loan. And Mr P doesnt think Zopa carried out 
enough checks before granting him the loan. Mr P says Zopa should have asked for and 
thoroughly examined relevant financial documentation before lending him such a substantial 
amount of money. Also, to have approved the loan without obtaining any evidence of how he 
intended to use the money is further evidence Zopa acted irresponsibly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I broadly agree with the investigators conclusions and Ill explain why.  
The Financial Conduct Authoritys consumer credit sourcebook (CONC) sets out the rules 
about the sorts of things lenders need to consider before lending money to an individual. 
These rules were updated in November 2018 which was after Mr Ps loan was granted. So, 
Ive also considered what CONC said before then, covering the time Mr Ps loan was 
approved and granted in 2017. 
In essence, CONC 5 required lenders to carry out proportionate checks in order to make 
sure that a customer would be able to meet repayments in a sustainable way without 
incurring financial difficulties. 
So, where theres a complaint about irresponsible lending, as Mr Ps is suggesting on Zopas 
part, I have first to consider whether Zopa made a fair assessment of Mr Ps ability to repay 
the loan. That involves looking to see whether it carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks before the loan was granted to Mr P.  
If, in my opinion Zopa did carry out reasonable and proportionate checks, the second thing I 
need to consider is whether Zopa made a fair lending decision, bearing in mind the 
information it gathered and reviewed from the checks that were carried out.
were Zopas checks reasonable and proportionate for the loan it granted to Mr P?
CONC 5.2.1 states that a lender must make an assessment based on information from the 
customer and from a credit reference agency. Im satisfied this was done by Zopa when it 
assessed Mr Ps suitability for the loan. 
Zopa has told us it considered Mr Ps income against his expenditure to determine the 
affordability of the loan. It says it also took into account Mr P was applying for a 
consolidation loan and his application was assessed using the appropriate model for a loan 
of that type.
I can see from his application Mr P said he was an electrician. There was no mention his 
position was as an apprentice. He gave details of his employers for whom he said he worked 
for over three years. And Mr P said he lived at home with his parents. The information 
showed Mr P had a gross annual income of £26,784 and a net monthly salary of £1,791.07. 
On balance, his financial position seemed to be stable.
Zopa was entitled to rely on the information Mr P gave to it. Im satisfied Zopa did so when 
making its decision and I do not find it was unreasonable for it to have done so. 
Zopa has also pointed to the information on Mr Ps credit report which it took account of. The 
report showed the extent of Mr Ps borrowings at the time  including:
a recent new loan of just under £6,500 which seemed to be repayment of a previous 
loan;
a credit card with a credit limit £4,800 but with less than 50% of which had been used 
up;
a second credit card with credit limit of £2,000 but only £61 outstanding. 
two current accounts  one which had 78% overdraft usage, whereas the other 
account wasnt being used.  
The copy of credit reference agency report showed no negative markers on Mr Ps credit file. 
So, although Zopas checks didnt go as far as Mr P feels they should have, for example to 
include wage slips and account statements, Im satisfied that in the circumstances the 
checks Zopa carried out were reasonable and proportionate and in accordance with CONC 
5.2.1. did Zopa make a fair lending decision?
Zopa established Mr P was in regular employment and had been for over three years. It also 
established Mr P had a regular source of income from which he could maintain sustainable 
repayments towards the loan. In addition, Mr P had said the loan was intended for 
consolidation purposes. In the circumstances it wouldnt have been unreasonable for Zopa 
to expect Mr Ps other debts to be reduced when the loan was used for this purpose. In fact, 
that might perhaps have improved Mr Ps prospect of maintaining the loan repayments in the 
same way in which he had maintained his other borrowings. 
So, like the investigator, Im not persuaded Zopas decision to lend to Mr P was 
irresponsible. Im satisfied it was a fair decision having regard to the information it reviewed 
and what it knew about Mr Ps circumstances.
Mr P has told us he had a gambling problem at the time he took out the loan with Zopa. Im 
sorry to hear about the difficulties this has caused him. This is at the heart of Mr Ps case 
because he feels Zopa didnt get the chance to find out about his problem because it didnt 
check his bank statements. He feels if Zopa had checked those statements it would have 
seen this activity.  
But Zopa wasnt required to do this and it doesnt appear that Mr P alerted Zopa to the 
problem in the course his application. Based on the checks Zopa carried out to satisfy itself it 
was reasonable to lend to Mr P, I do not find Zopa acted unfairly by omitting to go further 
and check Mr Ps bank statements. 
But even if Zopa had reviewed Mr Ps bank statements and seen there were betting 
transactions, as indeed there were, it doesnt follow it would have been irresponsible to lend 
to Mr P. I agree with the investigator that from looking at Mr Ps bank statements, he didnt 
appear to operate his account poorly  he didnt regularly exceed his overdraft limit and the 
account was often in credit. And thats further borne out by the fact his credit records didnt 
show any adverse entries.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman