DRN-4082384
The complaint
The estate of Mr C complains about the advice Santander UK Plc gave, explaining the effect 
of missed payments on the mortgage. Miss C, acting for the estate, said shed made 
decisions on the basis of this advice, which meant the mortgage debt went up a lot.
What happened
Miss C told us Mr C sadly passed away in late 2021, and shes the executor of his estate. 
She said she took some advice from Santander about his outstanding mortgage. She asked 
Santander what would happen if she paused the mortgage payments, and it told her interest 
would be added on, so the debt would get steadily higher because of the lack of payments 
coming off the value of the mortgage. She said that on the basis of this advice, she decided 
to pause payments to the late Mr Cs mortgage while the property was being sold.
Miss C said she was never clearly told that the payments which were not being made would
also be added on top of the mortgage value, and this would increase the interest more
significantly. She said the mortgage was a little over £570 a month. When she contacted
Santander in September 2022 to ask about the outstanding mortgage balance, she
discovered that not only was interest being added (as shed expected) but that the monthly
payment of £570 was also being added to the debt, on top. Miss C said if shed known this,
she wouldnt have missed payments.
Miss C said shes now started paying the mortgage. She said this had cost the estate a little
over £6,000. If shed known how the mortgage debt would build up, she would have used
other monies coming into the estate to pay it, and done so earlier.
Miss C wanted Santander to cover this additional cost, plus interest on the missed
payments. She said Santander had a responsibility to explain mortgages clearly and
carefully to bereaved persons. She didnt think it had done that.
When Miss C complained, Santander wrote to Miss C to say that the advisor shed spoken to
wasnt clear that the complete monthly payments as well as additional interest would be
added to the full balance of the mortgage account. Santanders advisor did confirm interest
was added, but didnt clarify that was in addition to the original monthly payment of £570.24.
Santander offered Miss C a compensation payment of £250 and sent a bouquet of flowers.
When this complaint came to us, Santander said it thought there had been a
misunderstanding. It said when someone who has a mortgage with it passes away,
Santander wont chase the estate for payment. Instead, any missed payments are added to
the mortgage account as arrears. And it mentioned a letter dated 24 January 2022, where it
said it had explained this to Miss C.
But Santander didnt think Miss C had understood how this worked. It set out a breakdown of
how the late Mr Cs mortgage had been treated since he passed away, and invited us to
send this to Miss C. (I dont think this has yet been sent to her, so Ill arrange for it to be sent
with this decision.)
Santander said it had offered Miss C a payment of £250 for inaccurate information shed
been given, but she hadnt accepted that. Santander said she could still accept this now, if
she wanted to.
Miss C said the estate had always intended to sell the late Mr Cs property, but if shed
known how much the mortgage debt would go up in the interim, she would have made
different decisions. She said an offer of £250 compensation wasnt enough, for a fault that
cost the estate around £7,000.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that our service is
restricted in what we can do, when dealing with complaints brought by estates. We cant
award the estate compensation for any trouble or upset Miss C has experienced. Santander
can offer Miss C a payment for this, but we cant.
Our investigator said that missed payments are added onto the mortgage balance. This is
how a mortgage contract works. But the executors arent expected to make these payments.
So, the account is frozen while the executors make arrangements. Our investigator said it
wasnt explained to Miss C that the normal monthly payment as well as interest would be
added to the mortgage balance. But that was clarified in its letter to Miss C of 24 January
2022. So our investigator wouldnt ask Santander to do any more.
Miss C was unhappy with this. She hadnt got the letter of 24 January and wanted Santander
to prove it was sent. She reminded us that Santander had admitted it had made mistakes in
what it told her. Miss C said she understood that we couldnt compensate her for the effect
on her of having to find this money to pay the mortgage, but she wanted us to consider the
loss to the estate.
Because no agreement was reached, this case came to me for a final decision. I then 
reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Miss C has referred a few times to a significant increase in the mortgage balance, and 
to a loss to the estate of around £7,000. But, having looked at this case carefully, I dont 
think thats whats happened here. So I do think theres been a misunderstanding, but 
Im not clear that this has yet been fully cleared up. Ill set out what I understand has 
happened with the late Mr Cs mortgage, and give both Miss C and Santander the 
opportunity to comment further before I finalise my decision.
Miss C might, reasonably, have assumed that after shed spoken to Santander, Mr Cs 
mortgage would just be frozen, so the only activity on the account would be a small 
amount of interest added each month. But instead, it looks as if shes been concerned to 
find a mounting arrears balance, which was a little over £6,000 when she paid it off.
I think whats happened here is just to do with how Santander calculates the mortgage. 
The document Santander sent to us, to explain to Miss C what had happened on this 
mortgage, shows that there are two balances on the late Mr Cs mortgage. Theres a 
capital balance, and an arrears balance. The overall mortgage debt is a combination of 
these two amounts.Every time Miss C missed a payment to this mortgage, the arrears balance went up, by 
the amount of the missed payment. And there was also a small amount of interest 
charged each month on these arrears.
But at the same time, the capital balance came down, by the amount of the missed 
payment. 
Whats owed on this mortgage is a combination of the arrears balance (which was going 
up, while payments werent being made) plus the capital balance (which was going 
down at the same time). So, overall, the estates mortgage debt to Santander wasnt 
going up by around £570 each month. It was only increasing slightly each month, 
allowing for the impact of payments not made, and the interest charged on arrears.
I can see when Miss C stopped making payments, in late 2021, the overall debt was a 
little over £76,000. But just before she started making payments again, the overall debt 
was only a little more than this. It wasnt around £7,000 higher, as Miss C feared. 
I hope that my explanation, and Santanders table, will assist in making this clearer.
Santander has since received payments from Miss C, and the mortgage has reduced 
more substantially as a result of the lump sum she paid, as well as the subsequent 
monthly payments.
I do think that Santander caused Miss C avoidable worry here, because it provided a 
poor explanation of what was happening on the late Mr Cs mortgage. But I havent 
requested the call Miss C wanted us to listen to, because it looks to me as if the poor 
advice was given after this. I think that whats gone wrong here isnt that the mortgage 
was going up sharply, after Miss C paused the monthly payments. I think its just 
Santander didnt explain to Miss C that, although the arrears balance was going up 
sharply, the capital balance was coming down by almost the same amount. So she 
didnt need to worry quite so much.
Unfortunately, as our investigator explained, we arent able to compensate Miss C for 
the distress this will have caused her. Im glad to see that Santander has offered £250, 
and that its been at pains to stress this offer is still open to Miss C.
It follows from what Ive explained above, that I dont think the estate has lost around 
£7,000. It has just paid more of the mortgage than it had to. But that means it should 
receive more of the sale proceeds once the property is sold. So I dont think it would be 
fair and reasonable for me to ask Santander to make a large payment to the estate.
I would welcome comments from either side in response to this provisional decision. I 
invite Santander to confirm whether the position is as Ive set it out, and Miss C to 
comment further, now the position is, hopefully, clearer. However, on my current 
understanding of this complaint, I wouldnt propose to make any award, for the reasons 
set out above. So my provisional decision is that this complaint wont be upheld. Miss C 
can still ask Santander to honour its previous offer to her.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander replied, to say that my understanding of the situation was correct. And it included 
an up to date version of the table, setting out recent movements on the mortgage of the late 
Mr C, for us to send to Miss C. Our service sent this, and the old table which Santander 
provided some months previously, on to Miss C. 
Before receiving this table, Miss C indicated she didnt agree with my provisional decision. 
But afterwards, she wrote again, to say that on the basis of this revised information, she did 
now agree. She said Santander hadnt provided this sort of breakdown before, and it would 
have been incredibly helpful to have it earlier. She said shed previously been given figures 
which led her to believe the balance had risen by £6,000, and Santander kept confirming 
that position, so she didnt know why Santander hadnt set this all out for her sooner. 
Miss C said that, based on this correct information, she would now accept my decision, and 
would also accept the money Santander had offered, given the confusion their staff and poor 
processes have caused. She asked whether shed need to contact Santander directly about 
this. As our service isnt able to compel the payment of an award in this case, it would be for 
Miss C and Santander to liaise about that payment.
Miss C also wanted to know if this could be reported back to Santander so it could alter its 
processes and avoid this happening in future. She said if Santander had communicated 
better and followed conversations up in writing, none of this would have happened. 
Our service can only look at individual complaints, so Im not able to compel Santander to 
change how it deals with future mortgage enquiries from other customers. But Miss C may 
like to know this decision will be shared with Santander, for it to take these issues on board.
I havent changed my mind about the appropriate decision in this case, but I am glad to see 
that Miss C now agrees, and that the confusion in this case has been resolved. Ill now make 
the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr C 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 May 2023. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman