DRN-3088830
The complaint
Mr F complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim he 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system he says were misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr F is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In or around September 2014, Mr F contacted a company I will call P to talk about 
purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. After being 
visited by a representative of P, Mr F decided to purchase the system and finance it through 
a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently 
installed.
In May 2019 the CMC made a claim on Mr Fs behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that P had made several representations about the system that 
had turned out not to be true. And it said it was these misrepresentations that had induced 
Mr F to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following misrepresentations had 
been made:
the total cost of the system was shown as £6,200.00 to mislead Mr F as when the 
interest was added the total cost was £8,122.80
Mr F was promised a tax-free year one benefit of £812.28 but was not made aware 
that after making his loan repayments there would be an annual deficit of £245.37 
the system would be self-funded by virtue of the feed in tariff (FIT) payments 
the system would not cost Mr F a penny
The CMC said that Ps representative was at Mr Fs property for three hours and used 
pressurised sales tactics.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr F or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr F and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view but did not provide any further comments.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. It states:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c)
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in
the respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against
the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the
debtor.
As Mr F paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr F could claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr F and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and Mr Fs solar quote. Ive looked at these in detail and 
have considered whether they support the alleged representations made by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact, alongside Mr Fs recollection of the sale.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest rate to be charged, 
the total charge for credit, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.
Cost of the system
The loan agreement clearly sets out the cash price of the goods.The CMC says the cost of the system was shown as £6,200.00. It says that this was done to 
mislead Mr F, as this figure did not include any interest on the loan. So, the CMC considers 
that it hid the true cost of the system which was £12,184.20.
Im satisfied that the quote provided to Mr F makes it clear that the cash cost of the system 
was £6,200.00. This is supported by the credit agreement which shows the total cash price 
as £6,200.00 and the total amount of credit as £6,200.00. But it then goes on to show the 
total charge for the credit as £5,984.20 and the total amount payable as £12,184.20.
The quote is also clear that there would be a monthly loan repayment due, as set out in the 
table below. So, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the credit agreement, 
made it clear that although the cash price of the system was £6,200.00, it would cost Mr F 
more than this as hed decided to pay for it with an interest-bearing loan.
I also note that the complaint letter from the CMC has referred to the total cost of the system 
as being £8,122.80. I have not seen this figure in the point of sale documentation and 
therefore cant conclude that Mr F was led to believe that this would be the total cost.
FIT payments
The CMC alleges that Mr F was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments. Ive looked at the quote that was provided by P and 
considered whether this supports what Mr F says he was told.
The System Analysis section of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr F could expect 
to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think the first of these tables is clear that Mr F could expect to receive a total FIT income in 
year one of £519.19.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr F could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £237.07 and the combined income and savings in 
year one is shown as £756.26. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
Theres a section headed Repayments/System Performance and Returns with three tables 
showing repayments over 60 months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table 
for 180 months as this is the length of the loan that Mr F entered into with Shawbrook. This 
table shows the loan as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £67.69. For each year of the 
15-year loan, it shows the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that 
figure over 12 months and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £67.69 to give an 
average difference between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan 
repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr F could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments and savings, as well as the monthly loan repayments that would be 
due. I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to his monthly loan 
repayments. But it does clearly set out that the overall income he could expect to receive by 
way of FIT income and any additional savings, would not immediately be enough to cover 
the monthly loan repayments. Im satisfied that Ps representative would have taken Mr F 
through the quote. And Im not satisfied that he was told that his monthly loan repayments 
would be covered by the FIT income alone.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr F that the system would self-funding.
Ive considered the table above that sets out the estimated average monthly return from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied the table is clear and easy to understand.
Im satisfied that this table shows that in the first year Mr F was expected to have made a 
loss of £4.67 a month and in the second year this would decrease to a loss of £1.73 a 
month. It wouldnt be until year 3 that the expected benefits would exceed his monthly loan 
repayments, and, by my calculation, it wouldnt have been until year 5 that he would have 
sufficiently recouped any previous annual losses and the system would be paying for itself.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start. 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected return and 
monthly loan repayments, and that the expected return wouldnt be enough to cover the 
monthly loan repayments.
However, I do accept that Mr F was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
duration of time. 
The quote includes a table headed System Performance and Returns detailing the 
performance over 20 years. This shows that it was estimated that by year 13 the overall 
benefits that Mr F could expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable 
under his loan agreement. 
As Ive said above, Im satisfied that P told Mr F that the system would pay for itself by year 
13, as supported by the table above. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and if I were 
satisfied that this was what induced him to enter into the contract, and he subsequently 
suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr F. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the system is 
expected to produce 2,977.78 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mr Fs FIT statements and can see that his system, on average, has 
generated 3,214.85 kWh. This is slightly more than estimated by P at the point of sale, so 
Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices and expected annual RPI inflation increase. I am 
satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2004 and 2013 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale. I think this 
explains why Mr F hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may have been expecting 
from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the modelling 
predicted, the returns achieved through the energy generated by the system have been 
correspondingly lower.
As Ive explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available from 
the ONS covering 2004 to 2013. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to 
have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr F could have 
expected to receive from the system. So, while I appreciate that the returns may not have 
been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to P 
using unreasonable assumptions when Mr F entered into the contract.
I remain satisfied that the quotation did form a central part of the sales process when Mr F 
agreed to enter into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that P didnt make any untrue statements of fact that induced Mr F to enter into the 
contract for the system. And I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman