DRN-2562638
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed his account and loaded a fraud marker 
against his name.
What happened
Mr A says that in late 2018 he couldnt access his Barclays bank account. When he 
contacted Barclays to find out what had happened, he was informed his account had been 
closed. Mr A was unhappy with this, so he raised a complaint with the bank.
Mr A says Barclays responded to his complaint and maintained its decision to close the 
account. However, it did pay him £200 as a gesture of goodwill for the inconvenience 
caused. 
Mr A considered the matter closed. But after some time, his accountsheld with other 
businessesbegan to close. It was at this stage that Mr A discovered that Barclays had 
loaded a fraud marker against his name using the Cifas database. Unhappy with this, he 
made a further complaint about the marker applied. He also complained again regarding 
Barclays decision to close his account.
Barclays responded to Mr As complaint. It again maintained that its decision to close his 
account stood and referred him to the previous complaint and response. It also reviewed 
information provided by Mr A regarding the suspicious activity on his account that lead to the 
fraud marker loading. Following this review, it decided to remove the loading itd made to 
Cifas. It also considered the evidence provided about the impact the marker caused and 
offered £500 compensation.
Mr A wasnt happy with this offer. He remained unhappy with the account closure and said 
that the Cifas loadings impact was detrimental to a mortgage application. It also caused his 
accounts with other financial businesses to close. He therefore felt that the £500 offered 
wasnt sufficient to cover the impact caused. 
Mr A approached our service to look into his complaint again. An Investigator looked into the 
evidence provided by both parties and thought that the compensation offered should be 
increased to £775. He felt that this reflected the impact caused by the marker being applied 
incorrectly; including account closures and the refusal of a mortgage application.
Barclays agreed, but Mr A didnt. He said that he felt it unfair that Barclays had retained an 
internal marker against his name and was refusing any further financial products when hed 
been a victim himself. He was satisfied with the outcome of the other elements of his 
complaint.
As Mr A didnt agree with the outcome recommended by the Investigator, the matter has 
been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr A and Barclays have agreed to a vast majority of what the Investigator has 
recommended, I dont intend to go over these points in any further detail. So, my findings will 
consider the one element Mr A remains unhappy with; the internal marker preventing him 
from obtaining further products with Barclays.
Mr A remains unhappy that Barclays has retained an internal marker against him refusing 
him products in the future. Mr A says this is unfair as he feels hes been exonerated from 
any wrongdoing or criminal activity. And he feels this leaves him at a disadvantage in the 
future when considering his options for financial products. He also remains anxious of any 
marker that remains against his name and thinks this is tarnishing his good character.
Barclaysmuch the same as consumershas a right to decide who it enters into a 
business relationship with as long as it doesnt breach relevant law or regulations. Barclays 
has made the commercial decision to no longer offer future products to Mr A. As such, its 
had to record an internal marker to ensure any future application take this into account.
While I understand Mr As frustration with this  I cant say Barclays is unfair in doing so. Our 
service can consider if the circumstances surrounding an account closure was fair. And if it 
wasnt, wed ask a business to pay compensation for the impact this had on the consumer. 
But I dont think it fair or reasonable to direct a business to remove internal data held on its 
own systems, continue a business relationship with a customer (unless required to by 
regulation) or offer them financial products in the future. 
As Ive said above, Barclays is obliged to consider its legal and regulatory obligations when 
deciding to decline a potential customers application for a financial product. Any decline of 
future applications would have to take a number of factors into account and ensure that its 
not breaching law or regulations. But each application to a financial business would have to 
be looked at on its own merits and numerous factors taken into consideration.
Here, Barclays has merely recorded information it feels relevant on its own internal systems. 
This isnt contained within an external database that impacts Mr As ability to seek products 
with other financial businesses; so, I dont think it appropriate for our service to ask it to do 
anything more than it has already been asked to do to put things right.
I appreciate that this may come as a disappointment to Mr A, but our service must weigh up 
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of each complaint. 
For these reasons, Im upholding Mr As complaint in line with the recommendations made in 
the Investigators view, but I dont uphold his complaint about Barclays internal marker.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding this complaint. If it hasnt already done so, 
Barclays Bank UK Plc now needs to:
Pay Mr A £775 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman