DRN-3279718
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P say National Westminster Bank Plc mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance, (PPI), policy with their joint mortgage in 2004. Theyve told us that they didnt 
know the policy benefit would be split proportionately between them until they made a claim 
on it  and they say they would never have taken out the policy if theyd been told this.
What happened
In April 2020 Mrs P made a backdated claim on the joint PPI policy. The claim covered a
period between Autumn 2016 and early 2017. The policy insurer told her a proportionate 
amount of the claim would be paid  because the policy benefit was split, based on what she 
and Mr P were earning at the time.
Mr and Mrs P complained to NatWest a few days after being told this. They said they were 
not told the benefit would be split this way when they bought the policy, so they conclude the 
PPI was mis-sold for this reason.
On 24 May 2021 one of my colleague ombudsman issued a decision on whether Mr and
Mrs Ps complaint was out of time, meaning we couldnt consider it all. The ombudsman
explained that we cant look at all the complaints referred to us. But they went on to conclude
that we can look at whether the policy was mis-sold to Mr and Mrs P so far as the
complaint relates specifically to whether Mr and Mrs P were made aware, when they
bought the policy, that the monthly benefit would be split between them  and their
assertion that they werent told this and wouldnt have bought the policy if they had
known this. (My italics.)
Our adjudicator considered this complaint and didnt recommend that it should be upheld. As
Mr and Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators view, the matter came to me to decide.
On 18 November 2021 I issued a decision in which I explained that, subject to any further 
evidence and comments I received by 16 December 2021, I had provisionally decided not to 
uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
NatWest made no further comment on my decision. Whereas Mr and Mrs P made several 
comments on it; all of which I have considered carefully and taken into account in arriving at 
this decision. I have however only set out below those points that I consider need to be 
specifically addressed to explain how Ive reached my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive followed this in making my provisional decision.
Where the available information is missing, unclear or inconsistent I have to decide what, on
balance, I think is most likely to have happened, taking into account what evidence I have
and the surrounding circumstances.
The policy covered Mr and Mrs P for accident sickness and involuntary unemployment.
Following a successful claim it would have paid out for up to 12 months. The monthly benefit
was £550. This benefit was split between them. That is to say, that this monthly amount
would only be paid if they had both made a successful claim relating the same claim period. 
The policy terms were such that, if only one of them was not working at the time of the claim, 
the payment would be the proportion of the £550 equivalent to the proportion that the income 
of the one of them not working bore to their total income. 
I dont think that NatWest advised Mr and Mrs P to take the PPI, but instead left it up to them
to decide whether they wanted it or not, taking into account their circumstances at the time.
But NatWest still had to give Mr and Mrs P clear, fair, and not-misleading information so that
they could make their decision in a properly informed way. Mr and Mrs P say that it was 
certainly not the case that NatWest gave them clear, fair and not-misleading information. 
They say that the only reason they took out the policy was because they were told that it 
would protect their full mortgage  at no time was it mentioned that it would be a split benefit. 
Ive seen Mr and Mrs P mortgage application. The section dealing with the PPI says, This
policy will protect your mortgage repayments against accident, sickness and 
unemployment. And the amount to be protected, and the persons to be covered, have been
handwritten on the form as £600* and Mr and Mrs P respectively. Because of the time 
that has passed, I dont know what else NatWest told or gave Mr and Mrs P about the PPI at 
the time of the sale. And, in particular, I dont find that I have enough information to conclude 
that NatWest did make it clear to them that the stated benefit was split between the two of 
them. Mr and Mrs P say that this finding speaks for itself. I am not sure what they mean by 
this, as my decision does not turn solely on this finding. (*This figure must have been 
subsequently reduced before the policy was put in place.)
I have, additionally, to consider what would have happened had NatWest clearly explained 
that the stated monthly amount was split between them. Mr and Mrs P say that they would 
have opted for two separate policies, (I presume at something like double the cost, in total), 
or no protection at all. This is what they now think that they would have chosen at the time. 
But I find that, on balance, it is likely that they would have still proceeded with the policy.Mr and Mrs P say that, because of the sickness pay to which they were both entitled, they 
had not previously considered protecting the mortgage. They say the decision to do so was 
based on the advice provided that [the policy] would protect our full mortgage. (My italics.) 
But, if either Mr or Mrs P had not been earning, (the non-earner), the other one of them, 
(the earner), would have still continued to have their same income. So I find that it wouldnt 
have been an unreasonable decision for them to have decided just to cover the proportion of 
their monthly mortgage payments represented by the lost income of the non-earner, 
knowing that nothing had changed with regard to the ability of the earner to contribute their 
part of the full payment. And on balance, without any other information, I find, that this would 
have been the most likely outcome at the time. 
So, although I can understand that Mr and Mrs P may have been surprised and disappointed 
when only a proportion of the £550 was paid for each month they successfully claimed, I 
dont find that Mr and Mrs P have lost out because NatWest may have failed to explain that 
the amount covered by the PPI was split between them.
As Ive said, Ive considered everything Mr and Mrs P have told us. In response to my 
provisional decision they said: Had it been explained that this was a joint policy where the 
benefit only pays out if we both made a successful claim for the same claim period this 
would definitely not have been beneficial to us as the chances of this ever happening are 
very slim. This is not what I said in my provisional decision. What I said was: That is to 
say, that this monthly amount [£550] would only be paid if they had both made a 
successful claim for the same claim period. (My italics.) In did not say that nothing would 
be paid out unless they both claimed for the same period. 
Mrs P says that she was upset by my earlier decision, including my suggestion that they 
would have opted for the joint policy. I am sorry that this has had that effect, it was, of 
course, completely unintended. I was just setting out what I concluded was most likely to 
have happened had NatWest given them correct information. Mrs P goes on to say that they 
paid out every month for 16 years for a policy which is basically useless. Which she says 
most definitely feels like they have lost out. Im not sure how she has reached the conclusion 
that the policy is useless, particularly as she has made a successful claim - although the 
amount paid out was less than she was expecting. And I wish to make it clear that the 
premium they paid did cover PPI which would have paid out the full £550 a month following 
a successful claim, in circumstances where she and Mr P both had no income.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint..
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman