DRN-3165462
The complaint
Mr and Ms C have complained that Prydis Wealth Limited invoiced them £1,800 for advice 
which theyve said wasnt suitable for their circumstances, nor truly independent or value 
for money.
What happened
In February 2020, Mr and Ms C signed a client agreement with Prydis, which said that it 
would provide a recommendation after assessing their needs, that the advisory firm was 
owned by Prydis Limited  which also held shares in a firm called P1 Investment 
Management Limited  and that the initial service would be provided for a minimum report 
fee of £1,500 plus VAT.
The objectives recorded in a subsequent suitability report dated 18 August 2020 were as 
follows:
Enable their children to pursue their desired education without incurring 
unmanageable debt
To retire by age 65
Maximise any surplus income by investing as appropriate in a tax efficient manner.
Prydis recommended that Mr C consolidate two pension plans held with TPT Retirement 
Solutions and Prudential into one P1 Intuitive Pension Account (IPA), and that Ms C transfer 
her single stakeholder plan with Scottish Widows to an IPA as well.
In support of the recommendations, it said that Mr Cs pension plans were either too high or 
too low risk for his medium high risk attitude, whereas, although Ms Cs stakeholder plan 
had a similar level of risk to the new plan, she would benefit from active management in the 
new arrangement.
The existing plans had lower charges than the new plans, but the new plans would be held 
on a P1 platform, which provided for other investment vehicles, such as ISAs, to be held as 
well. They would be managed on a discretionary basis by P1 Investment Management, 
within the P1 Growth Focus portfolio. This meant that they would be invested across a 
range of collective investment funds from various product providers.
Mr and Ms C didnt act upon the advice, and after they received the invoice for £1,800 in 
September 2020, they submitted a letter of complaint in the same month, saying in summary 
that they didnt believe the Prydis adviser had been truly independent, nor that the advice 
had been value for money.
They also expressed concern about P1 Investment Management and that the recommended 
investment options appeared expensive. As such, having not acted upon the advice given, 
they expressed dissatisfaction with the invoice theyd been sent.
In response, Prydis said that it was an independent financial advisory firm and that research 
had been conducted across the whole of the market in order to determine the most suitable 
investment and platform for their pensions and savings.
It said that, although there was a conflict of interest through indirect shareholdings between 
Prydis and P1 Investment Management Ltd, they were discrete and separately authorised 
firms and the relationship between them didnt mean that the advice had been unsuitable.
Although P1 may have been a small firm, the research had demonstrated that, in terms of 
platform costs and other relevant areas, it was the most suitable platform for Mr and Ms Cs 
needs. Nor, it said, was there any concern over its financial stability. It disagreed that the 
recommendations were too expensive and said that all initial and ongoing costs had been 
disclosed in the client report.
It concluded that, although Mr and Ms C had decided not to act upon the advice, the adviser 
had spent a significant amount of time visiting them and researching their options, in addition 
to then preparing the client report. Mr and Ms C had confirmed that they were prepared to 
pay the minimum report fee of £1,500 plus VAT even if they didnt proceed with the 
recommendations.
As such, it said that the invoice would still need to be settled.
Dissatisfied with the outcome, Mr and Ms C referred the complaint to this service.
They elaborated on their complaint points, saying that, although theyd been led to believe 
that Prydis were an independent advisory firm, the adviser recommended that they invest in 
an entity which shared the same building and had close ties with Prydis. Mr and Ms C 
therefore didnt believe that the recommendations could have been given on a truly 
independent basis, and that there was a potential conflict of interest here.
Mr and Ms C also had concerns about the P1 investment management, as it didnt seem to 
have strong track record, with accounting losses recorded for the previous two years, and it 
was a small organisation. This compared poorly to their existing providers, which had a 
decent track record and level of performance, they said.
The recommended options ended up being very expensive, Mr and Ms C added. Looking at 
the illustrations provided, they found it difficult to see what added value theyd be obtaining in 
return for the higher fees theyd be paying, when compared to their existing pension plans.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, and thought that it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said that although hed noted the relationship between Prydis and P1, he didnt 
think that this would necessarily mean that the advice hadnt been truly independent. He 
thought the available evidence supported the position that Prydis had looked at a range of 
providers and that the recommended P1 platform was at the lower end of ongoing costs.
But he also looked at the suitability of the advice, and firstly noted that, had the 
recommendations been implemented, the initial advice charges would have been 
incorporated into the pension switch transactions. But as they werent, the invoice had been 
generated, in accordance with the client agreement.
He said that a switch of pension arrangements should only in general occur if there was a 
reasonable prospect of the client(s) being better off. He noted that the actual recorded 
objectives were quite generic, being to retire at 65 and saving in a tax efficient manner. He 
thought that the existing plans could meet these objectives.In terms of the exposure to investment risk, he didnt think that the recommended 
replacement arrangements were much different to the existing ones for Mr C. And it had 
been acknowledged by the adviser that, certainly in any case for Ms C, this was the case.
But he noted that the costs of the proposed plans were around double those for the existing 
plan held with TPT, which meant that the recommended policy would need to outperform by 
around 0.5% pa just to provide the same level of benefits. 
He also considered performance issues, saying that if it could be demonstrated that a 
particular type of investment management had consistently outperformed another, this might 
indicate potential for enhanced future growth. But he noted that Mr Cs existing lower risk 
plan with Prudential had significantly outperformed the P1 portfolio over a five year period. 
The investigator concluded that Mr and Ms C were unlikely to be better off if they accepted 
the advice and switched to the new portfolio. And he didnt think the consolidation of Mr Cs 
two plans would have been sufficiently important to justify the higher overall charges.
He further said that Ms Cs stakeholder plan was modest in value and in general he wouldnt 
expect there to be a necessity to move to a more complex scheme, involving a platform 
provider, a plan provider, a discretionary fund manager and various underlying investment 
fund managers. He noted that the simple objective of investing at medium risk over the long 
term and with modest charges was already being achieved through Ms Cs existing 
arrangement.
To remedy the situation, the investigator said that he would usually recommend comparing 
the actual value of the plans against the notional value of the previous plans, had they not 
been switched. As the advice fee would have been incorporated into the value of the new 
plans, this would have been factored into this kind of redress proposal as it would have 
proportionately reduced the new plans value. But as the advice hadnt been implemented, 
there was a separate fee which Mr and Ms C were now being asked to pay.
He said that, although Prydis had clearly spent time in providing advice to Mr and Ms C, he 
didnt think the advice had been suitable and so it was his view that it should waive the 
£1,800 fee.
Neither party has submitted further comments in response to the investigators assessment. 
But as agreement hasnt been reached on the matter, its been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as the investigator, and for 
essentially the same reasons.
I firstly note the concerns that Mr and Ms C may have had about the relationship between 
Prydis and P1, and I acknowledge that this may fed into their wider doubts about the quality 
of the advice in general. But as both Prydis and the investigator have said, this wouldnt 
necessarily mean that a number of other options hadnt been researched. The benefit 
sometimes of a provider or management service which is close to home is that the advising 
firm is familiar with the operation and the quality of the service being offered. And this can 
often be an advantage. After all, if clients become dissatisfied with the quality of the service, 
or any other aspect such as performance, they can switch to a different provider. And if 
theres a clear association between the advising and management functions, any poor quality in the latter might reflect similarly poorly on the advising firm.
But as with the investigator, Ive struggled to appreciate the overall benefit to Mr and Ms Cs 
pension funds as a result of the switches, and so Im not persuaded that the recommended 
course of action was suitable for them. I elaborate on this below.
So firstly with regard to Mr and Ms Cs respective attitudes to risk, although Mr Cs exposure 
to risk in his existing TPT plan was assessed as being high, and that within the Prudential 
plan was low/medium, any mismatch could have been addressed by simply amending the 
existing plans investment strategy. 
The client report said that neither the TPT plan nor the Prudential stakeholder plan had 
much scope for self investment, but I cant see that this is something in which Mr C had a 
particular interest  nor the experience to successfully implement  and so access to around 
2,600 funds for a total plan value of just under £81,000 seems somewhat surplus to 
requirements. And the lack of intention to self manage is any case borne out by the prospect 
of the new plan being managed on a discretionary basis. 
Similarly, Ms Cs stakeholder plan  modest in size as noted by the investigator at just under 
£16,000  had access to enough fund options to cater for her high/medium risk rating.
Further, none of the existing plans performance had been particularly at odds with the 
market sector over the previous five years and, as noted by the investigator, the Prudential 
plan in particular had comfortably outperformed this.
But its the area of charges where the comparison between the existing and proposed plans 
is the least favourable to the latter. The overall total of Mr Cs existing plan charges was 
calculated as being £430, as opposed to the total with the new plans of £1,460. For Ms C, 
the total for the new plan was £345, as opposed to just under £160 for her existing plan. And 
although this may have included the ongoing adviser charge, this didnt include the cost of 
the initial advice, which the new plans would also need to recoup.
Im not persuaded that the size of Mr and Ms Cs pension funds, nor anything concerning 
their investment experience or risk ratings, meant that they needed a discretionary 
management service. They may have been keen to maximise fund growth potential, which 
would of course be a common feature to most if not all investors, but I think overall they 
would have continued to be well served in that regard by prudent amendment, if and when 
required, in the risk exposure of their existing plans. 
The new plans were described as low cost Self Invested Personal Pensions, but I think Mr 
and Ms C may have quite justifiably regarded the proposed arrangements as not being quite 
as low cost as was being presented, especially when compared to their existing 
arrangements. And for the reasons given, I dont think they needed to move to anything 
which offered a self investment option.
And so it follows that I dont think their decision to reject the recommendations on the basis 
of concerns around suitability and cost was unreasonable.
Putting things right
As set out by the investigator, had the recommendations been accepted and implemented, 
the advice cost would have been incorporated into the value of the new plans, and if the old 
plans had demonstrated a higher value in any comparison redress calculation, the 
compensation would have been proportionately higher.As they didnt accept the recommendation, for what Ive said above are quite understandable 
reasons, theyve been presented with a separate fee. Had the recommendations been 
suitable, but Mr and Ms C had simply decided to not act upon them, I might ordinarily 
conclude that Prydis should nevertheless be able to invoice them. And as noted by the 
investigator, a not inconsiderable amount of time and effort may have been spent by the 
adviser here.
But I dont think the recommendations were suitable, and so I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr and Ms C should need to pay for a service which theyd quite 
understandably concluded had significant potential to leave them in an overall financially 
disadvantageous position.
Therefore, as with the investigator, my view is that Prydis should waive the advice fee. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold the complaint and that Prydis Wealth Limited should waive its 
advice fee.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman