DRN-2508433
The complaint
Mr and Ms M say West Bromwich Building Society (trading as West Brom) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1998. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Ms M disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Ms Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Ms Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Ms M say the mortgage and PPI were presented to them as a single package, 
and it wasnt made clear that the PPI was optional. West Brom no longer has copies of 
the paperwork that Mr and Ms M signed when they applied for the mortgage and PPI. 
I dont think thats surprising or unreasonable, given the time thats passed. Where the 
evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I need to decide what I thinks most likely to have 
happened, based on the information I have.
From what we know of West Broms sales processes at the time, the policy would 
normally have been presented as optional. I havent seen any evidence that would lead 
me to conclude that something different happened in this case.
I dont doubt that Mr and Ms M have given us their genuine recollection of what 
happened. But the sale was such a long time ago that it wouldnt be surprising if their 
memories have faded. Ive given serious consideration to what theyve said. But I think 
its more likely, on balance, that they were given a choice about whether to take the PPI. 
And I think its most likely that they decided to take the cover, knowing that they had a 
choice, even if they no longer remember this so long after the event.
West Brom says that it has assumed that it recommended the PPI to Mr and Ms M. 
Mr and Ms M say no recommendation was made. For the purposes of this decision, Ive 
assumed that West Brom did recommend the PPI to Mr and Ms M. This is to Mr and 
Ms Ms advantage when it comes to deciding their complaint, as it means that West 
Brom had a responsibility to check the cover was suitable for them. But it looks as if it 
was suitable, based on what Ive seen of Mr and Ms Ms circumstances at the time.
Ive seen nothing to make me think Mr and Ms M wouldnt have been eligible for the 
cover. Mr and Ms M have told us that theyd both have been entitled to six months full 
pay, followed by six months half pay from their employers if theyd been off sick. But 
based on typical benefits provided by this type of policy at the time, the PPI would have 
paid out for up to 12 months per successful claim for accident or sickness. Thats longer 
than either Mr or Ms M would have been entitled to full sick pay for. Whats more, the PPI 
would have paid out in addition to any payments they received from their employers. So 
they could have used those to meet other day-to-day expenses. And they wouldnt have 
needed to use any savings they had to make their monthly mortgage payments.
I acknowledge that Mr and Ms M have told us they already had critical illness and life 
insurance. But those are different types of insurance, and dont provide the same type of 
cover as PPI. So I dont think the fact that Mr and Ms M had critical illness and life cover 
meant that they didnt need PPI. 
Ive also borne in mind that the mortgage was a significant financial commitment, 
secured on Mr and Ms Ms property, and the consequences of falling behind with their 
mortgage payments could have been serious. Taking everything into account, I think the 
PPI could have been useful for Mr and Ms M. 
Its possible West Brom didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover  for 
example existing health issues, or unusual employment arrangements. But based on the 
information provided, I think its unlikely that Mr and Ms M would have been affected by 
any of these. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest that the PPI was unaffordable to Mr and Ms M. And if they 
decided they no longer wanted the cover, they could have cancelled it.
Taking everything into account, I think its unlikely that better information about the PPI 
would have put Mr and Ms M off taking it out. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 February 2021. 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman