DRN-4080005
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) has 
handled a claim they made under their home insurance (contents) policy.
RSA is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As RSA has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agents, in 
my decision, any reference to RSA includes the actions of the agents.
What happened
In April 2022, Mrs M made a claim under her home insurance policy with RSA after shed 
lost her wedding ring.
RSA says Mr and Mrs M had made a misrepresentation when they took out the policy. It said 
they hadnt declared a claim theyd made in 2019. RSA says that if Mr and Mrs M had made 
it aware of their previous claim, they would have been charged an additional £76 for the 
cover. So, it decided to offer Mr and Mrs M a proportionate settlement. 
RSA arranged for its jewellery experts to validate the claim costs. Mr and Mrs M were 
offered a cash settlement based on RSAs jewellers costs to manufacture on a like for like 
basis. Mr and Mrs M were offered a proportionate settlement, which worked out to be around 
£500 once the policy excess had been taken off.
Mrs M was unhappy with RSAs offer, which she felt was far too low. RSA didnt respond to 
Mrs Ms complaint in the appropriate timeframe, so Mrs M asked our service to consider her 
concerns. She said she wanted RSA to pay her the value of the ring showing on her 
insurance policy, which was £2,000.
I issued a provisional decision on 9 March 2023 where I explained why I intended to uphold 
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since Mr and Mrs Ms complaint was passed to me, Ive made several requests to RSA to 
provide evidence to support its position. However, it still hasnt provided evidence to show 
that it has acted fairly and in line with the relevant legislation. So, Ive needed to go ahead 
with a provisional decision based on the information I have available to me, in order to bring 
this matter to a conclusion.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant law in this case is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Reasonable care
RSA says Mr and Mrs M initially took out a home insurance policy with it in March 2020 via a 
comparison site. It says they failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
because they didnt declare a previous claim, theyd made in 2019. RSA says it isnt able to 
provide evidence of the questions Mr and Mrs M were asked at the time. 
RSA has provided a copy of the statement of fact from March 2020, which has a section 
Previous Insurance Details. Next to Any Previous Contents Insurance it says Yes  6 
claim-free years. The statement says to read the document carefully and let RSA know if 
any of the facts are incomplete or incorrect. And it warns of the potential consequences of 
not doing so. However, this document relates to the insurance taken out for the period 10 
April 2020 to 10 April 2021.
When a consumer renews a policy, they take out a new consumer contract. This means that 
the duty for the consumer to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation applies 
again. And the insurer also has to prove there was a qualifying misrepresentation at renewal 
in order to take a remedy available to it under CIDRA.
From what Ive seen, Mrs M lost her ring and made her claim in early April 2022. This was in 
the insurance period 10 April 2021 to 10 April 2022. However, RSA says it hasnt been able 
to provide a copy of the renewal documents from April 2021. This means Im unable to see if 
there was a statement of fact which included inaccurate information about Mr and Mrs Ms 
previous claims. So, Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs M failed to take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation when they renewed the policy.
However, as this is a provisional decision, its possible RSA might yet provide evidence to 
show that Mr and Mrs M failed to take reasonable care. So, Ive gone on to consider what 
remedy might be available to it if it does.
Qualifying misrepresentation
If a consumer fails to take reasonable care, the insurer has certain remedies providing the 
misrepresentation is, what CIDRA describes as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
RSA says if it had been aware of Mr and Mrs Ms prior claim, it would have charged them a 
higher premium. If an insurer can show this, CIDRA allows it to settle the claim based on the 
proportion of premium the policyholder paid compared to what they should have paid. 
RSA says it charged Mr and Mrs M a premium of £257.85 and it would have charged them 
£333.85 if it had known about their previous claim. So, its reduced the settlement to 77% of 
what it says it would have been if the alleged misrepresentation hadnt occurred.However, RSA hasnt provided evidence to show that Mr and Mrs Ms premiums would have 
been higher if it had known about their prior claim. Ive asked it to provide a retrospective 
quote or evidence of the loading. But it hasnt done so. RSA has provided a screenshot of a 
spreadsheet which has a note which says: current annual premium £257.85 and correct 
annual premium £333.85, but this doesnt show any calculation or loading. So, RSA hasnt 
provided sufficient evidence to show that Mr and Mrs Ms alleged misrepresentation would 
be qualifying. 
Cash settlement 
The policy terms say:
The insurer can choose to replace, repair or reinstate the lost or damaged property. If you 
request a cash settlement this will be restricted to the discounted replacement price we 
would normally pay using our own suppliers.
If no equivalent replacement is available, the insurer will pay the full replacement cost of the 
item.
RSA has provided a report from its jewellers who valued the lost ring at a Recommended 
Retail Price (RRP) of £1,955, based on a description from Mr and Mrs M. However, RSAs 
cash settlement offer seems to be based on what it would cost it to replace the ring, using its 
own suppliers (£1,016.60).
I havent seen any evidence to suggest that Mr and Mrs M requested a cash settlement. 
RSA says it doesnt believe the option of vouchers was ever discussed with Mr and Mrs M. 
So, based on what Ive seen, I dont think it was fair for RSA to have restricted the settlement 
to the discounted price it would normally pay using its own suppliers. 
In conclusion
I havent seen sufficient evidence to persuade me that Mr and Mrs M failed to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. Nor have I seen evidence to show that 
RSA would have charged Mr and Mrs M a higher premium if it had been aware of their 
previous claim. So, I dont think its fair for RSA to proportionately settle the claim. 
It would only be fair for RSA to restrict Mr and Mrs Ms settlement to the discounted 
replacement price it would pay to its own suppliers, if Mr and Mrs M request a cash 
settlement. If RSA chooses to make a cash settlement it needs to pay the full replacement 
cost of the ring, in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
I set out what I intended to direct RSA to do to put things right. And I gave both parties the 
opportunity to send me any further information or comments they wanted me to consider 
before I issued my final decision.
Responses
Mrs M acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision but didnt provide any further 
information or comments. 
RSA provided a copy of the renewal documents from April 2021, including the policy 
schedule and statement of fact. It also provided some further information to try to evidence that it would have charged Mr 
and Mrs M a higher premium if it had been aware of their previous claim. RSA said its initial 
calculation that Mr and Mrs M paid 77% of the premium they should have paid was incorrect, 
but it would adhere to it in its offer.
RSA said that no matter which way the decision goes, it would see what it could do to help 
progress the claim going forward and to see if it could offer a better way of settlement if the 
decision is agreed. It would look into the possibilities of paying a proportionate settlement 
with vouchers or Mr and Mrs M paying for part of the item using RSAs suppliers, including 
the discount. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSA has now provided the renewal documents (dated April 2021) that our service has been 
chasing for quite some time. The statement of fact has similar wording to what was showing 
on the document for the previous year. 
It has a section Previous Insurance Details. Next to Any Previous Contents Insurance it 
says Yes  7 claim-free years. 
Under the Claims Details sections it asks: Have you or anyone residing in your home 
made any claims or suffered any loss, damage or liability within the last 5 years? With the 
answer No. 
The statement says to read the document carefully and let RSA know if any of the facts are 
incomplete or incorrect. And it warns of the potential consequences of not doing so, which 
includes: any claim you make being rejected or not fully paid.
Mr and Mrs M dont dispute having made a claim in 2019. So, Im satisfied from the 
additional information RSA has supplied that Mr and Mrs M failed to take reasonable care 
not to make a misrepresentation when they renewed the policy in 2021.
However, in my provisional decision I considered the possibility that RSA might provide 
further evidence to demonstrate this. So, I went on to consider whether or not RSA had 
shown that Mr and Mrs Ms misrepresentation was what CIDRA describes as qualifying.
Further to my provisional decision, RSA sent several pieces of information in an attempt to 
show that it would have charged Mr and Mrs M a higher premium if it had been aware of the 
2019 claim. 
RSA said it wasnt able to provide a retrospective quote to show that Mr and Mrs M would 
have been charged an additional £76 for the policy if it had been aware of the claim. It 
provided some screenshots of premium quotes from 2023 which it had obtained from the 
intermediary who arranged and administered the policy. I explained to RSA why these 
werent sufficient. 
I reminded RSA that I needed to see evidence of the loading that would have applied if Mr 
and Mrs M had told it about their previous claim. I said I would accept a copy of the relevant 
part of its underwriting guide that shows this for the relevant year. 
RSA then provided some calculations of the premiums for 2020 and 2021 with and without 
the pre-inception claim. I explained that this wasnt sufficient as there was no evidence to show me that the appropriate loadings had been used. I suggested it send me the relevant 
section of RSAs claims loading table.
RSA sent me a copy of its No Claims Discount (NCD) table. It said in addition there are 
loadings for pre-inception claims based on various factors. It said there were a number of 
rules that can affect pricing for individual perils and gave a percentage figure for loading due 
to claims rules for 2020 and 2021. 
In its most recent submission, RSA said the 2021 policy year had an NCD of 9+ years but it 
should have been 1. However, the schedule it provided for that year showed 7 claim-free 
years for Contents. The NCD table RSA has provided doesnt show that there was a 
difference in the multiplier used for 7 years NCD compared to 1 year. So, the information Ive 
been provided with doesnt persuade me that the correct NCD would have made a difference 
to the premium Mr and Mrs M were charged for the policy.
The percentage figure its provided for loading due to claims rules is also insufficient. Its an 
overall figure with no breakdown to show how it was reached. It doesnt show me what 
impact Mr and Mrs Ms 2019 claim might have had on the premium they were charged in 
2021.
As RSA havent provided sufficient evidence to show that Mr and Mrs Ms premiums would 
have been higher if it had known about their prior claim, Im still not persuaded that their 
misrepresentation was qualifying. 
Whilst RSA has demonstrated that Mr and Mrs M failed to take reasonable care not to make 
a misrepresentation, it hasnt shown that the misrepresentation was qualifying. This means 
that it isnt able to rely on the remedies available to it under CIDRA. So, I dont think its fair 
for RSA to proportionately settle the claim. 
RSA appears to have accepted what I said regarding the cash settlement offer in my 
provisional decision. 
Having considered the additional information from RSA, Im satisfied that the outcome I 
reached in my provisional decision is fair and reasonable. 
Putting things right
RSA should:
Fully settle the claim in line with the policys terms and conditions.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and direct Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Limited to put things right by doing as Ive said above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman