DRN-3722674
The complaint
Mrs R, through a representative complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out 
proportionate affordability checks before it granted her loans.
 
What happened
Mrs R was advanced five home collected loans between March 2014 and December 2017. 
Ive included some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £500.00 13/03/2014 10/04/2015 50 £17.50
2 £500.00 10/04/2015 22/12/2015 50 £17.50
3 £500.00 22/12/2015 09/12/2016 52 £17.50
4 £500.00 15/12/2016 01/12/2017 52 £17.50
5 £500.00 01/12/2017 28/12/2018 52 £17.50
Following Mrs Rs complaint Morses wrote to her representative to explain it wasnt going to 
uphold her complaint. Mrs Rs representative didnt accept the outcome and referred the 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
As part of the final response letter, Morses made clear that there had been 53 previous 
loans before loan one. Neither party has been able to provide any details of the earlier loans, 
so this decision will only concern the five loans outlined in the table above. 
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint. He thought Morses had made a reasonable decision 
to provide loans 1 and 2 so he didnt uphold Mrs Rs complaint about these loans. But he 
thought the lending was now harmful for Mrs R by the time loans 3 - 5 were granted and this 
led him to uphold Mrs Rs complaint about those loans. 
Morses disagreed with the outcome and Ive summarised its comments below;
All of Mrs Rs loans were for the same value.
Although Mrs R obtained her loans over nearly a four-year period, given the term of 
each loan  Morses doesnt consider this to be excessive. 
Only one loan was being repaid at a time. 
Mrs R had a good repayment history and she didnt tell Morses of any financial 
difficulties she may have been having.
While loan 5 did exceed the term, Morses provided a screen shot of a note which 
suggested this may have been as a result of Mrs R being on holiday.
Mrs Rs representative acknowledged the outcome reached by the adjudicator. 
The case was then passed to an ombudsman to make a decision about the complaint.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mrs R could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks couldve taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and 
Mrs Rs income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs R. These factors include:
Mrs R having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mrs R having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mrs R coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mrs R.
Morses was required to establish whether Mrs R could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mrs R was able to repay her 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mrs Rs complaint.
Neither Morses nor Mrs R (or her representative) appear to disagree with the outcome the 
adjudicator reached about loans 1 and 2. I therefore no longer think these loans are in 
dispute. I would add though that like the adjudicator, I do agree Morses made a reasonable 
decision to provide these loans. So, I say no more about these loans. 
Loans 3  5 
For these loans, it is likely Morses wouldve asked for each one details of Mrs R income and 
expenditure. However, this information isnt available for loan three, which is likely due to how long-ago loan the loan was approved. However, the information is available for loans 
four and five. 
For loan four, Mrs R declared a weekly income of £600 per week. Morses information 
suggests that this was made up of £200 salary and £400 which has been noted as other  
but no further information has been provided about what this other maybe. 
Mrs R also declared weekly expenditure of £242 which covered costs for rent, utilities, 
childcare and food. This gave, Mrs R £358 per week in disposable income in which to meet 
her loan repayment of £17.50. 
For loan five, Mrs Rs income had dropped, significantly to £231 per week. This was made 
up of £155 of wages and £76 of benefits. Her weekly expenditure was recorded as £50 
leaving £80 per week of disposable income. This was again, more than enough to make her 
payments of £17.50.
Based solely on Mrs Rs income and expenditure information Morses couldve been 
confident she would be able to comfortably afford the repayments she was committed to 
making. 
But its arguable whether these checks went far enough considering how long Mrs R had 
been indebted to Morses for, her future weekly commitment and what Morses already knew 
about Mrs Rs finances.
I say this because it would appear, based on the information Morses has supplied that there 
must have been a significant change in circumstances between loans four and five. Given 
that her income reduced by around 60% and her outgoings decreased by a similar amount. I 
cant comment on what happened between loans three and four as the details of Mrs Rs 
income and expenditure isnt available. 
However, I dont think I need to try and establish, in this case, whether a proportionate check 
wouldve led Morses to conclude these loans were unaffordable for Mrs R. 
So in addition to looking at the checks that Morses did Ive also looked at the overall pattern 
of Morses lending history with Mrs R, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which 
Morses should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise 
harmful. And so Morses should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further 
loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mrs Rs case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan 3. I say this because:
At this point Morses ought to have realised Mrs R was not managing to repay her 
loans sustainably. Mrs R had taken out three loans in 21 months. So Morses ought to 
have realised it was more likely than not Mrs R was having to borrow further to cover 
a long-term short fall in her living costs. 
In addition, Morses was aware that there were 53 previous loans, although I dont 
have the detail of that lending that is a significant number of loans and so likely 
pushed Mrs Rs borrowing back a number of years. 
From her first loan, Mrs R was provided with a new loan on the same day a previous 
loan was repaid. To me, this is a sign that Mrs R was using these loans to fill a long-
term gap in her income rather than as a short-term need.  
Over the course of the lending relationship, Mrs Rs weekly commitments remained 
the same for the loans information has been provided for. There was no time when her commitment decreased throughout the course of nearly four years of confirmed 
borrowing. Morses may well have thought this wasnt excessive and entirely 
reasonable  however, the fact that these loans were lent in a consecutive manner, 
ought to have led it to realise these loans werent sustainable anymore. 
Mrs R wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Morses. Loan 5 was 
taken out 45 months after Mrs Rs first loan and was to be repaid over another year. 
Her final loan was for the same capital amount as loan one.  Mrs R had paid large 
amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Morses over an extended period.
I think that Mrs R lost out when Morses provided loans 3 - 5 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Rs indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of 
time
the number of loans and the length of time over which Mrs R borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Mrs Rs ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding Mrs Rs complaint about loans 3 - 5. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had if it hadnt lent loans 3 - 5, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly there 
are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
 
For example, having been declined this lending Mrs R may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, she may 
have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mrs R in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mrs R would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morsess liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have provided Mrs R with loans 3 - 5. 
A. Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs R towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party 
where applicable, but not including anything Morses may have already refunded.
B. Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mrs R which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs R originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Morses should pay Mrs R the total of A plus B.
D. The overall pattern of Mrs Rs borrowing for loans 3 - 5 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so Morses should remove these loans entirely from 
Mrs Rs credit file.*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Mrs R a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mrs Rs complaint in part. 
Morses Club PLC should put things right for Mrs R as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman