DRN-3929053
The complaint
Mr S complains about Ageas Insurance Limited handling of his buildings insurance policy.
All references to Ageas also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr S said he tried to call Ageas on multiple occasions to make them aware of 
changes hed made to his property. He said each time he had to wait for excessive 
periods and had to end the call because hed run out of time.
Ageas acknowledged it had high call volumes when Mr S called. But it only has 
record of Mr S trying to call two times, with a wait time totalling around 25 minutes for 
one call. It asked him to provide further detail about the calls he made and pointed 
out Mr S had other ways to inform it about the changes other than by phone. 
Including from his online account and by live online chat.
However, Ageas also said Mr S tried to engage with it about the changes online and 
live chat before calling. So, I think hed tried to utilise all the options available to 
contact Ageas. But ultimately was unsuccessful.
Mr S had recently completed an extension at his property, so understandably he 
would have been concerned about his responsibility to inform Ageas of any changes 
 and the affect it couldve had on his cover if he didnt. As he was unable to get 
through to Ageas, he took out cover elsewhere.
Ageas have pointed out Mr S couldve notified it of the changes earlier before the 
extension was complete. But while I think he couldve done so; Ive not seen anything 
that persuades me he had to. So, I dont think this point is relevant.
Considering what Ive set out above, I think its fair and reasonable Ageas reimburse 
the £35 cancellation charge to Mr S.
So for these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
To put things right, Ageas should reimburse Mr S with any cancellation charges he may 
have paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint.
To put things right, I direct Ageas Insurance Limited to do as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman