DRN-2691803
The complaint
Mr S complains that Bamboo Limited trading as Bamboo Loans acted irresponsibly when it 
agreed loans for him. Hes represented in his complaint by a claims management company, 
but for ease, Ill refer to Mr S only.
What happened
Mr S has had three loans with Bamboo.
Start date End date Amount Term Repayment
Loan 1 12 Jan 2018 26 Feb 2018 £3,800 48 months £162
Loan 2 13 Mar 2018 19 Apr 2018 £2,600 36 months £122
Loan 3 3 July 2018 £2,300 48 months £93
Mr S says at the time these loans were granted, he was reliant on credit and was gambling 
excessively. He says that if Bamboo had properly assessed his applications it would have 
seen this and ought to have done more to check the payments were affordable for him.
Bamboo looked into Mr Ss complaint. It said it believed appropriate and proportionate 
checks had been carried out before it agreed to lend on each occasion. 
Mr S was unhappy with Bamboos response and referred his complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into it. He said it was evident from Mr Ss credit file that he was relying 
heavily on credit which ought to have prompted Bamboo to carry out further checks. Had it 
done so, our investigator felt it should have refused to lend to Mr S. He asked Bamboo to put 
things right. 
Mr S accepted our investigators opinion, but Bamboo didnt. As there was no agreement, 
this complaint has been passed to me for a decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about high cost credit on our website  
including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. Ive considered 
this approach when deciding this complaint.
Bamboo needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly to 
Mr S by carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks. I think there are key questions 
I need to consider in order to decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint:
Did Bamboo carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr S was in a position to sustainably repay the loan?
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time, 
and did Bamboo make a fair lending decision?
Did Bamboo act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr S in some other way?
Bamboo was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment. This assessment is 
sometimes referred to as an affordability check or affordability assessment. The purpose 
of the checks is for Bamboo to think about whether repaying the loan sustainably would 
cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr S. In other words, it wasnt about Bamboo 
assessing the likelihood of it being repaid, but it had to consider the impact of the loan 
repayments on Mr S. The fact that the loan was guaranteed by a third party and the potential 
for Bamboo to pursue the guarantor instead of Mr S doesnt alter or lessen the obligation.
Bamboo had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr S 
would be able to repay the loan sustainably. There was no set list of checks that it had to do, 
but it could take into account several different things such as the amount and length of the 
loan, the amount of the monthly repayments and the overall circumstances of the borrower.
Taking all that into account, I think a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough where:
a customer has a low income (because it may make it more difficult to make loan 
payments of a set amount from a low level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (because it may be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment for a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (because the total cost of the credit is likely to be 
higher, and the customer is obliged to make payments for a longer period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (because of the risk of repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing has become or was becoming 
unsustainable).
Did Bamboo carry out reasonable and proportionate checks?
Bamboo carried out its usual checks on Mr Ss income, employment and searched his credit 
file. It says it saw nothing of concern and Mr S had sufficient monthly disposable income to 
make the repayments.
Ive thought carefully about what Bamboo has said and considered the evidence it relied on 
in reaching its decision. Mr S quoted his income as being £1,500 per month for each of the 
loan applications and, based on what hed told it, Bamboo calculated his living expenses as 
being £253 per month. Using the data it collected from credit reference agencies, for Loan 1 
Bamboo calculated he spent £649 per month on servicing his existing debt. For loan 2 that 
amount was £743 and Loan 3 £396. This left him with a monthly disposable income of £598, 
£504 and £851 respectively for each loan. So I can see why Bamboo thought the loans were 
affordable for him based on those figures.
Ive looked closely at Mr Ss credit file that Bamboo used to reach its decision to lend. 
Having done so, I think there are signs Bamboo should have seen that Mr S was in financial 
difficulty and therefore should have made further checks.
The rules lenders must follow are set out by the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority, in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). CONC 1.3 sets out some 
circumstances which may indicate that someone is in financial difficulty. One of these 
examples, set out in CONC 1.3.1 (4), is the customers inability to meet repayments out of 
disposable incomethe customer having to borrow further to repay existing debts.Mr Ss credit file shows that in the previous year, hed had four personal loans and had 
opened 24 new accounts (many of which were payday loans) in the six months leading up to 
the application. He was over the credit limit on his credit card. While he hadnt missed 
payments on the majority of the debts (hed missed one payment on his credit card  the 
most recent), I think the number of loans and payday loans at least ought to have been of 
concern enough to ask further questions. 
A few of the payday loans taken within a few months of Mr Ss application for Loan 1 were 
for small sums  around £50  which indicates to me that he was struggling to manage on 
his income alone and was relying on credit to make ends meet. It seems unlikely that 
Bamboos calculations suggesting that Mr S had a disposable income of between £500 and 
£850 were accurate.
Mr S had other larger loans too which were often repaid early coinciding with the taking of a 
new loan. This indicates he was regularly borrowing to repay other debts. The loans 
requested from Bamboo are all listed as being for debt consolidation. But at the time of the 
application for Loan 1 for £3,800, his credit file was reporting almost £8,000 of debt. Its not 
clear which debts Mr S was looking to consolidate, but the amount requested was unlikely to 
be sufficient to repay his existing debt. 
Loan 1 was repaid within six weeks of being drawn, and yet within a further two weeks or so, 
Mr S had returned to Bamboo requesting to borrow further money  again for debt 
consolidation. While the amount he requested from Bamboo for Loan 2 had fallen, by this 
time his credit report as showing his outstanding debt as being in excess of £14,000. Again, 
its not clear what debt he was looking to consolidate and what he was seeking to borrow 
would be unlikely to resolve things for him.   
Loan 2 was again repaid within a few weeks and it was only a couple of months until Mr S 
was asking for a further debt consolidation. While the debt outstanding on his credit report 
had by then fallen to £5,000, the amount requested for Loan 3 was again in sufficient to 
repay what he had outstanding. 
Bamboo says that based on what Mr S told them and the information it obtained, it thinks the 
loans were affordable. But as I said earlier, a lender is required to ensure a loan can be 
repaid sustainably; that is, the borrower should be able to repay the credit without undue 
difficulty, while being able to meet other commitments and without having to borrow further.
It seems to me Mr S was relying on short term loans to repay other loans and fulfil his usual 
spending habits and refinance other credit. Although by the time of Loan 3, his situation 
appears to have improved, the history of Mr Ss borrowing appeared volatile as can be seen 
from his credit file. I dont think the circumstances here are indicative of someone in control 
of their finances or with the ability to sustainably repay debt. 
For these reasons, I think Bamboo ought to have carried out further checks in order to gain a 
deeper understanding of Mr Ss financial circumstances.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time and did Bamboo 
make a fair lending decision?
Ive outlined above some of the circumstances which I think ought to have led Bamboo to 
carry out further checks on Mr Ss finances. Different checks are likely to show different 
things and Bamboo was already aware from those it had carried out, that Mr S had taken 
numerous payday loans and had recently acquired further credit. As Ive said, this doesnt 
indicate a customer in control of their finances with an ability to sustainably repay the borrowing he had at the time. In my view, casts doubt on whether hed be able to sustainably 
repay the new loans. In light of this, I think it would have been reasonable for Bamboo to get 
a more detailed understanding of Mr Ss circumstances, for example by asking to see 
several months of his bank statements from Mr S.
Mr S has provided us with copies of his bank statements for a few months leading up to his 
applications to Bamboo. Ive looked at those to consider what Bamboo might have learned 
from more detailed checks.
I think if Bamboo had carried out what I consider to be proportionate checks  perhaps by 
asking for his bank statements - it would have seen for example, that Mr S was regularly 
gambling a large percentage of his income. The statements show Mr S was regularly 
gambling in excess of £1,000 per month through numerous small transactions. 
I think Bamboo ought reasonably to have realised that Mr S was having difficulties managing 
his finances and that he was most likely borrowing as a result of his gambling. I think it ought 
reasonably to have realised that it was unlikely that Mr S would be able to sustainably repay 
these loans, so it should have concluded it was not appropriate to lend to him. It follows that 
I dont think it reached a fair decision to lend to him.
Did Bamboo act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr S in some other way?
Ive carefully read, listened to and thought about all the evidence provided by each party to 
this complaint. Having done so, I dont think Bamboo has acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Mr S in some other way. 
But I do think Bamboo should have refused to lend to Mr S, so I am upholding his complaint 
about the loans.
Putting things right
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct that business to 
put the complainant in the position they would be in now if the mistake it made hadnt 
happened, as far as is reasonably practical. 
In this case, that would mean putting Mr S in the position he would be in now if he hadnt 
been given the loans. Mr S was given the loans and used the money, so its right that he 
should repay what hes spent. So, I think Bamboo should:
Calculate the total amount Mr S received from Bamboo and deduct from that figure 
the repayments hes made to each loan. 
oIf this results in Mr S having repaid more than he received, any overpayments 
should be refunded to him. Interest at a rate of 8% simple per year should be 
added to any overpayments from the date they were made until the date of 
settlement*.
oIf the calculation means theres still a balance for Mr S to pay, Bamboo should 
let Mr S know how much is outstanding and reach a suitable, affordable 
payment plan with him. I remind Bamboo of its obligation to treat customers 
fairly. 
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ss credit file regarding each loan. 
*If Bamboo considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give Mr S a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Ss complaint. Bamboo Limited 
trading as Bamboo Loans should put things right for Mr S as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman