DRN-3445826
Complaint
Mr M is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) registered a fraud prevention marker 
against him.
Background
In October 2020, Mr M received payments totalling £3,255.89 (in two separate transfers of 
£1,555.89 and £1,700.00) into his account. The £1,555.89 payment was immediately 
transferred to a third-party crypto-currency account. HSBC subsequently received 
notifications from the customers responsible for sending the payments, who were also HSBC 
customers, that theyd been victims of fraud. As a result, the £1,700.00 transfer was 
reversed and the funds were returned to the sender. HSBC reviewed Mr Ms account and as 
a result of its investigation, it decided to close Mr Ms account and record a fraud prevention 
marker.
After subsequently learning of the fraud prevention marker, Mr M complained that this was 
applied unfairly. HSBC looked at Mr Ms complaint and didnt uphold it. As Mr M remained 
dissatisfied he referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ms concerns. He didnt think that HSBC had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr M unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr M disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that HSBC has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility  
relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, it isnt 
required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr M is guilty of fraud or a financial crime, 
but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. The 
relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that HSBC must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Mr Ms account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
HSBC also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr M was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Mr M allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an illegitimate 
payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr Ms complaint, I need to decide whether I think HSBC had enough 
evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr Ms account and that his actions suggest he 
was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that HSBC did have enough to 
record a fraud prevention marker here. Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Mr Ms 
account in October 2020, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Mr M was complicit in allowing his account to receive 
these illegitimate payments. 
Mr M has said the funds entered his account as part of a crypto-currency investment 
opportunity which he was encouraged to take part in by friends. He was going to be lent 
£2,000.00 by this friend for the investment. His friends showed him the person who would be 
lending him the moneys website and all his previous crypto-currency trades, which 
persuaded him to get involved. He was a bit suspicious of where the funds would be coming 
from but as his friends were doing the same thing he was persuaded that this was a 
legitimate enterprise. Finally, Mr M said that he deleted all the messages which encouraged 
him to take part, told him what to do and took place over messaging apps, out of anger, once 
HSBC closed his account.   
Ive thought about what Mr M has said. But while I can understand why Mr M may have 
blocked any messaging groups out of anger, this doesnt explain why the messages were 
deleted  especially as what he says suggests he attributed responsibility for his account 
being closed to this crypto-currency investment enterprise. And Mr M hasnt been able to 
provide any other messages from his friends, or any other evidence corroborating this 
investment scheme either. Given Mr M was unhappy with his account being closed, I would 
have expected him to have kept the messages, notwithstanding any anger at his situation, 
as he was asked for them by HSBC while it was initially investigating his account, before 
closing it, and any messages would have helped his case. 
Furthermore, I also find it difficult to accept that Mr M reasonably believed himself to have 
been lent £2,000.00 by his friend to invest, when the credits received didnt amount to 
£2,000.00 whether individually or when taken together and they clearly werent from the 
individual he says he was expecting them from either. 
Indeed, Mr M also told HSBC that someone completely different lent him the funds in the first 
place. So hes not even been consistent on who it is he entered this crypto-currency 
investment enterprise with. Given the credits didnt come from the person whom Mr M 
expected to be lent the funds by and they werent for the expected amounts either, I would 
have expected Mr M to have queried this rather than transferring immediately transferring 
the funds to a third-party crypto-currency account  especially bearing in mind what hes said 
about his initial suspicion of the scheme.    
Im afraid the implausibility of Mr Ms version of events, the credits being for amounts that he 
wasnt expecting and being made by parties who werent the person Mr M says he was in 
the investment scheme with and Mr M being unable to provide anything at all to corroborate 
his version of events, all mean that I cant reasonably conclude he was an unwitting 
participant here. Instead, I think its more likely than not he was complicit in his account 
receiving fraudulent funds. So overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that HSBC did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Mr Ms account. And it was also reasonably 
entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not that Mr M was complicit in this. As this is 
the case, I dont think that it was unfair for HSBC to record a fraud prevention marker in the 
circumstances that it did. 
This means that I dont think that HSBC acted unfairly towards Mr M and Im not upholding 
this complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr M  especially in light of the 
ongoing impact hes said the fraud marker is having on him. But I hope hell understand the 
reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
Furthermore, Mr M might find that hes able to open an account with another bank as long as 
he applies for a Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or any such 
equivalent. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman