DRN-4225326
The complaint
Mrs Q complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) cancelled her 
motor insurance policy and then wouldnt cover a claim. She wants it to cover the claim. 
What happened
Mrs Q took out a policy with LV and arranged to pay her premium by monthly instalments. 
Mrs Q then changed her payment card and missed a months payment. LV emailed Mrs Q 
about this, but the emails went into her spam folder and Mrs Q didnt see them. LV then 
cancelled the policy. Mrs Q was then involved in an accident and LV told her the policy had 
cancelled. Mrs Q was left with two personal injury claims and points on her licence. She said 
this was causing her acute stress. Ms Q took out a new policy with LV.
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He accepted that Mrs Q 
had taken an online only policy from LV so it would contact her only by email. But he thought 
LV should have used another method of contact when Mrs Qs payment failed and so 
avoided cancelling her policy. He thought LV should refund any cancellation fees with 
interest, remove any cancellation markers, recalculate her premium, deal with the claim, 
provide Mrs Q with a letter stating that the policy had been cancelled in error, and pay her 
£500 compensation. 
LV replied that it thought Mrs Q knew that her policy was online only, and it thought she was 
responsible for managing her email account. It also thought Mrs Q should have noticed that 
the payment hadnt been taken. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that this has been a stressful and frustrating experience for Mrs Q. Our 
approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
LV said Mrs Qs policy was self-service and online only. And I can see that its policy 
documents state that it is entitled to cancel a policy with seven days notice if a payment 
hasnt been received. LV didnt receive Mrs Qs payment because her card had been 
changed and she hadnt updated her account online. It chased this once, and then again, 
warning her that the policy would cancel unless the payment was received. It then cancelled 
the policy. 
I agree that this was done in keeping with the policys terms and conditions. But Im not 
satisfied that LV has acted fairly or reasonably in Mrs Qs particular circumstances. Ill now 
explain why I think this. 
The Investigator has explained that this service believes that insurers should take 
reasonable steps to ensure that policy holders are told that their policy has been cancelled 
as this will have serious consequences for them and expose them to possible court action. 
And we usually consider that insurers should communicate impending cancellations using at 
least two communication methods. 
LV said Mrs Qs policy was online only and she could access her online account and it sent 
her emails warning her about the cancellation. But Mrs Q said she didnt access her online 
account, and LV has provided evidence to show that her account hadnt been accessed after 
she took out her policy. And LVs emails, including her welcome pack, went to her spam 
folder. So Mrs Q didnt notice or read them. 
LV said it warned consumers to add LV as a safe sender on their email accounts to avoid 
this. And I can see this is on the banner of its emails sent to Mrs Q. But Mrs Q didnt access 
these emails, and so she wasnt warned of this. And I think LV was aware there was a risk of 
this happening because it added the banner warning.
LV provided an example of another complaint that has come to our service where it was 
found to have acted fairly and reasonably when it cancelled a policy for non-payment. But 
we consider each complaint on its individual merits, and I can see that this previous 
complaint has several significant differences to Mrs Qs complaint:
The previous complainant had missed previous payments but had corrected this after 
receiving emails from LV. So they had received and responded to LVs emails on 
previous occasions. But Mrs Q had missed just one payment and hadnt opened LVs 
emails.
The previous complainant had accessed their online account to make missed payments. 
But Mrs Q hadnt accessed her account and so wouldnt have seen any warnings of 
missed payments there. And LV could have checked that she hadnt accessed her 
account, but it still progressed the cancellation. 
So I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to consider both complains on the same basis. 
So Mrs Q had missed one payment after five months regular payments. I dont think its fair 
to expect Mrs Q to have noticed one missed payment. But I accept that it was for Mrs Q to 
access her online account to check her policy, and this may have avoided the cancellation. 
But I also think LV should have tried to contact Mrs Q using at least one other method. Its 
cancellation terms and conditions say that LV will send a letter or email notifying a 
cancellation. So written communications were possible. LV had Mrs Qs phone number. So 
when she didnt respond to its emails, I think it should then reasonably have written to Mrs Q 
or texted her. 
Im satisfied that Mrs Q didnt intend her policy to cancel and Im satisfied that if LV had done 
more then she would have rectified the issue with her card. So Im not satisfied that LV took 
reasonable steps to warn Mrs Q that her policy had cancelled. 
As a consequence of the unfair cancellation, Mrs Q incurred a charge, LV declined to cover 
her claim, Mrs Q had points added to her licence (from what I can see this was for driving 
whilst uninsured), and Mrs Q will have to declare the cancellation to future insurers and will 
incur increased premiums as a result. And this matter has caused Mrs Q a significant 
amount of upset and distress. 
When a business makes a mistake, as Im satisfied LV has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer. 
So, to restore Mrs Qs position, I think LV should refund her cancellation charge, with 
interest, and remove any records of the cancellation. It should deal with the claim and 
recalculate Mrs Qs premiums as she has taken out another policy with LV. And I think LV 
should provide Mrs Q with a letter stating that her policy was cancelled by its error so Mrs Q 
can ask the court to consider removing points from her licence. Dealing with this matter, the police, and the claim against her has caused Mrs Q significant 
trouble and upset. Our Investigator recommended that LV should pay her £500 
compensation for this. I think thats in keeping with our published guidance for the impact the 
error had, so I think thats fair and reasonable. 
Putting things right
I require Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
1. Refund Mrs Q any cancellation charges, adding interest at 8% simple per annum from 
the date taken to the date refunded.
2. Deal with Mrs Qs claim of 15 December 2022 under her policys terms and conditions.
3. Remove any cancellation marker from any internal or external databases where its been 
recorded.
4. Recalculate Mrs Qs current premiums.
5. Provide Mrs Q with a letter confirming her policy shouldnt have been cancelled and was 
done so because of LVs error.
6. Pay Mrs Q £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its unfair 
cancellation of her policy.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman