DRN-3275227
The complaint
Mr S complains about the quality of workmanship undertaken by Ageas Insurance Limited, 
following a claim against his landlords emergency assistance insurance policy. 
Reference to Ageas include their agents. 
What happened
The background to the complaint is well-known to all parties. As such, I wont repeat in detail 
what happened. Rather, Ill summarise my understanding and focus on what I consider to be 
materially relevant to the complaint. 
In summary, Mr S owns a property which he rents to a tenant. In February 2021, he reported 
a leak through the kitchen ceiling, which was occurring whilst the shower was running. 
Ageas accepted the claim and an engineer attended a few days later. 
The engineer reported the issue was occurring under the bath taps, and the shower head 
and hose needed replacing. They also said the silicone needed to be re-applied around the 
bath. Another visit was arranged for the works to be done. The sink was also found to be 
blocked  which was a separate issue. 
Ageas said they shouldnt have accepted the original claim for the leak and referred to the 
policy terms. They said cover is excluded if a leak only occurs whilst an appliance is being 
used. However, the claim was accepted, and they completed work.  
Mr S contacted Ageas in March 2021 to say the silicone application was left untidy. He 
confirmed the leak had stopped following the work undertaken by Ageas, but the sink was 
blocked again. Ageas attended in April 2021, they re-applied the silicone and unblocked the 
drain using chemicals and a machine. 
Mr S contacted Ageas in July 2021. He said hed contacted them prior to this but was told to 
contact a different department, and hed been unwell for a couple of weeks. He said he had 
to arrange for a private engineer to carry out corrective works as there was leakage when 
the shower was running again. And he felt this was due to Ageas failing to carry out 
adequate repairs. He provided Ageas with invoices and photos and requested them to 
reimburse him. 
Ageas didnt agree to do this. They said the claim shouldnt have been accepted, and in any 
event, Mr S had not adhered to the policy terms by having repairs carried out by a private 
engineer, rather than contacting them. They also said there was no evidence their repairs 
were inadequate, although they accepted the silicone was left untidy, which was put right 
during a different visit. 
Mr S wasnt happy with this and complained. He said had the correct level of investigation 
been undertaken by Ageas, he wouldnt have had to employ a private engineer to correct 
their work. And he had contacted a private engineer instead due to the level of work 
undertaken by Ageas, and because he was concerned the ceiling could collapse. Ageas 
responded to the complaint maintaining their decision. As Mr S remained unhappy, he 
approached our service for an independent review. 
An investigator here considered the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He felt 
there was a lack of persuasive evidence to demonstrate Ageas carried out inadequate 
repairs. And felt on balance, given Mr S reported the leak had stopped in March 2021, its 
unlikely the issues he had repaired by a private engineer related to the original claim. 
He didnt recommend the complaint be upheld because he felt the policy didnt cover the 
circumstances Mr S reported, he didnt adhere to the policy terms by arranging a private 
engineer rather than contacting Ageas, and there was a lack of persuasive evidence that 
demonstrated Ageass repairs had failed. 
Mr S didnt agree. He said Ageas should have thoroughly investigated the issues, as if they 
had done so, he wouldnt have needed to have private repairs done and be out of pocket. As 
he maintained Ageas should reimburse these costs, he asked for an ombudsman to decide, 
so the case was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My starting point here is the policy terms which say Ageas will not cover leaks occurring from 
household appliances (such as sinks, showers or baths) if the leakage only occurs when 
appliances are being used. In February 2021, Mr S reported the leak occurred when the 
shower was running, so I think it would have been reasonable in these circumstances for 
Ageas to decline the initial claim. However, Ageas chose to accept it, so Ive gone on to 
consider what happened next. But Ill return to this part of the policy later in my decision. 
Ageas attended in February 2021. The engineer cut the old silicone around the bath and 
replaced it. And in their professional opinion, said the leak was coming from underneath the 
bath tap, and the shower head and hose needed replacing. So, they carried this out. 
Mr S contacted Ageas again in March 2021. He said the leak had stopped, but the silicone 
applied by the engineer was left untidy and there was an issue again with the blocked sink. 
The engineer had worked on the sink in February 2021 to unblock it as a separate issue to 
the leak. 
When Ageas reattended in April 2021 to re-apply the silicone and unblock the sink, as it was 
reported by Mr S that the original leak had stopped, no further work was carried out to the 
bath  other than to re-apply the silicone. I dont find it was unreasonable for Ageas not to 
carry out further investigative work into the leak, given it was confirmed by Mr S it was no 
longer occurring. 
Mr S then contacted his own private engineer to come out and complete repairs. He said he 
decided to approach a private engineer given he felt Ageas had made previous attempts to 
repair it, which failed, and he was concerned the ceiling could collapse. 
Whilst I do understand the reasons why Mr S felt it appropriate to contact a private engineer, 
the policy requires him to contact Ageas for assistance. And the failure to do so would result 
in costs not being covered. So, whilst I understand his reasons, I find the policy clearly states 
all requests for assistance under the policy must be made to the helpline and not contractors, otherwise costs will not be covered. On balance, I also think this has contributed 
to the uncertainty of whether the leak incidents are related or separate, which Ill come to 
now. 
Its unclear here whether the issues Mr S reported to Ageas in July 2021 are related to the 
original February 2021 claim, or are separate issues. I say this because Mr S told Ageas in 
March 2021 that the leak had stopped following the repairs. There was also a further visit 
from Ageas in April 2021 to re-apply the silicone because it was left untidy, and to unblock 
the sink. It appears Ageas were not notified of a further leak issue until July 2021. I 
appreciate Mr S thinks the two leaks are related  specifically he says the second leak 
incident was due to a lack of a thorough investigation and inadequate repairs. But I havent 
seen any strong persuasive evidence to agree. Ill now refer to Mr Ss private engineers 
comments, which says: 
Attended property and made access to underneath the bath as when the shower 
runs it leaks through silicone, this requires it to be resealed, bath tap cartridges also 
need to be changed and the old shower handle to be removed and filled in. 
When Mr S sent Ageas a copy of the invoices and some photos in July 2021, he said he had 
to get the private work done by another company as Ageas hadnt carried out repair works 
properly. I appreciate Mr S feels strongly about this, but I havent been satisfied to agree with 
him that theres strong supporting evidence that demonstrates Ageas undertook poor 
workmanship or failed to properly investigate the cause of the February 2021 claim. I say 
this because Ive only seen Mr Ss views on why he thinks he had to arrange a private 
engineer to carry out repairs, and it was confirmed by him in March 2021 that the leak had 
stopped  which is the purpose of this policy to alleviate an emergency. 
Furthermore, I note the private engineer said the shower was leaking when it was running. 
Returning to the part of the policy I said Id come back to; the policy doesnt provide cover in 
the event the leakage is only occurring when the appliance is being used. And the private 
engineer confirmed this to be the case here. So, whilst it remains unclear as to whether the 
two leaks are related or not, Im not satisfied the policy covers Mr S for the incident he 
reported to Ageas in July 2021, when requesting they reimburse his costs. 
Mr S said the original repairs carried out by Ageas should have lasted much longer than they 
did. But Ive not seen persuasive evidence that satisfies me the repairs havent lasted or 
were inadequate. 
Overall, I do accept this is a finely balanced dispute. And whilst I appreciate my decision will 
come as a considerable disappointment to Mr S, I havent been persuaded Ageas failed to 
properly investigate the February 2021 claim or carried out inadequate repairs. I dont think 
the policy provides cover for the circumstances he described when he arranged private 
repairs  and so its likely these costs would have been incurred by him in any event. And 
finally, the policy terms make clear the requirements Mr S must follow for it to assist him, and 
the costs incurred when not meeting these requirements arent covered. 
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr S. But my decision ends what 
we  in attempting to resolve his dispute with Ageas  can do for him. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive mentioned above, I dont uphold it. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman