DRN-1845563
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A say they were mis-sold a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Nationwide Building Societys taken responsibility for the sale.
What happened
In 1991, Mr and Mrs A applied for a Nationwide mortgage. Nationwide also sold them PPI 
designed to protect their monthly repayments if Mr A (Mrs A wasnt working at the time) 
couldnt work because of disability or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr and Mrs A didnt agree, so 
the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs As case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive carefully considered Mr and Mrs As comments about the choices they were, or werent, 
given during the sale. And that they felt pressured into buying the PPI. But Im mindful that 
the PPI was sold nearly 30 years ago  in my view making it less likely theyd be able to 
accurately recall any discussions that might have taken place at the time.
Neither partys been able to provide much by way of paperwork from the sale. And thats not 
surprising considering how much times passed both since then and since the mortgage 
ended and the PPI was cancelled.
I understand Mr and Mrs As frustration at the lack of evidence supporting Nationwides 
position. But, equally, there just isnt enough evidence to support what Mr and Mrs A say 
either. In the absence of any persuasive evidence to show otherwise, I see no reason to 
consider that Mr and Mrs A were unduly pressured into taking the PPI. And Ive no reason to 
think they werent aware the PPI was a compulsory part of the mortgage product they were 
taking, given the loan to value ratio and the way Nationwide lent money at the time. Or that 
Mr and Mrs A didnt choose to go ahead with the PPI on that basis.
From experience of how it sold PPI generally, and from the available information, I dont 
consider it likely that Nationwide recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs A. That still meant 
Nationwide had to give them clear, fair and not misleading information about the PPI, so that 
they could make a properly informed choice about whether to take it.
There might have been areas in which Nationwide didnt give Mr and Mrs A the information it should have done. But that, in itself, isnt enough for me to uphold the complaint. Id also 
need to find that any failings made a difference to their decision to take the PPI. Taking into 
account Mr and Mrs As circumstances, I dont think better information would have put them 
off taking out the PPI. 
I say that because, for example, it seems Mr A would have been eligible for the PPI. And it 
doesnt look as though hed have been significantly affected by its main exclusions or 
limitations.
Mr A says he wasnt entitled to enhanced sick pay whereas the PPI benefits would have 
been paid for up to 24 months per claim. They paid out for unemployment too. It seems 
Mr and Mrs A had very limited alternative means of meeting the mortgage payments if Mr A 
wasnt working. So, overall, I think Mr and Mrs A would have found the security the PPI 
provided to be useful, especially as it helped protect borrowing secured against their home.
Finally, I havent seen anything to suggest Mr and Mrs A would have found the monthly 
premium unaffordable. And it was flexible in that, if Mr and Mrs A had decided they didnt 
want the PPI anymore, they could have cancelled it at any time and at no extra cost.
While Mr and Mrs A say they were mis-sold other insurance policies, that doesnt mean this 
PPI was also mis-sold. Taking everything into account regarding this PPI sale, I dont believe 
Mr and Mrs A have lost out.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman