DRN-3481433
The complaint
Mr T complains through his representative that AvantCredit of UK, LLC lent him money on a 
high cost loan which he was unable to afford to repay.
What happened
On or about 16 October 2015 AvantCredit provided a loan to Mr T of £1,000, repayable at 
the rate of £110 a month over 18 months. AvantCredits records are a bit sketchy, but it 
appears that Mr T made full payments on the loan for four months, then some reduced 
payments on a payment plan. The loan was sold to a third party in August 2017. Im not 
aware of what payments Mr T has made since then.
Mr T complained through his representative to AvantCredit that he couldnt afford the loan, 
and that he had mental health issues.
AvantCredit said it considered all the information Mr T provided and verified his income and 
carried out a credit search. It assessed that he was able to afford the loan.
Our adjudicator said AvantCredits checks before it decided to lend to Mr T didnt appear to 
have thrown up any signs that he was likely to find the lending unsustainable and 
unaffordable. He thought AvantCredit had treated him fairly.
Mr T disagreed, he said he was already in debt when AvantCredit gave him the loan. And he 
had gambling addictions which AvantCredit didnt take into account.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did AvantCredit complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr T 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr T would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required AvantCredit to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ts ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so AvantCredit had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that it had to ensure that 
making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr T undue difficulty or significant 
adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet repayments out of 
normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any 
other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for AvantCredit to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr T. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income). 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
I should preface my findings by saying that Ive taken into account that Mr T is professionally 
represented in making his complaint so he would have had access to advice about what 
evidence he might have needed to present his case.
Mr T did have a number of debts at the time of applying for the loan. He had several loans 
and at least four credit cards, one of which was just over its limit (by £1). From the record of 
the credit report, it appears that Mr T had two loans with respective balances of £53 and £54 
which were due to be paid off. He also had a loan with a balance of £236, which was noted 
as needing £200 monthly payments, so due to be paid off in the ensuing two months. And he 
had another loan with a balance of £279, again due for full repayment in the ensuing two 
months. 
The loan was said to be for emergency expenses, so I assume no debt consolidation was 
involved. Having looked at the history of Mr Ts payments, I think it would be fair to discount 
the £54 which appeared to be frozen, as no payments had been made by Mr T for several 
months. However Mr T could have opted to pay it off. For the £53, £236 and £279 balances, 
I think it would be reasonable to look at the previous payments he had made and allow 
respectively monthly payments of £11, £23 and £21.Then allowing for 3% payments on his 
credit cards, and his other  regular payments Mr T was paying about £308 a month towards 
his credit commitments. Adding the loan payment to this, Mr T would have been paying 
around 27% of his income towards his credit commitments. This was a little high, so it 
depended on whether he had adequate disposable income to meet his payments.Mr Ts income was assessed at £1,540 a month, and his expenses outside of his credit 
commitments were assessed at £800. With his credit commitments, including the loan this 
would have left him with £322 disposable income which would have been enough to pay off 
the smaller loans. I think that AvantCredit acted reasonably in assessing that the loan was 
affordable.
Mr T asks why AvantCredit didnt take account of his gambling addiction, and that he had 
mental health problems. I should explain, as Ive set out above that AvantCredit had to carry 
out proportionate checks, which I think it did in this case. Those checks might have included 
looking at Mr Ts bank statements which might or might not have shown payments going to 
betting companies. But I havent seen anything in the credit report which might have alerted 
AvantCredit to carry out more extensive checks e.g. it didnt show whether he had an 
overdraft.
Put simply, if Mr T had a gambling addiction, unless he told AvantCredit about this (and I 
appreciate why he might not have done) there wasnt any way, within the checks it did, it 
could have found this out. I should add also that Mr Ts representative hasnt sent us any 
evidence apart from that disclosed by AvantCredits checks of Mr Ts financial circumstances 
at the time. 
Im sorry if Mr T has been suffering problems with his mental health. If AvantCredit had 
known about this it would have had a duty to take account of it. But again Ive seen no 
evidence that it was aware or ought to have been aware. So I think it treated Mr T fairly and 
made a fair lending decision. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman