DRN-3032523
The complaint
Miss R says Morses Club PLC lent to her irresponsibly. She says that she had debt 
problems when Morses lent to her. She thinks that Morses shouldve seen this and not 
approved the loans.
 
What happened
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be partially upheld. Morses disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Miss Rs complaint should be upheld in part, but 
on different terms. A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings 
are below in italics:
This complaint is about 11 home collected loans Morses provided to Miss R between
July 2014 and May 2019. Some of the information I have been provided about the lending is in 
the table below.
loan date taken amount instalments date repaid
1 03/07/2014 £400 50 16/04/2015
2 16/04/2015 £200 34 08/12/2015
3 16/04/2015 £400 50 08/12/2015
4 08/12/2015 £600 20 05/05/2016
5 05/05/2016 £700 33 07/02/2017
6 04/04/2017 £300 20 03/08/2017
7 03/08/2017 £500 20 03/01/2018
8 11/01/2018 £400 20 07/06/2018
9 05/03/2018 £250 33 02/11/2018
10 07/06/2018 £400 20 02/11/2018
11 09/05/2019 £1,070 33 13/02/2020
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He didnt think that Morses was acting wrongly 
when it approved loans 1 to 3. But he didnt think it shouldve approved loans 4 to 11 as the 
lending pattern itself was harmful.
Morses agreed in part with the adjudicator. It didnt think it was wrong to have approved 
loans 3 (Im assuming meant loan 4 here) to 5 and loan 11. It thought the checks it did 
showed that Miss R could afford the repayments to these loans. It thought it was 
reasonable to look at loan 11 as a new period in lending due to the break of 188 days 
between it and loan 10. It agreed it shouldnt have approved loans 6 to 10.
Miss R didnt disagree with the adjudicators opinion.
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss R could repay 
the loans in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being 
lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in 
the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be an 
indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically 
follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to 
be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Miss Rs complaint in part and have explained why below.
Miss R didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 to 3. And Morses has 
agreed that loans 6 to 10 shouldnt have been approved. Because of this I dont think there
is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I wont be looking at this lending in 
detail.
But they were part of the borrowing relationship Miss R had with Morses. So, they are 
something I will take into account when considering the other loans she took. Ive included 
Morses offer to pay compensation for loans 6 to 10 in my putting things right section below.
In this decision Ill concentrate on whether the lending pattern itself was harmful at loans 4 and 5 
and whether its reasonable to say that loan 11 was a continuation of the same period of 
lending.
Having done this I dont think that its reasonable to say that the lending pattern was problematic 
by loan 4. This was 17 months into the lending relationship, but Miss R had only taken three 
loans before this and they were quite close together. This indicates a shorter- term problem to me, rather than a longer-term unsustainable lending pattern. So, Im not intending to uphold 
Miss Rs complaint about loan 4.
But I think that the lending became unsustainable by loan 5. I say this because:
Miss R had taken out five loans over an approximately two-year period. I think this 
was now a long time to be using this type of high cost credit.
And of particular concern here is that Miss R had taken out three loans in the year 
before she took loan 5 (loans 2, 3 and 4 in 2015). She borrowed a total of £1,200 for 
these loans. And whilst she had repaid these earlier loans before she took loan 5, the 
fact that she needed to take her largest loan yet straight away, indicates to me these 
earlier repayments were a stretch for her.
And I think this is reflected in the information recorded at the time of sale about  
Miss Rs income and expenditure. Whilst the loans do look affordable from the income 
and expenditure amounts Morses has recorded, her expenditure doesnt tell the whole 
story as it doesnt include amounts for some normal expenditures such as
food. I think its reasonable to say that things wouldve been very tight for her, at best.
So, at loan 5 Morses ought to have realised Miss R was not managing to repay her 
loans sustainably. And that Miss R was not likely borrowing to meet a shorter term 
need, or for a discrete purchase but to meet an ongoing need.
From loan 5 onwards Miss R was provided with a new loan within a short time of 
settling a previous one up to loan 10. And she often had more than one loan running at 
the same time.
Ive thought about the break in lending between loans 10 and 11 which was 188 days. I 
can accept this is a longer break. But given what Morses knew about Miss Rs 
circumstances (as outlined above). I dont think it was reasonable to assume her 
financial position had improved when she returned for this much larger loan.
I think that Miss R has lost out because Morses continued to provide borrowing from loan 5 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Rs indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit over an extended period of time.
the number of loans and the length of time over which Miss R borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on her ability to access mainstream credit and so kept 
her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im intending to uphold the complaint about loans 5 to 11 and Morses should put things 
right.
Morses, and Miss R, confirmed that they had received my provisional decision. Miss R 
agreed with what I said and Morses didnt have anything to add to it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Morses and Miss R didnt raise any new points after receiving my provisional decision. So, 
Ive reached the same conclusions I reached before, for the same reasons. As there is no 
ongoing disagreement, or new issues raised, I wont add anything to what I said in my earlier 
decision. 
Im upholding Miss Rs complaint about loans 5 to 11 and Morses should put things right.  
Putting things rightIn deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Miss R from loan 5, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Miss R may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Miss R in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Miss R would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Miss R loans 5 to 11.
A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss R towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party 
where applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Miss R which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss R 
originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should pay Miss R the total of A plus B.
D) The overall pattern of Miss Rs borrowing for loans 5 to 11 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Miss 
Rs credit file. If Morses has sold any of the loans Morses should ask the debt 
purchaser to do the same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Miss R a certificate showing how much tax Morses has deducted, if she ask for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I party uphold Miss Rs complaint.
Morses Club PLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 December 2021. 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman