DRN-3396341
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as very (Shop 
Direct) irresponsibly gave her a running account credit facility that she couldnt afford.
What happened
Mrs H has complained about unaffordable lending on the catalogue shopping account she 
took out with Shop Direct. 
On 22 March 2017, Mrs H applied for a credit account with Shop Direct. She was given an 
initial credit limit of £750. The credit limit was increased to £950 on 17 July 2017 and to 
£1350 on 24 November 2017. The credit limit was reduced in December 2017 to £375, in 
January 2018 to £175 and to £150 later that year. The balance was cleared and the 
account was closed on 18 June 2018. 
In 2020, Mrs H complained to Shop Direct to say that the lending was unaffordable and 
that Shop Direct ought to have made a better effort to understand her financial 
circumstances before increasing her credit limits.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint in part. He felt that the initial credit limit of £750 and 
the first increase to £950 werent unreasonable, but that the subsequent increase was. 
Shop Direct didnt agree. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
Based on what Ive seen in this case, I have reached a conclusion that isnt necessarily 
different to that reached by our adjudicator but, I dont think Shop Directs actions have 
caused Mrs H any loss for reasons Ive explained to both parties through our adjudicator. I 
explain what I mean by that below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shop Direct will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Prior to providing credit and increased credit to Mrs H, Shop Direct says it carried out a 
credit check using a credit agency to determine the amount of credit it was able to offer. 
Shop Direct told us that Mrs Hs account was assessed on a monthly basis from the credit 
check information and the credit limit was set using that information and their observation 
of Mrs Hs management of the account. 
Were Shop Directs initial affordability checks sufficient? Its possible that Shop Directs 
checks were not sufficient. But even if the checks were not sufficient, I dont think better 
enquiries would have caused Shop Direct to think the initial credit limit was unaffordable.
I say this because the initial credit was provided when Shop Direct told us there was no 
recent adverse information on Mrs Hs credit file. The initial credit limit was not immodest 
and Mrs Hs statements seem to confirm what Shop Direct told us, which is that Mrs Hs 
personal income was not modest. 
Neither party to this complaint has objected to this part of the adjudicators assessment. 
And for the reasons given above I agree with these findings; that allowing Mrs H a credit 
limit of £750 was not unreasonable. I have also noted that Mrs H at no time allowed her 
credit to exceed this amount, even when, later on, higher credit limits were allowed on the 
agreement.
As such, whether the subsequent credit limits were reasonable or otherwise is a moot 
point. I say that because redress is designed to put someone back in the position as if the 
failing had not happened. In this case Mrs Hs credit usage never exceeded the initial 
credit limit of £750. As such, even were I to think the later credit increases were 
unreasonable, there would not be any redress to pay. Mrs H has suffered no detriment as 
a result of the actions of Shop Direct.   
So, I dont make any award as I dont think Mrs H was caused any loss or material 
distress or inconvenience as a result of anything Shop Direct did after the credit was 
agreed with the initial credit limit. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman