DRN-2947071
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) (AMEX) didnt 
credit her with the membership reward points that she feels she should have received for 
referring her partner to open an AMEX account.
What happened
Miss M sent a referral email to her partner so that he could open an AMEX account. AMEX 
had advertised that any successful referrals would result in the referring party  in this case 
Miss M  receiving bonus membership reward points. However, when Miss Ms partners 
AMEX account was subsequently opened, she didnt receive any bonus membership reward 
points. Miss M wasnt happy about this, so she raised a complaint.
AMEX looked at Miss Ms complaint, but they noted that Miss Ms partner had applied for a 
new account via the AMEX website and hadnt used the referral link sent to him by Miss M. 
AMEX also noted that the terms of the offer specify that to qualify for the bonus membership 
reward points any new account must be opened via the referral link. Because of this, AMEX 
didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Miss M wasnt satisfied with AMEXs response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that AMEX had been able to 
demonstrate that the referral link hadnt been used by Miss Ms partner, and so they felt that 
they also couldnt recommend upholding this complaint.
Miss M remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must have been frustrating for Miss M not to have received the bonus 
membership reward points she feels that she should have received here, given that her 
partner opened an AMEX account.
Additionally, Miss M has stated that she was there when her partner applied for the account 
and that she watched him use the referral link that she sent to him.
However, AMEX have provided screenshots of their internal systems that appear to 
demonstrate that the account wasnt opened via the use of the referral link but was in fact 
opened by Miss Ms partner via the AMEX website. 
This makes it very difficult for me to consider upholding this complaint in Miss Ms favour, 
and while I acknowledge Miss Ms point that computerised systems arent infallible, Id find it 
very difficult to reasonably justify instructing AMEX to credit her with the bonus membership 
reward points that she would like here, given that AMEX have been able to provide evidence 
which appears to confirm that the terms of that offer  that the referral link must be used  
werent met in this instance.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Miss M was wanting here, but it follows from this 
that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking AMEX to take any further action at this 
time. I hope that Miss M will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final 
decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman