DRN-4019555
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy how HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct communicated with him 
when he asked for help to recover money following a purchase made on his credit card. 
What happened
In early May 2022 Mr M purchased two tickets for a sporting event. Each ticket was priced 
individually at £85.45, and he bought them both direct from the ticket supplier, who Ill refer 
to as U, using his first direct credit card. The event was scheduled for later in the month.
Having attended the event, Mr M was unhappy with the arrangements and facilities. He tried 
to speak to U about this, but this wasnt successful. So, he approached first direct at the end 
of August 2022 to see if they could help. 
first direct explained to Mr M that he couldnt make a claim under Section 75 (s75) of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 as the individual price of the tickets didnt meet the financial 
threshold for a s75 claim to be considered. They explained to Mr M that they also felt that a 
chargeback claim would prove to be unsuccessful as it didnt seem as though he hadnt 
received the goods hed paid for  but they did offer to send him the relevant forms to allow 
him to explain the situation. first direct agreed to raise a chargeback claim for him once 
theyd received the dispute form and evidence back. Whilst this process was going on, Mr M 
complained about the service hed received from first direct.
They responded shortly after. They reiterated that a s75 claim couldnt be considered, and a 
chargeback claim would be raised for Mr M as soon as hed returned the relevant 
paperwork. The form had to be re-sent a week later as Mr M hadnt received it. 
There was no further communication between Mr M and first direct until mid-November 
2022. Mr M emailed first direct to say that he thought hed sent them the dispute form in 
September 2022, but hed just realised he hadnt. He included the form with his email. He 
didnt hear anything for a week or so and emailed first direct again. At that point, first direct 
responded to say that the form had been returned outside of the time limits explained in the 
relevant chargeback scheme rules and they were unable to take it any further. 
Mr M wasnt happy with this, or the tone of the communication from first direct. He said he 
was disappointed that hed had to message twice before he got a response, and he felt the 
response was curt. first direct didnt agree with Mr M. They said that the initial email wasnt 
responded to immediately as the case handler was seeking some advice, and they didnt 
think the communication after that was curt. first direct said it was brief, but it was factual, 
and they had come to the end of the complaint journey with Mr M. 
Mr M remained unhappy and brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator explained 
that she felt first direct had acted reasonably by explaining why Mr M didnt have a valid s75 
claim. She also said that the dispute form had been received by first direct outside of the 
time limits to allow them to raise a chargeback claim and accepted that they had acted fairly 
by not raising it. However, our investigator felt that first direct could have responded to Mr M 
sooner in November 2022 and they could have expressed more empathy in their response. 
Because of that, she recognised it had caused Mr M some distress and asked first direct to 
pay him £100 to reflect that.
first direct didnt agree to this. They said they didnt think theyd dealt with Mr Ms requests 
incorrectly and didnt feel that compensation was warranted as a result. 
As first direct didnt agree, its been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with first directs comments in relation to the s75 and chargeback 
claim. And it seems, from what Ive been provided with, that Mr M accepts those 
explanations too. Im aware that Mr M did have concerns that first direct was seeking to 
discourage him from bringing his complaint to us, but he is dealing with that issue by a 
different means. So, I wont go over those points again within this decision. The only thing I 
must decide is whether an award of compensation should be made to Mr M. And in this 
case, I think it should be. 
When Mr M first spoke with first direct at the end of August 2022, he received a final 
response letter to his complaint the following day. Similarly, when he emailed again on 
8 September 2022 to explain he couldnt print the dispute form, he received an email from 
first direct the following day explaining that another form would be sent out in the post to him.
Because of this, I think its understandable why Mr M was surprised to have to get in touch 
with first direct twice in November 2022 due to a lack of response from them. And I can 
understand why, when he did receive a response from first direct, he felt it was curt. While I 
dont necessarily agree with that description of first directs response, I do think it could have 
been more empathetic to Mr M and his situation. It was clear from his initial conversation in 
August 2022 that hed found his experience at the event extremely challenging. I appreciate 
that wasnt the fault of first direct but, even though they werent able to help him in 
November 2022 for the reasons theyd explained, I do think they could have acknowledged 
Mr Ms distress in a more considerate way.
Mr M has clearly been caused some distress by the delay first direct caused. I appreciate 
their comments to explain why the delay in November 2022 occurred and that they 
responded 11 days after receiving Mr Ms email and completed dispute form, but I do think 
an award of compensation should be made to reflect the impact the delay had on Mr M. 
So, my decision is that first direct should pay Mr M £100. My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct 
must:
Pay Mr M £100 compensation for the delay in responding to him in November 2022. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman