DRN-3626071
The complaint
Mr G complains that Lairgate Financial Ltd gave him unsuitable advice to transfer his defined 
benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme (OPS) into his Small Self-Administered Scheme 
(SSAS). He says hell be financially worse off in retirement as a result.
What happened
Mr G was introduced to Lairgate by an unregulated party who Ill refer to as Firm A. 
In 2017 Firm A had helped Mr G open a SSAS and invest in loan notes with Dolphin Capital 
 an unregulated property investment located in Germany. 
In 2018 Lairgate gave Mr G advice on the deferred benefits he held in an OPS. 
At the time of the advice, Lairgate completed a fact-find with Mr G which recorded; 
 He was single, not in a relationship and had no plans to marry anytime soon. 
 He had an annual income of £100,000 with a net monthly income of £6,000. And 
his monthly outgoings were £1,964. 
 He was a residential landlord and provided a spreadsheet containing information on 
his property portfolio. Three of the properties were owned by a limited company hed 
set up. A further eight properties were owned as a partnership on a self-employed 
basis. 
 His property portfolio was worth around £2,600,000 with £1,760,000 of it 
mortgaged. 
 He held around £20,000 in shares in his ex-employers business and had recently 
invested £30,000 in cryptocurrency which had lost £10,000 of its value. 
 His DB scheme had a transfer value of £195,282.05. 
 His property portfolio provided enough income, so he had zero reliance on his 
pension for income in retirement. 
 He already held a SSAS in which he held an investment in Dolphin Capital. So, he 
didnt require advice on the suitability of the SSAS or a recommendation for a 
suitable investment solution as he wanted to invest in commercial property. 
Following the fact-find Lairgate recommended Mr G transfer the deferred benefits of his OPS 
into his existing SSAS. They set out the reasons for their recommendation in a suitability 
report which said; 
 Mr G didnt require investment advice so an assessment of his attitude to risk 
hadnt been completed. But they considered he was generally a high risk taker due to 
his recent investments. 
 Mr G had unlimited capacity for loss of his pension as even a total loss wouldnt 
impact on his standard of living. 
 The critical yield  the returns required to match his existing scheme  was 6.23% 
 Due to Mr G being single with no dependants, the death benefits in the OPS 
offered no benefit. 
 The SSAS would be able to facilitate Mr Gs objective of investing in commercial 
property. And based on his successful property investments so far, it was likely Mr G 
could invest the funds in a way that would provide a higher level of retirement 
income. 
Mr G complained to Lairgate in August 2020 about the suitability of the transfer advice 
because he said theyd failed to consider his attitude to investment risk and the underlying 
investments in the SSAS. He said Lairgate didnt act in his best interest as he lost the 
guaranteed benefits of his OPS. And the OPS was his entire pension savings, so he didnt 
have the capacity for loss to tolerate the risks of their recommendation. 
Lairgate didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. In summary, they said it was Mr Gs objective and 
intention to invest in commercial property. At the time there was no indication Mr G wanted 
to make further investments in unregulated investments like Dolphin Capital in his SSAS. 
And they werent responsible for Mr Gs investment choices that he later made. Lairgate said 
that they had considered the underlying investments as being an investment in commercial 
property. And they concluded such an investment was suitable. They also said that although 
Firm A introduced Mr G to them, they had no relationship with Firm A. 
Mr G referred his complaint to our service. In his submissions to our service Mr G said 
before he met Firm A hed had no investment experience, and had been told the investment 
in Dolphin Capital was low risk. So, he disputed he had a high attitude to risk. Furthermore, 
he said Lairgates fact-find was incorrect in terms of his earnings which he said had never 
come close to £100,000. He provided some financial information from his company at the 
time which he says shows he made a loss that year. He said Lairgate didnt act in line with 
the regulators expectations as they had a duty to consider the suitability of the whole 
transaction and couldnt just limit their advice to the transfer. 
I sent Lairgate and Mr G my provisional decision in which I said I was minded to uphold Mr 
Gs complaint. In summary I said I didnt think Lairgate had met the regulators expectations 
in considering the transfer as a whole, including the underlying investments. And without that 
information, Lairgate shouldnt have recommended the transfer. 
In response to my provisional decision Lairgate sent a detailed submission for my 
consideration. Ive carefully considered all of the arguments. But my final decision below will 
focus on those points which I think are materially relevant to this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. These 
include the overarching Principles for Businesses (PRIN). Principles 1 (integrity), 2 (skill, 
care and diligence), 6 (customers interests) and 9 (reasonable care) are of particular 
relevance here. 
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), also states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, Lairgate should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Gs best interests (COBS 19.1.6). COBS also required Lairgate to take reasonable steps to ensure their personal 
recommendation was suitable for Mr G. And they had to obtain information on Mr Gs 
investment knowledge and experience relevant to the specific type of investment (COBS 
9.2.1R). 
Lairgate gave their recommendation to Mr G in 2018 which was several years after the 
regulator had made their position clear that when assessing the suitability of a pension 
transfer, a firm needed to consider the suitability of the underlying investments intended to 
be held in it. This was evident in 2013 when the then regulator, The Financial Services 
Authority (FSA) issued an alert regarding advice to invest in SIPPs and other pension 
wrappers. The relevant parts said; 
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are giving 
advice to customers on pension transfers or pension switches without assessing the 
advantages and disadvantages of investments proposed to be held within the new 
pension. In particular, we have seen financial advisers moving customers retirement 
savings to self-invested personal pensions (SIPPs) that invest wholly or primarily in 
high risk, often highly illiquid unregulated investments (some of which may be in 
Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes)
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires 
consideration of the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given 
on a product which is a vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and 
other wrappers), consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the 
wrapper and the expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes. It should 
be particularly clear to financial advisers that, where a customer seeks advice on a 
pension transfer in implementing a wider investment strategy, the advice on the 
pension transfer must take account of the overall investment strategy the customer is 
contemplating. 
I appreciate that the example given in the regulators alert didnt exactly follow Mr Gs 
circumstances. But I can see the regulators alert makes it clear that suitable advice 
generally requires a business to consider the underlying intended investments. And the 
alert pointed firms toward COBS and PRIN which asks firms when giving advice to first take 
time to familiarise themselves with the wider investment and financial circumstances of their 
customer. 
In my view the regulator was alerting businesses to standards which have a broad 
application to pension switching and transfer advice. So, I think the alert is relevant to 
Lairgate in this case. This is further demonstrated when in 2014 the FCA issued a further 
alert containing similar warnings which said; 
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will 
transfer or switch from a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest 
through a SIPP, then the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the 
advice given to the customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable (), then 
the overall advice is not suitable. 
If a firm does not fully understand the underlying investment proposition intended to 
be held within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer () at 
all as it will not be able to assess suitability of the transaction as a whole. 
Furthermore, in January 2017 the FCA issued a news story entitled Advising on pension 
transfers  our expectations. The FCA said; We are aware that some firms have been advising on pension transfers or switches 
without considering the assets in which their clients funds will be invested. We are 
concerned that consumers receiving this advice are at risk of transferring into 
unsuitable investments or  worse  being scammed. 
Transferring pension benefits is usually irreversible. The merits or otherwise of the 
transfer may only become apparent years into the future. So it is particularly 
important that firms advising on pension transfers ensure that their clients understand 
fully the implications of a proposed transfer before deciding whether or not to 
proceed. 
What we expect 
We expect a firm advising on a pension transfer from a defined benefit (DB) scheme 
or other scheme with safeguarded benefits to consider the assets in which the 
clients funds will be invested as well as the specific receiving scheme. It is the 
responsibility of the firm advising on the transfer to take into account the 
characteristics of these assets. 
Our rules set out what a firm must do in preparing and providing a transfer analysis. 
In particular, our rules (COBS 19.1.2R(1)) require a comparison between the likely 
benefits (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a DB scheme or other 
scheme with safeguarded benefits and the benefits afforded by a personal pension 
scheme, stakeholder scheme or other pension scheme with flexible benefits. 
The comparison should explain the rates of return that would have to be achieved to 
replicate the benefits being given up and should be illustrated on rates of return 
which take into account the likely expected returns of the assets in which the clients 
funds will be invested. Unless the advice has taken into account the likely expected 
returns of the assets, as well as the associated risks and all costs and charges that 
will be borne by the client, it is unlikely that the advice will meet our expectations (see 
guidance at COBS 19.1.2 and 19.1.6-19.1.8). 
The FCA went on to say firms shouldnt undertake a comparison using generic assumptions 
for hypothetical receiving schemes. The firm must take into account the likely expected 
returns of the assets in which the clients funds will be invested as well as the specific 
receiving scheme. 
Lairgate seem to consider that it had assessed Mr Gs intended underlying investments 
when it referenced Mr Gs desire to invest in commercial property in its suitability letter. But 
I dont agree. 
Lairgates recommendation isnt based on a specific investment. They say the best 
properties arent on the market for long and because this type of transfer can take several 
months, it simply wasnt possible to have a specific property in mind before the advice was 
given. But they say they had conversations with Mr G about investments in bricks and 
mortar commercial property. 
I accept it was likely to be the case that Mr G may not have been able to move on a specific 
property without first securing the funds. However, the whole suitability report is based on an 
investment in commercial property. And the term commercial property is fairly broad. It 
could represent a wide range of different investments from investing in retail, hospitality or 
offices. It could also include land purchases for development or car parks. Therefore, the 
associated risks of the different types of commercial property is vast and depends on the 
specific commercial property investment. The likely returns would also be vast dependant on the type of investment chosen. Many factors were likely to affect the potential returns and 
without any indication of the type of commercial property or geographical location, Lairgate 
couldnt give any indication of likely returns. 
Lairgate say Mr G was confident in his own abilities to select a successful property. They 
said this was true especially with [Firm As] SSAS Commercial property purchase service to 
assist him. They say it was Mr Gs intention to invest in a commercial property of his 
choosing and from their point of view a further investment in Dolphin Capital was never on 
the table for Mr G. Furthermore, Lairgate say they spoke with Mr G about the dangers of an 
investment in Dolphin Capital. They say they pointed out to him that it was high risk and 
warned him against any further investment. However, theres no documented evidence from 
the time of the advice that Lairgate warned Mr G of these dangers. And considering Mr G 
made a further large investment into Dolphin Capital shortly after the transfer, on balance, 
Im not persuaded that they did. 
Lairgate now say they had talks with Mr G about bricks and mortar commercial property, 
discussing the various types, rental income and potential growth. But none of that is 
mentioned in any of the documented evidence from the time of the advice. So, on balance, I 
cant fairly conclude that it was discussed in any real detail. Ive also seen no evidence that 
Mr G had a particular commercial property in mind when he spoke with Lairgate. And theres 
no written evidence that Lairgate explored with Mr G the type of property he was likely to 
invest in. Had they done so, Id expect Lairgate to have been able to make a comparison 
between the likely benefits of the DB scheme and the benefits of that type of commercial 
property investment. Which was a key expectation of what would be contained in the 
suitability report. However, this level of comparison wasnt included and meant Mr G wasnt 
able to make an informed decision about whether the transfer was in his best interests. 
Advising on the transfers of DB pensions is highly regulated and theres good reason for 
that. As the FCA pointed out, the decision is usually irreversible and the guaranteed benefits 
of a DB scheme can be very valuable. By assisting Mr G in moving his funds to a flexible 
arrangement like a SSAS, he was at risk of transferring into unsuitable funds or even being 
scammed as the regulator had warned. And that seems to be exactly what happened in 
Mr Gs case. 
I think its important to note here that Lairgate knew Mr G was being assisted in his 
investment choices by Firm A who werent regulated financial advisers. And Firm A had 
already advised Mr G to invest other pension provisions into a high risk, unregulated 
investment with Dolphin Capital. While Lairgate say a further investment into Dolphin Capital 
was never on the table I dont think they could have said that with any certainty. Especially 
given they had no good indication at that time of the specific type of commercial property 
Mr G intended to invest in. And they knew that following the transfer, Mr G was going to go 
back to the same advisers that recommended his first investment into Dolphin Capital. 
For these reasons, I dont think Lairgate met the regulators expectations that theyd laid out 
in various communications, COBS and PRIN rules for advisers. 
Lairgate say it wasnt Mr Gs intention to improve on his pension provisions. But I disagree. 
In the suitability report Lairgate say Mr Gs main objective was to consider a transfer of the 
deferred benefits in your [OPS] and use the money available, to invest in commercial 
property and further enhance your retirement income provisions. So, I think its fair to say Mr 
G was looking to enhance the financial benefit he was likely to receive from the DB scheme 
by transferring its value into his SSAS. In the suitability report Lairgate went on to say; The critical yield mentioned above is 
relatively low and the potential to match the benefits you have within the scheme is likely, 
given your investment experience. 
Lairgate recorded the critical yield as 6.23% but the critical yield was generated using a 
generic pension plan with charges of 1% per year. Which is exactly what the regulator 
warned against. Lairgate were advising Mr G to move his funds into an already established 
SSAS. So, they should have researched the actual fees Mr G was likely to pay to obtain an 
accurate critical yield. Which may have been more, or less, than the one they used. They 
also needed to point out all of the costs and charges Mr G would face from his actual 
receiving scheme for the investments they say he was intending to make. Its typical in these 
types of arrangements to see extra fees for property purchases and for holding a commercial 
property in the SSAS. But these fees werent explored or explained. 
I also dont think it was possible for Lairgate to say it was likely Mr G would be able to 
match the benefits he was giving up. Thats because, as there was no specific underlying 
investment in mind, Lairgate wouldnt have been able to know the likely or projected returns 
of an investment that didnt yet exist. And while Mr G had substantial experience in investing 
in residential property, Ive not seen any evidence he had experience in investing in 
commercial properties. Which are likely to hold different risks to what he was used to 
dependant on what the commercial property was. 
In their latest submission Lairgate said In the event that he had invested in commercial 
property as he informed was his objective for the funds, then assuming a 5% return, we fail 
to see how [Mr G] can substantiate that he be financially worse off in retirement as a result. 
But I think this comment only serves to highlight the problems with Lairgates advice. Only 
now are they suggesting what a possible annual return could be (which still doesnt exceed 
Lairgates critical yield required to even match the DB schemes benefits). And dependant on 
the type of property investment, whether a mortgage was needed, or its likely occupancy (to 
name just a few factors of consideration), Lairgate had no way of assuming a likely return 
from Mr Gs investment. 
Without understanding the underlying investment Lairgate were unable to assess its 
suitability or comment on, with any certainty, its ability to meet Mr Gs objective of enhancing 
his retirement income. And the regulator had made its position clear that if Lairgate didnt 
fully understand the underlying investment proposition intended to be held within the 
pension, then it shouldnt have offered advice on the pension transfer at all as it would not be 
able to assess the suitability of the transaction as a whole. 
Summary 
I dont doubt that the ability to invest in commercial property through his pension would have 
sounded attractive to Mr G. But Lairgate wasnt there to just transact what Mr G might have 
thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr G needed and 
recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the evidence shows Lairgate knew enough about the intended 
underlying investment to make a recommendation that met with the regulators expectations. 
And so, they shouldnt have given Mr G a recommendation to move his pension from the DB 
scheme into a flexible arrangement that was open to unsuitable investments or even scams. 
Mr G was giving up a guaranteed and increasing income. By transferring, Lairgate were 
unable to say with any certainty whether Mr G was likely to even match the retirement 
benefits he lost and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would justify a 
transfer and outweigh this. So, I think Lairgate shouldve advised Mr G to remain in his OPS. 
Of course, I have to consider whether its more likely than not that Mr G would've gone 
ahead anyway, against Lairgate's advice. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr G wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the OPS, against Lairgates advice. I say this because this was most of Mr 
Gs pension provisions and he hadnt got an investment beyond commercial property in 
mind at that time. So, if Lairgate had provided him with clear advice against transferring out 
of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted 
that advice. 
Im not persuaded that Mr Gs objective of investing in commercial property was so great that 
he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he 
had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests.
Lairgate dont believe they should be held responsible for the unsuitable investments that Mr 
G later made in his SSAS. But it was Lairgates responsibility, as part of the advice to 
transfer his DB scheme benefits, to ensure Mr Gs funds were being suitably invested once 
they reached the SSAS. And in failing to do so, they failed in their duty to consider whether 
the transfer as a whole was in his best interests or to protect Mr G against making unsuitable 
investments. They advised him to move his pension from a highly regulated and protected 
scheme into a scheme where Mr G was free to make his own choices. They knew he was 
being guided by the same unregulated advisers whod already advised him to invest into a 
high risk, unregulated scheme. And if the transfer hadnt taken place, the subsequent 
investments via the SSAS could never have been made. 
If Lairgate had explained to Mr G that it couldnt recommend the transfer without 
understanding the underlying investments Mr G intended to make, I think that wouldve 
carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr G would have insisted on transferring out of 
the DB scheme and, again, the subsequent unsuitable investments couldnt have been 
made. 
In light of the above, I think Lairgate should compensate Mr G for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr G, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have 
remained in the occupational scheme. 
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023. 
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/19 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded. 
Weve previously asked Mr G whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for any new guidance /rules to be published. 
He has chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr G. 
Lairgate must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Gs acceptance of the decision. 
Lairgate may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Gs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Gs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement. 
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Gs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance. 
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr G as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this. 
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr G within 90 days of the date 
Lairgate receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes 
Lairgate to pay Mr G.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Lairgate deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr G how much has been taken off. Lairgate should give Mr G a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr G asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Lairgate to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event. 
My aim is to return Mr G to the position he would have been in but for the actions of Lairgate.
This is complicated where an investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold on the
open market), as its value cant be determined. That appears to possibly be the case here.
To calculate the compensation, Lairgate should agree an amount with the SSAS provider as
a commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SSAS plus any costs, and take
ownership of the investment. If Lairgate is unable to buy the investment, it should give it a nil
value for the purposes of calculating compensation. The value of the SSAS used in the
calculations should include anything Lairgate has paid into the SSAS and any outstanding
charges yet to be applied to the SSAS should be deducted.
In return for this, Lairgate may ask Mr G to provide an undertaking to account to it for the net
amount of any payment he may receive from the investment. That undertaking should allow
for the effect of any tax and charges on what he receives. Lairgate will need to meet any
costs in drawing up the undertaking. If Lairgate asks Mr G to provide an undertaking,
payment of the compensation awarded may be dependent upon provision of that 
undertaking.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance. 
Determination and money award: I require Lairgate to pay Mr G the compensation amount 
as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000. 
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I additionally require Lairgate 
to pay Mr G any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I only require Lairgate to pay 
Mr G any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000. 
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Lairgate pays Mr G the balance. I additionally recommend any interest calculated as set out 
above on this balance to be paid to Mr G. 
If Mr G accepts my decision, the money award is binding on Lairgate. My recommendation is 
not binding on Lairgate. Further, its unlikely that Mr G can accept my decision and go to 
court to ask for the balance. Mr G may want to consider getting independent legal advice 
before deciding whether to accept this decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and Lairgate Financial Ltd should pay the amount 
calculated as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman