DRN-3360607
The complaint
Ms R complains about investment recommendations received from deVere and Partners 
(UK) Limited as well as the level of fees they charged.
What happened
Ms R was a long term customer of deVere and took advice about investments on several 
occasions over the years. 
In early 2021 Ms R complained to deVere after discussing her investments with an 
independent financial adviser who reviewed her finances. Ms R was unhappy with the level 
of fees and charges that had been applied to her investments and questioned the advice she 
had been given over the years.
Whilst understanding Ms Rs disappointment with the performance of her investments, 
deVere didnt uphold the complaint. They said all the fees, charges and commissions had 
been disclosed and werent excessive. deVere also said that recommendations were 
suitable taking into account Ms Rs attitude to risk, objectives, and personal circumstances.  
Ms R disagreed so brought her complaint to our service where one of our Investigators 
looked into what happened. They reviewed all the evidence provided and were persuaded 
that the fees were made clear and that the advice was suitable. Ms R remained unhappy 
saying deVere didnt treat her fairly so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms R has provided a lot of information about her complaint and its clear to me how strongly 
she feels about what happened. I want to assure Ms R that Ive read and considered 
everything that has been provided even if I dont mention it all in detail. Ive summarised 
some of what happened which reflects the informal nature of this service, and no discourtesy 
is intended here. Also deVere and our Investigator both went into quite some detail about 
what happened. And since those facts arent really in dispute theres no need to repeat them 
all again here. 
When dealing with our Investigator Ms R confirmed that her complaint points were the fees 
and charges as well as the suitability of advice. These are the issues deVere looked into and 
what our Investigator considered. During the course of the investigation some complaint 
points seem to have drifted away from the original problem. Even though we have an 
inquisitorial remit I need to make a decision based on the issues that were originally raised 
and looked in to by deVere. So if I dont address all of the things raised along the way its not 
because Ive ignored them, its because Ive concentrated on the original issues complained 
about. 
Ive considered all of the available evidence when coming to a decision. Where, due to the 
passage of time a full set of documentation isnt available, Ive based my decision on the 
balance of probabilities as to what I think is most likely to have happened. 
In 2009 its recorded that Ms R was working fulltime, in her mid-30s, had three dependent 
children, and was renting with a consideration to purchase a property after another house 
sale been completed. There was some investment experience. She held a cash Individual 
Savings Account (ISA) and was looking for a stocks and shares ISA. Ms R was in good 
health and there was a monthly disposable income of around £3,500.
After completing a risk questionnaire it was decided and agreed that the attitude to risk was 
balanced  this was a 5 on a risk scale of 0 to 10. The main objective was to make a better 
return than a normal or high interest account and to use the ISA allowance.
The fund recommended was from the mid-risk range managed fund which matched the 
agreed level of risk and Ms R was provided with a key features document. 
Theres not a full set of documentation from the time but from what Ive seen the level of 
investment was affordable, matched the level of risk, and was suitable. 
In 2011 Ms R had purchased a property as had been previously discussed and there was an 
outstanding mortgage. The objectives remained the same as previously while also seeking a 
balance between income and growth. The risk attitude was a 4 which was cautious to 
moderate, and Ms R was prepared to take some risk. 
The recommendation was for an ISA with various funds which included some of a higher risk 
with a contribution of £100 which was shown to be affordable. 
There was a diversification across the portfolio which meant overall the investment matched 
attitude to risk. Taking everything into account Im satisfied the advice was suitable. 
Im also satisfied that the documents provided to Ms R made clear that past performance of 
a particular fund was no guarantee of future performance. They also said that values could 
go up and down over time, Ms R could get back less than she invested, and that capital was 
not guaranteed.  
Overall Im satisfied the investments were diversified and balanced and that the advice was 
suitable. I understand that Ms R is disappointed with the performance of her investments 
over time, but that doesnt mean the advice was unsuitable.
deVere say they worked on commission and Ms R did not agree to pay any fees for advice. 
And Ive seen no evidence of a fixed price fee structure being agreed. Theres not a full set 
of documentation but on balance I think this was the case.
Ive looked at the documents we do have such as suitability letters, terms of business, 
application forms, and key features illustrations which were provided to Ms R. Having done 
so I think the fees and charges were made clear and Ive seen no evidence that any errors 
were made.
After carefully considering all the information and everything that happened Im satisfied 
deVere treated Ms R fairly and reasonably so I wont be asking them to take any further 
action. My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman