DRN-3698033
The complaint
Mr R complains about delays he experienced in transferring his shares away from ITI Capital 
Limited, and delays in being able to withdraw his cash from the account.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision in Mr Rs complaint and set out the background to the 
complaint and my provisional findings as follows:
In 2020 Mr Rs share account, which he held with another firm that had gone into 
administration, was transferred over to ITI. At the end of July, shortly after receiving 
confirmation that his account had been migrated over, Mr R was unable to access his 
account. He wanted to withdraw the cash that was held there, transfer all investments to a 
different broker, and ensure that he had properly received all dividends. He first requested 
the transfer at the beginning of September 2020 and by November 2020 it was still not 
resolved, so he made a complaint.
 
ITI replied in March 2021 and admitted they had caused the delays and offered £125 for the 
trouble caused. Mr R didnt accept this and asked our service to look into the complaint. He 
explained that he eventually received the cash in the account in December 2020, his 
investments were finally transferred in April 2021 and the residual dividend income was paid 
to him in May 2021. 
An investigator at our service looked into the complaint and found it should be upheld. She 
recommended that ITI pay £350 in compensation for the trouble caused. She said that 
delays occurred on two cash withdrawals, and that ITI ought to pay simple interest at the 
rate of 8% per year on the amounts Mr R withdrew. She said that the initial withdrawal of 
£11,354.72 ought to have been paid by 30 September 2020, instead of 2 December 2020. 
On the second cash withdrawal of £299.85, she said Mr R ought to have received this by 11 
February 2021, rather than 12 February 2021. 
ITI initially agreed with the recommendation made by the investigator. Mr R agreed on the 
condition that payment was made swiftly so he could draw a line under the situation. 
However, ITI then didnt pay Mr R, and nor did they reply to any further correspondence from 
our service about this complaint. So, Mr R withdrew his acceptance and asked for the case 
to be passed to an ombudsman for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The cash withdrawals
Mr R first asked ITI to withdraw his cash to his bank account on 8 September 2020. He told 
them in this email that he was aware that a form needed to be completed, and asked for a 
copy of it. It wasnt until 26 November 2020 that ITI gave him the required information. It 
appears to be agreed that ITI ought to have replied to his initial email within five working 
days  this is the time frame the investigator set out and ITI have not disputed it. In the email 
they should have provided a copy of the form and instructions on the evidence required. 
When ITI did this in November, it took Mr R four calendar days to supply the form and 
relevant evidence. Upon receipt in November, it took ITI a further two working days to pay 
Mr R. 
I think it would be fair to apply the same timeline of events of what actually took place once 
Mr R had the relevant information in November, to decide when the withdrawal ought to 
have been completed in September. This is because this timeline shows me what ITI ought 
to have been able to do, had everything been running smoothly earlier on. So, based on 
that, the withdrawal ought to have been completed by 22 September 2020. 
Mr R was unable to use the £11,354.72 as he wished during this time, which isnt fair. So, I 
think ITI should pay Mr R 8% simple interest on that amount, between 22 September and 2 
December 2020, to make up for the fact they deprived him of using his money. 
After December 2020, Mr R received further cash into the account from dividends. He 
completed a cash withdrawal form on 4 February 2021 and ITI have told us that £299.85 
was paid to him on 12 February 2021. ITIs own timescales for processing a withdrawal 
request was two working days. So ITI ought to have requested that the payment be made by 
8 February 2021. 
I note the investigator allowed time for the money to reach Mr Rs account when she set out 
her findings, which she said ought to have happened on 11 February 2021. However, 12 
February 2021 isnt the date the money actually reached Mr Rs bank account, rather its the 
date ITI processed the payment. I think it would have been a further three days before he 
received the money  therefore Mr R was deprived of the use of this money for four days. To 
make up for this I think ITI should compensate him for this by paying interest at the same 
rate as above, for that time. 
The overall delays and issues encountered 
Ive read through the emails that Mr R has helpfully provided, that show the full timeline of 
events. I can see he initially had problems getting online in July and August, and it seems 
like this was caused, at least in part, by ITI having spelled his name incorrectly. By 29 
August 2020 Mr R decided he wanted to transfer away to the third party and ITI received 
formal instructions about this on 7 September 2020. 
ITI didnt send his new broker the valuation of Mr Rs account until the beginning of March 
2021 and havent provided any reasons for this delay. Due to the delay, Mr R then had to 
initiate a new transfer request in March 2021, as his new broker required this confirmation 
before taking further steps. The transfer appears to have finally concluded by 12 April 2021. 
In my opinion this delay is unacceptable and based on the number of emails Mr R sent in 
order to try and resolve it, many of which went unanswered, it caused him a considerable 
amount of inconvenience and concern.
Mr R has said that in the normal course of events, he likely would have been trading during 
this time, as well as reinvesting the dividends hed have received. He accepts that he cant 
prove where hed have invested, or what losses (or gains) may have been achieved. I agree 
that we dont have enough evidence to show what financial losses this caused, if any. That 
being said, in my opinion he has been deprived of using the account as he wished, and this 
naturally will have caused frustration.  The fact his account wasnt properly set up and showing his investments, cash and dividend 
income, caused Mr R problems in completing his tax returns. Had everything gone as it 
should have, Mr R ought to have been able to see all that information in August 2020, and 
he wouldnt have had to request specific information from ITI. 
In addition to all of the above, once Mr R had brought his complaint to our service, and after 
ITI had agreed to pay the amount recommended by the investigator, ITI then failed to pay 
him the agreed settlement. This only served to exacerbate Mr Rs feelings of frustration, 
already heightened due to the above problems. 
Overall, I think a higher amount of compensation for the distress and inconvenience is 
warranted here. Based on the time the process took and the number of issues Mr R 
encountered, I think £600 in total is fair.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr R replied to confirm he accepted my findings. 
ITI didnt reply. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and having reviewed the reply to my provision decision, I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional findings as set out above. I therefore reach the same conclusions 
as in my provisional decision, for the same reasons, and make them final.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that ITI Capital Limited should pay: 
£600 for the distress and inconvenience caused; and
8% simple interest per year on:
o£11,354.72 from 22 September 2020 to 2 December 2020; and
o£299.85 from 8 February 2021 to 12 February 2021.
ITI Capital Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr R in a clear, simple format.
ITI Capital Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
Mr R accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of this final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Katie Haywood
Ombudsman