DRN-3355489
The complaint
The estate of Mrs S complains that a debts owed to Hoist Finance UK Limited (Hoist) 
should be written off as the late Mrs S was a vulnerable customer and Hoist failed to identify 
her as such or treat her according to the rules set out by the regulator.
What happened
The estate of Mrs S has been represented by the executor but for ease I will refer to the 
estate of Mrs S throughout this decision.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint the estate of Mrs S, but I agree with the investigators opinion. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The investigator has explained why its not possible to review all of the accounts the estate 
of Mrs S has referred to us. I am, however, able to review the three accounts assigned to 
Hoist in December 2013, September 2015, and January 2016. The account numbers were 
listed in the investigators view.
I was very sorry to hear that Mrs S had passed away and to read through the account of the 
health conditions she suffered from for many years.
The Financial Conduct Authority set out guidelines for how businesses should treat 
vulnerable consumers. Businesses need to ensure vulnerable consumers are treated fairly 
and need to make reasonable adjustments to ensure that is the case. Guidance would 
suggest that where a business notes long term mental health issues with little chance of 
improvement they should consider writing off the debt.
I cant see that Hoist were aware of the late Mrs Ss health issues until mid-2020. At that 
point the late Mrs S is noted on their system logs as vulnerable and I can see that 
communication with her reduced thereafter. So, I think there is evidence that once Hoist 
were aware of Mrs Ss condition they did reduce contact and make some adjustments to 
ensure fairness. 
Hoist have not been prepared to waive the debt that is still present on these accounts and I 
dont think they have been unreasonable when doing so. Thats because I dont think theyd 
been provided with enough information to suggest the late Mrs S was unable to pay the debt 
in the long term or that her health was such that that would have been unlikely.
Im not therefore asking them to take any action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs S 
to accept or reject my decision before 30 June 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman