DRN-3021995
The complaint
Mrs G complains Nationwide Building Society should not have agreed to grant her a 
mortgage based on the mortgage valuation report it received during her application. 
Mrs G is represented by her father, Mr H.
What happened
Mrs G applied for a mortgage with Nationwide, via a broker, in 2014. As part of the 
application process, Nationwide instructed a valuation of the property, to make sure it 
provided suitable security according to its lending criteria. 
Mrs G has since discovered subsidence in the property and submitted a claim to her 
buildings insurer for the damage. The insurer initially rejected the claim because it said the 
subsidence was historical (as there was evidence of cracks having been repaired in the 
past) and, in part, caused by the extension which it said had been poorly designed. The 
insurer has since accepted the claim. 
Mrs G complained to Nationwide. She felt Nationwide should not have agreed to provide her 
with a mortgage on the property. She said this because the mortgage valuation report had 
not spotted the problems with the extension and previously repaired cracks.
 
Nationwide responded to Mrs Gs complaint. It said Mrs G took her mortgage out via a 
broker, so Nationwide didnt give her any advice. It carried out a mortgage valuation report 
as instructed. The purpose of this was to determine whether the property provided suitable 
security for the mortgage  for Nationwides benefit. So it didnt think it had done anything 
wrong when granting Mrs Gs mortgage. 
An Investigator considered Mrs Gs complaint. He said, in summary, Nationwide carried out 
a mortgage valuation report correctly using an appropriately qualified person and it wasnt 
responsible for its content. Because of this, he didnt recommend Mrs Gs complaint was 
upheld. 
Mr H didnt accept the Investigators view. He provided multiple detailed responses to the 
Investigators findings. In summary, he said the mortgage valuation report had specific 
questions about trees and subsidence and the surveyor missed obvious signs of 
subsidence. He also said he now suspected the valuer had not attended the property 
because of what the previous owner of the property had said, along with comments made by 
Nationwide and the surveyors. 
As Mr H, on Mrs Gs, behalf didnt agree  the complaints been passed to me for a final 
decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has submitted a substantial amount of information in support of Mrs Gs complaint. I 
think its important to firstly explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. I say this as Im aware Ive summarised 
Mrs Gs complaint in considerably less detail than she and Mr H have. If Ive not reflected 
something thats been said during the course of the complaint in my decision its not 
because I didnt see it, its because I didnt consider it relevant to the crux of the complaint. 
This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to reflect my informal role in 
deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I dont think its necessary 
to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question raised unless I think its 
relevant to the crux of the complaint.
Im aware that Mrs Gs wider circumstances are extremely difficult and that finding that her 
home has been damaged by subsidence has come at an already stressful time. And Im 
sorry to hear what shes been through.
 
Im also aware that Mr H has made, on Mrs Gs behalf, a number of other complaints to 
other parties involved  including to the surveyor directly. But for the avoidance of doubt, this 
decision concerns only Nationwides actions in respect of the mortgage valuation report and 
Mrs Gs mortgage. 
Mrs Gs complaint is that Nationwide shouldnt have relied on the mortgage valuation report 
in order to decide whether to grant Mrs Gs mortgage application because the surveyor 
missed obvious signs of subsidence.  
Ive seen a copy of Mrs Gs mortgage application which she made via a broker. It wouldve 
been the brokers responsibility to discuss with Mrs G the different types of survey available. 
Its clear from the application a mortgage valuation was requested. So Im satisfied a 
mortgage valuation report was requested and thats the type of valuation Nationwide 
instructed.
It is up to individual mortgage lenders to decide whether to use an in-house or independent 
surveyor or something else. Im satisfied Nationwide used an independent surveyor who 
wasnt employed by it and was a member of the Royal Institute for Chartered Surveyors 
(RICS). 
The purpose of the survey was to allow Nationwide to decide if the property was a suitable 
security for lending purposes. It wasnt to highlight any issues that might have affected 
Mrs Gs decision to purchase it. 
Mrs G feels very strongly that the valuation missed obvious signs of subsidence which 
shouldve been highlighted at the time it was carried out. But Nationwide isnt responsible for 
the content of the mortgage valuation report as it was completed by an independent 
surveyor. So Ive considered whether it was reasonable  based on the circumstances at the 
time of Mrs Gs application  for Nationwide to have relied on the mortgage valuation report.
 
Mrs G and Mr H say the valuation was wrong. But as Ive said Im not considering the 
content of the report, in the sense that its not for me to make a decision about whether the 
surveyor was negligent or not. And nothing I say here should be taken as an inference or 
finding on what the surveyor did. Rather, Im considering whether a reasonable lender 
presented with the valuation report ought to have any concerns or there was anything in the 
report that was wrong or required clarification.In the circumstances, looking at the valuation report, I cant see any reason why Nationwide 
could not accept it at face value and consider it a sound basis on which to make its lending 
decision. As Ive said, it was entitled to rely on the opinion of a suitably qualified independent 
surveyor  and that is what it has done here. Im satisfied theres nothing in the report itself 
that meant Nationwide shouldnt have relied on it. Nor have I seen anything to suggest there 
was anything else Nationwide was aware of at the time, that meant it shouldve made further 
enquiries or done something differently. 
I can see theres some disagreement about whether the surveyor carried out an external or 
internal inspection (or indeed whether they visited the property in person at all)  I dont find 
this makes a difference to the outcome of Mrs Gs complaint. Nationwide had done what Id 
expect by instructing an independent surveyor to carry out the valuation. There was nothing 
in the information provided by the surveyor to Nationwide to suggest that he had not 
gathered enough information to complete the mortgage valuation report.
Mrs G feels Nationwide should not have agreed to provide her with a mortgage on this 
property. And that if they had refused to provide the mortgage, she wouldnt now be in the 
position of facing potential difficulties in selling the property. 
I understand why Mrs Gs now concerned about the future sale of the property because of 
the subsidence issues. But Ive seen nothing to suggest Mrs G relied on the mortgage 
valuation report in deciding whether to purchase the property. And in any event, this 
complaint is about any acts or omissions by Nationwide. It instructed an appropriate 
surveyor to carry out the valuation  I find it was entitled to rely on its contents in good faith 
when deciding whether to accept Mrs Gs mortgage application. 
While I understand this will come as disappointment to Mrs G and Mr H, Im satisfied 
Nationwide were entitled to rely on the mortgage valuation report. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is I dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Ombudsman