DRN-3112657
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage account Ms W holds with The Royal Bank of Scotland 
Plc (RBS). Ms W complains about irresponsible lending by RBS and says that the mortgage 
should never have been approved. Ms W also says that the valuation of the property was 
inflated to enable the loan to go through. To settle the complaint Ms W would like RBS to 
write off the debt.
Ms W has been assisted in bringing her complaint by family members, but for the sake of 
simplicity, I will refer to Ms W throughout.  
What happened
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of 
arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn. 
I note that on 1 June 2021 the investigator issued a very detailed letter which set out all the 
background events which led to the complaint being brought. Both parties have had a copy 
of that letter, so I dont need to repeat those details here. Im also conscious that our 
decisions are published, so its important not to include in this decision any information which 
might lead to Ms W being identified. 
For all these reasons, I will keep the background to the complaint brief, and limited to the 
mortgage taken out with RBS, rather than the wider issues raised by Ms W around other 
dealings with RBS, which Im unable to consider in the context of this complaint.
Briefly, what happened is that in June 2008 Ms W applied for a mortgage with RBS on a 
non-advised basis. At the time Ms W had an existing mortgage with a sub-prime lender for 
about £376,000. 
The total mortgage was for £447.249, made up of £375,999 to repay the existing mortgage 
and an additional £71,250. The mortgage was on an interest-only basis over a term of 15 
years, at a tracker rate of 1.29% above Bank of England Base Rate for the first two years, 
after which it reverted to RBSs Standard Variable Rate (SVR).
£70,000 of the amount borrowed was used to reduce commercial borrowing for a limited 
company, of which Ms W is a director.
The mortgage was maintained during the initial tracker rate period, but when this expired in 
2010 and the mortgage reverted to SVR, Ms W was unable to make the repayments. The 
primary reason for this is that the limited company from which Ms W derived her income was 
in difficulty. The company went into administration in 2011. A liquidator was appointed in 
2015, and was removed in 2020.
As a result, the mortgage fell into arrears. No repayments have been made since June 2017. 
As at July 2021, the arrears were approximately £81,000.
In November 2019 Ms W complained to RBS and to this service that the mortgage had been 
mis-sold. She said shed been pressurised into taking out the mortgage with the additional 
borrowing in order to reduce the companys debts. Ms W said that the bank hadnt given 
proper consideration to her ability to pay the mortgage and that the lending was 
irresponsible. Although the complaint had been raised outside the six-year and three-year 
time limits in our rules, RBS consented to us looking at the complaint.
The investigator wasnt persuaded that Ms W had been pressurised into taking out the 
mortgage. When this was initially discussed with RBS, Ms W didnt go ahead with it because 
shed have had a £20,000 early repayment charge (ERC) on her existing mortgage. It wasnt 
until several months later that Ms W discussed a remortgage with RBS again, by which time 
there would be no ERC.
The investigator was satisfied that the main part of the mortgage  the £376,000  hadnt 
been mis-sold. This replaced Ms Ws existing mortgage, and was at a lower rate than that 
mortgage, particularly when the Bank of England Base Rate dropped, reducing Ms Ws 
introductory tracker rate.
The investigator didnt think the valuation of £550,000 in June 2008 had been inflated. In 
fact, he noted that Ms W had marketed the property for £645,000 six months previously. So 
in relation to those two issues, the investigator didnt think RBS had done anything wrong.
However, in relation to the £70,000 which Ms W borrowed to pay into her business, the 
investigator had some concerns. He thought that the mortgage division at RBS hadnt done 
enough to verify the information provided by its commercial division about Ms Ws income 
and financial position. RBSs position was that it was entitled to rely on the information 
provided by its commercial division. But because the additional £70,000 was being used to 
reduce commercial debt, the investigator thought that this ought to have alerted RBS to 
question the information and make further enquiries.
Consequently, he thought RBS had acted irresponsibly by agreeing the £70,000 additional 
borrowing. He thought that the only benefit had been to RBSs commercial division, by 
having £70,000 of the limited companys debt paid off. He thought RBS should refund all 
interest paid by Ms W on the £70,000, and pay 8% p.a. simple interest on those payments. 
He also didnt think any further interest should be charged on the £70,000.
RBS agreed to do this.  The banks calculation was that Ms W had paid £19,905.58 towards 
this part of the loan. The interest calculation was £12,844.90, making a total of £32,750.48. 
The bank said that this could either be deducted from the £70,000 balance (reducing it to 
£37,249.62, or alternatively Ms W could have the refund paid to her, which would result in 
the £70,000 remaining static.
After discussing the offer with her family, Ms W asked for an ombudsmans decision. Ms W 
said that, although she agreed with the investigators outcome, she doesnt think that 
ultimately RBS should have sold her the mortgage.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill begin by saying that, having read and considered everything provided by Ms W, I can see 
that these events have had a considerable impact on her and her family. As I said at the 
outset, Im not going to go into detail about everything thats happened, in order to preserve 
Ms Ws anonymity. But I dont underestimate the effect on Ms W and her family of what has 
happened.
I note that a related complaint was brought to our service in relation to the banks handling of 
the limited companys accounts. That complaint has now been determined by an 
ombudsman.
When Ms W initially discussed re-mortgaging with RBS, she was still tied into a product on 
her existing mortgage which would have resulted in a substantial ERC. Ms W waited several 
months, until the ERC period had expired, before she applied for the re-mortgage. This 
doesnt suggest to me that RBS was putting Ms W under pressure to go ahead with the 
re-mortgage. 
The property was valued on behalf of RBS by an independent surveyor, that is, not a staff 
surveyor employed by the bank. The implications of this are that RBS is not responsible for 
the valuation. RBS was entitled to rely on the surveyors expert opinion on the value of the 
property. The valuation report shows that the surveyor thought the estimated value of the 
property (£580,000) was too high. He valued it at £550,000. This doesnt persuade me that 
the valuation was inflated in order for the bank to agree to the mortgage.
In relation to the main part of the mortgage of about £376,000, I dont find that this was 
mis-sold or that the lending for this was irresponsible. It replaced the amount of Ms Ws 
previous interest-only mortgage with a like-for-like amount, at a lower rate of interest on a 
tracker product than the follow-on rate Ms Ws mortgage had reverted to. The rate dropped 
even lower when the Bank of England base rate fell. In the circumstances, I find that Ms W 
benefitted from re-mortgaging to RBS to repay her existing mortgage.
I do agree, however, with the investigator that the additional £70,000 should not have been 
approved. I think it ought to have been apparent, given that the money was being borrowed 
to repay company debt, that further scrutiny should have been given to this part of the 
application. I am glad to note that RBS has acknowledged this, and that the bank has agreed 
to waive interest on this part of the mortgage, and to refund payments already made, plus 
interest.
I think this is a fair outcome. Although I understand Ms W will be disappointed, I dont think it 
would be right for the £70,000 (or any other part of the mortgage) to be written off, as it 
represented existing debt legitimately owed to RBS, albeit through the company of which 
Ms W is a director.
  
Putting things right
To settle the complaint, I require The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to do the following:reimburse all interest paid by Ms W on £70,000 of the mortgage;
pay interest at 8% p.a. simple on that sum*;
freeze interest on £70,000 of the mortgage.
*If RBS considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
any interest, it should tell Ms W how much it has taken off. RBS should also give Ms W a tax 
deduction certificate if requested, so the tax can be reclaimed from HM Revenue & Customs 
if appropriate.
Ms W can either opt for the interest reimbursement and 8% interest to be applied towards 
capital reduction of the £70,000 debt, or have it paid directly to her, in which case the debt 
will remain at £70,000. If Ms W accepts this decision, she can let us know which option she 
prefers when confirming her acceptance.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. To settle the complaint I require The 
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to put in place the redress set out above.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman