DRN-3207288
The complaint
Mrs W complains about the advice provided by Britannic Assurance Plc in 1990 to leave the 
NHS Pension Scheme and start a new personal pension plan instead. 
Britannic Assurance Plc was acquired by Phoenix Life Limited (Phoenix). For ease of 
reading, Ill refer only to Phoenix in my decision below.
What happened
Mrs W started student nurse training in 1990 and joined the NHS Pension Scheme. Shortly 
afterwards, she was advised by Phoenix to leave the NHS Pension Scheme and start a new 
personal pension plan instead. In 1996, she re-joined the NHS Pension Scheme.
In 1998, Phoenix reviewed the advice it provided to Mrs W in line with the requirements set 
down by the regulator for the industrywide pension review. The calculation completed at the 
time indicated that she hadnt suffered a loss of future retirement benefits and so no redress 
was due. Phoenix issued a letter to Mrs W at the time confirming the outcome of its review.
This complaint
In 2021, Mrs W complained about the advice in 1990 to leave the NHS Pension Scheme. 
She said that she believed the advice was wrong and will lead to her receiving reduced 
retirement benefits. As a result, shell need to remain in employed work beyond her 55th 
birthday, contrary to her retirement plans.
Phoenix didnt uphold Mrs Ws complaint. It stated that since it had previously reviewed the 
sale of her personal pension plan through the industrywide pension review process in 1998, 
it wasnt required to consider this again. It provided Mrs W a copy of its review outcome 
letter from 1998. 
Mrs W didnt accept Phoenixs response and so referred the matter to this service. Our 
investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. This was because he 
was satisfied that Phoenix had already considered the sale of Mrs Ws personal pension 
plan in 1998 based on the assumptions the regulator told them to use at the time. He 
confirmed that Phoenix was only required to carry out the review once and therefore didnt 
need to revisit its calculation from 1998 in response to Mrs Ws complaint.
Mrs W didnt accept our investigators assessment and provided additional comments in 
response. Essentially, she continued to believe she had suffered a financial loss in the form 
of reduced retirement benefits and that it was unfair the sale of her personal pension plan 
couldnt be re-reviewed. She requested that this complaint be referred to an ombudsman for 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 and the Dispute Resolution section in the FCAs handbook, I need to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, 
and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
I understand why Mrs W is unhappy with the advice provided by Phoenix in 1990 but Im 
unable to uphold her complaint. Ill explain why. 
In the 1990s, the then regulator, the Securities and Investment Board, set up the 
industrywide pension review following concerns about possible widespread mis-selling of 
personal pension plans between 1988 and 1994. The regulator set down the broad 
methodology that businesses who had sold personal pension plans were required to follow 
when carrying out the review. Where mis-selling was identified, the regulator set down the 
method and assumptions that businesses had to use to determine the level of any redress 
due. Many large providers, such as Phoenix, established their own in-house teams to carry 
out the review. The regulator had inspection teams that would visit businesses to ensure that 
the review was being carried out correctly.
In 1998, Mrs Ws personal pension plan was reviewed by Phoenix using the methodology 
set down by the regulator and the latest assumptions that had been published. This included 
assumptions about future investment returns and annuity rates when carrying out a loss 
calculation. Phoenix reviewed the advice provided to Mrs W and carried out a loss 
calculation. It found that she hadnt suffered a loss of future retirement benefits and so no 
redress was due. Although this service is not in a position to check the calculation, its 
important to note that calculations carried out by businesses, such as Phoenix, were subject 
to strict internal and external quality checks to ensure they were being carried out in line with 
the guidance. Where errors were found, the cases involved would be reworked and redress 
paid or increased if this was due. Therefore, on balance, Ive concluded that the no loss 
outcome in 1998 was correct and in line with the guidance at the time. Ive been not been 
presented with any evidence that suggests otherwise.
I can understand that Mrs W is disappointed with the pension benefits shes projected to 
receive. But theres no requirement for Phoenix to revisit the advice it provided. This is 
because the pension review was set up by the regulator as a one off exercise to draw a line 
under the advice given. Because of this, I dont consider it would be fair or reasonable for me 
to require Phoenix to revisit the advice it provided to Mrs W in 1990 or the pension review 
calculation it carried out in 1998  or to take any further action in response to this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2022. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman