DRN-1318288
 
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) has refused to cover the full 
cost of repairing his boiler under a home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S has a home emergency insurance policy. In February 2019 his boiler stopped working, 
so he called the insurer to arrange a repair. IPA sent an engineer to inspect it. The engineer 
said parts were required to repair the boiler, but IPA couldnt obtain the relevant parts as 
they had stopped being manufactured. So, it said the boiler was beyond economic repair 
(BER).
Mr S complained, saying he was able to obtain the parts via the internet. He asked whether 
IPA would cover the costs. Mr S says IPA told him it would cover the costs if he was able to 
get his own engineer to fit the parts.
Mr S sent IPA an invoice for £780 after the repairs were completed. However, IPA refused to 
cover this cost as it wasnt satisfied with the information Mr S provided about the company 
that had carried out the repair. It also considered the costs were excessive and hadnt been 
broken down. So, it offered Mr S £250 towards the cost on the grounds that the boiler was 
BER.
Mr S referred his complaint to our service but the investigator didnt uphold it. She thought it 
was reasonable for IPA to offer to consider the costs Mr S incurred in repairing the boiler. 
But ultimately she thought it was fair for IPA to determine the boiler was BER and make a 
payment of £250.
Mr S didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. I realise this will be a disappointment to Mr S, so Ill 
explain why.
Under the terms of Mr Ss policy, his boiler is covered as follows:
The insurer will appoint the required suppliers and will pay up to £2,000 per insured event, 
for call out, labour, parts, materials and VAT following an insured event which occurs during 
the period of insurance for a home emergency relating to the complete failure to function of 
the main heating system or boiler in your home
However, the following term also applies:
If, in the insurers opinion, your boiler is beyond economic repair, the insurer will contribute a 
maximum of £250 towards the cost of you replacing it with a new boiler. This can be claimed 
by providing a copy of the receipt for your replacement boiler
within 60 days of the call out.
Failure to replace your boiler will mean that cover under this section no longer applies.
Beyond economic repair is defined in the policy as follows:
When the cost of repairs exceeds the current economic repair value of your boiler, taking 
into consideration its age and condition, or where spare parts are not readily available.
Ive seen a copy of the engineers report; it said the boilers age was 20 years +. The report 
noted that two parts were required to repair it but that they could be obsolete. The engineer 
recommended replacement of the boiler due to its age. IPA informed Mr H that it couldnt 
source the parts because the manufacturer had stopped making them in 2002. Furthermore, 
it said because Mr Ss boiler was over 20 years old, it had a minimal value. For this reason, it 
said Mr Ss boiler was BER, meaning it could only offer £250 towards the cost of a new 
boiler.
Taking everything into account, I dont think it was unreasonable for IPA to determine the 
boiler was BER. This is due to a combination of its age and the fact parts hadnt been 
manufactured for around 18 years, so they werent readily available.
I understand Mr S was able to source parts from the internet; he told IPA hed had two 
quotes of £422 and £650 to repair it. Mr S says IPA told him it would reimburse him if he was 
able to get his own engineer to fit the parts. However, he says IPA went back on this 
promise after he provided the invoice.
Ive listened to the relevant call, but I dont think IPA told Mr S it would definitely reimburse 
him for the repair. It said if Mr S was able to get an engineer to fit the parts, it would consider 
reimbursing him. As IPA had already determined the boiler was BER, it didnt have to 
consider paying anything towards the repairs. The terms above actually say that it will only 
pay £250 towards the cost of a new boiler. So, by offering to consider reimbursing the costs, 
it was going beyond the scope of Mr Ss cover.
Ive seen a copy of the invoice Mr S sent IPA. Although it included a company name, it didnt 
include a gas safety register number. It also provided no breakdown as to the parts obtained 
and fitted, or the labour costs. IPA had concerns with this, particularly as Mr S had 
previously told them hed been quoted £422 and £650. It thought the cost was excessive 
based on the parts its engineer had said were required. It asked Mr S for further information, 
including proof of payment, but this wasnt forthcoming. So, IPA reverted to its previous 
position that the boiler was BER, but it paid Mr S £250 towards the cost of the repair.
Overall, I think the amount paid to Mr S in respect of this claim was fair. IPA had 
understandable concerns with the invoice and in any event, it wasnt required to pay 
anything towards the repairs under the terms of Mr Ss policy. So, by paying Mr S £250 
towards the cost of the repair, I think it has treated him fairly. For this reason, Im not asking 
IPA to do anything else to put things right.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2020.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman