DRN-3475586
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F have complained that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG (ERGO) unfairly 
assessed their claim for medical costs.
All references to ERGO include any agents acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F bought an annual multi trip insurance policy, underwritten by ERGO. Whilst 
abroad, Mrs F was taken to a private hospital by ambulance on 9 February 2020 and was 
admitted for treatment.
Mr F called ERGO on 10 and 11 February 2020 to inform it that Mrs F had been admitted to 
hospital with pneumonia. 
Mrs F was discharged on 16 February 2020. She submitted a claim to ERGO for a total of 
just over 8,000 Euros. ERGO settled the claim but only covered costs for the first 24 hours of 
Mrs Fs admission. It said treatment in private hospitals wasnt covered and Mrs F hadnt 
contacted the emergency assistance team to tell it about her hospitalisation. Had she done 
so, they would have informed her that she needed to be transferred to a public hospital.
Mr and Mrs F said when they contacted ERGO, they werent told they had to be moved. And 
ERGO also called and spoke to Mrs F twice via the hospital switchboard whilst she was in 
hospital. Mr and Mrs F said they werent informed at any point during their conversations 
with ERGO that Mrs F would need to be transferred to a public hospital.
Mr and Mrs F complained to ERGO. Although it apologised because its adviser didnt give 
correct information or transfer Mr and Mrs F to the emergency assistance department, it only 
paid for the first 24 hours of treatment. It said Mr F had called the incorrect number and 
should have called the emergency assistance number. Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs F 
referred their complaint to this Service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and found that ERGO didnt act reasonably as it 
failed to provide correct information or advice. And so she said it should pay Mr and Mrs Fs 
claim, with interest. 
ERGO disagreed as treatment in private hospitals isnt covered under the policy. And it said 
it has no record that Mr F called the correct number. 
And so the case has been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree that this complaint should be upheld. And largely for the same 
reasons as already explained by our investigator. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims promptly and 
fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy documents set out a list of useful telephone numbers for the customer services 
team and for 24-hour medical emergency support. 
On 10 February 2020 Mr F called 01403 288 410 which is the number for all claims.
On 11 February 2020 Mr F called 01604 210 845 which is the number for the customer 
services team if calling from outside the UK.
The policy says: If you have any questions about the cover provided please call our 
Customer Services Team
Mr F called the customer services department and Ive listened to this call. He said he didnt 
know what the process was to inform ERGO about Mrs Fs hospitalisation. He told the 
adviser the name of the hospital Mrs F was in and when she was admitted. 
The adviser didnt tell Mr F to call the medical assistance number. And didnt refer to the 
policy terms relating to Mrs Fs admission in a private hospital. I would expect ERGOs 
customer services agent to be able to provide accurate information and clear guidance if a 
customer calls to log a claim and inform it of a hospital admission. In addition, the adviser 
failed to give Mr F the number for the emergency assistance team and so as far as he was 
concerned, ERGO had been made aware of Mrs Fs hospitalisation. 
Mr and Mrs F werent advised that Mrs F needed to be moved to a public hospital at any 
point. Had ERGOs agent advised them of this, I cant see any reason why Mr and Mrs F 
wouldnt have followed that advice. And so Mrs F wouldnt have incurred the costs in the 
private hospital. In addition, Mrs F says ERGO called her via the hospital switchboard twice 
to ask when she would be discharged. This was another opportunity for ERGO to provide 
advice and guidance for Mrs F to move to a public hospital. 
ERGO said had their emergency assistance number been called and informed, a file would 
have been opened and this would have been followed up with an email. As the customer 
services team were in possession of Mrs Fs admission, it should have passed this 
information to the emergency assistance department.  
In its response to the complaint, ERGO accepts that its adviser should have transferred the 
call to the emergency helpline or provided Mr F with the correct number. There is also an 
internal email from the underwriting department which confirms that Mrs F is in hospital 
abroad and should call the emergency helpline. I havent seen any evidence that the adviser 
acted on this or passed this information on to Mr and Mrs F. The adviser could have called 
Mr or Mrs F at this point or referred directly to the emergency assistance team for them to 
make contact with Mr and Mrs F. This didnt happen and so Mr and Mrs F werent aware of 
what they had to do. 
I dont think ERGO has acted fairly by limiting the claim to the first 24 hours as it failed to 
give appropriate advice and guidance when it spoke to both Mr and Mrs F on a number of 
occasions during Mrs Fs hospitalisation. 
ERGO says had they called the emergency assistance number, they would have been 
advised that they had no cover for private treatment and would have advised them to move 
to a public hospital. For this reason, it has limited payment of costs to the first 24 hours only. But I dont think ERGO did enough to help Mr and Mrs F when they called. Had they been 
given proper information, I think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs F would have 
followed advice. Their claim would have been covered and they wouldnt have incurred the 
costs that they did at the private hospital. Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs F contacted ERGO 
and provided all the relevant information for it to act on. And so, I think the fair and 
reasonable outcome is for ERGO to accept and pay Mr and Mrs Fs claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and direct ERGO Reiseversicherung 
AG to pay Mr and Mrs Fs claim. It should also pay 8% simple interest from the date the 
claim was partially settled to the date payment is made.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman