DRN-3993157
The complaint
Mr J says Clear Financial Service (UK) Limited (CFS) was negligent in the services provided 
and the arrangements made when he tried to access benefits from his personal pension. He 
says this happened at a very difficult time for him personally, adding to his stress and worry. 
He says CFSs failings have also caused him financial detriment.
At the relevant time CFS was an Appointed Representative of Quilter Financial Services Ltd 
(QFS). As the principal firm, QFS is responsible for any acts and omissions of its agent. So, 
to keep things simple Ill just refer to it in this decision.
What happened
Mr J contacted QFS on 10 March 2022. Hed recently separated from his wife and needed 
money for accommodation, legal fees, and furniture. He wanted to access benefits from his 
Prudential Retirement Account. QFS says its adviser discussed his options for taking 
benefits from his pension and the most tax-efficient way to do this was to access tax-free 
cash (TFC). Mr J says he wasnt informed about any other options for taking his pension 
benefits or the different tax implications of these. It is a matter of fact Mr J ended up taking 
£10,000 TFC from his pension pot following this initial engagement.
After receiving the £10,000, Mr J realised he needed further funds and requested QFS to 
action a further withdrawal of TFC of £20,000 on 16 March 2022. Theres agreement he put 
the request on pause while he firmed up how much money he required. QFS says that 
despite several calls he couldnt make up his mind what to do. Mr J says that the pause was 
for a couple of days after which he instructed it to proceed, but after chasing progress was 
informed by his adviser hed forgotten to execute the transaction.
Its agreed that the request for a second tranche of TFC was progressed on 1 April 2022. 
QFS also accepts that it was at this point its advisor made a mistake, which is at the heart of 
much of Mr Js complaint. Instead of applying for TFC, QFS keyed a request to his pension 
provider to access an uncrystallised funds pension lump sum (UFPLS) of £80,000. This error 
had the effect of Mr J receiving £54,725  the £20,000 TFC and the balance in taxable 
income.
Mr J says the first time he realised there was a problem was when he reviewed his bank 
account and found the unexpectedly large credit. He cant recall the exact date but says it 
wouldve been on or shortly after 7 April 2022. He contacted QFS upon discovery, which he 
says was unable to explain what had happened. He asked about reversing the transaction 
and says it told him this would entail returning all the cash, including the £10,000 hed 
received earlier in March 2022. He also says the adviser maintained the payment was tax-
free.
QFS says as soon as Mr J made contact about what had happened, its adviser realised the 
error and visited Mr J to explain in detail what had gone wrong and the implications, 
including on taxation. It says it didnt tell Mr J the whole payment was tax-free. It says it had 
made contact with Prudential immediately as soon as it found out about the payment and 
received confirmation the transaction could be reversed and the tax impact unwound if the 
payment of £54,725 was returned. Prudential made clear that the process could take up to 
ten working days to complete. It says it made all this clear to Mr J.
Shortly after receiving the UFPLS, Mr J was placed on an emergency tax code by HM 
Revenue & Customs (HMRC). He says this was the first time he realised the payment of 
£54,725 hadnt been tax-free. He says he contacted Prudential and it confirmed he could 
return the recent payment if it had been made in error. 
Mr J says he contacted QFS again and the adviser visited him at home. He thinks this was 
around 25 April 2022. He says he was told the payment couldnt be reversed in isolation and 
that the sum had been tax-free. Mr J says he called HMRC at the time so the adviser could 
hear HMRC confirm the payment was taxable.
Mr J says around this time he lost faith in QFS. With the help of his sister who was a 
solicitor, he sought the advice of Money Helper. It suggested he sought written confirmation 
from Prudential that the UFPLS could be reversed and that he should seek advice from an 
accountant. 
QFS says that the involvement of Mr Js sister and the proposal to approach an accountant 
had the potential to complicate and delay matters with Prudential. Its adviser denies Mr Js 
assertion that in communicating its view here that its tone was aggressive.
On 26 April 2022, Mr J wrote to his adviser to request he inform Prudential the £54,725 had 
been withdrawn in error and request it to confirm in writing it would reverse the withdrawal. 
On 27 April 2022, QFS followed his instructions. The payment and associated tax was 
repaid to his retirement account on 19 May 2022.
Mr J raised a complaint with QFS on 28 May 2022 about what had happened. He 
summarised his position in the following terms:
There has been a catalogue of errors, negligence, and unprofessional behaviour from 
[your adviser]. In summary:
-his advice was negligent right from the beginning;
-his management of the withdrawals was negligent;
-his advice after the erroneous withdrawal had been made was negligent;
-he failed to proactively seek to resolve matters and when I sought to do so gave 
further negligent advice;
-he failed to provide me with the documents I requested;
-he acted unprofessionally in seeking to deter me from seeking further help and 
advice which might bring to light what he had done;
-he failed to explain to me directly what he had done, and I had to discover this 
myself;
-he failed to apologise to me; and
-he gave further negligent advice after the reversal was made.
Mr J wanted redress to include a refund of fees for the period March-May 2022; 
reimbursement of the CHAPS fee for UFPLS transaction; compensation for his time and 
costs in getting things sorted out; and £5,000 in recognition of the trouble and upset hed 
been caused.
QFS responded to Mr Js complaint, partially upholding his case in the following terms:We would again like to unreservedly apologise for the concern and inconvenience, which 
this matter has caused you. We do fully appreciate and understand that the error 
exacerbated what was already an extremely stressful time for you and rather than alleviate 
the stress, it compounded the issue.
Whilst we do believe that [our adviser] acted in good faith, did his best to assist you and 
took ownership of the error, we do acknowledge that you incurred added stress and 
unforeseen financial costs as a result of it. As such, we are upholding this part of your 
complaint.
In respect of the financial loss, you believe that you have incurred, we have contacted 
Prudential directly to ask for confirmation of this. This loss is currently being calculated by 
their Actuary Team and due to the complexity of the calculation, they have been unable to 
complete it prior to us issuing this "Final Decision Letter".
As such, once in receipt of this information, we will contact you again and confirm whether 
or not you have in fact been financially disadvantaged as a result of the error and pay any 
redress due to you. This will ensure that you are placed back into the position you would 
have been in had the error not occurred.
For clarity, we have asked for Prudential to carry out this calculation between the date the 
incorrect transaction was processed and the date the funds, both the net lump sum and 
reclaimed tax, were received back in your account.
In respect of the ongoing adviser charges [our adviser] has been paid between March to 
May 2022, we do not believe that it would be fair or appropriate for these to be returned. 
These fees cover the ongoing servicing and reviews you receive from him and so whilst we 
accept that he made an error, we do not believe that they should be returned.
Regarding the CHAPS payment you incurred as a result of returning the funds, thank you 
for providing us with evidence of this. We can confirm that we intend to return the £20.00. 
We also wish to offer £500.00 for the trouble and upset, which this matter may have caused 
you
Mr J wasnt satisfied with QFSs response. He brought his case to this Service and reiterated 
the detail of his complaint points.
An Investigator considered Mr Js complaint and upheld it. He noted the difficulty of drawing 
conclusions from contested testimony with limited evidence available from the time of the 
advice. But he concluded QFS needed to do more to put things right. He recommended an 
increased award for distress and inconvenience. He also proposed an alternative method for 
calculating financial loss to that used by the firm.
QFS disagree with the Investigator. For example, it didnt think the communication from 
Prudential to its adviser on 2 April 2022 shouldve put him on notice that thered been an 
error. And it disagreed with the proposed approach to assessing Mr Js loss on investment 
related to the incorrect UFPLS transaction.
As both parties couldnt agree with the Investigators findings and conclusions, Mr Js 
complaint has been passed to me to review afresh and to provide a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Where theres conflicting information about the events complained about and gaps in what 
we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of 
probabilities, whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Js complaint. Ill explain why.
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by QFS for Mr J. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, 
which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA 
Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms. As such, I need to 
have regard to them in deciding Mr Js complaint.
I should note at this point the difference between the parties about what happened during 
their period of engagement between March 2022 and May 2022 is significant. Unfortunately 
the contemporaneous evidence provided to this Service about the events complained about 
is rather thin. I am sure both Mr J and QFS are as frustrated about this as I am. 
That said, given the nature of the transactions taking place, Im surprised that QFS has been 
unable to provide a better record of the information and guidance it was providing to Mr J. 
For example, its adviser says he informed him about all the options for and associated 
implications of taking benefits from his pension. It hasnt produced any documentation to 
support its position. This is a weakness.
Theres little value in my rehearsing every difference between Mr J and QFS concerning 
events in 2022, where all I have is diametrically opposed versions of events, I cant know 
what was actually said and done. Nevertheless, there is sufficient agreement about the key 
issue  QFSs error in handling Mr Js second request to access benefits from his pension - 
and enough evidence from the time of the events to enable me to arrive at what I think is a 
fair and reasonable consideration.
Regarding Mr Js complaint that at no point during the period March 2022  May 2022 did 
QFS inform him about the different options and implications of taking benefits from his 
pension, given what we know about his circumstances and objectives, I agree in broad terms 
with what the Investigator found:
Accessing tax-free cash is the most tax-efficient way of withdrawing money from a pension 
and this is in line with what Mr J requested when he first approached [QFS]. I therefore 
believe Mr J wouldve made a tax-free cash withdrawal regardless of whether he was 
presented with all his options. I cant say Mr J has been disadvantaged, as the £10,000 tax-
free cash withdrawal was the most appropriate option for him at the time.QFS accepts its adviser made an error in executing the second request from Mr J to access 
his pension benefits. While there was to and from between the parties prior to this which 
caused some delay to the transaction, and dispute about who was responsible for the bulk of 
this, the Investigator concluded:
The evidence does show Prudential sent Mr Js adviser an email on 2 April 2022 informing 
him the request for £80,000 had been processed. This means [QFSs adviser] shouldve 
been aware of his error at this point and he has confirmed he was aware of this issue when 
he spoke with Mr J shortly after the funds were received.
[QFSs adviser] didnt meet with Mr J for three weeks after the funds had been paid and 
didnt begin attempting to rectify the issue until he emailed Prudential on 27 April 2022. I 
believe this is a long time to wait before trying to reverse the withdrawal and, given Mr Js 
personal and financial circumstances at the time, shouldve been completed as a matter of 
urgency.
Instead, it appears Mr J had to gather information himself from various sources about how 
to reverse the transaction. The emails dated 26 April 2022 suggest Mr J was providing 
[QFSs adviser] with all the information about what he needed to do to reverse the 
transaction. I dont think it is reasonable to expect Mr J to rectify [QFSs] mistake.
QFS responded to the Investigator saying:
We do not agree with this assessment. Whilst Prudential sent an email confirming the 
request for £80,000 had been processed, it is logical that [our adviser] would have 
understood this to mean that the crystallisation event (i.e. crystallising £80k in order to 
received £20k of TFC) had been processed. We therefore remain of the view that [our 
adviser] only became aware of his error once the client was in receipt of the funds.
I disagree with QFS here. The message its adviser received from Prudential on 2 April 2022 
said (bolding is my emphasis):
We just wanted to update you on your recent submission for this client.
We've now processed your money out request - Money Out Single UFPLS - £80000.00.
We know it's important for your client to know when to expect this money in their bank 
account. We'll always pay this as soon as possible but please refer to the information below, 
which outlines the latest date your client will have to wait before they receive this 
payment in their account.
Single UFPLS: 14/4/2022
This was clearly an opportunity for QFSs adviser to have identified hed executed an 
uncrystallised funds pension lump sum (UFPLS) and not just access to further TFC. Its 
reasonable to have expected a qualified professional to have picked up on this. Instead 
theres no evidence of his engagement to put things right until 26 April 2022.
We know the incorrect transaction was ultimately reversed. And Mr J later took out a further 
£10,000 TFC on 27 May 2022, after hed parted ways with QFS. I think this shows hed 
wanted to access more money from his pension, but the problems experienced with the 
incorrect UFPLS instruction meant there was a delay in him accessing the funds he required. 
So, I think its reasonable for redress to reflect this matter.
In carrying out an investment loss calculation for QFS, Prudential identified the period of 4 
April until 19 May as being the period when Mr Js funds were out of the market due to the 
incorrect UFPLS transaction. And it based the calculation on the £80,000 withdrawal.So, because Ive concluded Mr J shouldve had access to his second chunk of TFC for 
£10,000 from 4 April, it follows the investment loss calculation originally performed by 
Prudential isnt quite right, through no fault of its own of course. And thats as the 
Investigator provided for in his view.
Putting things right
Im upholding Mr Js complaint. Quilter Financial Services Ltd needs to put him back into the 
position hed have been in now, or as close as reasonably possible, had it not been for the 
things it got wrong.
So, I require Quilter Financial Services Ltd compensate Mr J for:
- The loss of use of the second tranche of his TFC of £10,000. It should pay him 8% 
simple annual interest on this sum for the period between 4 April 2022 when he 
shouldve received the funds, and 27 May 2022 when he did.
- The investment loss on the residual £70,000 that was moved from his pension fund 
in error and was out of the market between 4 April 2022 and 19 May 2022.
- The £20 CHAPS fee as already related to the UPFLS as already agreed.
When Im considering a complaint like Mr Js I think about whether its fair to award 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. This isnt intended to fine or punish a 
business  which is the job of the regulator. But when somethings gone wrong, recognition 
of the emotional and practical impact can make a real difference.
Were all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives  and in our dealings with other 
people, businesses and organisations. When thinking about compensation, I need to decide 
that the impact of a firms actions was greater than just a minor inconvenience or upset. Its 
clear to me that this was the case here.
Mr J was going through difficult times when he engaged Quilter Financial Services Ltd. It 
made a serious error when trying to help him access benefits from his pension. This 
compounded the stress he was experiencing. And I note that the ramifications, for example 
in relation to sorting out his tax position with HMRC have been ongoing. It should therefore 
pay him £750 for the distress and inconvenience it has caused him.
Mr J requested a refund of adviser fees between March 2022 and May 2022. Since our 
approach is to return him to the position hed have been in had there been no failings by 
Quilter Financial Services Ltd, Im satisfied my other provisions do this. I also recognise that 
while the adviser made a serious error, he did nonetheless still provide a service for Mr J.
Mr J also requested that his costs for phone calls and professional advice be met. As the 
Investigator noted, he hasnt evidenced these costs above and beyond what he was already 
paying for. And since he didnt need to engage legal or accountancy services to resolve his 
complaint through this Service, which is provided for free, these are not expenses I will be 
asking Quilter Financial Services Ltd to reimburse.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Js complaint. I now require Quilter 
Financial Services Ltd to put matters right in the way Ive directed. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2023. Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman