DRN-3326295
The complaint
Mr B complains about how U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line Car Insurance (UKI) 
recorded two enquiries he made about possible claims and a compensation payment.
What happened
Mr B had motor insurance underwritten by UKI. His vehicle was vandalised twice, and he 
contacted UKI to see if he could make a claim under his policy. It turned out that the repairs 
cost less than the excess on the policy, so Mr B didnt actually make a claim.
UKI recorded the enquiries on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange database (CUE). 
CUE is a database of motor, home, personal injury and travel insurance claims/incidents. 
Most insurers are signed up to CUE, and they will make a record of any incident they are 
made aware of whether it leads to a claim or not. Insurers can view the information on CUE 
when considering offering a policy to a consumer. 
When Mr B was shopping around for motor insurance around the time of his policy renewal, 
he says quotes from other insurers were significantly higher than his previous policy with 
UKI. He says when he enquired about this he was told it was because there was an open 
claim recorded against his name on CUE.
Mr B contacted UKI who agreed the claim should have been recorded as closed. UKI said 
it would ensure the information on CUE was correct and paid Mr B £150 compensation. 
However Mr B says when he came to shop around again at renewal time, quotes from other 
insurers were still significantly higher, and he was again told that was because of the 
information on CUE. Mr B says he was told the £150 compensation was recorded as a 
claim. Mr B says because quotes from other insurers were so much higher than UKI, he was 
forced to stay with UKI even though he would have preferred not to because of the way hed 
been treated.
Mr B complained to UKI. UKI said everything was correctly recorded on CUE, and the 
information from CUE had not made any difference to his renewal premiums.
Mr B wasnt happy with this and complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold his 
complaint. He said that while Mr B thinks UKI should ensure the £150 payment was 
recorded as compensation or other rather than a claim, not all insurers have the ability to 
do this on CUE.
Mr B wasnt happy with this response so his complaint has been passed to me. Mr B says 
hes had to spend a significant amount of time shopping around for insurance, but was in the 
end forced to stay with UKI because the other quotes were so high due to the CUE entries. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
UKI and Mr B have both sent copies of the entries from CUE to this service. The entries 
show the two vandalism incidents and the compensation as notification only. The £150 
compensation is shown. As the entries are shown as notification only this should alert other 
insurers that these werent actual claims. UKI has confirmed that the claims werent recorded 
on Mr Bs renewals with it and that he still retains his no claims discount.
Different insurers treat the information on CUE differently when deciding whether to offer 
insurance to a consumer and at what price. UKI has no control over this. UKI does have a 
responsibility to ensure that the information recorded on CUE is correct to the best of its 
knowledge and ability, and it has done so.
UKI has provided Mr B with letters confirming the circumstances of the two enquiries about 
the vandalism and the compensation which he can show to other insurers if necessary.
UKI did initially leave the notification of the vandalism incidents as open events on CUE. 
However UKI corrected this when Mr B asked it to and paid him £150 compensation. I think 
this was a fair and reasonable resolution.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. So I wont be asking U K 
Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line Car Insurance to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman