DRN-3678673
The complaint
Mrs V complains that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) hasnt handled a claim she 
made on her Breakdown Care Insurance policy correctly.
What happened
Mrs V contacted D&G to report a fault with her vacuum cleaner. Mrs V says that during this 
call she was told there was no engineer available locally to inspect her vacuum cleaner. She 
was told someone could collect the vacuum cleaner for inspection or she could arrange an 
inspection/repair herself.
However, Mrs V says she cant be without her vacuum cleaner and she really struggled to 
arrange a repair herself. She said she tried, but she was being passed around on calls and 
not making any headway. She said that as an elderly lady with a number of medical issues 
she was finding this part of the claims process really difficult, and she just wanted D&G to 
replace the vacuum cleaner. I note that Mrs V now says she has another vacuum cleaner. 
But D&G said it couldnt just replace the vacuum cleaner. It said the vacuum needed to be 
inspected and a repair attempted first. D&G said if Mrs V was unhappy with this then she 
could complain. 
So, Mrs V did complain. D&G investigated Mrs Vs complaint and didnt uphold it. It said 
there was a claims process in place, and it had to be followed. It said this option was still 
open to Mrs V. 
Mrs V didnt agree and brought his complaint to our service. An investigator reviewed the 
complaint and said that D&G hadnt done anything wrong.
As Mrs V didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy covers breakdown and accidental damage. It says if the vacuum suffers a 
breakdown or accidental damage, D&G will arrange a repair, arrange a replacement or 
cover the cost of replacing your product in vouchers. The policy also says If we approve a 
repair but are unable to find an approved repairer, well permit you to use your chosen 
repairer. You will have to pay them and claim the cost back from us. Please keep a copy of 
your invoice to send to us.
Mrs V called D&G and said her hand-held vacuum was losing its charge and wasnt working 
properly. D&G said it had no engineer locally to assess the vacuum, so it asked Mrs V to 
arrange what it called a pay and claim. This is where Mrs V sources and instructs a local 
engineer to repair the vacuum. D&G said it would reimburse Mrs V up to £200 for the cost of 
repair. 
Its clear from the call that Mrs V was struggling with this. When she calls D&G again, she 
says shes been on hold, cut off and passed around. Shes finding it very stressful and feels 
she shouldnt have to arrange a repair. She just wants D&G to replace the vacuum. 
The agent tries to explain to Mrs V what the policy covers. He tells Mrs V that its repair only 
and replacement only happens if after an inspection the vacuum is deemed unrepairable. 
The agent suggests that D&G could pick up the vacuum and take it away for assessment 
and possible repair. But Mrs V is reluctant to do this. She said she has medical issues and 
having a working vacuum was essential to her and her medical condition. She also says that 
she cant afford to pay and claim. She says £200 is a lot of money for her as a pensioner to 
pay upfront and as she has cover; she shouldnt have to pay this out. 
I appreciate why Mrs V is unhappy here. In short, her appliance has failed, and it needs to 
be assessed for repair. And she has a policy to cover repair. But Mrs Vs expectations for 
this policy seem quite high and she says D&G should replace the vacuum, pay her the 
money and refund her insurance premiums. Mrs V has jumped straight to replacement 
without exploring all the other options first. 
So, lets look at what D&G offered. There was no engineer local to Mrs V.  And from listening 
to the call I note that D&G explored the option of collecting the vacuum and taking it away for 
inspection. During the call Mrs V asks how long this would take and the agent suggests 
about a week. But Mrs V doesnt want this she says she cant be without a vacuum, and she 
just wants D&G to replace the vacuum. The next step discussed was to initiate pay and 
claim. But Mrs V said she wasnt happy with this as this would mean paying money up front, 
money she says she doesnt have. 
I know Mrs V didnt want to be without a vacuum, and this seems understandable given her 
medical condition. But the likelihood is that no matter which option was available, Mrs V was 
always going to have her vacuum taken away for repair or replacement. Its more likely than 
not there was going to be a short period where Mrs V was going to be without a vacuum. So, 
in that context, and looking at the options D&G offered  and are still offering - I think what 
its doing is enough. D&G says Mrs V can still instruct her own engineer and submit a claim 
via its pay and claim option. Or D&G says it will still book the vacuum in for a repair, which 
would mean I assume that it will collect the vacuum and assess it as per its offer in the 
telephone call. Either way D&G are still open to dealing with this claim as set out in its policy 
terms and conditions. 
So, taking everything into account Im satisfied that D&G is doing enough to resolve the 
issue. I know Mrs V will be disappointed with this outcome. But on the basis of what Ive 
seen I wont be asking D&G to replace Mrs Vs vacuum. What I would suggest, now that Mrs 
V has another vacuum, is that Mrs V makes the broken vacuum cleaner available for 
inspection so that  D&G can now deal with this claim under its policy terms and conditions. 
As such Im satisfied D&G has dealt with everything appropriately and Id ask it to now 
contact Mrs V to see whether shes willing to pay and claim or whether she will make the 
vacuum available for an inspection. Its up to Mrs V which of these options she chooses to 
progress this claim.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman