DRN-3157770
The complaint
Mr S complains about Lowell Financial Ltd (Lowell) for the way it has continued to report to 
his credit file debts which he will not be able to repay. He wants Lowell to report these as 
settled, rather than partially settled. 
What happened
In 2016, Mr S was defrauded and lost a significant amount of money. He fell into debt and 
became unwell, suffering anxiety and depression. 
He accrued debt with two businesses for around £5,500 and £32,000 respectively. These 
businesses registered defaults against Mr S in late 2017 and early 2018. 
The two businesses transferred the debt to Lowell around autumn 2019. Lowell then began 
to contact Mr S to ask him to repay the debts. 
Mr S contacted Lowell and explained his circumstances, including that he was continuing 
with legal action relating to the fraud. 
In mid-2020, Lowell agreed to close the debt accounts as it accepted that Mr S was not able 
to repay the debts. 
Lowell reported this to credit reference agencies as the debts having been partially settled. 
Mr S complained to Lowell. He advised that the reporting is making it harder for him to get 
housing and he thinks that the reporting should show that the debt has been fully settled. 
Lowell sent its final response rejecting Mr Ss complaint. It stated that to report the debts as 
fully satisfied would be misleading. 
Mr S was not happy with this and contacted us. 
One of our investigators has looked into this matter and set out their view to the parties. This 
was that Lowell was correct to close the accounts and to write off the debt. The investigator 
set out the relevant guidance and concluded that whilst this is not prescriptive about what 
should be reported to credit reference agencies, in their view it would be fair and reasonable 
to report the debts as being fully satisfied. 
Lowell did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. It appears, however, 
that Lowell may have subsequently updated its reporting as searches Mr S has conducted 
show the debt as satisfied. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have read the view of my colleague and I agree with it. As Lowell sets out there are not 
prescriptive rule as to how a written off debt ought to be reported, beyond that the defaults 
should remain on a credit report for 6 years. 
In such circumstances, it is appropriate to consider whether it is fair and reasonable to report 
the debt as partially satisfied rather than fully satisfied. 
Mr S has set out the very particular circumstances he has suffered, and the effects that the 
ongoing difficulties he faces have caused. He has explained that the records on his credit file 
cause particular anxiety and that he faces ongoing difficulty securing housing due to these. 
I understand and appreciate Lowells position that it must provide accurate information to 
credit reference agencies, and that it does not wish to create precedent that debt can be 
recorded as satisfied when it has not been paid. 
In these circumstances, however, I do not think that recording the debt as fully satisfied, 
rather than partially satisfied, would be misleading or create an unfairness. I agree that 
Lowell is obliged to continue reporting the debt, but I agree with my colleagues view that in 
these circumstances it is fair and reasonable to record these debts as fully satisfied. 
Putting things right
As my colleague explained, in order to put this matter right, Lowell must report Mr Ss written 
off debts as being fully satisfied. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold Mr Ss complaint and direct Lowell Financial Ltd to 
ensure that it reports Mr Ss debts as fully satisfied. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman