DRN-3951687
The complaint
Mr L complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with
STARTLINE MOTOR FINANCE LIMITED (Startline).
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in early January 2023. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
Mr L took receipt of a used car in June 2021. The car was about six years old and had
already completed about 100,000 miles.
Later that month Mr L complained to the dealership about an engine management light
issue. A quote to replace the Exhaust Gas Recirculation (EGR) valve was generated but the
work wasnt completed as Mr L had the fault code removed and it didnt reoccur.
In August 2021 Mr L says the car broke down. His text message to the dealership explained
that a parking sensor wasnt working and there were engine issues. He explained that the
engine was shaking and noisy and expressed his disappointment this had happened within
about two months of ownership.
The credit broker arranged for an independent inspection of the car and that took place, after
some delay, in January 2022. The inspector was asked to look at an engine management
light issue and the fact that the engine rattled and was shaking. The engineer noted there
was a knocking from the engine. He didnt investigate any further as he explained the engine
would need stripping to investigate the cause, but he did suggest the car was unlikely to
have been experiencing the fault when it was supplied to Mr L. He said that was because it
had passed its MOT shortly beforehand, and because he would expect a fault of that nature
to have become apparent after the car had driven about 1,000 to 1,500 miles and the car
had completed about 3,000.
Starline didnt therefore uphold Mr Ls complaint and he referred it to this service. Our
investigator thought there was evidence Mr L had been experiencing issues with the car very
soon after hed taken receipt of it. She was persuaded those issues were therefore
developing at the point of supply. She suggested Startline should repair the car after 
completing a manufacturers recall on the EGR valve. She noted Mr L had incurred some 
costs as a consequence of the car failing and thought Startline should refund them and that 
they should refund Mr Ls finance instalments for the period hed been unable to use the 
vehicle.
Startline didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, for a final
decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators view that Startline are responsible for repairing the car, but I
dont think the redress suggested is sufficient. Im expecting to tell Startline to take additional
action.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr L acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Startline, who are also the
supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant
circumstances.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr L. The car here was already
about six years old and had covered an appreciable mileage. So, I think a reasonable
person would expect it to be experiencing quite a bit of wear and tear, but I dont think theyd
expect what appear to be significant issues, to develop with the engine after only a couple of
months of driving.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to
assume it was present at the point of supply, when Startline were responsible for its quality,
unless they can demonstrate otherwise.
Startline have relied on the independent inspectors comments to dispute that assumption
but I dont find the inspectors comments persuasive.
I say that because I dont think the inspector took account of the fact the issue with the car
was first reported in August, only a couple of months after Mr L had taken receipt of the
vehicle. I think that makes it much more likely that the car was developing the fault it
currently has, from the onset of the agreement. Im supported in that view as I can see a
quote for a replacement EGR valve was generated after Mr L had been in possession of the
car for only a few days. 
Whilst its clear that the dealership were prepared to take a look at the car when the EGR 
valve problem presented itself, that wasnt feasible for Mr L as he lived hundreds of miles 
away. The garage he took it to cleared the fault code and, as it didnt reoccur, a repair was 
never completed. Ive thought about whether that was negligent of Mr L and whether he can 
reasonably be considered to have contributed to the eventual failure of the engine because 
he didnt get this early issue resolved. Mr L has explained he isnt a mechanic and I think its 
reasonable for him to rely on the guidance given by the garage he took the car to. That 
guidance was to come back if the fault reoccurred and I dont therefore think Mr L did 
anything wrong when taking that advice.
So, I think there is evidence this car was developing a fault when it was supplied to Mr L andthat it was therefore of unsatisfactory quality.
Putting things right
The relevant legislation gives the business one opportunity to fix a fault that is present at the
point of supply. So Starline should arrange to have the fault fixed.
Our investigator said that should be done after Startline had arranged for the manufacturers
recall on the EGR valve to be completed. It seems the EGR recall is safety related and I
think it unlikely it will reverse the fault that the car is experiencing. But it seems sensible to
complete the manufacturers recall as well, as part of any necessary repairs.
Our investigator didnt think Startline had been advised of an issue with the parking sensors
that Mr L says he raised. I can see he mentioned that the parking sensors werent working
when he initially texted the dealership. He also mentioned the parking sensor issue when he
wrote to Startline, setting out the problems he had with the car, in February 2022. Ive
explained that the onus is on Startline to demonstrate faults reported in the first six months
were not present from the onset and I dont think theyve been able to do that in relation to
the parking sensor either; so that will also need to be repaired for Mr L.
Mr L says he broke down on the 16 August 2021 and the car was subsequently removed by
the broker and stored pending an inspection. Its not therefore been used by Mr L since 16
August 2021 and its unfair for him to be paying any finance instalments for it. I cant see that
a courtesy car has been provided. Startline should refund all instalments paid by Mr L since
16 August 2021 and waive any that were due but havent been paid. Theyll need to add
interest to any refund.
The car was stored whilst waiting for an inspection to take place. As Im upholding Mr Ls
complaint I would add for clarity, that Mr L should not be held accountable for any storage
costs.
Mr L has explained that there have been some costs hes had to pay as a consequence of
the car breaking down. Hes provided evidence that he has continued to pay road tax at
£11.37 per month and car insurance at £178.57 per month. The terms of Mr Ls agreement
with Startline obliged him to keep the car taxed and insured and as hes not had possession
of the car I think these expenses should be refunded by Startline for any full month since 16
August 2021 and until the complaint is settled. Startline will need to add interest to the refund
as Mr L has been deprived of that money.
Mr L has also explained that hes had to pay transport costs to get to and from hospital, to
complete school runs, and to get to work. But as Im asking Startline to refund any finance
instalments paid whilst Mr L was off the road it wouldnt be fair to ask them to compensate
him for any transport costs as well. 
An MOT was completed on the car before it was provided to Mr L. Hes explained that the 
MOT has run out whilst the car has been off the road, but I dont think it would be fair to ask 
Startline to fund a new MOT. That cost was always Mr Ls and is unrelated to any fault that 
was present with the car when supplied.
Mr L has experienced distress and inconvenience as a result of these issues. Our
investigator suggested Startline should pay Mr L £200 in compensation, but I dont think
thats sufficient. Mr L has had to wait well over a year for his complaint to be resolved and I
think Startline could have resolved it earlier for him. There was a significant delay before an
inspection was arranged and there have been further lengthy delays waiting for responses
from Startline whilst the complaint has been with our service. In the meantime, Mr L has had
to make alternative transport arrangements, pay for a car he hasnt had, and frequentlychase progress. Mr L has explained that he suffers from mental health issues and whilst
Startline may not have known about that I think its likely to have made the distress more
significant than what would have been experienced by a consumer without such issues. In
all the circumstances I think Startline should pay Mr L £500 to compensate him for the
distress and inconvenience experienced.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint and tell STARTLINE
MOTOR FINANCE LIMITED to:
Collect the car at no cost to Mr L and arrange for repairs to resolve the problems with
the engine knocking, the excessive oil usage, and the parking sensor, that Mr L
advised them of. Ensure the manufacturers recall relating to the EGR valve is
completed before the car is returned to Mr L.
Remove any adverse information they may have reported to Mr Ls credit file in
relation to this issue.
Refund any finance instalments Mr L has paid since 16 August 2021 (waive any that
have been due but havent been paid) and add 8% simple interest per year to that
refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund the cost of car tax at £11.37 per month and car insurance at £178.57 per
month, for any full month Mr L has been without the car. That period to be calculated
from 16 August 2021 until the date of settlement. Add 8% simple interest per year to
that refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr L £500 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Startline didnt respond to my provisional decision, but Mr L did. He was happy with the 
provisional decision but said hed spoken to a garage in anticipation of needing to MOT the 
car. He said theyd advised him that as the car has been in storage for some time it may 
need new brakes and a check to ensure any repairs completed are adequate and the car is 
roadworthy.
Putting things right
I understand Mr Ls concerns but theres no evidence that there are any issues with the car 
as a result of it being stored for an excessive period of time. Whilst I understand the garages 
apparent assertion that there may be issues, I dont think it would be appropriate to tell 
Startline to, for instance, replace the brakes before returning the car to Mr L.
I dont therefore see any reason to ask Startline to take any action other than what Ive set 
out above. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell STARTLINE
MOTOR FINANCE LIMITED to:
Collect the car at no cost to Mr L and arrange for repairs to resolve the problems with
the engine knocking, the excessive oil usage, and the parking sensor, that Mr Ladvised them of. Ensure the manufacturers recall relating to the EGR valve is
completed before the car is returned to Mr L.
Remove any adverse information they may have reported to Mr Ls credit file in
relation to this issue.
Refund any finance instalments Mr L has paid since 16 August 2021 (waive any that
have been due but havent been paid) and add 8% simple interest per year to that
refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund the cost of car tax at £11.37 per month and car insurance at £178.57 per
month, for any full month Mr L has been without the car. That period to be calculated
from 16 August 2021 until the date of settlement. Add 8% simple interest per year to
that refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr L £500 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman