DRN-3830614
The complaint
Mr B is complaining that a member of staff at Barclays Bank UK PLC bullied and harassed 
him, and ordered a debit card without his agreement.
The complaint is brought on Mr Bs behalf by his daughter, Miss B.
What happened
Mr B is over 80 years old, has a number of health conditions, and Miss B says hes very 
vulnerable. He doesnt use a debit card on his account with Barclays.
Mr B visited a branch of Barclays regularly to withdraw money from his pension over the 
counter. When he visited the branch on 5 July 2022, the adviser he spoke to ordered a debit 
card to be sent out to him.
Miss B says the adviser Mr B spoke to on that day bullied and harassed him into agreeing to 
order a debit card. She says Mr B said no, repeatedly, when he was asked if he wanted to 
order a card - but the adviser didnt listen, and ordered a card without his permission or 
signature. She says when Mr B returned home he was distressed and anxious.
Miss B called Barclays to complain about how Mr B had been treated, and her call was 
returned later on the same day. During the second call the adviser arranged for £100 to be 
paid to Mr Bs account, and also arranged for the debit card to be blocked. The debit card 
was sent out in the post the next day, and Mr B received it on 14 July 2022. Miss B says this 
caused Mr B additional distress.
After this call, Miss B visited the branch to follow up on her complaint, and felt the manager 
didnt handle her complaint well. She added this to the complaint.
Barclays carried out an investigation into what had happened during the transaction. The 
adviser said shed served Mr B for many years in her previous branch, and theyd always 
had a friendly relationship. The adviser felt that Mr B was absolutely fine during their 
interaction, and she had only ordered the card because Mr B was happy for her to do so.
Barclays issued two final response letters to Mr B. The letter of 13 July 2022 said that 
Barclays were satisfied that Mr B agreed to the debit card being issued when the adviser 
suggested it, and that the branch manager had followed the correct process to investigate 
and address the advisers actions. 
A separate final response letter was sent on 28 July 2022, apologising for the distress 
caused to Mr B and explaining compensation of £100 was paid directly into his account on 5 
July 2022.
Miss B brought Mr Bs complaint to us on his behalf. She said, in summary, that Mr B had 
been bullied and harassed by the adviser, discriminated against due to his age, and 
Barclays had misused his data by ordering a card without his permission.
Our investigator looked into Mr Bs complaint but she didnt uphold it. She said, in summary:
She explained that it wasnt our role to decide if Barclays had breached the Equality Act 
2010 as this is a matter for the courts, but she hadnt seen anything to show Mr B had 
been discriminated against or treated unfairly;
She hadnt seen anything to show Barclays had mis-used Mr Bs data but if Miss B had 
concerns about that she should contact the Information Commissioners Office;
She thought that asking Mr B if he wanted a debit card was probably something Barclays 
would ask other customers in his position to make it easier for them to make 
withdrawals, and she didnt think Barclays were wrong to ask the question;
There were conflicting accounts of what happened so she couldnt say for definite 
whether Mr B had agreed to the card being ordered or not - and she didnt think the 
CCTV would help her to decide this as it had no audio; 
If she had been able to view the CCTV and it showed Mr B was agitated, she wouldnt 
have been able to determine what had caused the agitation without audio; 
Barclays had told us theyd paid Mr B £100 compensation and she thought this was fair 
in the circumstances; 
There were conflicting accounts in relation to the service Miss B received from the 
branch when she went in to complain, but she was satisfied that Barclays had completed 
a thorough investigation and compensated Mr B appropriately - and she could only look 
at the impact on Mr B, as the complainant; and
She hadnt found evidence that Barclays had done anything wrong, so she wouldnt be 
asking Barclays to do any more.
Miss B replied to the investigators view. Ive summarised the main points of her response 
below:
The CCTV would show Mr B saying no with his hands and becoming agitated;
The issue of the card being sent out after it was cancelled wasnt addressed;
Its unlikely Mr B would agree to a card being issued after 40 years without one; 
Verbal consent wasnt given as Mr B cant speak English and theres no signature; and
No-one has the right to say Mr B wasnt bullied  this cant be measured as its based on 
how someone feels.
Mr Bs complaint has now been passed to me for review and a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, Im not going to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
As the investigators explained, although Barclays have told us they have CCTV footage 
weve been unable to view it. But the CCTV alone (without sound) wont reveal what was 
said during the transaction, which is really the crux of this complaint. And I dont agree with 
Miss B that its likely Id be able to tell, purely from Mr Bs body language, whether the 
adviser had said or done anything inappropriate. So, Im satisfied I can reach my decision 
without this.
Miss B says Barclays have discriminated against Mr B. I cant make a finding on whether Mr 
Bs been discriminated against, because findings on discrimination can only be made in 
court. However, I can consider if Barclays have acted fairly and reasonably in their 
interactions with Mr B, taking into account relevant law - including the Equality Act 2010. 
Im sorry to learn Mr B was so distressed when he returned from the branch. Ive reviewed 
the advisers recollections of the transaction and I can see that her understanding of how the 
transaction progressed is very different to how Miss B has understood it and explained it to 
us. 
Miss B has told us Mr B doesnt speak English very well, so it would have been impossible 
for the adviser to complete verification for him to order a debit card. But shes also said that 
Mr B repeatedly answered no when he was asked if he wanted to order a card, which 
suggests he did understand what he was asked and was able to make his wishes clear. And 
Mr B has been visiting branches regularly to make withdrawals, and has apparently not had 
any difficulties with communicating with the advisers to complete verification during this time. 
So, I think its likely verification was properly completed before the debit card was ordered. I 
dont think it should be necessary for a customer to sign for a debit card to be issued  its 
for Barclays to decide what their procedure is. And I havent seen anything to suggest Mr Bs 
data was mis-used through the card being ordered.
I do think its possible that there was a misunderstanding over what Mr B wanted the adviser 
to do about ordering the card. Im not sure why the adviser would have ordered a card for Mr 
B if shed understood that he didnt want one, because there doesnt appear to have been 
any advantage to her in doing so. So, I think its more likely that either Mr B did agree to the 
adviser ordering the card, or that there was a misunderstanding that led to her thinking he 
had agreed. I dont think the adviser ordered the card without thinking she had Mr Bs 
permission to do so. And I am satisfied that the advisers motive in ordering the card wasnt 
malicious.
 
The card was blocked on Miss Bs request on the same day it was ordered (so it couldnt be 
used) but this didnt prevent it being sent out in the post the following day. Im sorry to hear 
Mr B was caused additional distress by receiving the card, but I think its unlikely that that 
could have been prevented once the card had been ordered. 
Miss B says nobody has the right to say Mr B wasnt bullied as this was how he felt. I 
understand her point here, and I dont doubt that Mr B was distressed when he returned from 
the branch. But weve not heard directly from Mr B about why he felt so distressed - and 
Miss B wasnt present at the time. 
Miss B said there has been a longstanding issue with the branch advisers asking Mr B if he 
wanted a debit card, which has caused him distress in the past. Like the investigator, I dont 
think the advisers have been wrong to ask Mr B this question  but I think it would be helpful 
if, going forwards, Barclays could make a relevant note on Mr Bs account to avoid causing 
him any further distress. The advisers own recollection is that Mr B was fine throughout the transaction, and that she 
had a longstanding, friendly relationship with him. It doesnt appear that Mr B has raised a 
complaint about this advisers behaviour before now, so it would seem that if she had bullied 
and harassed him this would be out of character. And its not clear to me why she would 
have bullied or harassed him into agreeing to order a card if hed clearly said no. 
I think the adviser did ask Mr B if he wanted to order a debit card, and we know from what 
Miss Bs said that he has found this question distressing in the past  so I think its possible 
that this is what caused his distress on this occasion too. But this doesnt mean the adviser 
bullied or harassed him.
Miss Bs also mentioned being unhappy with the service she received from the branch when 
she visited to discuss Mr Bs complaint. Miss Bs a third party to this complaint, and as the 
investigator says, we are only considering the complaint brought by Mr B and the impact on 
him. But I note that in their final response letter of 28 July 2022 Barclays apologised for the 
poor service and communication Miss B said she experienced, and said theyd given the 
branch her feedback, which seems a reasonable response.
I hope Miss B understands that Im not doubting her version of what happened as Mr B 
explained it to her. But to uphold Mr Bs complaint I would need to be satisfied not just that 
he found the transaction distressing, but that the advisers behaviour was inappropriate to 
the extent that it caused Mr B avoidable distress. And Im not satisfied that this was the case 
here.
I should explain that even if Id found the adviser had done something wrong in how she 
interacted with Mr B, its not our role to punish financial businesses, or their employees  so 
its not within my power to require Barclays to discipline a member of their staff. Its for 
Barclays to take whatever steps they see fit to address this internally. And in this case, 
Barclays have carried out an investigation into what happened and have decided to take no 
further action. 
I know Miss B feels very strongly about this complaint and Im sorry to disappoint her and Mr 
B. Barclays say they have already paid £100 to Mr Bs account, to recognise the upset he 
experienced (and Miss Bs not mentioned him not receiving this in response to the 
investigators view.) I think this is fair and reasonable, and reflects the fact that Mr B was 
distressed by what had happened.
Overall I dont think Barclays have treated Mr B unfairly here, so they dont need to do 
anything else.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2023.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman