DRN-4043937
The complaint
The Estate of Mrs S has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC allowed payments to be 
made to a third party without her authorisation.  
This complaint has been brought by Miss M, the granddaughter and appointed executor of 
Mrs Ss estate. Mrs Ss daughter, Mrs M, has represented the estate, and so Ill refer to her 
too in this decision. 
What happened
Both sides are familiar with the case, so Ill summarise things in brief. 
Mrs S held three accounts with Barclays. Mrs M had authority over her mothers accounts 
via a Power of Attorney (POA), but that was removed on 20 June 2019 at Mrs Ss request. 
One of Mrs Ss accounts was a joint account with Miss M, which was closed on 10 July 2019 
at the request of Mrs S. 
A Third-Party Authority (TPA) for Mrs Ss grandson, Mr F, was added to Mrs Ss remaining 
two accounts on 10 July 2019. The TPA expired at the point Barclays was informed of 
Mrs Ss death  1 December 2020.
Between 7 August 2019 and 1 December 2020  several payments (totalling circa £63,000) 
were transferred out of Mrs Ss accounts to accounts held by Mr F. 
Mrs S sadly passed away in November 2020. On reporting Mrs Ss death in December 2020, 
Miss M became aware that one of her accounts had already been closed and that there was 
some concerning activity on the two remaining accounts  some of which had occurred 
whilst her grandmother was severely unwell and some after her grandmothers death.
Miss M also became aware of the TPA for Mr F and that hed carried out several 
transactions on the accounts involving large sums of money. Miss M said the TPA had been 
put in place without the knowledge and consent of her grandmothers family  nor did she 
believe it had been done in line with her grandmothers wishes. 
Miss M complained to Barclays in January 2021. Around the same time, Mrs M contacted 
Barclays by phone asking for account statements, as she too was concerned that thered 
been some fraudulent activity on her late mothers account  which she said Barclays 
agreed to be the case. Mrs M said Barclays told her it would investigate her concerns and 
send the statements. 
Barclays then wrote to Mrs M to explain that as her authority under the POA had been 
removed from Mrs Ss accounts in 2019, and she wasnt an executor of her late mothers 
estate, she wasnt entitled to have the requested statements or to raise a dispute. 
Once Miss M provided Barclays with the paperwork supporting her role as executor, it issued 
a response to her complaint and provided her with the last six years bank statements.
Barclays said the TPA for Mr F had been added to Mrs Ss sole accounts on 10 July 2019. It 
said this had been done at Mrs Ss consent in accordance with her wishes. It said Mrs S was 
visited by bank staff at her care home, who were satisfied she had the necessary capacity to 
make the decision to have the TPA in place. 
Barclays also explained to Miss M that a TPA allowed most activity to take place  aside 
from the closure of the account, up until the bank is notified of the account holders death (in 
this case 1 December 2020). 
Unhappy with Barclays response, the complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman. 
Mrs M said Barclays had allowed the TPA to be set up whilst a POA was in place. And that 
her mother was Italian, and an interpreter shouldve been present when the TPA was applied 
for. 
Mrs M added that Mr F had closed the joint account held with Mrs S and Miss M  which she 
said he wasnt entitled to do. And hed made large transfers out of the sole accounts which 
Barclays didnt flag as suspicious. 
Our Investigator looked into things and didnt uphold the complaint. She said it was not 
possible to know the true intentions and wishes of Mrs S  but she was satisfied that 
Barclays had processed the TPA correctly, and that the transactions Mrs M was concerned 
about had been authorised by a permitted party.
Our Investigator also noted that Barclays had flagged a payment from one of Mrs Ss 
accounts into Mr Fs account, but after checks were carried out, the payment was released. 
Mrs M didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsman to issue a final decision. She maintained 
Mr F didnt have the appropriate authority at the point the large payments were made from 
her late mothers accounts. She said she was pursuing a case against Mr F and needed 
more information from Barclays to allow her to do that. She also wanted to understand how 
Mr F had been able to make online transfers and why Barclays hadnt queried payments 
made around the time of Mrs Ss death. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator  and for largely the 
same reasons. I realise this will be very disappointing for Miss M and Mrs M and Id like to 
assure them I havent taken this decision lightly. I appreciate this has been a difficult time for 
them both, and their wider family. And Id like to offer my condolences for the loss of Mrs S. 
In reaching my decision, Ive very carefully considered all the evidence provided and if I dont 
mention a particular point, its not because I havent considered it, but Ive focussed instead 
on what I believe to be important to the outcome of this complaint. 
Mrs S is sadly no longer around to ask what her specific intentions were in having the 
authority under the POA removed and the TPA for Mr F added to her accounts. And so, I 
must look objectively at the available evidence to decide if Barclays acted reasonably in 
registering the TPA allowing Mr F to access and make payments from Mrs Ss accounts. 
I should explain that the circumstances surrounding the activity and closure of the joint 
account, held between Mrs S and Miss M, has been dealt with under a separate complaint. 
And so, whilst Ive included information about the joint account in this decision by way of background and context, my focus is on the two sole accounts held by Mrs S, to which the 
TPA was added. 
Ive looked at the circumstances surrounding the application for the TPA. Ive also seen 
Barclays notes from the time the TPA was applied for, the application itself and a testimony 
from a Barclays staff member who spoke to Mrs S at her care home about the application. 
And Ive seen Mrs Ss written request to have Mrs Ms authority under the POA removed 
from her accounts. 
The first point to make is that the TPA was applied for after Mrs Ms authority over Mrs Ss 
accounts, by way of the POA, had been removed. Mrs S made the request for authority to be 
removed on 19 June 2019, and this was confirmed by Barclays in writing to Mrs S on 
20 June 2019. 
I can see the TPA application form was completed manually on 10 July 2019 and signed by 
Mrs S and Mr F. Mrs S consented to Mr F being a TPA and confirmed that she had the 
mental capacity to manage her financial affairs. The application also confirmed that the TPA 
related to both Mrs Ss sole accounts and would remain in place until either cancelled by her, 
or upon her death. 
Barclays notes confirm the application process as outlined above and make no reference to 
any concerns of a language barrier or need for an interpreter. The notes also show that 
Mrs S was visited at her care home to complete the application process. Whilst the member 
of staff who visited Mrs S had limited recollection of the meeting, given the passing of time, 
the following was noted:
 I would not sign somebody as a third party unless the customer was asking me to 
do so and I would talk with the customer alone to make sure there was no coercion. 
The member of staff also said that a TPA wouldve only been agreed to if they were satisfied 
about mental capacity  otherwise they wouldve suggested to Mrs S that a POA over the 
accounts be put back in place.
Whilst we dont know exactly what motivated Mrs S to apply for the TPA, and the passing of 
time has meant records and recollections are vague. based on the information we do have; I 
cant say Barclays didnt follow due process or the wishes of Mrs S in registering the TPA for 
Mr F.
Mrs M is concerned about the payments made by Mr F from the two sole accounts. 
Payments were made between August 2019 and December 2020  whilst the TPA was in 
place. And so, Mr F was authorised the make those payments. As our Investigator has 
confirmed to Mrs M, the TPA process allowed for those payments to be made via online 
banking. 
I agree with Mrs M that the payments are large  and could be deemed out of character for 
Mrs Ss account. I can see that Barclays did flag a payment made on 18 June 2020 for 
£5,000 from Mrs Ss account to an account held by Mr F. But the payment was then 
processed the following day with no risk identified. 
Mrs M has questioned why Barclays didnt flag other payments  particularly those around 
the time of her late mothers death, as suspicious. We dont know specifically what fraud 
detectors a bank uses  but in terms of the specifics of this case, I can understand why 
payments made by a person who had an active TPA on an account to an account in their 
own name was unlikely to be seen as suspicious by Barclays. Furthermore, Ive noted the 
following from the TPA application which Mrs S agreed to: I  agree that instructions may be given to [Barclays] in accordance with the above 
[TPA]. I  also acknowledge and agree that amongst other things:
 [Barclays] is under no duty to make enquiries before acting on any instructions 
you receive from the [TPA].
Taking all this into account, Barclays wouldve had no obvious reason to question a payment 
made by Mr F whilst the TPA was in place. And when it did intervene in the £5,000, it was 
satisfied this was legitimate  which suggests any further interactions in relation to other 
payments wouldve likely resulted in the same outcome. 
I know this is a very upsetting situation for Mrs M and how strongly she feels about this 
matter, and so this is a difficult message for me to give. But given the evidence I have and 
on the balance of probabilities, Im unable to reasonably reach any other conclusion than 
Barclays hasnt done anything wrong. 
So, Im not going to tell Barclays to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs S 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman