DRN-3740462
The complaint
Mr and Ms M are unhappy with the delays caused by Target Servicing Limited in approving a 
valuation figure. They said this delayed them being able to pay off their help to buy shared 
equity loan. 
What happened
Mr and Ms M bought a flat in July 2015 with the assistance of the help to buy scheme. 
The help to buy scheme is a government scheme in place to support home ownership. In 
addition to the usual mortgage from a regular lender, a borrower takes a shared equity loan 
funded by the government to reduce the amount of cash deposit that would be otherwise 
required. Mr and Ms Ms property is in England, and they took the loan out with Homes 
England, which was formally known as Homes and Communities Agency. They are an 
executive agency and non-departmental public body sponsored by the Department for 
Levelling Up, Housing and Communities. Homes England lends a percentage of the property 
purchase price to the borrower to enable them to buy a home.
Help to buy shared equity loans are interest free for the first five years. From year six 
onwards, interest is payable. Help to buy shared equity loans are secured by way of a 
second charge over the property, ranking behind the main mortgage. This means that the 
loan must be repaid at the end of its term which is generally 25 years. But if the property is 
sold before then, it must be repaid on the sale of the property. A borrower can also elect to 
repay the loan at any time, even if the property is not being sold. 
What the borrower must pay back is calculated by reference to the value of the property at 
the time they want to sell it or otherwise repay the shared equity loan. So depending on how 
property prices have changed in the meantime, the borrower may have to pay back more or 
less than the amount they originally borrowed. 
Mr and Ms M wanted to redeem their help to buy loan and they needed to inform Target of 
their intention to do so  which they did. They provided Target with a valuation on 17 
February 2020 as part of this process. The valuation at this time was £580,000. Mr and Ms 
M had three months to redeem the loan before the valuation expired. 
Mr and Ms M made some enquiries with their lender and other lenders as they intended 
raising money on the property in order to change it to a bank loan and possibly purchase a 
second property. They said that neither their existing lender nor any other lenders, would 
lend any money against the property because it was affected by cladding. The EWS1 form 
had a rating of B2 and their lender put a value of zero against the value of the property. This 
means that it was considered to have potentially risky combustible cladding or other fire 
safety issues needing remedial work. 
Mr and Ms M didnt think they should redeem the help to buy loan because of the valuation 
outcome so they asked Target if they could provide a new valuation. Target told Mr and Ms 
M that they could do this, but it would need to be reviewed again by Homes England. Mr and 
Ms M sent Target a desktop valuation in May 2020 and the valuation came out at £560,000. 
Mr and Ms M said they were constantly chasing Target for an outcome on the valuation and 
eventually they explained to Target that the remedial work had since been completed on 
their property. As the redemption process had already started, Target used the original 
valuation of £580,000 to provide a redemption quote  which was higher than the desktop 
valuation. Mr and Ms M redeemed their help to buy loan on 21 August 2021 based on the 
first valuation of £580,000. They said they used investments which they transferred from 
another country, to enable them to do so. 
Mr and Ms M said that the latest valuation was £20,000 less and they should have been 
allowed to redeem the help to buy loan based on the valuation of £560,000 and not the first 
one of £580,000. They are also unhappy as they believe the delays caused by Target meant 
they started to pay interest on the help to buy loan which they wouldnt have had to do, had 
Target of allowed them to redeem the help to buy loan earlier.
Mr and Ms M also raised arguments that due to delays caused by Target, they lost out on 
the stamp duty holiday to buy the second property and lost out on interest from cashing in 
their investments when they didnt need to. They said they have been caused a great deal of 
stress because of this situation. 
Mr and Ms M brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service where it was 
looked at by one of our investigators. The investigator upheld the complaint in part and 
thought that Target should have allowed Mr and Ms M to redeem the help to buy loan based 
on the lower valuation of £560,000. She also thought that Target should refund the interest 
applied on the help to buy loan since the redemption should have happened and pay Mr and 
Ms M £250 compensation for the delay in allowing them to redeem their loan.
Target accepted the recommendation, but Mr and Ms M did not. They said they have lost out 
financially because they had to break their investments earlier and reiterated that Target 
should have allowed them to redeem the help to buy loan on the lower valuation. And they 
were unhappy that they were charged interest for nearly a year when they didnt have to be. 
Mr and Ms M also strongly argue that they lost out on the stamp duty holiday. They said 
Target was a hindrance for them to start looking for another property. They believe they 
could have found a new property and completed well within the 12 months that they had in 
order to do so. They believe this is the case as they have since bought a new property and 
completed within five months from start to finish. They feel that Target owes them this 
money.
Mr and Ms M are also unhappy that property prices are now more expensive and that this 
whole situation has caused them a great deal of stress.
The investigator did consider the arguments that Mr and Ms M made around these points, 
but she didnt think that Target should be held responsible for this. She explained that she 
didnt think that Mr and Ms M would have been able to secure any new lending on their 
property due to the cladding issues present so even if they were allowed to redeem sooner, 
she didnt think that they would have been able to release equity from their existing property 
to fund a new purchase. 
So she didnt think it was fair to ask Target to reimburse what Mr and Ms M paid for stamp 
duty. The investigator also explained that there are several outside factors that can delay 
purchasing a new property and didnt think it was fair to ask Target to refund this cost. 
The investigator also considered what Mr and Ms M said about their investments but 
acknowledged that Mr and Ms M had the funds available to redeem the help to buy loan 
when they cashed their investments in  but chose not to do so when they got the first 
valuation as they were unhappy with it. As she felt it was Mr and Ms Ms choice not to 
redeem, she didnt think it was fair to ask Target to refund any loss because Mr and Ms M 
cashed in their investments. She also acknowledged that had Target not made an error and allowed them to redeem, Mr and Ms M wouldnt have been earning on the investment 
anyway as it would have needed to be cashed in to repay the loan. 
As Mr and Ms M disagreed, they asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint, so it has 
been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Ms M have made various arguments detailing why they disagree. If I dont mention 
anything specifically, its not because I havent considered it because I have. But I will focus 
on what I believe to be the crux of the issues taking all the relevant information into account. 
Having looked at everything, I can see that Target have agreed they should have allowed Mr 
and Ms M to redeem their help to buy loan on the lower valuation of £560,000 and not the 
one which was used at £580,000. They have also agreed to refund the interest payments 
that Mr and Ms M have paid for nearly a year as this wouldnt have happened if they were 
allowed to redeem their loan earlier. I agree with what our investigator recommended here 
and acknowledge that Target have agreed to do this, which is what we would have expected 
them to do. 
I can see that the lower valuation of £560,000 was carried out after the valuation of £580,000 
so Mr and Ms M should have redeemed the help to buy loan on the lower figure. 
With regard to the interest payments, Mr and Ms M submitted the second valuation to Target 
in May 2020 for £560,000 and this was sent to Homes England for them to review. This took 
several months for Homes England to get back to Mr and Ms M and during this time, the 
remediation work on their property had been completed. It was only after this time that a 
redemption quote was sent to Mr and Ms M allowing them to redeem the help to buy loan. 
So I dont think it was fair that they were charged interest on the loan, and its reasonable 
that Target have also agreed to refund these payments. 
The points I will be considering below surround the arguments that Mr and Ms M have made 
around their investments, the stamp duty holiday and house prices. Having thought about 
everything carefully, I agree with what our investigator said for the same reasons. 
Mr and Ms M feel they have lost out on interest due to cashing in investments early. Ive 
looked at the bank statements they have provided which shows that after several transfers 
were made, they had the money available to redeem their help to buy loan from March 2020. 
The first valuation was submitted to Target in February 2020 and the valuation given at this 
time was £580,000. Mr and Ms M told us they made enquiries with their lender and other 
lenders as they were thinking about borrowing additional money to purchase another 
property. 
Its evident from what Mr and Ms M have said that lenders were not willing to lend any 
further money on Mr and Ms Ms property because of the cladding issues. Mr and Ms M may 
have wanted to purchase a second property, but they had the funds available to pay off the 
help to buy loan from March 2020  but because they were unhappy with the valuation, they 
chose not to do so.  If they decided to sell the property while the help to buy loan was still 
outstanding, its unlikely they would have been able to do so without making a loss.The bottom line here is that they could have redeemed the loan after they submitted the first 
valuation to Target. Target didnt reject this, but instead Mr and Ms M were unhappy as they 
were told by various lenders that the value of the property was zero. This didnt mean that 
the property value itself wasnt worth anything. It means a value cant be given at that 
specific point due to the issues with the property  in this case  cladding. 
Had there not been any delays caused by Target, I think the money that Mr and Ms M took 
from their investments would have been used sooner to repay the loan. I dont however think 
that Target is responsible for any loss of income on Mr and Ms Ms investments.
Their intention was always to repay the loan with the money they held in investments. So 
whether there were any delays or not, they would have had to have that money readily 
available to repay the loan once the valuation had been agreed and accepted. Mr and Ms M 
wouldnt have expected to earn any income from those investments when they transferred 
the funds from another country because they always expected to use the funds. So I wont 
be asking Target to reimburse Mr and Ms M for any losses they incurred by cashing in any 
investments they may have done at the time. 
I have also considered what Mr and Ms M have said about the fact that house prices have 
increased. This is a further complication as property prices may have well changed in the 
meantime. If the property values have increased since 2020 then there is a possibility that 
Mr and Ms M may well have paid more money for a new property. However, I dont think I 
can fairly conclude that there is financial loss here. Theres no guarantee Mr and Ms M 
would have found a property had they redeemed sooner so theres no basis on which I can 
make an award of quantifiable financial loss. 
With regard to the stamp duty argument and the fact that Mr and Ms M feel they have lost 
out on the stamp duty holiday, there is never a guarantee that they would have found 
somewhere to purchase and complete on time. There are a number of outside factors that 
could cause an application to be delayed such as valuation issues, title issues etc, which 
would make it extremely difficult to suggest that Mr and Ms M would have completed on a 
new property within the necessary timeframe to save on stamp duty. I understand that they 
have now bought a new property and did so within five months but there is still no guarantee 
that this would have happened as there are too many outside factors that could affect 
individual purchases separately. I therefore wont be asking Target to pay any costs with 
regards to this. 
I appreciate that this has caused Mr and Ms M stress and worry, and they have been trying 
to get things sorted out for some time. I do however think that £250 for distress and 
inconvenience is reasonable in this situation  for the reasons Ive already given above. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Target Servicing Limited to:
Calculate what Mr and Ms M would have paid if they redeemed the help to buy loan 
from the May 2020 valuation at £560,000 and refund them the difference based on 
what they did pay when they redeemed the help to buy loan on a valuation of 
£580,000. Target should add 8% simple annual interest running from the date that Mr 
and Ms M redeemed the loan to the date of settlementRefund the interest paid on the help to buy loan plus 8% simple annual interest from 
the date it was paid to the date of settlement
Pay £250 compensation to Mr and Ms M if they havent already done so
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman