DRN-3902192
The complaint
S, a limited company, complains that Citibank UK Limited failed to co-operate with attempts 
by its own bank to recover a payment. 
What happened
S sent a payment of £4,574 from its bank account to a supplier using the CHAPS payment 
system. It asked its own bank to recall the payment because S says in error it had input the 
wrong details. S is unhappy that the money wasnt recovered and doesnt think that Citibank 
had done enough. 
Citibank acknowledged S complaint but didnt provide a final response. It had directed S 
back to its own bank. S referred its complaint about Citibank to this service.
Our investigator reviewed the information and also looked at what S bank had provided 
about its contact with Citibank. There had been some initial confusion about whether that 
banks reference to not having had a response referred to Citibank or to the beneficiary (the 
account holder). And so whether Citibank had done enough. She said that any attempt at 
recall of the payment would be on a best endeavours basis. She now thought that the 
information showed that Citibank told S bank that it had contacted the beneficiary and was 
waiting for a response. It was unfortunate that the money wasnt recalled but she didnt think 
that this was due to Citibank not co-operating with S bank. Citibank wouldnt be able to give 
S details about the beneficiary.
The director of S said that he was very unhappy with this outcome as there had been a clear 
mistake and a third party had the money. He said that he had now contacted the police. And 
that S wanted an ombudsmans decision so that all options could be explored.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The scope of this complaint is only about how Citibank responded to contact by S bank 
about this payment. Im not looking here at a complaint about S own bank.
I can see that S bank contacted Citibank on a number of occasions after S had raised the 
issue with this payment. And that Citibank responded each time to say that it had contacted 
the beneficiary of the money and hadnt had a response. I cant see from the information 
provided by S bank that there were grounds for Citibank to do anything more about this 
payment.
I wouldnt expect Citibank to be able to assist S more directly because S isnt its customer, 
and it wouldnt be able to provide any details about the beneficiary under data protection 
rules. Citibank did seem to misunderstand S contact and told it that the sorting code in 
question couldnt receive a faster payment when the money had been sent by CHAPS. But 
that hasnt affected the outcome here as it directed S back to its own bank. 
Unfortunately, there is a limited amount that can be done when an error has been made by 
the sender of a CHAPS payment without the beneficiarys co-operation. Had for example 
that beneficiary accepted that the payment be recalled then the money could have been 
returned by Citibank. And also, Citibank could only respond to the requests and information 
provided by S own bank when it made the request to recall the money.
S has mentioned it has contacted the police and I would expect Citibank to co-operate with 
any related investigation. But Im afraid I dont have a reasonable basis to require Citibank to 
do anything further about this complaint. I can appreciate that the director of S will be very 
disappointed about the outcome given what is at stake.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman