DRN-3642573
The complaint
Mr J complains that TSB Bank plc had errors on their application (app) which caused it to 
crash when he applied for credit products. He also complains of poor service from TSBs call 
handlers.
What happened
Mr J says that he had been attempting to apply for credit products through TSBs app as he 
wanted to avoid visiting the branch during the pandemic. He says the app showed he was 
eligible to apply, but when he tried to apply, the app always crashed. Mr J says he is also 
unhappy with the information and service provided by their telephone banking team. Mr J 
made a complaint to TSB.
TSB did not uphold the complaint. They said that they had reviewed the errors Mr J gets 
when he applies for borrowing, using the mobile app and they had been unable to find any 
errors caused by themselves. They said there had been some changes by an overseas 
regulator that prevent a third party operator from continuing to support certain mobile 
devices and he should contact his provider for further guidance and support. They said he 
should use a different device if he wished to make further applications.
TSB also said that having listened to the calls Mr J made to them and specifically one call 
which Mr J was unhappy with, that the adviser he spoke to could only advise Mr J of the 
information he had access to at that time and they dont believe this had an impact on Mr J. 
TSB said that they paid him £25 for the time he had been on calls up to that point. They said 
while they dont uphold Mr Js complaint, they would not look to request the £25 back as the 
payment was made to him in error, as they were unable to resolve his complaint at that time. 
Mr J brought his complaint to our service. He sent our investigator a video to show that he 
was also unable to apply for a savings account on the app. He said he believed that TSB 
had blocked him from using the app to apply for an account or credit.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Js complaint. She said that while TSB were unable to 
give her a definitive reason for the error messages, they did offer alternative solutions for Mr 
J to try. She said that having listened to the calls he had with TSB, the agents also advised 
him that any credit application would be subject to credit scoring and at the time, their 
system was showing that he wasnt eligible to apply for any credit. So she believed it would 
be fair to say that TSB correctly advised Mr J about this and treated him fairly when giving 
him the information. Our investigator said that although Mr J believes that TSB have blocked 
him from using the app to apply for an account or credit, TSB have confirmed this wasnt the 
case. Mr J asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be focusing 
on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Ive noted the strength of feeling that Mr J has on the app errors. So I understand why this is 
important to him, especially since he has experienced this for around a year. Ive looked at 
the video Mr J sent our service. And I can see that the problems werent restricted to just 
applying for borrowings. So Ive looked at the evidence to determine what was the likely 
cause of this.
TSB have confirmed that there were no blocks on Mr Js customer profile preventing him 
from applying for products through the app. And Ive seen no evidence that TSB have 
applied any blocks. They have explained on phone calls Ive listened to, that based on Mr Js 
credit history, he wasnt able to be approved for credit, but Im satisfied that this isnt 
because of any app issues, as TSB have provided internal screenshots which show Mr J 
would not have been accepted for these products at the time he applied for them. 
Ive also considered what TSB have said about overseas regulators that prevent a third party 
operator from continuing to support certain mobile devices and this could be the reason why 
Mr J has app errors. But while this might have been what happened, Im not persuaded that 
this is the most likely explanation of the reason for the app errors.
I say this as Mr J has explained to our service that he has recently been able to apply  and 
be accepted for savings accounts with TSB after his phone showed he could update the TSB 
app. So Im persuaded, on the balance of probabilities, that the reason that Mr J had app 
errors previously, is because he was using an older version of the app, than the most up to 
date version. I cant rule out what TSB have said might be the reason for the errors, but 
unless the overseas regulation had recently changed, then this wouldnt explain how Mr J is 
now not receiving these errors if he had not changed his device. Therefore Im persuaded 
that an older version of the app (which may not have been fully compatible or operational 
with the device he was using) would be the likely reason for these app errors. 
So Ive considered whether this would be a TSB error. But Im not persuaded it is. I say this 
as TSB would not be responsible for the phone settings that Mr J has. Some phones have 
settings where apps can be automatically updated without a user manually having to update 
this themselves. And Mr J has said on some of his phone calls that it shows as a network 
issue, which TSB would not be responsible for any issues with Mr Js phone network. 
So Im not persuaded it would be reasonable for TSB to be aware if a customer is using an 
older version of the app. TSB said in their final response letter that Mr J should contact his 
phone provider for further guidance or to use a different device. I appreciate that Mr J might 
not have been aware that he may need to update the app, so he may wish to see if his 
phone provider allows automatic app updates for the TSB app if he wishes to potentially 
avoid this situation in the future. But this would be a decision for Mr J alone if he wishes to 
use this feature - if it is available to him.
Ive considered what Mr J has said about the customer service from TSB. Ive listened to 
several calls which he has had with them. A wide range of issues were discussed on these 
calls, including, but not limited to his spend and save with his current account, the app error, 
his application for his spend and save account and an interest free overdraft on the account, 
Mr J registering his complaint and several calls about an update on his complaint. 
On one of the calls the volume of the call handler seems low, but Mr J is still able to talk with 
the call handler. Mr J complains about not being approved for an overdraft on this call as he 
feels his credit score for the bank should enable him to get the overdraft. He is then put 
through to the complaints department.The complaint handler explains that Mr J is unable to get any lending and Mr J talks about 
goodwill. The call handler says they arent able to lend on goodwill. Mr J explains that he 
receives the error on the app when he applies for lending products, however, the call handler 
informs him that they cant offer him any form of lending. Mr J and the call handler dont 
agree on certain points such as him being eligible to apply for credit. The call handler 
explains that if Mr J wanted to escalate the complaint, a response could take up to eight 
weeks. And he explains the customer relations team who will deal with his complaint 
wouldnt be able to speak to him that day.
There are a number of further calls that Ive listened to where Mr J speaks with TSB about 
his complaint. The call handlers explain to Mr J that the person who awarded him the £25 
wasnt the case handler and that his case will be allocated to a case handler in due course. 
They tell him they would respond within eight weeks. 
I must explain to Mr J that complaint handling by a business isnt a regulated activity and as 
such, the issues hes raised that relate directly to how TSB have investigated his complaint 
such as when they resolve it, or escalate it to the next stage, do not come under my powers 
to consider. 
But in terms of the customer service that was provided to Mr J, Im persuaded that it was fair. 
While Mr J was not happy with TSBs procedures in how they were handling his complaint, 
the call handlers did answer his queries and reiterated their processes. They explained the 
situation several times to Mr J. Ive noted the frustration he had on these calls that TSB 
werent escalating his complaint as quick as he wanted them to, but as TSB explained on 
multiple occasions, they had eight weeks to resolve his complaint. And Im satisfied that TSB 
met this timescale. So it follows that I dont require TSB to do anything else.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman