DRN-4319977
The complaint
Ms K complains about the way Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) has handled a 
claim she made under a household warranty policy to have a game console repaired.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
whats happened. 
Ms K has a warranty policy for a games console  the policy is underwritten by D&G. 
The policy covers accidental damage and breakdown. 
Ms K made a claim on the policy to have the console repaired. D&Gs authorised 
repairer provided packaging instructions for Ms K to follow when sending the device 
to it for repair. And it arranged for a courier to collect it. 
The parcel was collected from her house by a courier and was delivered to the 
repairer  but the repairer said the console was missing.
Ms K says, having not had an update, she contacted the repairer who told her the 
console wasnt in the package when it took delivery of it.
Unhappy the device had gone missing, Ms K complained to D&G. D&G said it 
wouldnt provide a replacement console because it wasnt satisfied Ms K had 
packaged her console in line with the packaging instructions. It said as Ms K hadnt 
taken reasonable care, she was responsible for the console going missing during 
transit. 
Unhappy, Ms K brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator considered it and 
upheld it. He said D&G should also pay Ms K £100 compensation for not dealing with 
her claim fairly and causing avoidable inconvenience.
D&G disagreed and so, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans 
decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint  Ill explain why. 
D&G hasnt disputed its authorised repairer arranged for a courier to collect the item 
from Ms Ks house. So, Im satisfied that when Ms K gave the item to the courier  
which was on the instruction of D&Gs repairer, who is an agent of D&G  it was then 
in the care of D&G. And so, I consider it fair and reasonable that any issues with the 
security of the item whilst in transit would be D&Gs responsibility. 
But this is subject to Ms K having fulfilled her responsibilities - which was to package 
the console in line with the packaging instructions sent to her by the repairer. So, Ive 
considered whether Ms K did so. 
D&G has said the box used to package the console was too small and therefore, 
not secure. But given the console in question is a handheld device, Im not 
persuaded, having seen the size of the box, that it was unsuitable. 
D&G has also suggested that because the box was re-used it wasnt secure. But its 
not given any evidence to show how reusing a box, means its less secure than a 
new one. In any event, the packaging instructions provided by the repairer say that a 
suitably sized box or the original packaging can be used. The latter would require 
the re-using of packaging, so I dont consider it fair for D&G to make a distinction 
between reusing original packaging and reusing alternative packaging to conclude 
Ms K hadnt taken reasonable care when packaging the console.
When I consider this, along with the fact theres evidence of parcel tape having been 
used to secure the package, Im satisfied Ms K followed the packaging instructions 
and therefore, fulfilled her responsibilities. And so, I dont consider D&Gs argument - 
that Ms K is responsible for the console being lost in transit  to be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Putting things right
Its not clear if Ms K has bought a replacement console. If she has, D&G will need to 
refund her what she paid for this (subject to proof of purchase). If Ms K hasnt bought 
a replacement console, D&G must send her a replacement. 
Our Investigator said D&G needed to pay Ms K £100 compensation. Had D&G dealt 
with Ms Ks complaint fairly, the matter could have been resolved earlier on which 
would have meant Ms K would have had a replacement console at an earlier date, 
and the inconvenience of having to deal with the matter would have been avoided.  
So, Im satisfied £100 compensation is reasonable in the circumstances.  
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and direct Domestic & General Insurance Plc to: 
Provide Ms K with a replacement console, or
If Ms K has purchased a replacement console already, reimburse her the cost of this 
(subject to proof). Domestic & General Insurance Plc should pay simple interest at 
8% a year, from the date Ms K purchased the replacement console until the date 
payment is made. 
Pay Ms K £100 compensation. Domestic & General Insurance Plc must pay the 
compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Ms K accepts my final 
decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the compensation from 
the deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Nicola BeakhustOmbudsman