DRN-2760047
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B complain about Direct Redress Limited (DRL) and the invoice they received 
after they received a successful payment protection insurance (PPI) refund.
What happened
On 13 August 2019, DRL sent Mrs B a text message, inviting her to opt in to a PPI check 
service before the PPI deadline. DRL say Mrs B followed the link within this message and 
signed a letter of authority (LOA) allowing them to contact lender H on her behalf. As part of 
this process, DRL say Mrs B needed to submit an e-signature and tick a box agreeing to 
their terms and conditions.
In early 2020, lender H confirmed PPI on Mrs Bs account and requested a PPI 
questionnaire. DRL sent a questionnaire to Mrs B to complete and return. At the same time, 
Mr B and Mrs B were pursuing a critical insurance claim following an operation Mrs B 
underwent. Mr and Mrs B have said they thought the PPI questionnaire they received was in 
relation to the critical insurance claim, not a PPI claim.
Even so, this questionnaire was returned to DRL using a pre-paid envelope. DRL proceeded 
to submit a claim on Mrs Bs behalf, which was upheld by lender H in May 2020. Lender H 
made DRL aware of the successful claim and DRL invoiced Mrs B for their settlement fee, in 
line with the terms and conditions of the agreement. But Mrs B was unhappy about the 
invoice she received, so she raised a complaint.
Mrs B didnt think shed authorised DRL to make a claim on her behalf. And she disputed the 
signature on the LOA was hers. So, she didnt think it was fair for DRL to invoice her for a 
fee, when shed not seen the LOA or the accompanying terms and conditions. And because 
of this, she wanted the settlement fee to be waived.
DRL didnt agree. They explained Mrs B had signed a LOA electronically, after a text was 
sent to her active mobile phone numbers on 13 August. So, they thought Mrs B had provided 
the necessary information. And they explained Mrs B had completed a PPI questionnaire 
after this date, which had DRLs information inputted as the representative of the claim. As 
DRL had submitted the claim, they thought they were fair to invoice Mrs B for their 
settlement fee. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr B and Mrs B 
remained unhappy with this response, so they referred their complaint to us. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. Hed seen lender Hs offer 
letter, which was sent to DRL. So, he thought DRL had completed the work to obtain the 
refund. And although he recognised Mrs B disputed the signature on the LOA, he thought it 
was most likely shed signed it, as hed seen evidence from DRL to show shed accessed it 
from the link sent to her by text. Because of this, he thought DRL had acted fairly when 
invoicing Mrs B for their settlement fee and didnt think they needed to do anything more.
Mr B and Mrs B didnt agree. They maintained their view that Mrs Bs signature had been 
forged and that she hadnt provided DRL authorisation to pursue the claim. And they didnt 
think DRL had made it reasonably clear the PPI questionnaire was from them, which led to 
Mr B and Mrs Bs confusion when deciding to complete and return it. So, they wanted the 
fees to be waived. As Mr B and Mrs B didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr B and Mrs B. I dont doubt 
theres been some confusion caused by the timing of DRL requesting a signed PPI 
questionnaire, and the ongoing critical insurance claim they had ongoing. And I recognise 
they dont believe they authorised DRL to pursue a PPI claim on their behalf. So, when they 
received an invoice from DRL for a substantial amount of money, I can understand why 
theyd be left concerned an upset. But for me to say DRL should waive the settlement fee 
they are charging Mrs B, Id need to be satisfied that the work they completed had no benefit 
to the PPI claim Mrs B received. Or, that DRL werent authorised to act on Mrs Bs behalf 
when they pursued a claim. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive seen evidence to show DRL submitted a Data Subject Access Request to lender H on 
16 August, three days after Mrs Bs LOA was signed. And Ive seen lender H responded to 
this request, confirming there was PPI on accounts Mrs B held with them. Lender H request 
a PPI questionnaire to be completed, which DRL forwarded to Mrs B who completed and 
returned it. DRL sent this to lender H and shortly after, lender H upheld Mrs Bs claim and 
awarded her a PPI refund, while also making DRL aware.
So, Im satisfied DRL completed the worked needed to obtain a PPI refund on Mrs Bs 
behalf. Ive seen no evidence to show Mrs B was speaking to lender H directly about making 
a PPI claim. The other claim Mr B and Mrs B were pursuing was a claim for critical injury 
insurance, on a joint policy. The PPI refund was awarded on Mrs Bs sole policy. So, as I 
think DRL completed the work to secure the refund, I think they were entitled to invoice Mrs 
B for a settlement fee, in line with the terms and condition of the agreement. Ive seen these 
terms and the percentage DRL have charged falls in line with them.
But Im aware Mrs B disputes entering into an agreement with DRL at all. Specifically, Mr B 
and Mrs B say the signature on the LOA dated 13 August isnt Mrs Bs. So, Ive thought 
about whether I think DRL had authorisation to proceed with the claim.
DRL have explained they sent a text message to Mrs B on 13 August, offering her the 
chance to sign up to their service. This text message included a link that Mrs B could follow if 
she wished to proceed. And it also included a way to opt out of further messages, if she 
didnt want to.
DRL say Mrs B following this link, which was a unique URL, she was taken to a page which 
provided a LOA to sign. Theyve explained there was also a tick box which needed to be 
filled to say Mrs B understood that by signing the LOA, she was agreeing to the terms and 
conditions of the agreement. Ive seen the LOA also explains just above the signature box 
that by signing it, Mrs B was agreeing to the terms and conditions of the agreement. This LOA was signed on 13 August, the same day Mrs B received the text from DRL. And 
the text was sent to Mrs Bs correct number, as this was the number DRL used to speak to 
Mrs B after their invoice had been sent. The LOA wouldnt have been able to be accessed 
without following the link provided in the text. So, on the balance of probability, I think its 
most likely Mrs B did follow this link and signed the electronic LOA. And by doing so, she 
agreed to be bound by the terms and conditions of the agreement.
Im aware Mr B and Mrs B dont think this is the case. And they say the signature doesnt 
match Mrs Bs. But by suggesting this, Mr B and Mrs B are alleging DRL of fraudulently 
completing the LOA. And were unable to consider allegations of fraud at this service, as this 
is a criminal activity and we dont have the expertise to decide upon this. But I do want to 
explain that the LOA was signed electronically, using an electronic device. Because of this, I 
wouldnt expect a signature that was inputted to directly match a wet signature of a customer 
and this alone doesnt suggest to me that DRL werent authorised by Mrs B.
And further to this, Ive seen the PPI questionnaire Mrs B completed and returned to DRL. 
This included DRLs details listed in the representative section of the form. And it was 
returned using a prepaid envelope, which provided DRLs address. I think this made it 
reasonably clear to Mr B and Mrs B that the questionnaire was relating to DRL, who were 
representing Mrs B in the claim. If Mr B and Mrs B didnt think theyd authorised DRL to 
pursue this claim, Id have expected them to raise this at this point. And I wouldnt have 
expected them to return the form. While I can appreciate there was some confusion 
surrounding another claim they were making, I dont think this is DRLs fault. I think DRL 
were reasonably to assume they still held Mrs Bs authority to pursue the claim, as shed co-
operated with their request for further information. 
So, I think DRL were reasonable to submit the claim, and I think they had authority to do so. 
Because of this, I think they were fair to invoice Mrs B for their settlement fee, which falls in 
line with the terms and conditions of the agreement she held. So, I dont think they need to 
do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr B and Mrs Bs complaint about Direct 
Redress Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman