DRN-4276348
The complaint
Miss R says Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc, trading as M&S Bank, has treated her 
unfairly in relation to a transaction on her credit card which paid for flights for her and 
another.
What happened
Miss R purchased return international flights with an Airline costing a total of £2,062.44 using 
her M&S card. The return leg of the flight was scheduled for 21 August at 18:50 local time, 
due to arrive in London on 22 August 2022 at 09:55. On Miss Rs way to the airport, she was 
advised the flight had been rescheduled to depart at the estimated time of 21:20. Miss R 
boarded the flight late and further delays were incurred keeping them on the ground for 
some time before take-off. The Airline said the delay was due the changeover flight being 
delayed due to a sick passenger. It was then announced theyd be stopping off on the way to 
London to refuel due to fuelling issues the departing airport. The flight arrived at London at 
15:47 local time. The total delay being more than six hours. The Airline paid Miss R £234.70 
towards some her expenses caused by the delay, but it declined to pay her what she 
wanted. Miss R tried to get more compensation from the Airline, but it refused.
So she took the dispute to M&S in March 2023. M&S have said they couldnt raise a 
chargeback because Miss R brought the issue to them outside the time limits for a 
chargeback to be raised. It also said there had been no breach of contract because the 
delays had been caused by circumstances which were outside of the Airlines control. So 
M&S felt there was no persuasive reason for a claim to be successful under Section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Accordingly it didnt refund Miss R. She felt this was unfair, 
so she brought the dispute to this service.
Our investigator felt M&S didnt have to do anymore. And Miss R remained unhappy and so 
this complaint came to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss R used her M&S credit card to pay The Airline for the flights. This means that section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act (s.75) can apply to the transaction. This provides that where 
Miss R has a claim against a supplier of goods or services (in this case The Airline) in 
respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract she will have a like claim against M&S 
as creditor subject to the provisions of s.75. 
Also, Miss Rs M&S credit card is part of a card scheme which is operated by separate 
company. This scheme has rules which include giving M&S an avenue for card transactions 
to be disputed with the relevant merchant, such as The Airline, namely through the 
chargeback process. The decision maker on chargebacks is the scheme itself and not M&S. 
So it is possible that M&S could take Miss Rs dispute as far as it could in the chargeback 
process and Miss R still not be successful in getting a refund.
This decision is solely about M&S in relation to whether it did what it should have, and 
whether it treated Miss R fairly in consideration of her dispute with The Airline. This decision 
isnt directly about the Airline, which isnt within this Services jurisdiction for complaints 
regarding chargeback and s.75. 
Could M&S challenge the transaction through a chargeback? 
Miss R doesnt dispute that she used her M&S credit card. Nor does she dispute the amount, 
date, or any other details about the transaction itself. So I dont think M&S couldve 
challenged the payment on the basis Miss R didnt properly authorise the transaction given 
what Ive set out.
M&S is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. And it can fairly decide to not proceed at any stage if it 
doesnt think there remains a reasonable prospect of success with that particular 
chargeback.
M&S didnt raise a chargeback here because it said it was out of time. Ive considered the 
scheme rules and the significant time period between the delayed flight and Miss R 
approaching M&S. This time period is significantly outside the scheme time limits for 
chargebacks. So M&S hasnt done anything wrong by not taking the chargeback further. 
This is because had it tried to the scheme rules meant it was out of time and thus would 
have been unsuccessful. So she hasnt lost out because of M&S approach to chargeback.
Section 75
Before deciding on whether there is breach or misrepresentation here there are some 
requirements set out in s.75 which have to be met before these issues can be considered. 
One of these tests is around financial limits and having considered these I think that Miss Rs 
claim meets the financial limits criteria as it was above the minimum threshold and below the 
maximum threshold.
S.75 also requires there must be a Debtor-Creditor-Supplier arrangement in place (often 
referred to as a DCS arrangement). Having considered the facts here Im satisfied there is a 
DCS arrangement in place. Accordingly if Miss Rs claim is made out M&S can be held liable 
to a like claim to that against the Airline.
was there a breach or material misrepresentation that M&S are responsible for?
 
Im not persuaded that M&S has treated Miss R unfairly by concluding that The Airline hadnt breached the contract or made a material misrepresentation essentially for the same 
reasons as the Investigator in this case. 
An important factor in this matter is that Miss R hasnt provided any persuasive evidence of 
where M&S has treated her unfairly in its consideration of her claim to it. The onus here is on 
Miss R to show that M&S have treated her unfairly, not just that shes lost out in some way. 
Just because shes suffered these delays it doesnt necessarily follow that M&S has treated 
her unfairly in its consideration of the matter and this is the crux of the matter here. And M&S 
should only do more if the Airline is required to do more-as this is a like claim.
I also note that Miss R hasnt pointed to the contract she had with the Airline and explained 
which terms of that contract it broke. She has repeatedly pointed out to the consequences of 
the delays and the distress and inconvenience she suffered, but she hasnt demonstrated 
that these delays were the fault of the Airline or which contract terms it broke in its 
agreement with her.
Ive seen persuasive evidence that the delays were due to the presence of a sick passenger 
on board and fuelling issues at the departure airport due to the fuelling equipment at the 
airport (owned by the airport and not this Airline). Neither of these are the Airlines fault or 
responsibility, without evidence to the contrary. And Miss R hasnt provided evidence that 
the Airline caused the sickness or problems with fuelling or that it failed to take reasonable 
steps to mitigate these causing these delays.
It is also of note that the flight times do not make up part of the contract between Miss R and 
the Airline (condition 9). Also under the Airlines terms and conditions for flight cancellation 
and long delays, it explains their policy operates in line with EC Regulation No 261/2004. 
This regulation states if the air carrier can prove a defence of extraordinary circumstances, 
no compensation is payable. Article 5 (3) of the Regulation provides that compensation is 
not payable in circumstances where the carrier can prove that a delay or cancellation was 
caused by extraordinary circumstances which could not have been avoided if all reasonable 
measures had been taken.
Ive considered the evidence here and Ive not seen any persuasive evidence from Miss R 
that the Airline was at fault for the person being sick or for the equipment at the departing 
airport. And Ive seen that the Airline stopped over in order to refuel in order to get to 
London. And as Ive said, just because things went wrong, and Miss R suffered as a result of 
things going wrong it doesnt necessarily follow that M&S have more to do. So all in all Im 
not persuaded M&S have considered Miss Rs claim unfairly.
For the sake of completeness Ill address some of Miss Rs arguments. Ive considered 
everything shes said, but Ill only address her key arguments as I see them. Miss R makes 
the argument her rights have been violated by her not being able to leave the plane once 
boarding was completed. The Airline is responsible for the safety of the flight and its 
passengers and passengers do not have a contractual right to leave the plane at any time of 
their choosing. 
Miss R points to rules requiring refunds for certain delays but these apply to delays prior to 
boarding and as Ive pointed out the flight times do make up part of the contract. Miss R points out she wasnt told of some the reasons for the delays at the time. She has no 
contractual right to this information, so this doesnt make a difference.
Miss R wants a full refund, plus other costs. However the service was provided albeit with 
delay. Accordingly it would be substantially unfair to make a full refund here. All that Miss R 
would be entitled to would be any compensation commensurate with the delay suffered if 
there had been a breach of contract or material misrepresentation that made a difference. 
And Im satisfied that M&S doesnt have to do more here.
Miss R points to the customer service provided both on the flight and latterly by the Airline. 
M&S arent responsible for these. M&S can only be responsible if the Airline breaches the 
contract or materially misrepresents matters to her. And Im satisfied M&S hasnt treated 
Miss Rs claim to it unfairly.
I appreciate this is not the decision which Miss R wants to read. And although Miss R has 
made many significant arguments here and shes demonstrated that the delays had a 
significant impact on her. She hasnt been persuasive that M&S has treated her unfairly in 
considering her claim. And having considered everything she has said and indeed the 
circumstances in the round Im not persuaded that M&S has treated her unfairly. Accordingly 
Miss Rs complaint is unsuccessful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Marks & Spencer 
Financial Services Plc, trading as M&S Bank. It has nothing further to do on the matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman