DRN-2183256
The complaint
Ms V has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has unfairly increased 
the cost of her pet insurance policy. 
Background
In my provisional decision of 7 September 2020 I set out why I thought RSAs offer to pay 
Ms V £100 compensation was fair. Below is an extract of what I said:
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older and the 
cost of medical treatment rises. Standard pet insurance policies also usually wont cover any 
medical conditions the pet had or had received treatment for when the policy was taken out 
or renewed. So ongoing or recurring medical conditions wont be covered.
But some pet insurance policies, like the one Ms V took out, will continue to cover any 
medical conditions claimed for in previous years, provided the policy is renewed each year. 
These are sometimes referred to as lifetime policies, as ongoing or recurring conditions will 
continue to be covered for the lifetime of the pet, if premiums carry on being paid. Providing 
this cover is expensive and the yearly cost of these lifetime policies can go up significantly at 
renewal. And there is no limit to how much the premium could be.
RSA should have made these longer-term cost implications clear to Ms V. It has accepted 
the information it gave Ms V about the policy wasnt as clear as it should have been. But also 
says as she hasnt made a claim she could shop around for a new policy if she is unhappy 
with the cost. RSA has offered to pay her £100 as a gesture of goodwill to settle the 
complaint. 
Ms V hasnt accepted the offer and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
Its important to be clear that businesses are entitled to decide how much to charge for the 
insurance cover they provide. I dont have the power to tell a business what its insurance 
should cost. I would be, in effect, determining or telling a business how it should operate  
and thats not my role. So I cant say the cost of Ms Vs policy is too high, she should have 
been charged less for the policy or that she should be charged less in the future.
While Ms Vs premium has seen a significant increase, I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest RSA has treated her differently to how it would have treated any other policyholder 
in the same position. So I cant tell RSA to charge her a lower premium going forwards.
Ms V says RSA is penalising existing customers by offering new customers lower prices. But 
I dont think thats the case. Its not surprising a new policy is likely to be cheaper as it wont 
provide cover for any pre-existing medical conditions and therell be an exclusion period, 
which limits the risk RSA is taking. It will also consider the possibility a pet may have visited 
a vet since the policy started, without a claim being made. Any subsequent claim for 
anything related to this wouldnt be covered by a new policy but it would be by Ms Vs 
existing policy. So, the premium will reflect this additional risk. 
Ms V says in her complaint form that RSA keep reminding me that essentially I can't shop 
around because pre-existing conditions won't be covered.  
But having listened to calls between RSA and Ms V in July and October 2019 its clear that 
Ms V was aware she was free to shop around. In one call she says, there is literally nothing 
stopping me coming in as a new customer. RSAs representative agrees that she is 
welcome to do that, but Ms V comments that she doesnt want to do that as she cant be 
bothered with it. 
Ive thought carefully about what Ms V has told us about her dog visiting the vets for non-
routine treatments. But I also have to consider that in the call from October 2019 Ms V says 
that her dog hasnt had any issues that would present as pre-existing so I do have the 
freedom to move about. And although I note she mentions she feels nervous about taking a 
new policy, Ive not heard on any of the calls RSA telling Ms V that she shouldnt take a new 
policy because it might not cover a condition that is yet to present itself. I think that comes 
from Ms V being very cautious. I think she was aware she had a choice and made the choice 
to continue her policy with RSA. Ive found no evidence of RSA deliberately putting her off 
taking out a new policy either with it, or another provider. 
However, I do recognise the likely continuing increases in in future years, particularly if she 
ends up claiming on the policy, means at some point the policy might become unaffordable. 
And thats not the position she expected to find herself in when she took out lifetime cover. 
But the thing RSA did wrong was not give Ms V the information she needed when she took 
the policy out to understand she could end up in the position she now finds herself in. Where 
I find something has gone wrong, Ill look at whats likely to have happened if it hadnt, to see 
if a consumer has lost out.
Ms V chose to take out pet insurance, so she wanted some type of cover for her dog. And, 
as she chose to take out a lifetime policy, she clearly had some interest in the greater level 
of cover it provided. I recognise that its possible she might have gone with another provider 
offering a similar policy. But its impossible to know what policy Ms V would have ended up 
with  it might have been cheaper, but it might also have been more expensive. I do think its 
likely she would have been paying for some pet insurance. And its unlikely better 
information about the possible future costs of the policy would have resulted in Ms V paying 
a significantly lower amount, as providers that offer this type of insurance tend operate in a 
similar way.
And although I do think RSA should have given Ms V better information about the potential 
policy costs, I dont think she would have been particularly shocked by the premium increase 
for her 2019 renewal. I say this as I know that Ms V has complained to RSA about a similar 
increases in her premium before, so she knew this type of increase was possible and had 
decided to continue with the cover.
Having considered all of the above, I currently think RSAs offer to pay Ms V £100 is a fair 
way to settle her complaint.
I invited both parties to provide any further information they wanted me to consider
before I reached my final decision. Ms V contacted us to say she would agree to my 
provisional findings and RSA didnt have anything further to add.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive not received any new evidence, Ive reached the same conclusions I reached in my 
provisional decision, for the same reasons.
My final decision
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc should pay Ms V £100 compensation to settle the 
complaint. I dont ask it to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Hannah Eykel
Ombudsman