DRN-2844002
The complaint
Mr Ts complaint is about the refusal of a claim Guarantee Protection Insurance policy with 
Safe World Insurance Group (UK) Ltd. 
What happened
In December 2019, Mr T bought a renewable energy heating system with Contractor A.      
Mr T was unaware at the time that Contractor A had in fact already been dissolved and they 
ceased trading not long afterwards. The main work was apparently carried out by another 
contractor (Contractor B). It was Contractor B that registered the installation with the Home 
Insulation and Energy Systems Contractors Scheme (HIES) and arranged the insurance 
policy with Safe World from HIES. The policy provides an insurance backed guarantee for 
the work.  
In April 2020, Mr T noticed his radiators were constantly hot, even when the heating system
was off. He contacted Contractor B who said this was due to the central heating and water 
pipes being connected the wrong way around. They visited the property and swapped the 
pipes around, unfortunately, this made matters worse and I understand resulted in Mr T 
losing a related government grant payment (a Renewable Heat Incentive grant). 
Mr T made a claim under the policy, however Safe World declined the claim, as Mr T had 
purchased the renewable energy heat system with a credit card (and so had recourse to 
another remedy) and because the contractor named on the insurance certificate (Contractor 
B) are still trading. Safe World says the policy terms mean there is no cover for both these 
reasons.  
I understand that Contractor B and/or the manufacturer fixed the heating system in August 
2020. Mr T had also made a Section 75 claim with his credit card provider and, after initially 
refusing his claim, it has refunded the cost of the renewable system. Mr T says he intends to 
replace the heating system using this refund. 
However, Mr T is still unhappy with Safe Worlds response to the claim and the actions of 
HIES and Contractor B. He says he has suffered considerable inconvenience and additional 
financial loss, which needs to be considered.
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He explained that the contractors involved in 
installing the system and HIES are not regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
and so do not fall within our jurisdiction; so, we can only look into a complaint about Safe 
World and its handling of the insurance claim. The investigator didnt think Safe World had 
acted unreasonably. 
Mr T does not accept the investigators assessment. He has made a number of submissions 
in his initial complaint, and in response to the investigator, which Ive summarised below: 
He made a contract with Contractor A for an installation package, which included this 
insurance backed protection.
HIES and Contractor B fraudulently set up the policy in the name of Contractor B. 
There was no contract between him and Contractor B. 
HIES admitted its mistake but the investigator said he cant address that. If a 
regulated organisation issues a policy in error, that is something the regulator should 
be able to investigate. The investigator has chosen to only look at one organisation 
(i.e. Safe World) and this is unfair to him. 
In so doing, the investigator is not looking at the issue from his perspective as the 
consumer, only looking from the businesses terms and conditions and is ignoring 
how those terms and conditions came to be and the fact that he was not party to 
them. This is unfair.
How did HIES, Safe World and Contractor B collectively manage to contract an 
insurance policy (without his knowledge or agreement, and without any payment from 
him) that doesnt cover the areas that the Renewable Heat Incentive scheme 
mandates?
Safe World may not be at fault for that, but it allowed the policy to be set up 
fraudulently and it has been paid for the policy.
The credit card company only met his claim after intervention from his M.P. and this 
was after Safe World declined his claim. It is not right that it has borne the cost of this 
when it should have been covered by the insurance policy. This also means there is 
no sanction on Contractor B. 
The policy states that it is a last resort and that the normal response will be for 
HIES to ensure the contractor fixes any faults with the system. This clearly did not 
happen. The evidence is indisputable.
Mr T wants HIES to implement a proper complaints process for complaints about HIES itself,
with an escalation route to an Ombudsman; and HIES and Safe World to implement a 
process that directly links the insurance product to the installation contract. 
Safe World also responded to the investigators assessment. It says again that Mr T does 
not have a valid claim and asks us therefore to treat this complaint as frivolous and 
vexatious. 
As the investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Jurisdiction
As the investigator explained, we arent able to consider every complaint thats brought to 
us. Were governed by rules called the DISP Rules, which can be found in the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Handbook. These rules detail which businesses we can 
consider a complaint against and they also detail what type of complaints we can look at. 
In brief, we can only look at complaints against businesses regulated by the FCA and about 
an activity (which the DISP rules calls a regulated activity). This is not something we have 
any discretion about. The list of regulated activities includes the sale of insurance policies 
and effecting and carrying out a contract of insurance. It does not include providing 
installation services or guarantees. 
HIES is not regulated by the FCA (though it might be subject to regulation by another body) 
and was not carrying out a regulated activity. It purchased the insurance policy from Safe 
World on behalf of Contractor B but did not sell the insurance itself.Contractors A and B are also not regulated by the FCA and were not carrying out a 
regulated activity. This means we do not have the power to consider Mr Ts complaint about 
HIES or Contractor B. 
Safe World is however, in our jurisdiction, as an insurance provider regulated by the FCA 
and it was effecting and carrying out a contract of insurance. We can therefore look at the 
activities of Safe World  whether it should have set the policy up in the way it did and 
whether it should have covered the claim or not. 
Frivolous and Vexatious Complaint?
While I have no discretion about our jurisdiction (i.e. whether we can consider a complaint), I 
do have some discretion about whether it is appropriate to look into a complaint that is in our 
jurisdiction.
 
DISP 3.3.4A (for complaints received after 9 July 2015) provides grounds on which we may 
dismiss a complaint without looking at the merits first. Ive included the relevant section of 
DISP below:
The Ombudsman may dismiss a complaint referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service 
on or after 9 July 2015 without considering its merits if the Ombudsman considers that:      
(1) the complaint is frivolous or vexatious.
Safe World has asked me to dismiss this complaint using this discretion. 
For a complaint to be considered to be frivolous and vexatious it would generally need to 
be obviously lacking in any merit. I am not persuaded that is the case here. Mr T has cause 
for complaint against Safe World. He thinks it should have covered his claim and it 
disagrees. Even if it is determined that Safe World is correct, that would not render the 
complaint itself frivolous and vexatious. I do not intend to dismiss the complaint. 
Is Mr Ts claim covered? 
This policy provides cover in the event the contractor named in the policy goes out of 
business and is unable to fulfil any obligations it has under any guarantee it issued to the 
purchaser. 
The policy, like all other insurance policies, also contains some exclusions to that cover, 
including: Any loss where your supplier has not ceased to trade. This is because if the 
contractor is still trading, they can meet the obligations under any guarantee themselves. 
The contractor named in the policy is Contractor B and they appear to be still trading. I do 
not therefore think Safe World was unreasonable in applying this exclusion.
Mr T says he had difficulty getting Contractor B to rectify the fault and suggests Safe World 
should have done more. I understand Safe World did talk to HIES and when it was found 
Contractor B should not have registered the policy, arranged for it to agree to take 
responsibility for the guarantee Contractor A had provided. I understand the defects with 
heating system were put right in the end. While this may have taken some time, I do not 
consider this was due to anything Safe World did wrong.  
In addition, the policy also states that it excludes cover for: 
Any loss which is recoverable under any other insurance or any other source whatsoever, 
for example the Consumer Credit Act 1974, which for example, provides protection for 
payments made via a finance agreement or Credit Card.Safe World told Mr T that it would reconsider the claim, if his credit card provider didnt 
provide him with cover. I do not think this was unreasonable and I understand he has now 
had a refund of the cost of the installation from his credit card provider, so there is no other 
loss that would be covered under the policy. Mr T says this was only resolved after his MP 
intervened and at the time he made the claim to Safe World, his claim with the credit card 
provider had been declined. However, it has since been met and as there was also another 
valid reason to turn down the claim, I do not think Safe World acted unreasonably.
Policy Set Up
Mr T says the policy was sold to him as part of the installation package by Contractor A but it 
is not a regulated insurance seller. Although the policy was taken out for Mr Ts benefit, it 
was not sold to him directly. Instead it was taken out by HIES, following registration of its 
work by Contractor B. So effectively HIES purchased the policy.  
HIES is also not a regulated insurance intermediary. And even if it, or the contractors were 
acting as such, we can still not look at the complaint about their part in how the insurance 
was set up, as they are not regulated by the FCA. Mr T says HIES is responsible for issuing 
the policy and it is unfair to exclude it from our consideration but as stated above, this is not 
something I have any discretion over.  
The policy was set up by Safe World with the information provided to it by HIES. I think Safe 
World was entitled to rely on that information and I do not think it had any obligation to make 
further enquiries about the original contract for the installation works. I therefore do not think 
it was at fault for Contractor B being named on the policy. 
In addition, as mentioned, it was agreed Contractor B would take responsibility for the 
installation guarantee anyway, so Mr Ts position was not ultimately prejudiced by the policy 
not being in Contractors As name. And it seems to me, the claim still wouldnt have been 
covered (even if it had been set up in Contractor As name) as the exclusion relating to any 
potential remedy under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 would still have applied. 
My final decision
Despite my natural sympathy for Mr Ts situation, I do not intend to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman