DRN-3113351
The complaint
Mr M complains that he was mis-sold a Select Added Value Account (SAVA) by Lloyds Bank 
PLC (Lloyds) in January 2006.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I accept that Mr M has had substantial difficulties with written communication both at 
the time of sale and since. And I also accept that he had a companion with him at the sale 
who assisted him and would support his complaint.
Mr M says that Lloyds told him about the benefits of the SAVA but said they were free, and 
he didnt know he had to pay for them.
Lloyds says that it advised Mr M to take out the SAVA based on a conversation about his 
circumstances. And it says it provided all the necessary information about the costs and 
benefits of the account to him.
I cant know what was said on the day of the sale as I wasnt there, so I can only look at the 
evidence available today.
Before taking out the SAVA, Mr M had a fee free account, so he was aware of these. 
Lloyds staff at the time of sale wouldve been aware that all the written information it gave 
him would mention the cost and that it would tell him that he could close the account at any 
time. The cost of the SAVA would also appear every month on his statement. 
And Lloyds staff would not have known about Mr Ms written communication difficulties as he 
says he didnt tell them. 
So, I think its more likely than not that Lloyds staff would have told Mr M and his companion  
about the cost of the SAVA as it was part of the process and training for selling the SAVA 
and they wouldve expected Mr M or his companion to find out later anyway.
As Mr M has told us he had assistance with his affairs, I think its also more likely than not 
that he wouldve become aware of the cost soon after the sale through his statements and 
closed the SAVA if he didnt want it. But he didnt and kept it for many years.
So, although I dont doubt the honest recollections of Mr M or his companion at the time, I 
think its more likely than not that Lloyds did tell him about the cost and the benefits at the 
time or soon after. And he knew he had a choice whether to take out the SAVA and he 
chose to do so.
The SAVA cost £7 a month and its benefits included AA car breakdown cover, mobile phone 
insurance, Sentinel card protection, a £50 interest free overdraft, and a home shopping and 
travel service.
Mr M says that the car breakdown service wasnt suitable for him as he didnt own a car or 
drive. But the AA service covered him if he was a passenger in a car. And he went on to use 
the service on multiple occasions. He also used the mobile phone insurance on several 
occasions, and he benefited from the interest free overdraft.
So, Im not able to say the SAVA was unsuitable for him or that he didnt know about the 
benefits, or that he wasnt told about anything that might have put him off.
So, although I know Mr M will be disappointed, in my view I dont think Lloyds did anything 
wrong in this sale and so I cant uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman