DRN-2240438
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken in 
1996. Mr W says MBNA Limited mis-sold him the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr Ws 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here. Mr W 
said he took the card online, but MBNA has provided a copy of his postal application form.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr Ws representatives disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ws. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Ws complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think MBNA made it clear Mr W didnt have to take the PPI and he chose to take it. I 
say this because he hasnt said anything to make me think this wasnt made clear. Also 
his card application form had a Payment Protection Insurance section with boxes to tick 
to say either yes or no to the cover. On Mr Ws form the yes box was ticked, and I 
think he wouldve known the no box should be ticked instead if he didnt want the cover.
MBNA didnt recommend the PPI to Mr W - so it didnt have to check the PPI was right or 
suitable for him. But it did have to give him enough clear and timely information so he 
could decide for himself if it was right for him.
Its possible the information MBNA gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose to take it and I dont think he wouldve taken it without 
some understanding of the cover it provided - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. His employment situation wouldnt have made it hard for him to claim and he 
hadnt any health issues the policy excluded. He wasnt affected by the significant 
exclusions or limits on the cover and it wasnt fundamentally wrong for him.
Overall, I dont think it likely the cover was too dissimilar to what its likely Mr W, from the 
information he had, thought he was buying. From what hes told us, aside from statutory 
pay he wouldve got only one months full and one months half pay as sick pay from his 
employer - and didnt have anything else, like savings, to pay his card if he couldnt work. 
So the PPI benefit wouldve been useful for him. Also it looks like the PPI was affordable. 
With all this in mind, I dont think Mr W wouldve declined the cover had MBNA done 
anything more.
While the policy contained limitations or exclusions on claims relating to back and mental 
health conditions, excluding clams for mental health issues for example, in light of 
Mr Ws circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations and exclusions, the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. So I think he wouldve still 
thought he had some good reasons to take the policy.
Overall, I consider Mr W wouldve still taken the PPI. It was sufficiently close to what its 
likely he thought he was getting and, given his circumstances, I think it couldve provided a 
useful benefit at what couldve been a difficult time if hed lost his job or become too sick to 
work. And, in those circumstances, I think he wouldve taken the policy in any event.
Mr Ws representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant MBNA should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
Mr Ws representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Ws individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Ws particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint. For the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. This means MBNA doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 October 2021. 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman