DRN-2779638
The complaint
Miss B says Everyday Lending Limited (ELL) trading as Everyday Loans lent to her 
irresponsibly and harassed her when she had problems making her repayments. 
What happened
Miss B took out a 24-month loan for £2000 on 25 April 2019. The monthly repayments were 
£178.04. I understand there is an outstanding balance.
Miss B says ELL shouldnt have considered the loan to be affordable for her. And when she 
was unable to make payments it started to contact her relentlessly; one specific employee 
was patronising and bullied her calling her work number on one occasion (after saying this 
would only be used once at the point of application); and it failed to provide details of its 
complaints process.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that Miss Bs complaint should be upheld. He said ELL 
had carried out proportionate checks and there was nothing in the information it gathered 
that should have led it to make a different lending decision. 
He said from the notes showing the contact (attempted and actual) between ELL and Miss B 
he couldnt conclude ELL acted unfairly. It was attempting to secure payment and once ELL 
was made aware Miss B didnt want to be contacted at work it removed that number from 
her account. He accepted ELL didnt provide details of its complaints procedure when Miss B 
first asked, but it later rectified this, and the delay hadnt impacted Miss Bs eligibility to 
complain.  
 
Miss B accepted the adjudicators finding that the loan was not lent irresponsibly, but she 
strongly disagrees that ELL treated her fairly once she had problems making her 
repayments.
As agreement could not be reached the complaint was passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
As Miss B has now accepted that the loan wasnt lent irresponsibly I will comment no further 
on this part of her complaint.
I have reviewed the customer contact notes from ELL and the email Miss B sent in more 
recently, as well as her response to the adjudicators view. Id like to start by saying Im sorry 
that things were so difficult for Miss B, and that she had to deal with a sad loss and health 
struggles at the same time. Ive looked carefully at the issues she has raised.
It seems to me ELLs contact strategy was reasonable given the status of Miss Bs account. 
And it only called her work number once and this was because it couldnt generate a 
response from Miss B using any of her other contact options. It later removed her work 
number from her contact details when Miss B made clear she didnt want it to be used 
ongoing.
I accept ELL failed to provide details of its complaints procedure when Miss B first asked, 
and this is poor service. But it seems it apologised for this (I only have the start of the 
relevant email) when it later supplied the details. I would add that its complaints procedure is 
set out on its website, so it was always available to Miss B. As the delay didnt impact Miss 
Bs eligibility to complain I cant see she has lost out because of this failure.  
With regards the ongoing contact from an employee Miss B asked not to deal with, I can see 
he emailed on 8 October 2019 when Miss B hadnt responded to a number of failed contact 
attempts, and I note she says he attempted to call her on 21 January 2020 when she then 
reminded ELL by email she didnt want to deal with him. The lender has not provided any 
testimony about why the employee called on that date. I understand this may have been 
distressing for Miss B but I havent seen any evidence of correspondence or contact that 
were inappropriate. 
ELL has provided recordings of what it says are all the calls the employee made to Miss B, 
including voicemail messages left for her. I have listened to these and found the employee to 
be polite and helpful on all occasions. And I have to consider that as Miss B had breached 
the terms of her loan contract, and frequently did not return the lenders calls, it was entitled 
to try to resolve how her debt would be repaid. I havent found any evidence that it didnt 
respond positively and sympathetically when she explained she was having financial 
difficulties and was going to enter a debt management plan.
Miss B has provided email evidence showing she told ELL she was not happy with the threat 
of a home visit, but this evidence doesnt include ELLs threat that she refers to. And it has 
said that whilst it does at times carry out home visits the purpose is to re-establish contact 
not to take payments, but it did not do so in this case.  
So, overall, whilst I understand the process has distressed Miss B, based on the available 
evidence I cant fairly conclude that ELL made any errors that remain in need of correction. It 
follows I am not instructing it to take any further action. I would remind ELL of its ongoing 
obligation to treat Miss B positively and sympathetically whilst she is having financial 
difficulties.
My final decision
I am not upholding Miss Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman