DRN-4344032
The complaint
Mr P has complained about the way Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance (BPF) administered two fixed sum loan agreements he has with it.
What happened
In February 2022 Mr P bought a device using a fixed sum loan agreement with BPF. The 
device cost around £1,050 and Mr P made an up-front repayment of around £45 and was 
due to make payments of around £40 for two years. 
Mr P bought another device in September 2022 and as part of the process he traded in the 
device he bought under the first agreement. The trade in is something the device 
manufacturer offers. He says the trade in process he used meant hed receive £550 for the 
first device. The device cost around £1,450 and the trade in value was put towards the 
second agreement, meaning he borrowed around £900.  Payments were around £40 per 
month. 
Mr P says he found out in November 2022 he had two credit agreements active because the 
trade in value was used to reduce the second agreement. But he says the trade in value 
should have been put towards the first agreement. He says he thought BPF should have set 
things up under one loan. He says the device manufacturer told him it would sort things out, 
but this never happened. Mr P says the impact of this is that it has affected his credit file and 
his ability to gain credit. He says had he been offered something called a flex loan he 
wouldnt have had this issue. He says the hard search and extra credit account has put him 
at a disadvantage. He says the device manufacturer should settle his first credit agreement 
and update his credit file. 
Unhappy with what happened, Mr P complained. BPF responded to say Mr P agreed with 
the trade in value, and that this amount was deducted from the second credit agreement. It 
said both agreements were valid and so didnt uphold his complaint. Mr P referred his 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
One of our investigators looked into things but didnt uphold the complaint. He said hed not 
seen any evidence Mr P was told the trade in value would be used to reduce the first 
agreement. He said hed not seen evidence this had negatively impacted Mr P, and that BPF 
had explained there were no negative markers on his credit file. He said BPF acted fairly by 
keeping the first agreement open because the full balance hadnt been paid off. 
Mr P didnt agree. He said the correct procedure was to apply the trade in value to the first 
agreement. He said BPF should have checked his existing loans and offered him something 
called a flex loan. He says BPF shouldnt have started a new credit agreement. 
Our investigator asked for some further information from BPF about whether Mr P ought to 
have had the option to put the trade in value towards the first agreement. BPF responded to 
say customers are asked whether they want to put the trade in value towards their existing 
credit agreement. When the customer chooses no theyre shown how the trade in value is 
applied and if they decline it, it states they are responsible for making sure they close out the 
old loan. 
Our investigator put this to Mr P but he said that option wasnt presented to him. 
As things werent resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P bought the devices using fixed sum loan agreements with BPF. These are regulated 
consumer credit agreements, and our service is able to consider complaints relating to these 
sorts of agreements. This decision is focussing on the way the trade in has impacted the 
credit agreements because this is the complaint Mr P raised that BPF has had the chance to 
consider. 
Its important to note that Im considering a complaint against BPF and not the supplier 
(device manufacturer). While I may be able to hold BPF responsible for antecedent 
negotiations carried out by the supplier prior to him entering into the agreement, I cant 
generally hold it responsible for the suppliers actions after that agreement was entered into. 
Ive not seen that Mr P has lost out financially with regards to the total amount hes paying 
for the devices. I note the trade in value was put towards the second agreement. But Mr P is 
unhappy the trade in value wasnt put towards the first agreement. 
In September 2022 Mr P owed around £700 towards the first agreement, so the trade in 
value wouldnt have settled the loan. But Mr P is saying the loan should have been 
restructured so that he would have had one agreement. This would have been for the price 
of the first phone (around £1,450), plus what wouldve been the difference between what he 
owed on the first agreement (around £700) and the trade in value - £550. 
The problem that I have is that I simply dont have sufficient evidence Mr P selected to have 
the trade in applied to the first agreement, or that he selected to have some sort of flex-loan. 
BPF explained he would have been given the option to put the trade in to the first 
agreement, but Mr P said he wasnt. The evidence is conflicting. Not everyone trading in a 
phone would have bought it under a credit agreement, so youd expect there to have been 
different options when undertaking the trade in. But Ive not seen that Mr P received 
something he didnt select. 
I can see why Mr P would have wanted the trade in put against his first agreement. Had 
things worked as he says they should have done, he would have only had one repayment to 
make. As it turned out, he now has two payments and two credit agreements on his credit 
file. But the total amount of credit is the same as it would have been, even if it was under 
one agreement. Hes not shown us that this has caused him detriment. Moreover, BPF was 
offering further credit to him, so its likely he would have had another search carried out 
before it agreed to do that, so I dont think hes lost out in that regard either. 
All things considered, I sympathise with Mr P. It looks like he was told that this could be 
sorted out. But I cant see that was done by BPF. Hes paying slightly more monthly (until he 
pays off the first agreement, which is due to happen naturally in a few months time). But the 
total amount payable is correct. Hes not lost out there. Ive not seen enough to show he was 
misled or that BPF has acted unfairly. It wouldnt be fair to direct BPF to settle the first agreement because then Mr P would benefit twice for the trade in. So I dont find I have the 
grounds to direct it to take any action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman