DRN-2844252
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain AXA Insurance UK Plc have unfairly declined their buildings 
insurance claim.
All references to AXA also include its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again in 
full. Below is a summary of events that form the complaint.
In January 2020, Mr and Mrs A notified AXA they were beginning work on an 
extension to their property
In January 2021 Mr and Mrs A noticed raw sewage was building up in their garden. 
After calling someone out to investigate, it was discovered the damage was due to a 
broken underground pipe and chamber lid
Mr and Mrs A had repair work completed and contacted AXA to make a claim for 
accidental damage on their buildings insurance policy
AXA declined the claim as it said an endorsement applied to the policy where 
accidental damage claims were excluded during renovation work
Mr and Mrs A said the renovation works had been completed in June 2020, and a 
certificate of completion issued in October 2020. They said the renovation works 
werent related to the damage and work on the extension had been completed 
several months before the issues presented themselves
AXA said its decision to decline the claim remained the same. It said Mr and Mrs A 
were responsible for contacting AXA to inform them when renovations were 
complete. As they didnt, the endorsement still applied
Mr and Mrs A werent happy with AXAs response. They said they were told by AXA 
the claim would have been accepted had they called to inform them the extension 
work had been completed
Our Investigator recommended we uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint. He said Mr and Mrs A 
had a duty to inform AXA when the works were completed. But Mr and Mrs A provided clear 
proof the works were completed by October 2020, several months before the accidental 
damage claim in January 2021.  As the accidental damage hadnt occurred while work was 
being carried out, he didnt think it was reasonable for AXA to apply the endorsement to 
decline the claim. 
He recommended AXA consider the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of 
the policy and pay Mr and Mrs A £200 compensation for its handling of the claim.
AXA didnt agree with our investigator. It said as Mr and Mrs A didnt notify it the works had 
completed; the endorsement would still apply. AXA also said the claim wouldnt have been 
automatically accepted if Mr and Mrs A informed them the work had been completed. 
It said its underwriters would need to review any information that changed the footprint of the 
property and assess a change in risk, which couldve meant a change in the terms of cover.
In response to AXAs points, I asked it to provide clarification of what its underwriters actions 
would have been had Mr and Mrs A contacted it regarding the work being completed  and 
how this would have impacted or altered the policy. AXA have not provided me with any 
response.
I will now consider everything in my final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
AXA declined the claim due to an endorsement which says accidental damage is 
excluded on all sections of the policy while renovations are being completed. The 
endorsement says this remains in place until it is informed by the policyholder 
renovations have been completed
I agree Mr and Mrs A needed to inform AXA when renovation work had completed  
and at the time of the claim, they hadnt
However, Mr and Mrs A provided proof renovations had been signed off as complete 
by their Local Authority in October 2020, around two months before the claim
There also doesnt appear to be any suggestion from either party that the damage is 
related to the extension work
So, while Mr and Mrs A hadnt informed AXA the work was completed, it has 
provided sufficient proof to show the work was completed previously. So, as it is 
unrelated to the claim, I dont think it fair or reasonable for AXA to apply the 
endorsement to decline the claim
AXA said its underwriter would have needed to assess the risk, following completion 
of the extension, but I havent seen anything that shows me this was ever 
communicated or discussed with Mr and Mrs A prior to the work beginning
I asked AXA to provide clarification of what its underwriters actions would have been 
had Mr and Mrs A contacted it regarding the work being completed  and how this 
would have impacted or altered the policy
AXA have not provided me with this information, and so it hasnt proved the lack of 
notification has had any bearing on the claim now madeConsidering everything Ive set out above, I think AXA should deal with the claim 
under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy
I also think AXA should pay Mr and Mrs A £200 compensation, as this fairly reflects 
the inconvenience they have been caused by AXAs handling of the claim
Based on all the evidence available to me I uphold this complaint.
 
Putting things right
To put things right AXA should:
Deal with the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, 
without the renovation endorsement,
Pay Mr and Mrs A £200 compensation - as I think this fairly reflects the 
inconvenience they have been caused
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint against AXA Insurance UK Plc
To put things right AXA Insurance UK Plc should do as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman