DRN-2140877
The complaint
Mrs H says Provident Personal Credit Limited, trading as Satsuma (Satsuma), 
irresponsibly lent to her. Mrs H says she had a poor credit history which cannot have been 
checked. She was in a desperate situation and the high interest loan didnt help her financial 
situation. 
What happened
This complaint is about one short-term loan Satsuma provided to Mrs H in March 2018.    
Mrs Hs borrowing history is a follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 04/03/2018 25/03/2019 12 £410.00 £68.06
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Hs complaint. The adjudicator didnt think it would have 
been proportionate for Satsuma to have asked Mrs H for the amount of information needed 
to show the lending was unsustainable. 
Mrs H disagreed. She said she had two other similar complaints already upheld by this 
service. She said there were no checks around her debts or request for bank statements. 
The high cost credit interest didnt help her financial situation. 
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs H 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Mrs H could sustainably repay her loan  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Hs complaint. Having done so, Ive decided not 
to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mrs H has said she had two other similar complaints upheld by this service. I should say 
that this service looks at each complaint on its own particular merits and circumstances. 
So, while I appreciate what Mrs H has said about this, I will only be considering this 
complaint on its own individual merits. 
Satsuma has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving the 
borrowing. It asked Mrs H about her income and expenditure. She confirmed she had a 
monthly income of £2,100. After taking into account Mrs Hs outgoings her disposable 
income was £1,098 (which Satsuma reduced to £1,002 after making its own checks). And 
using these figures for its income and expenditure checks, Satsuma deemed the monthly 
repayments of £68.06 to be affordable to Mrs H. 
And given this was the first loan Mrs H had taken with Satsuma, I think the checks it 
carried out were sufficient at such an early period in the borrowing relationship. I wouldnt 
have expected it to have carried out any further in-depth checks or taken additional steps 
to verify the information it had. I think it was reasonable for Satsuma to have relied upon 
that information in making its decision about whether to lend to Mrs H. 
I do accept its possible that Mrs Hs financial circumstances werent correctly reflected in the 
information she provided, or the information Satsuma obtained as a result of its own checks. 
Mrs Hs actual financial position may well have been apparent if further information  such 
as bank statements or more in-depth credit checks  had been obtained.
But Satsuma could only make a decision based on the information it had available at the 
time. And as it was still in the early stages of the lending relationship, I dont think it reached 
the stage where there was a greater risk of the loan being unsustainable for Mrs H. From the information available, the loan repayments appear to be affordable and sustainable for     
Mrs H. 
Overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Satsuma did for this loan was 
proportionate and it was reasonable for it to have concluded the lending was affordable for 
Mrs H. I think its decision to lend to Mrs H was reasonable. 
Im sorry to hear Mrs H has been struggling financially, and I appreciate my findings are 
likely to disappoint Mrs H, but I hope my explanation will help her understand how Ive 
reached this conclusion. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2020.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman