DRN-3693532
The complaint
Mr M, through his representative, complains that Loans 2 Go lent to him without carrying out 
correct checks and so lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr M was approved for one loan on 24 September 2021 for £1,000 with eighteen 
repayments of just over £205 each month. The total to repay was £3,700.08. Mr M has 
repaid around £1,850 (at August 2022) and so the loan remains outstanding. 
Loans 2 Go used information it obtained from Mr M and it carried out a credit check, the 
results for which were sent to us and have been reviewed. 
In the final response letter (FRL) to Mr M from Loans 2 Go, it gave reasons why it did not 
uphold his complaint so Mr Ms representative referred it to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service.
One of our adjudicators did not think that Loans 2 Go had done anything wrong, Mr Ms 
representative asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint but sent no further 
documents to support his claim. 
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, what I need to consider 
in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are whether 
Loans 2 Go completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr M would 
be able to repay in a sustainable way? And, if not, would those checks have shown that 
Mr M wouldve been able to do so?
If I determine that Loans 2 Go did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr M and 
that he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The rules and regulations in place required Loans 2 Go to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ms ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Loans 2 Go had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for 
Mr M. In practice this meant that Loans 2 Go had to ensure that making the payments to the 
loan wouldnt cause Mr M undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr M. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the circumstances of the consumer (e.g. 
their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or 
financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same 
customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint. Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint 
and I explain here. 
Mr Ms application has details to show that Mr M told Loans 2 Go he earned £2,500 a month 
and had declared around £880 each month for his expenses. Whereas checks carried out by 
Loans 2 Go seemed to come up with a  much lower income figure of around £1,466 
(rounded) each month and for his expenditure Loans 2 Go calculated it was around £1,010. 
And it was those figures it used and still the £205 each month for this loan looked affordable.
Loans 2 Go carried out a credit search and Ive reviewed the set of results it received. I can 
see that in late 2017 and 2018 Mr M seemed to have been having some trouble repaying 
debt as he had £6,239 in defaulted accounts most of which date back to 2017 and 2018, and  
some of which had been settled and others not. 
Loans 2 Go was correct in its FRL to Mr M where it states that there were no requirements 
for a potential lender to look at a persons bank account statements. And here it did not do 
so. And yet the credit file plus the discrepancy in his income declaration was discovered with 
its own checks and so the verifications it carried out appear to have been effective. If these 
income and outgoing figures (set out in the FRL) were incorrect for Mr M, his representative 
has not told us that and Mr M has made no mention of it nor have we received any financial 
evidence of his circumstances at the time of the loan. 
So  on current evidence and considering the checks Loans 2 Go carried out I consider that 
proportionate checks were made for a £1,000 for a new customer over a relatively modest 
term length and I do not uphold his complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman