DRN-3538844
The complaint
Mr F complains that Bank of Scotland plc hasnt done enough to help him recover money he 
paid for flight tickets he couldnt use.
What happened
Mr F has a Bank of Scotland credit card. In February 2020 he used the card to pay an airline 
(R) for flights later in the year. But after Mr F paid for the tickets the government restricted 
ordinary movement due to the Covid-19 pandemic. It also advised against all but essential 
travel and imposed an isolation period on returning travellers.
Mr F felt he needed to comply with the government advice. He was unable to get a refund 
from R, so he approached Bank of Scotland to see if he could get his money back.
Bank of Scotland looked into the possibility of raising a chargeback through the MasterCard 
card scheme. But the bank decided this wouldnt be successful, as R could show the flights 
went ahead and were non-refundable in the event of customer cancellation. Bank of 
Scotland told Mr F it wasnt liable to him for the claim and that it couldnt help. Mr F was 
unhappy with the banks position and complained. Bank of Scotland offered Mr F £50 in 
respect of problems with the way it handled his claim, but didnt change its overall position. 
So Mr F referred matters to us.
Our investigator didnt think Bank of Scotland had dealt with Mr F unfairly. It had considered 
whether it could recover his payment using the chargeback process, and had reached a 
reasonable conclusion based on what looked to be a valid defence under that process. The 
response was consistent with Covid-19 guidelines issued by MasterCard at the material 
time.
The investigator also examined the terms of the contract between R and Mr F, to see if the 
circumstances gave rise to a claim against Bank of Scotland under the connected lender 
liability provisions of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. He noted that the 
circumstances in Mr Fs case were such that R hadnt made any misrepresentation or 
breached its contract with Mr F. So he didnt recommend any additional compensation.
Mr F didnt accept the investigators conclusions and has asked for this review. He maintains 
that the position is unfair and that hes being penalised for abiding by the letter of the law.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Let me say, from the outset, that I understand Mr Fs concern hes paid money for flights he 
was unable to take through no fault of his own. Hes currently out of pocket and Im sure in 
his position Id share his strength of feeling and sense of injustice that hes lost out because 
hes followed the rules.
That said, I cant say that this makes it fair for Bank of Scotland to refund him, or that it 
should be able to recover the money on the basis hes lost out. It would only be fair to do so 
if Bank of Scotland was in some way responsible for Mr Fs loss  perhaps due to the way in 
which it handled his request for assistance, or because of some other liability it has accrued.
Mr F used a credit card to pay R directly for the flights, which meet the financial limits of 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. In simple terms, this means if Mr F has a claim 
for breach of contract or misrepresentation against R, he has the same claim against Bank 
of Scotland. However, I cant see that R misrepresented the position to Mr F. And given that 
the flights went ahead, it doesnt appear to have breached its contract with him either.
With this in mind I dont think theres a basis for Bank of Scotland to have a liability under 
section 75. While I fully recognise that Mr F was adhering to government guidance against 
all but essential travel, the flights he booked were non-refundable and went ahead despite 
the pandemic. Unfortunately, the government guidance made no provision for customers to 
be entitled to a refund in such circumstances. 
Its possible that following the government advice might amount to the contract being 
frustrated rather than breached, but even that isnt clear-cut, given that the flights went 
ahead. Its also worth noting that in October 2021 the Competition and Markets Authority 
(CMA) concluded its investigation into the stances taken by certain airlines such as R, 
saying that the law does not provide passengers with a sufficiently clear right to a refund in 
these unusual circumstances to justify continuing with the case.
The other mechanism available to Bank of Scotland to recover Mr Fs payment to R was 
through the chargeback process, which enables  in certain circumstances  cardholders to 
resolve disputes they have with suppliers. So thats what Bank of Scotland did. It raised a 
chargeback claim, under a suitable reason code, submitting what Mr F had told it in 
evidence.
But the rules under which Bank of Scotland is able to make a chargeback claim also permit 
R to defend it. Bank of Scotland took the view that because the flights went ahead, there 
was no basis for a successful chargeback claim. Bank of Scotlands actions were in line with 
the card scheme guidance. In my opinion it was entitled to take the view that pursuing 
chargeback further was unlikely to lead to a successful outcome.
With this in mind, I dont believe it would be right for me to find that Bank of Scotland treated 
Mr F unfairly in declining to meet his claim. Thats not to say that Mr F might not be able to 
persuade a court that he should receive a refund, depending on the arguments made. As I 
understand it, the position taken by R hasnt been tested in a court of law. Its not for me to 
venture an opinion on any prospect of success Mr F might have should he seek to progress 
a legal claim. Given the lack of clarity around the subject matter (and the possible costs 
involved) Mr F should take independent legal advice if this is something he intends to 
pursue.
Bank of Scotland did acknowledge that it ought to have been clearer about the reasons why 
it couldnt help Mr F to recover his money. It credited his account with £50 in recognition of 
any inconvenience. I think thats fair in the circumstances. Theres nothing to suggest that if 
the bank had explained things more clearly the claim outcome would have been any 
different.
My final decision
I sincerely hope Mr F is able to achieve a resolution to his underlying dispute with R. I do 
sympathise with his situation, which is truly unfortunate. But having reviewed matters I dont think theres any basis on which I could say Bank of Scotland plc has treated him unfairly or 
dealt with his request in a way that might suggest it would be fair for it to refund him, or pay 
him further compensation. So I regret to say that I cant uphold his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman