DRN-3197794
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with Startline 
Motor Finance Limited was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
On 14 February 2020, Mr C was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase 
agreement with Startline. He paid a deposit of £4,000 and the agreement was for £8,530.75 
over 36 months; with 35 monthly repayments of £276.78 and final payment of £277.78. At 
the time the car was just over three years old and had done 42,000 miles.
Within a few days of collecting the car, Mr C wasnt happy with the miles per gallon (mpg) 
fuel consumption  he said the manufacturer advertised 42-52mpg, but he was getting 24-
26mpg. He said he tried to return the car to the supplying dealership, but they told him hed 
lose £1,000 if he did this.
Mr C arranged to have the car inspected and he complained to Startline. Startline obtained a 
report from an independent engineer and, following this report, Startline said they didnt think 
there was a fault with the car. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr C 
wasnt happy with this response, and he brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said the report Mr C had done in February 2020 indicated that a fuel 
pressure sensor may need replacing, and that the ECM software should be updated. 
Whereas the independent engineers report of August 2020 said there were no faults with 
the car, and that the average combined fuel consumption was 36.23mpg. And Mr C had a 
further diagnostic report completed in December 2020, which showed a fault code for fuel 
pressure, but had no conclusions.
The investigator said that the mpg figure quoted by the manufacturer was for a new car, 
driven under ideal conditions. But she said that the actual mpg achieved would depend on 
several factors, including driving style, acceleration, distance, use of air conditioning and/or 
heating, fuel type, and driving type (urban etc.) She also said that a used car would be less 
fuel efficient than a new car.
After considering all the reports, the investigator said she found the independent engineers 
report the most persuasive, as it was based on a two-day, 200-mile road test, with both 
urban and motorway driving. And she said that this didnt find any fault with the car. So, she 
wasnt persuaded there was a fault with the car when it was supplied, and she didnt think 
Startline needed to do anything further.
Mr C didnt agree with the investigator. He said the fault showed approximately 40% of the 
engine management cycle which correlates with the excessive fuel consumption. Meaning it 
was intermittent but costly. And he didnt think his expectation for fuel consumption were 
unreasonable. Because of this he thought the dealership had lied to him and hes asked for 
an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr C was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to investigate complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, 
Startline are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale; and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also says that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, where 
a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed that the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Startline can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified 
after the first six months, its for Mr C to show that it was present when the car was supplied. 
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr C took possession of it, and this made the car not 
of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask Startline to put this right.
There have been three different reports done on the car. The first report, dated 25 February 
2020, was completed by an independent manufacturer specialist. This report was a vehicle 
heath (diagnostic) check. The report said there was a fault code for fuel rail pressure low 
which was cleared. It said this fault code may have been caused by a faulty fuel pump or 
sensor. And it recommended the fuel sensor was replaced and the ECM software updated. 
At the time of this inspection, the car had done 44,080 miles.
The second report was from the independent engineer, dated 24 August 2020. The engineer 
did a 200-mile road test, to assess the fuel consumption. The first 100-miles was urban 
driving, and the second 100-miles was motorway driving. The road test was done from a full 
tank of fuel and, at the end of the test, the fuel was refilled. The engineer said that the car 
had used 25.60 litres of fuel and had covered a total of 204 miles. Which meant that 
combined urban and motorway fuel consumption had been 36.23mpg. At the time of this 
inspection, the car had done 47,246 miles. 
The engineer concluded that there were no faults identified during the road test. The 
engineer has also confirmed that their duty is to the courts. And not to the person who 
instructed or paid for the report. So, Im satisfied that this report is reasonable to rely on.
The third report is a diagnostic print-out, dated 14 December 2020. This says that a fault has 
been found but doesnt clearly identify what this actual fault is. The report says this fault first 
occurred on 27 November 2020, when the car had done 49,779 miles. It also says that, of 
the 254 operational cycles since the fault was first found, only 34 have an active fault.The first report makes no reference to what fuel consumption Mr C was achieving from the 
car, and no road test was undertaken. The report is inconclusive as to what caused the fault 
code, and by clearing the code it was no longer available for checking on future inspections. 
Ive noted that, at the time of this report, Mr C had had the car for around two weeks and had 
done around 2,000 miles in that time.
In contrast, the report from the independent engineer considered the actual fuel 
consumption. Which was checked over a 200-mile combined driving road test. There were 
no fault codes, which would mean that the code the first inspection cleared six-months 
earlier hadnt reappeared, even though the car had done another 3,166 miles.
The third report has no information relating to who carried it out, or even on what car it was 
carried out on. The specific fault isnt identified, but the report is clear that it first occurred on 
27 November 2020. And, with it only occurring on 34 of 254 operational cycles; the fault is 
also clearly intermittent. And this report makes no reference to fuel consumption.
While there was a fault showing on the first report, this fault was cleared and hadnt 
reappeared by the time of the second report, some six-months later. And the fault showing 
on the third report, a further four-months later, is showing as being a new fault that first 
occurred in November 2020  nine months after Mr C was supplied with the car. So, under 
the CRA, Im satisfied that that the first fault didnt make the car of an unsatisfactory quality 
when supplied as it was cleared and didnt reoccur. And Im also satisfied the second fault 
wasnt present or developing when the car was supplied, as it first occurred in November 
2020. So, having taken account of what the CRA says, Startline dont need to do anything.
Im aware that Mr C isnt unhappy with the fuel consumption  hes getting 36.23mpg on a 
combined driving cycle, instead of the 42-52mpg the manufacturer was advertising for a new 
car driven under ideal conditions. The actual mpg achieved can be affected by a number of 
factors including how the car is driven, how much weight the car is carrying, prevailing traffic 
conditions, prevailing weather conditions, length of trip, tyre pressure and condition, and use 
of things like air-conditioning and heaters. Its also the case that a car can become less fuel-
efficient over time, because of things like carbon build up in the engine.
Because of this, I dont think that the 36.23mpg Mr C is achieving for a car that was three 
and a half years old, and had done over 47,000 miles, is so unreasonable that Startline 
should take any action. So, and while I appreciate this will come as a disappointment for Mr 
C, I wont be asking Startline to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint about Startline Motor Finance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman