DRN-3295705
The complaint
Mr H complains TSB Bank plc didnt help him enough when he said he was having problems 
receiving one-time passcodes. He says that this meant he wasnt able to access his account 
on multiple occasions over a significant period of time.
What happened
Mr H has a number of accounts with TSB, including a credit card account. He was living in 
the UK when he originally opened his credit card account. He now lives in America. He was 
able to use the credit card account without issue for a number of years after moving.
In July 2020 Mr H complained to TSB saying that he couldnt log into his credit card account 
online as he wasnt receiving one-time passcodes TSB had recently introduced. This meant 
he wasnt able to download statements either.
In August 2020 TSB emailed Mr H to say that it had changed its processes for customers 
who wanted to use its online banking in order to implement strong customer authentication. 
TSB said that these changes involved, amongst other things, sending a one-time passcode 
to their customers mobile phone so that they could authenticate themselves. TSB said that it 
could only send one-time passcodes to UK mobile phone numbers  meaning that it couldnt 
send one-time passcodes to American and Canadian numbers, amongst others. TSB said 
that Mr H could get himself a UK registered mobile phone number if he wanted to log into his 
online banking. Alternatively, TSB said Mr H could use its telephone banking service and / or 
switch his statements back to paper statements in order to manage his credit card account. 
Finally, TSB said that Mr H could consider whether other banks able to provide international 
accounts might be more suitable for his banking needs. In the meantime, TSB said it was 
looking into solutions.
In September 2020 TSB emailed Mr H to say that it had come up with a solution and was 
now able to send one-time passcodes to America and Canada numbers. TSB offered Mr H 
£100 in compensation as a goodwill gesture for the distress and inconvenience hed 
experienced in the meantime. TSB says Mr H was able to log into his online banking shortly 
after. Mr H was unhappy with TSBs response saying that the experience had made him 
anxious and nervous about using other websites and online services, and that he found the 
whole affair traumatic. He said TSBs offer was nuisance money and complained to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Hs complaint and said that they thought TSB had 
done enough to put things right, so they didnt recommend TSB paying more than the £100 it 
had offered as a gesture of goodwill. Mr H said that that the compensation hed been offered 
didnt reflect the trauma hed been through. So, Ive looked into his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H opened his credit card account several years ago when he was living in the UK. He 
subsequently moved to America but was able to continue using the account without issue for 
some time. That is until TSB made changes to its processes for customers who wanted to 
use its online banking. Those changes involved, amongst other things, sending a one-time 
passcode to their customers mobile phone so that they could authenticate themselves.
TSB has told us that it made changes to its processes in order to implement new regulations 
that came into effect in September 2019 that affected the whole banking sector  namely the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs). Those regulations required payment service 
providers (PSPs) to apply strong customer authentication in certain circumstances. Those 
circumstances are set out in in Article 100 of the regulations which says:
A payment service provider must apply strong customer authentication where a 
payment service user
(a) accesses its payment account online, whether directly or through an account 
information service provider;
(b) initiates an electronic payment transaction; or
(c) carries out any action through a remote channel which may imply a risk of 
payment fraud or other abuses.
The FCA gave PSPs until March 2020 to implement strong customer authentication for 
online banking and has given the e-commerce industry until March 2022 to implement strong 
customer authentication for online payments. The e-commerce industry includes card 
issuers, payment firms and online retailers. There was, of course, nothing to stop firms 
bringing in strong customer authentication sooner than that, if they wanted to do so.
The Payment Services Regulations  which implemented an EU Directive from 2015 
commonly known as the revised Payment Services Directive  define strong customer 
authentication as:
authentication based on the use of two or more elements that are independent, in that 
the breach of one element does not compromise the reliability of any other element, 
and designed in such a way as to protect the confidentiality of the authentication data, 
with the elements falling into two or more of the following categories
(a) something known only by the payment service user (knowledge);
(b) something held only by the payment service user (possession);
(c) something inherent to the payment service user (inherence);
In short, strong customer authentication involves, amongst other things, checking that the 
person accessing a payment account online or initiating an electronic payment is permitted 
to do so. PSPs have to authenticate the person in question using factors based on 
knowledge, inherence or possession and must use at least two independent factors 
when doing so. They cant, for example, check using only knowledge based factors, but 
they can check using one or more knowledge based factors and one or more possession 
based factors. Mr H is unhappy that TSB wasnt able to send one-time passcodes to his 
mobile number or landline number when it first introduced changes to its processes because 
they werent UK numbers.
TSBs approach to implementing strong customer authenticationI dont think it was unfair or unreasonable of TSB to implement strong customer 
authentication  its an important measure to help combat fraud. Nor do I think it was unfair 
or unreasonable of TSB to use one-time passcodes to help prove possession.
I accept that TSB was only able to send one-time passcodes to UK mobile numbers when 
Mr H originally complained. I also accept that TSB was aware that it had a small number of 
customers who lived abroad who didnt have a UK mobile number, and that it was working 
on solutions too. Finally, I accept that TSB came up with a solution that worked for American 
numbers within two months of Mr H complaining  in other words, by September 2020.
Given what Ive just said, I believe I need to decide whether or not TSB ought as a matter of 
fairness to have come up with a solution before Mr H complained or not. If I dont think it 
ought to have done so, I believe I still need to decide whether or not TSB coming up with a 
solution within two months of Mr H complaining was in all the circumstances fair and 
reasonable. Before deciding either issue, Id like to explain what the FCA has said about 
strong customer authentication and its expectations.
What has the FCA said about strong customer authentication and its expectations?
The Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA) has published several papers about strong 
customer authentication and its expectations and it has written to firms about this too. In a 
paper published in June 2019  Payment Services and Electronic Money  Our Approach  
the FCA described its approach to the PSRs and payment services and e-money related 
rules in its Handbook. In paragraph 20.21 of its paper the FCA said:
We encourage firms to consider the impact of strong customer authentication 
solutions on different groups of customers, in particular those with protected 
characteristics, as part of the design process. Additionally, it may be necessary for a 
PSP [Payment Service Provider] to provide different methods of authentication, to 
comply with their obligation to apply strong customer authentication in line with 
regulation 100 of the PSRs 2017. For example, not all payment service users will 
possess a mobile phone or smart phone and payments may be made in areas without 
mobile phone reception. PSPs must provide a viable means to strongly authenticate 
customers in these situations.
The FCA has, in my opinion, made it clear in its paper and elsewhere that businesses 
shouldnt rely on mobile phones alone to authenticate their customers and should provide 
viable alternatives for different groups of customers. The FCA has, in my opinion, also made 
it clear in this paper and elsewhere that this includes people who dont possess a mobile 
phone or a smart phone and not just those who cant use one. The FCA has talked, for 
example, about managing the potentially negative impact of strong customer authentication 
on different groups of customers particularly the vulnerable, the less digitally engaged or 
located in areas with limited digital access. And the FCA has also talked about the need for 
firms to develop strong customer authentication solutions that work for all groups of 
consumers and has said that this means they may need to provide several different 
authentication methods for your customers.Why is Mr H complaining?
Mr H isnt complaining about the fact that hes unable to authenticate because he doesnt 
have a mobile or isnt able to use a mobile. Hes complaining about the fact that he doesnt 
have a UK mobile and that at the time he complained TSB wasnt able to send one-time 
passcodes to non-UK mobiles. As Ive already mentioned, that means I have to decide:
whether or not TSB ought as a matter of fairness to have come up with a solution 
before Mr H complained; and / or
whether or not TSB coming up with a solution within two months of Mr H complaining 
was in all the circumstances fair and reasonable. 
Should TSB have done more for Mr H?
Mr H complained to TSB that he wasnt able to receive one-time passcodes in July 2020. I 
can see that he didnt use his credit card on a regular basis, and Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that he spoke to TSB before then. In the circumstances, Im satisfied that this is 
when he began experiencing problems. Our investigator asked Mr H if he had problems 
before then  he wasnt able to say for sure but agreed that if he complained in July 2020 the 
problems likely began then.
As Ive already mentioned, I accept that TSB was aware that a small number of its 
customers lived abroad and didnt have a UK mobile number, and so werent able to receive 
one-time passcodes when they were initially introduced. I also accept that TSB was looking 
into solutions when Mr H complained. TSB has, however, also told us that Mr Hs account is 
meant for UK residents only, and that its website explains that a customer must be over 18 
and a UK resident in order to apply. In addition, TSB has told us that there are some 
services its unable to offer non-UK residents and that sending text messages to America 
involved adhering to lots of US regulations amongst other things. TSB has told us, because 
of this, it wasnt unreasonable for it not to have been able to send one-time passcodes to 
foreign numbers when one-time passcodes were initially introduced.
I accept some  but not all  of TSBs points on this question. Mr H, for example, was clearly 
eligible when he originally applied for the account. And he didnt have any problems 
continuing to use it when he moved to America. But as Ive said to Mr H, I dont think TSB 
acted unfairly in this case, or did anything wrong as not having an immediate solution for 
foreign mobile numbers wasn't unreasonable. I say that because I dont think it was 
unreasonable of TSB to design its strong customer authentication processes principally with 
their UK customer base in mind and based on the assumption that their customers would 
likely have a UK telephone number (either a mobile or a landline) and that the account was 
meant for people who were UK resident. In the circumstances, Ive also said to Mr H that I 
dont think it would be fair to ask TSB to do more - they offered Mr H compensation as a 
gesture of goodwill. Ive also said to Mr H that I agree with him that £100 could be seen as 
"nuisance" money if TSB had done something wrong, but I don't think they have so I dont 
see it that way. In short, I accept that TSBs offer was a gesture of goodwill. I remain of that 
view, and so also agree with our investigator that it wouldnt be fair to ask TSB to do more in 
this particular case. That means that Mr H will have to contact TSB if, on reflection, he now 
wishes to accept its gesture of goodwill.
My final decision
My final decision is that TSB Bank plc has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle this 
complaint as a gesture of goodwill. Mr H should contact TSB Bank plc directly if he wishes to 
accept this gesture of goodwill.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2022.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman