DRN-2783341
Complaint
Ms S has complained that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA) as the insurer, should accept 
the responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA in my decision. 
Background
The PPI was sold to Ms S over the phone in 2003, after taking out her store card in 2002. 
The PPI covered her in the event she was off work due to illness or lost her job. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
On 24 March 2021, I issued my provisional decision. In my provisional decision I explained 
that I agreed with the outcome reached by the adjudicator. But I provided some further 
clarification and gave Ms S and AXA an opportunity to respond. Below is an extract of what I 
said:
Ms S says she didnt agree to the PPI and it was added without her knowledge. AXA, on the 
other hand, says the PPI was sold to Ms S during a telephone call and it would have gained 
her consent before adding it to Ms Ss store card. Unfortunately, AXA hasnt been able to 
provide a call recording or a copy of the call script used at the time of the sale. This isnt 
surprising given the sale took place 18 years ago. Therefore I dont know what was said to 
Ms S when the policy was sold. So, Ive had to base my decision on what I think is most 
likely to have happened at the time of sale.
It looks like Ms S initially applied for her store card without PPI, and AXA phoned her less 
than a year later to sell her a policy. Following that call, a policy was added to her store card. 
At the time of sale, Ms S already had use of her card for some time before the PPI was 
added to it, so I think its likely she would have known she didnt have to have PPI with her 
card. Ms S also would have started paying for the PPI from March 2003 onwards. Had the 
PPI been added to her card without her knowledge, I would have thought shed question the 
additional charges sooner than she did. Overall, I dont think Ive seen enough in this case to 
make me think the policy was added without Ms Ss agreement. Instead, I think its more 
likely than not Ms S agreed to take it out, knowing that she didnt have to.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Ms S. So it didnt have to check if the policy was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Ms S got the information she needed to decide if it was 
right for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Ms S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But Ms S doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things the policy 
didnt cover  such as pre-existing medical conditions and unusual employment 
circumstances. I also havent seen anything to suggest the policy wasnt affordable for Ms S.
Ms S has told us she would have been entitled to 16 weeks full pay from her employer if she 
was too unwell to work and her job came with income protection insurance, critical illness 
cover and a redundancy package.  She also says she had around £2,000 in savings which 
was earmarked for holidays, but she says could have been used for her other financial 
commitments. In addition to this, she says she was living with her parents at the time of sale 
and as a result, would have had sufficient disposable income available to her to cover her 
store card repayments. She says this shows she didnt need the PPI. 
Having thought about what Ms S has said about her sick pay, redundancy pay and her 
savings, I dont think this means she wouldnt have found the policy useful. I say this 
because the PPI would have paid out in addition to any sick pay Ms S would have received 
from her employer and would have potentially paid out for longer than she would have 
received full pay  up to 12 months. The PPI also would have paid a benefit if Ms S was ever 
made redundant, in addition to any redundancy payment she would have received from her 
employer and for up to 12 months. It also would have enabled Ms S to use her savings to 
cover any other financial commitments she may have had at what could be a difficult time.  
Ive also thought about what Ms S has said about living with her parents and the fact that 
she says she had plenty of disposable income available to her. While I dont doubt what 
shes told us, I dont think this means the PPI wouldnt have been useful for her. If Ms S 
wasnt working due to ill health or redundancy, her disposable income would reduce once 
her contractual sick pay and redundancy pay entitlement ended. Given the PPI would have 
paid a benefit at a time when Ms Ss income would have reduced or ceased, I still think the 
PPI would have been useful for her. 
Finally, Ive considered what Ms S had told us about having other insurance policies in 
place. She said she already had critical illness cover and income protection through her 
employer which she could have relied on in the event she was unable to work. 
Having thought about what Ms S has said about her critical illness cover, Im not persuaded 
this shows she didnt need the PPI. This type of policy offers a different type of cover than 
PPI and generally would only pay out in the event of serious illness. As the PPI would have 
paid out if Ms S lost her job or was unable to work due to any illness, I think this shows she 
could have found the cover useful if she ever fell on hard times. 
Turning to Ms Ss point about having income protection in place. In order to consider 
whether the income protection cover she said she had would make a difference to the 
outcome of this complaint, we asked Ms S for some additional information about the cover. 
In response, Ms S sent us some evidence showing she currently has an income protection 
policy through her employer and provided us with some details. Ms S says the income 
protection became effective from week 26 of sick leave and would pay 50% of her income 
until she returned to work. She has also told us that she would have been paid statutory sick 
pay after week 16 (end of full sick pay) until week 26 where the income protection benefit 
would start. 
This suggests that if Ms S was off work due to ill health for more than 16 weeks, there would 
be several weeks where Ms S would only be paid the equivalent of statutory sick pay, where 
after her income would increase to a maximum of 50% of her salary. So, in the unfortunate 
event of a long-term illness, there wouldve been periods where her income wouldve been 
substantially less (or a maximum of 50% of her salary) if she wasnt able to work  despite 
having an income protection policy in place. So, I dont think this shows she wouldnt have 
found the PPI a useful thing to have.So overall, I think Ms S could have found the policy useful if she ever fell on hard times and I 
dont think that any better information would have put her off from taking out the policy.
I asked everyone to send me any further comments and information before I reached a final 
decision.
AXA didnt respond with anything further for me to consider. However, Ms S responded 
saying she was disappointed with the pending outcome. In summary, she said she had tried 
multiple times to complain when she found out about the policy and had it cancelled. She 
said that she was passed between different businesses. She feels that had this complaint 
been handled properly at the time, then there would have been evidence such as a call 
recording or transcript to prove she had not agreed to taking out PPI.
In addition, she has said that the provisional decision states she would have received 
documentation after taking out the policy, but she never did. She says had she received it, it 
would have highlighted the inappropriate adding of a product to her. Ms S also expressed 
her disappointment, given she had had a similar complaint with another business and this 
was upheld.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case. 
I understand Ms S has said she feels some evidence may have been available had she not 
been passed from one business to another to complain. However, in my role I take into 
account the available evidence and our general approach to these types of complaints and 
come to an impartial decision as to whether I think the business did anything wrong. In 
complaints where there is limited evidence available, I have to base my decision on what I 
think is most likely to have happened at the time of the sale. 
In reviewing Ms Ss complaint, unfortunately AXA hasnt provided a call recording or a copy 
of the call script used at the time the PPI was sold to her. So I dont know what was 
discussed. But I do know that at the time of the sale, Ms S already had had use of her card 
for some time before the PPI was added to it. So I think its likely she would have known she 
didnt have to have PPI with her card. Ms S also would have started paying for the PPI from 
March 2003 onwards. Had the PPI been added to her card without her knowledge, I would 
have thought she would have questioned the additional charges sooner than she did. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think Ive seen enough to make me think the policy 
was added without Ms Ss agreement. Instead, I think its more likely than not Ms S agreed 
to take it out, knowing that she didnt have to. While I appreciate this will come as a 
disappointment to Ms S, Id like to reassure her that I have considered what shes told us 
and come to a fair outcome based on what Ive seen.
Ive taken into account Ms Ss other comments, including what she has said about receiving 
a refund for PPI with another business. But the refund Ms S received isnt relevant to her 
complaint about AXA as I am only able to consider all of the information about the PPI taken 
out with her store card in 2003. So this point doesnt change my conclusion. 
For the reasons set out above, Ive reached the same conclusions I came to in my 
provisional decision, for the same reasons. So I dont uphold Ms Ss complaint.My final decision
For the reasons set out above and within my provisional decision, I dont uphold Ms Ss 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Donna Parsons
Ombudsman