DRN-3221749
The complaint
Mr R complains he was unable to used TSB Bank Plcs online banking facility for around five 
days in April 2018. Mr R also complains he was unable to use his debit card. 
What happened
Mr R has an account with TSB. In 2018 TSB changed the system it uses to administer 
customers accounts. Between 20 April 2018 and 24 April 2018 TSBs online banking facility 
was unavailable to Mr R whilst it carried out maintenance and upgrade work. TSB says it 
provided advance notice to its customers of the planned maintenance. 
Mr R has told us that there was a day in April 2018 when he was unable to use his debit card 
despite having cleared funds in his account. 
In 2020 Mr R complained about the difficulties hed experienced accessing his TSB account. 
TSB sent Mr R a final response and apologised for any inconvenience caused. TSB gave 
information about its systems changes and how they impacted account access during the 
period in question. TSB paid Mr R £50 in recognition of the inconvenience caused. 
Mr R referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
TSB had dealt with Mr Rs complaint fairly and didnt ask it to take further action. Mr R asked 
to appeal so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSB accepts there were periods in 2018 where its systems were down or very limited. And 
its clear that impacted Mr Rs ability to access his account for around five days in April 2018. 
Mr R has also told us he was unable to use his bank card for a day. 
TSB says it gave advance notice of the systems changes and work it intended to complete. 
Information was given in branch and also made available via online banking in the period 
before the systems work was completed. TSB has sent us a copy of the information it 
provided to customer and Im satisfied it clearly explains what was going to happen and how 
customers accounts would be impacted. I understand Mr R doesnt recall seeing this 
information. But Im satisfied TSB did make it available via its online banking facility as 
claimed. 
I dont doubt that Mr R was unable to access online banking for some days. And whilst TSB 
hasnt found any evidence to support Mr Rs claim, I also accept he had problems using his 
bank card. But Mr R hasnt told us about any financial losses or wider difficulties he 
experienced by being unable to access his account for around five days. So whilst I agree 
there was some inconvenience, it appears reasonably limited in nature. 
TSB paid Mr R £50 and apologised for the inconvenience caused when it responded to his 
complaint. Im sorry to disappoint Mr R, but Im satisfied the compensation paid by TSB fairly 
reflects the inconvenience caused. As Im satisfied TSB dealt with Mr Rs complaint fairly Im 
not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint because TSB Bank plc has already paid 
a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman