DRN-3513698
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that National House-Building Council (NHBC) hasnt treated them 
fairly after they made a claim on their building warranty policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P brought a new build property in 2009. The property was covered by a ten-year 
building warranty policy. During the first two years of cover, they experienced damp in their 
en-suite due to water ingress via the roof.
The builder of the property is responsible for putting right any defects or damage identified 
during the first two years of cover. However, NHBC may offer its resolution service if theres 
a dispute between the builder and the homeowner. Should NHBC do so, and if certain 
requirements are met, NHBC becomes responsible for putting the issues right.
Mr and Mrs P notified NHBC of the damp in 2015, after the builders attempts to resolve it 
had been unsuccessful. 
Between 2015 and 2017, NHBC issued three resolution reports requiring action from the 
builder. However, the underlying problem remained unresolved. So, in 2018, NHBC took 
responsibility for the issue and appointed one of its contractors. NHBCs repairs were 
thought to be successful, and in March 2018, NHBC issued a fourth resolution report 
requiring the original builder to rectify the internal damage.
After the builders internal repairs, the damp reappeared. In November 2018, NHBC issued a 
fifth resolution report. NHBC thought the damp related to a separate issue (an uninsulated 
gutter detail) which the builder was previously meant to investigate. NHBC also noted that 
some of the internal repairs were poor. NHBC required the builder to undertake the gutter 
detail investigations and rectify the poor internal finishing.
NHBC says, in 2019, further investigations and works were undertaken by the builder, and in 
October 2019, the builder confirmed all the works were complete. NHBC says Mr and Mrs P 
next made contact in September 2020, as the damp had again returned. NHBC told them it 
couldnt offer any further assistance. Mr and Mrs P made a complaint.
In February 2021, NHBC responded to Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. NHBC said the builder has 
provided evidence the gutter insulation is in place, and further investigations are now needed 
to establish the cause of the returning damp. NHBC also offered £450 compensation for 
wrongly advising it was unable to help further and for its delay in arranging those further 
investigations.
Mr and Mrs P referred their complaint to our service. Whilst the complaint was waiting to be 
considered by one of our investigators, NHBC undertook the further investigations and 
further repairs were subsequently scheduled.
In February 2022, NHBC updated our service. NHBC explained the repairs were underway, 
but they had since been halted by Mr and Mrs P as they were unhappy with the scope of 
work.
NHBC explained its investigations had found the water ingress had reoccurred because a 
membrane had only been patch-repaired. NHBC said localised repairs would resolve that 
issue. NHBC clarified that its not repatching any areas, but completely removing and 
replacing any repairs previously undertaken. 
However, Mr and Mrs P remained unhappy with the scope of work because it had also been 
found there was no vapour control layer (VCL) on the roof, and NHBC wasnt intending to 
install one. 
NHBC explained the missing VCL wasnt the cause of the water ingress above the en-suite, 
and whilst it would include a VCL in the areas its now repairing, it has no liability to install a 
VCL throughout the remainder of the roof. NHBC said, unless Mr and Mrs P allow it to 
complete the repairs that are covered, it would have to offer a cash settlement for its 
remaining liability.
One of our investigators has since considered Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. She thought NHBC 
should have taken responsibility for resolving the issues before 2018, and that matters were 
unreasonably delayed after its fifth resolution report. She recommended the compensation 
be increased to £600. However, she thought NHBC had acted fairly in respect of the 
proposed scope of work and the VCL.
NHBC accepted our investigators findings. But because Mr and Mrs P remained unhappy, 
their complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs P would like the VCL issue to be rectified throughout their 
roof. However, NHBC is only liable for the issue that was raised with the builder during the 
first two years of cover, i.e. the water ingress above the en-suite. I havent seen anything 
that shows the missing VCL in other areas of the roof is contributing to the water ingress 
above the en-suite.
The missing VCL was identified after the policy had expired. But even if NHBC had identified 
the VCL was missing after it became involved in 2015 and before the policy expired, during 
the last eight years of cover, the defect must be causing damage for the policy to assist. 
I havent seen anything that shows the missing VCL, in the areas not being repaired by 
NHBC, has led to damage.
I also havent seen anything that suggests NHBCs latest scope of work wont rectify the 
water ingress issue above the en-suite. As such, I cant reasonably decide NHBCs 
proposed remedy is unreasonable. 
Mr and Mrs P would now like a cash settlement, so they can arrange the repairs themselves. 
However, NHBC will only need to pay them the amount it would have paid its own 
contractors for the remaining repairs on its latest scope of work.I acknowledge the issue has been ongoing for ten years, which has affected Mr and Mrs Ps 
enjoyment of their home and caused them upset. But NHBC didnt cause the original defect 
and nor was it responsible for the builders original workmanship. NHBC also wasnt made 
aware of the issue until 2015, and since then its been trying to help resolve it. 
Theres the question of whether NHBC should have taken responsibility before 2018, given 
the builder hadnt rectified the issue as required by the resolution reports. Theres also the 
question of whether NHBC did enough in its attempts to repair, given its repairs werent 
successful. However, whilst its not disputed that NHBC could have done some things 
differently, Ive not seen its overall actions or attempted repairs were unreasonable.
So, for those reasons, Im not further increasing the compensation award. Overall, I consider 
the £600 recommended by our investigator to be fair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint in part. My final decision is 
National House-Building Council should:
- complete the remaining repairs as per its latest scope of work, or if Mr and Mrs P 
prefer, pay them the amount it would have paid its contractors to complete those 
repairs; and
- pay Mr and Mrs P £600 compensation, in total (if £450 has already been paid, a 
further £150 would be due).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman