DRN-4483450
The complaint
Mr C complains about the service he received from Santander UK Plc when he phoned it on 
three occasions. 
What happened
Mr C phoned Santander on three separate days in early March 2023. On each occasion he 
wanted information about direct debits that were set up on his Santander current account. Mr 
C was unhappy about how each of the calls were handled by the Santander advisers, and so 
complained to Santander.
 
Santander didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. The complaint handler said they listened to the 
three calls made by Mr C and said while they appreciate the problems this situation caused, 
they didnt agree it was because of a mistake on Santanders part. Santander said its 
advisers tried to assist Mr C with his queries, but it thought Mr C did not treat its staff with 
courtesy and his language and behaviour was inappropriate.
 
Mr C remained unhappy and so brought his complaint to this Service. He said one of the 
advisers he spoke to was a complete disaster and didnt transfer his call when he requested 
she do that. Mr C said Santander caused him a lot of distress over a period of time, as well 
as causing a considerable waste of time. He asked for Santander to pay £100 compensation 
for the trouble and upset caused. 
Our Investigator looked into Mr Cs complaint but didnt uphold it. He said Santander said it 
wouldnt have any information about the payment of direct debits until they are taken from Mr 
Cs account. Our Investigator said it would have been the supplier of the goods or services 
that the direct debits are paying for that wouldve had the information Mr C wanted.
  
Mr C didnt agree with what our Investigator said so this came to me for a decision. 
I contacted Santander and requested the relevant call recordings, which it provided. 
I issued a provisional decision on 11 November 2023. I said that I intended to come to the 
same conclusion as our investigator, but I had relied on new information. I gave both parties 
the opportunity to respond. 
Santander responded and said it accepted my provisional decision. 
Mr C also responded and said that one of the direct debits was payable to his Santander 
credit card, and as Santander were the provider of the goods and services, then the adviser 
should have been able to provide details of that direct debit. Mr C also said he would have 
expected the adviser to make an educated guess regarding the direct debit due to a different 
provider. Mr C said he feels strongly that the advisers failed to provide him with basic 
information requested and caused a considerable level of emotional distress and wasted his 
valuable time.
I am now in a position to issue a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it might help here if I clarify that, broadly speaking, direct debits are agreed between a 
consumer and the third-party business being paid to provide them with a product or service. 
The third-party business then contacts the consumers bank to collect varying amounts of 
money, often monthly, from the consumers account. What this means is that its unlikely an 
adviser from the bank will know the amount to be collected, or indeed the date it will be 
collected, until the third-party business contacts it with a request for collection and the 
payment is made. 
Ive mentioned this here because I can see that Mr C rang Santander to get information 
about his direct debits. But the advisers didnt have all of the information Mr C wanted and, 
for the reasons outlined above, I wouldnt necessarily expect them to. 
Ive listened to the three calls made by Mr C to the Santander advisers. I can hear that he 
wanted specific information about direct debits that he expected to come out of his current 
account soon. Mr C told this Service the advisers were unhelpful and didnt give him the 
information he needed. 
Looking at how the advisers behaved towards Mr C, I can hear from the calls that Mr C 
became agitated with each of the advisers, raised his voice, talked over them and, with two 
of the advisers, questioned their ability to speak English. In spite of this, I can hear that the 
advisers continued to behave professionally and tried to help Mr C with his queries. 
Mr C was unhappy that he had asked one of the advisers to transfer his call, but she didnt. I 
think it was reasonable for the adviser not to transfer the call at that point. Mr C wanted to 
speak to someone else as he thought the adviser didnt know what she was doing. But I 
think it was clear she was trying to deal with his query, and it was reasonable for her to carry 
on doing this  during the time she put Mr C on hold, she spoke to several colleagues and 
tried to get an answer to Mr Cs query. 
This same adviser then made the decision to end the call with Mr C after he made several 
requests to be put through to someone who spoke English. I think its fair to say the call had 
become unproductive, due to Mr Cs behaviour towards the adviser, so Im satisfied it was 
reasonable for the adviser to end the call. 
I realise this meant Mr C didnt get the information he wanted, and Ive no doubt this was 
inconvenient for him. In particular because, on one of the occasions he rang, he wanted to 
make sure he had enough money in his account to cover a payment that Santander had told 
him by text would be taken out of his account that day. But Mr C didnt let the Santander 
adviser finish trying to deal with his query on that occasion and Mr C ended the call. So I 
dont think Santander made any errors here, as the adviser wasnt given the opportunity to 
finish helping Mr C with his query. 
Although Mr C also complained about an earlier call to Santander, I can hear from the call 
that the adviser was able to provide him with the information he requested about his 
Santander credit card direct debit, as she was able to access his credit card statements. 
When he responded to my provisional decision, Mr C said he hadnt been provided with this 
information, but I dont agree thats the case. The adviser initially couldnt find the information 
when looking at Mr Cs bank account information, but she then accessed his Santander 
credit card statement and provided Mr C with the answer he wanted. Overall, I think the advisers tried to help Mr C. But it was the case that two of them simply 
werent able to provide him with what he wanted, and Mr C also ended one of those calls 
while the adviser was still trying to help him. When he responded to my provisional decision 
Mr C said he thought the advisers should have made an educated guess, based on a 
previous bank statement, about when the direct debits were likely to have been taken out. 
But the issue here is that two of the calls were abruptly ended  one by Mr C and one, 
justifiably, by an adviser  so there was no opportunity for the advisers to finish looking into 
Mr Cs requests. 
While I dont doubt Mr C was inconvenienced, I could only award compensation if I thought 
Santander made an error and was responsible for what he experienced, but Im satisfied 
thats not the case and Im not asking it to do any more here. 
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman