DRN-3312800
The complaint
Mr G has complained about the way Barclays Bank UK Plc dealt with a request to port 
(transfer) his mortgage onto a new property.
Mr G has several complaint points:
an inability to contact anyone and the unavailability of mortgage advisers in his local 
branches;
Barclays failure to recognise that, under the terms of his previous mortgage, he was 
allowed to port it without fuss. Instead, Barclays treated the simple porting request as a 
full new mortgage application;
Barclays requirement that his partner should sign a document giving priority to Barclays 
charge over any interest she might have in the property;
Barclays use of the ridiculously inflexible DocuSign system where forms have to be 
signed online and there is no ability to correct them.
To settle the complaint, Mr G wants a formal written apology and an acceptance from 
Barclays that its process was inappropriate for him and his porting entitlement. Mr G also 
wants Barclays to change its processes to recognise different entitlements that have ended 
up with Barclays through company takeovers. 
In addition, Mr G wants Barclays to review and correct flaws in its DocuSign system. 
Furthermore, Mr G would like Barclays to recognise that it has customers who do not bank 
with Barclays but who have ended up as customers simply because of company takeovers. 
Finally, Mr G wants Barclays to pay him compensation, including loss of the use of £49,600 
that he used to pay off the mortgage, as well as the interest at 8% per annum which he 
earned on that money in a stocks and shares ISA.
What happened
Mr G had a mortgage originally with another lender, which was taken over by Barclays in 
2012. Mr G has sent us his original mortgage offer dated 12 April 2007. He had originally 
borrowed £150,000 over a 16-year term on a capital repayment basis, but later changed this 
to interest-only whilst the mortgage was still with his original lender. The mortgage was on a 
lifetime tracker which will be less than 0.9% above the Bank of England Base Rate for the 
period of the loan. There was no early repayment charge (ERC) for repaying all or part of 
the loan at any time during the term.
Mr G has sent us a single page of the terms and conditions which says:
Transferring the loan
During the mortgage term if the mortgage offer states that your loan is 
portable you may transfer your loan (or any part of the loan which is stated to be 
portable in the mortgage offer) to another property you want to buy. You can only 
do this if:
a. You are eligible for the mortgage under and subject to our prevailing lending 
policy (including for example, our minimum loan to value requirements) at the 
time of your application to transfer the loan (or any part of it);
b. You have kept to your responsibilities under the agreement; and
c. We accept the new property you plan to buy.
If the new loan you want is for less than the amount needed to repay the loan in full, 
you will have to pay an early repayment charge (if it applies) in line with the mortgage 
offer illustration. If the mortgage offer states that your loan is portable, you can 
transfer to another property in this way. (my emphasis)
Due to the passage of time, Barclays no longer has the mortgage documentation. However, 
the mortgage offer Mr G has sent us makes no mention of the mortgage being portable.
In the special conditions to the mortgage offer it is stated:
 If any other person living in the property when the loan completes is over 17 
years old they must fill in and sign a deed of consent and ask for separate legal 
advice about the deed, if appropriate
In the autumn of 2020 Mr G decided to move house. He wanted to port the mortgage onto 
the new property, but hadnt yet decided on which property to buy. At the time, he owed just 
under £50,000 on the mortgage, with interest payments of about £40 per month.
Initially Mr G had difficulty contacting anyone at Barclays to discuss the mortgage, but on 
28 October 2020 he spoke to Barclays. Mr G didnt think it was necessary for there to be a 
full application, and explained that he had sufficient income and funds to repay it any time he 
wanted to. Mr G wasnt happy that Barclays required a full application but decided to 
proceed in any event.
The application was agreed in principle, and on 2 November 2020 the bank explained to 
Mr G that there were various documents hed need to sign, as well as a deed of consent for 
his partner to sign, as she would also be living in the property.
On 3 November Mr G emailed Barclays, expressing his dissatisfaction with the way things 
were being dealt with. In particular, Mr G didnt think it was necessary for him to have to go 
through a full application process and said he was entitled to port his mortgage, which is 
what he was promised when the mortgage was taken out.
Mr G was also unhappy with Barclays online DocuSign system, which didnt allow him to 
make any changes to the documents.
Mr G also objected to his partner having to sign a form giving priority to Barclays charge. I 
am buying my house, as I did my present home, in my sole name and whom I choose to 
invite to come and stay with me is my business and no-one else [his partner] has no actual 
or implied rights or interest in my main home and shall never acquire any such right. To state 
that she shall have to sign a document that waives her squatters rights in my new home is 
an absurd and wrong proposition. In doing so, it recognises her presence in my property and 
may imply current rights of residence which she certainly does not own.Mr G thought Barclays enquiries into his financial position were intrusive and unnecessary, 
and was dissatisfied that mortgage business was centralised, so he couldnt go into a branch 
and speak to someone. 
In his email of 3 November 2020 Mr G said he didnt want the application to proceed until 
hed decided on a property to buy. On 28 November 2020 Mr G told Barclays he no longer 
wanted to proceed with the application. Mr G sold his property on 26 March 2021 and repaid 
the mortgage to Barclays.
On 9 November 2020 Mr G brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Once Barclays had responded, an investigator looked at what had happened, and noted that 
in its response to us Barclays had offered compensation of £150 for the inconvenience 
caused to Mr G as a result of the difficulties he had in contacting the mortgage centre. The 
investigator thought this was fair and didnt think Barclays needed to do anything further. He 
was satisfied Barclays was justified in requiring Mr G to make an application to port the 
mortgage onto his new property.
Mr G disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. He said that he didnt 
think the £150 offered by the bank reflected the magnitude and content of the complaints 
hed made, nor the significant and unfair stress, inconvenience, uncertainty and frustration 
that hed suffered. Mr G clarified that he was complaining about being unable to speak to 
anyone either on the phone or in a branch about porting his mortgage, about the porting 
application and about Barclays complaints procedure.
Mr G reiterated his criticism of Barclays having a centralised mortgage business and also 
said that his original mortgage conditions clearly state an entitlement to port. He said 
Barclays should have a process for existing customers porting applications and not put 
people through a start from scratch application process.
Provisional decision
On 3 February 2022 I issued a provisional decision in which I made the following findings.
Ill begin by explaining the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service and the extent 
of my remit. 
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I 
think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to 
consider it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I 
think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and 
decide whats fair in the round.
We have no regulatory function; thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA); nor are we a consumer protection body. Were an alternative dispute 
resolution body; an informal alternative to the courts for financial businesses and 
their customer to resolve their differences. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without 
interference from anyone else. That means I dont have to address every individual 
question or issue thats been raised if I dont think it affects the outcome.
Ill also explain that I cant tell Barclays what processes it should have in place, or 
what systems it should run to handle documentation. So although Ive noted Mr Gs points about what he perceives to be flaws in Barclays DocuSign system, I dont 
have any power to tell Barclays to change this.
Similarly, I cant tell Barclays that it should not follow its regulatory obligations under 
the Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (MCOB) when 
considering mortgage applications.
I will also mention that a complaint about Barclays complaint-handling isnt 
something thats covered under our rules, as its not a regulated activity. Barclays is 
entitled under FCA regulations to eight weeks to respond to a complaint. I note Mr G 
escalated his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service six days after he first 
raised it with Barclays on 3 November 2020.
Turning now to the issues that I am able to consider, Mr G very recently sent us his 
mortgage offer from 2007. After considering this, I have departed from the 
conclusions reached by the investigator and so am issuing a provisional decision.
Porting allows an existing borrower to move to a new house, repay the existing 
mortgage and apply for a new mortgage, with the existing interest rate being applied 
to the equivalent amount that was outstanding on the previous mortgage. Any 
additional borrowing would have to be on one of the lenders current products. So 
what is being ported is not the mortgage, or the debt owed under it, but the interest 
rate product which applies to the mortgage. Most often it applies to fixed-rate 
products which have an ERC; by porting, the borrower can avoid paying an ERC on 
the amount of the previous borrowing thats ported onto the new mortgage.
Mr G says that the terms and conditions that applied to his mortgage with the 
previous lender gave him an entitlement to port his mortgage onto a new property. I 
set out the specific term on which Mr G relies above. From this it is clear that the 
mortgage can only be ported if the mortgage offer says it is portable. It also says that 
any application to port has to meet lending criteria, and so Im satisfied that it wasnt 
an entitlement  it was subject (amongst other things) to (a) the mortgage offer 
saying the mortgage was portable, (b) to making an application and (c) to meeting 
lending criteria.
Mr G has also now provided us with a copy of the mortgage offer and says It is not, 
of course, in dispute that my mortgage was fully portable.
However, Ive read the mortgage offer in detail and there is no mention anywhere of 
the mortgage being portable. I will explain here that MCOB requires lenders to 
include a specific clause in a mortgage offer if it is portable. Therefore, if this 
mortgage had been portable, there would have been a clause in the mortgage offer 
explicitly stating that this was the case. But after reading the mortgage offer Mr G 
sent to us, I cannot see any term that states it was portable. 
Barclays didnt have a copy of Mr Gs mortgage offer, and so took Mr Gs word that 
the mortgage was portable. But I think Barclays should have done more to check 
whether or not Mr Gs mortgage was actually portable before beginning the 
application  and could have done so by asking Mr G for a copy of any mortgage 
documents he had retained. If Barclays had done this, the bank would have been 
able to see that this mortgage wasnt portable. The bank could then have explained 
to Mr G that it wouldnt be possible to port his existing interest rate product, but that 
he could apply for a new mortgage product.A new application would have included an affordability assessment and a 
requirement that Mr Gs partner signed a deed of consent giving priority to Barclays 
charge. Although I can see Mr G took great offence to this requirement, it was, as I 
have set out above, something he had previously agreed to in his original mortgage 
special conditions. It might well not have applied in 2007 when Mr G purchased his 
property, but it is, of course, a standard requirement of all mortgage lenders that non-
owning occupants of the property aged over 17 give consent to the priority of the 
mortgage by signing a deed of consent.
In conclusion, I think Barclays could have done better here. If the bank had made 
further enquiries about the mortgage, Mr G wouldnt have been led to believe he 
could port. As it turned out, the application didnt proceed because Mr G withdrew it, 
but that was his choice and not something for which I can hold Barclays responsible.
To settle the complaint, I thought Barclays should pay Mr G a further £150 in addition to the 
£150 the bank had already offered.
Responses to the provisional decision
Barclays agreed to pay the additional £150.
Mr G made some further points about his dissatisfaction with Barclays complaints process.
In relation to the mortgage, Mr G thought it was odd that his mortgage offer made no 
mention to porting his interest rate onto another mortgage. He wondered if this was in the 
small print of the general terms attached to the mortgage offer. 
Mr G was, however, appreciative of the award of an additional £150 compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the file in detail  including the mortgage offer  and revisited my provisional 
decision. Having done so, Im not minded to change my conclusions from those reached in 
my provisional decision.
As I have explained, I cant look at Barclays complaints-handling process. Whilst I 
acknowledge Mr Gs disappointment at how he felt Barclays handled his complaint, I can 
make no further comment on this.
In relation to the mortgage, there is no mention in the mortgage conditions of the mortgage 
being portable. Mr G wonders if this was contained in the small print. However, as I 
explained in my provisional decision, if a mortgage is portable, it is a regulatory requirement 
under MCOB for details of the circumstances in which this can happen to be included in the 
numbered clauses in the main body of the mortgage offer, usually following on from the 
section relating to any ERC that may apply  and explaining how porting may affect any 
ERC. But there was no mention of an ERC, and no porting clause in the mortgage offer.In the circumstances, although I understand this was disappointing for Mr G, the mortgage 
wasnt portable.
Putting things right
Barclays has acknowledged that Mr G was caused some frustration and inconvenience 
when he wasnt initially able to contact the bank to discuss his mortgage requirements. I 
think the £150 offered by Barclays for this is fair.
I also think Barclays should have done more to check if the mortgage was portable before 
starting the application. If the bank hadnt made that mistake, Mr G would have been told 
immediately that he couldnt port. Mr Gs time was wasted and his expectations that hed be 
able to port were raised. I think Barclays should pay a further £150 for this.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK Plc must pay Mr G total compensation of £300 for 
distress and inconvenience. I make no other order or award.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman