DRN-4112668
The complaint
Ms S attempted to transfer funds to the account she holds with Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds). 
She complains that Lloyds credited the payment to the account of another customer. She 
hasnt been able to retrieve the funds to date.
What happened
Ms S holds an account with Lloyds. She also holds an account overseas with a bank which 
Ill call C. In 2022, Ms S attempted to transfer around £5,000 from her account with C to her 
Lloyds account. She used online banking and input the transaction details herself. She input 
her Lloyds account number correctly but unfortunately entered the wrong Swift code. She 
says that, when she realised that she had made a mistake, she asked C to terminate the 
transaction. 
Ms S says that this request was declined by Lloyds because the funds had already been 
credited to a Lloyds account. This was the account of another Lloyds customer who is 
unknown to Ms S. That customer has the same account number as Ms S but a different sort 
code. Their sort code is linked to the Swift code which Ms S had used for the transaction.
Lloyds wrote to the customer who had received the funds but received no response from 
them. Ms S would like Lloyds to move the funds out of that customers account into her own 
account. But Lloyds says it cant do that and that it cant speak to Ms S about the situation. It 
says that it can only deal with C and that Ms S needs to speak to C about the issue. 
Ms S asked this service to look at the complaint. Our Investigator didnt think Lloyds had 
done anything wrong. But Ms S didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by 
an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that Lloyds processed the payment using the account number and Swift 
code provided by Ms S. The Swift code didnt match Ms Ss sort code. But the account 
number and Swift code did match the details of another customer. So, rather than being 
bounced back to C, the funds credited that customers account. Lloyds says there was no 
manual intervention in this process and Im satisfied that was the case. 
Ms S had included her sort code on the payment instruction as well as the Swift code. But 
Lloyds says this was only in the payment reference section. Im satisfied that was the case. 
Lloyds says that any information in this section is for the customer, to help them identify the 
payment; it isnt used by the bank when processing the payment. I think thats reasonable. 
So, I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong by processing the payment using the account 
number and Swift code provided by Ms S or by crediting the account which matched those 
details.
Ms S has questioned the fact that another Lloyds customer has the same account number 
as her. I can understand Ms S being surprised by this and I think most customers would 
probably think their account number was unique. But the account number is never used as 
the sole identifier when making a payment: its always used in conjunction with a sort code. 
The combination of the account number and sort code is unique to each customer and that 
was the case here. So, I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong here by allocating the same 
account number to two customers. And I dont find that this caused Ms Ss loss.
Around two weeks after the payment was credited to the third partys account, C asked 
Lloyds to amend the transaction. Lloyds said that the payment couldnt be amended 
because it had already credited the account which matched the payment instructions. Lloyds 
noted at this stage that the name on the recipients account didnt match the payment 
instructions (that is, the receiving account wasnt in Ms Ss name). It asked if C wanted to 
recall the payment. 
Ive thought about the fact that the account names didnt match. But, in the specific 
circumstances here, I dont think Lloyds was obliged to check that the names matched when 
it processed the incoming payment. So, I dont think it did anything wrong by not picking up 
on this or raising it with C at the time. It did so later, as Ive said above. At that point, C 
asked Lloyds to help it cancel the payment and return the funds.
Lloyds sent a letter to the recipient of the funds. It asked for their authority to debit the funds 
from their account. Two weeks later, Lloyds told C that it hadnt received a response. Lloyds 
wrote to the recipient again. After another two weeks, Lloyds still hadnt heard anything from 
the recipient. It contacted C and said it would close its case. It suggested that C deal with the 
recipient directly. I think that was reasonable.
I think that, by writing to the recipient, Lloyds has done enough at this stage to help C 
recover the funds. Lloyds is right that any further steps will need to be taken by C. Lloyds 
cant provide details about the recipient to Ms S directly. But if C attempts to recover the 
funds, I would expect Lloyds to co-operate by providing relevant information to C. This may 
involve sharing the recipients details with C, upon Cs request. I understand that no such 
request has been made by C to date.
Ms S has raised some questions about Cs involvement in the transfer. Im afraid I cant 
comment on that as Im not considering a complaint about C. Im only looking at what Lloyds 
did. 
I sympathise Ms S and Im sorry to disappoint her. But Im afraid I dont think Lloyds has 
done anything wrong, so Im not going to ask it to do anything. I would urge Ms S to contact 
C and ask for their help with recovering the funds.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman