DRN-2577997
The complaint
Mrs A says Craig Mitchell (CM) is responsible for her unsuitable investment of £13,000, in 
2016, in UK Property Development Solutions (UKPDS) PLC bonds (the bonds). 
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and liaised with both parties in the course 
of doing so. She found mainly as follows:
In terms of Mrs As profile at the time of the investment, she was in her 70s, retired 
and in receipt of a pension. She owned her mortgage free home jointly with her 
husband and had no debts. She had little investment experience and presented a low 
to medium risk profile for the investment.
In terms of whether (or not) CM advised Mrs As investment in the bonds, and based 
on guidance in the FCAs Handbook (in the Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG)) on 
what constitutes advice, evidence shows that it did. Whilst it has not been possible 
to obtain all paperwork from the time of the investments, there is a letter from CM 
that supports this conclusion; and the bond application form also includes a 
handwritten advisers undertaking completed and signed by CM.
In terms of suitability, the investigator considered the bonds unsuitable for Mrs A 
because they were particularly high-risk investments, they were mini bonds issued by 
companies too small or too new to raise capital through more traditional methods, 
being companies that also had a higher risk of failure. The investigator said the 
bonds required a sophisticated investor and an investor prepared to take high risks, 
neither of which was Mrs A, given her profile at the time.
CMs principal disagreed with this outcome and the matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Jurisdiction
Regulated Activity
In the context of investments and in terms of the subject matters we can address in a 
complaint, the regulator defines our jurisdiction in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) section of 
its Handbook. It does so as follows:
DISP 2.3.1
The Ombudsman can consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to 
an act or omission by a firm in carrying on one of more of the following activities:
(1) regulated activities 
or any ancillary activities, including advice, carried on by the firm in connection with them.
Under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001, and 
also in the context of investments, regulated activities include advising on investments. 
Investment advice is therefore a regulated activity.
Investment advice is defined as:
[advice] given to the person in his capacity as an investor or potential investor  on the 
merits of his doing any of the following (whether as principal or agent)  
(i) buying selling, subscribing for or underwriting a particular investment which is a 
security or a [relevant investment], or
(ii) exercising any right conferred by such an investment to buy, sell, subscribe for or 
underwrite such an investment.
The PERG guidance that the investigator referred to says as follows:
PERG 8.28.2
(1) In general terms, simply giving information without making any comment or value
judgment on its relevance to decisions which an investor may make is not advice.
(2) The provision of purely factual information does not become regulated advice merely 
because it feeds into the customers own decision-making process and is taken into account 
by them.
(3) Regulated advice includes any communication with the customer which, in the particular
context in which it is given, goes beyond the mere provision of information and is objectively
likely to influence the customers decision whether or not to buy or sell.
(4) A key to the giving of advice is that the information:
(a) is either accompanied by comment or value judgment on the relevance of that
information to the customers investment decision; or
(b) is itself the product of a process of selection involving a value judgment so that the
information will tend to influence the decision.
(5) Advice can still be regulated advice if the person receiving the advice:
(a) is free to follow or disregard the advice; or
(b) may receive further advice from another person (such as their usual financial adviser)
before making a final decision.
A key message in the guidance within PERG 8.28 is the need to establish that a value 
judgement, about the merits of an investment, was conveyed by the adviser to an investor, 
which influenced the latters investment decision.CMs signed advisers undertaking, in Mrs As bond application, said  
I/we can confirm that I/we have complied with the suitability rules in COBS 9 of the Financial
Conduct Authority's Handbook of Rules and Guidance and have assessed this investment
as suitable for the above named client.
It is reasonable to conclude that the above undertaking from CM presented, to Mrs A, its 
value judgment that the investment in the bonds was suitable for her. It says as much, and it 
does so with express and specific reference to the regulators rule that defines suitability 
(that is, COBS 9). It would have been reasonable for her to believe the investment was 
suitable, given CMs clear and express signed undertaking that it was. As the guidance 
above says, advice includes any communication with the customer  and I consider 
whether (or not) Mrs A was a customer below. CMs provision of the above undertaking to 
Mrs A amounted to a communication of the undertaking  and of the message of suitability 
within it  to her.
Overall, I consider that the undertaking influenced Mrs As decision to proceed with the 
investment. This meets the above guidances reference to advice influencing the customers 
investment (or buy or sell) decision. Confirmation of independent financial advice was a 
pre-requisite to investing in the bonds, hence the need for the authorised adviser 
undertaking within the application form. CM gave that undertaking and that made Mrs As 
investment possible. 
I am satisfied that CM undertook responsibility for advising Mrs As investment in the bonds 
and for conveying the message to her that they were suitable for her. There is further 
support for this conclusion in the letter CM wrote to Mrs A on 14 March 2020 in response to 
her complaint. The letter included the following:
 we reviewed your remaining Lump Sum  Again at this meeting, you told me that you 
were open to the idea of an alternative provider or providers for your remaining investments 
as you thought that they had not performed as well as they could have done. Your initial 
reason for investing your money was for growth. Again I suggested to you that you may be 
better off with an Investment vehicle that provided you with both growth and income. You 
told me once again that this idea appealed to you both.
We discussed various forms of Investment vehicles that provided both growth and growth 
and income and one investment in particular which returned a percentage of your investment 
annually to you and returned your original investment to you after a term of 3 years, which 
was the investment vehicle you both preferred. This investment was offered by a company 
called UK Property Development Solutions Pic ("UKPDS") 
This investment offered a 10% income every year in arrears, £1300=00, for three years and 
at the end of the third year, your initial investment would be returned to you. I did inform you 
that this investment was by a company which was not authorised by the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Again I explained to you the difference between Authorised and Unauthorised 
companies offering investment products, however you wished to proceed with this 
investment. You invested a sum of £13000=00  on the 20*^ of October 2016. 
The first time I was made aware that you had not received your first annual income payment 
from UKPDS, was when you contacted me informing me that no annual payment of 
£1300=00 had been paid into your bank account. I contacted O&T Solutions and asked them 
for a contact email or telephone number they could give me for UKPDS in order for me to 
email or telephone them and ask them why your first annual payment was late and when it 
would be forwarded to you. I was told at the beginning of December 2017 by Hypa 
Management LLP that there would be news of this investment sent out to investors shortly, a copy of which you should have received and a copy I asked for and which I have attached to 
this letter.
I consider that the above stands as CMs admission of its advice to Mrs A to invest in the 
bonds in 2016 and, it appears, of its ongoing service to her in 2017 when he says she 
brought problems with the investment to his attention.
Eligible Complainant
A complainant must be eligible to complain. Otherwise this service cannot consider the 
relevant complaint. The regulators rules DISP rules for an eligible complainant include the 
following:
An eligible complainant must be a consumer, a micro-enterprise, a charity, a trustee 
of a trust, a small business or a guarantor. [DISP 2.7.3 R] 
An eligible complainant must also show that the complaint comes from a relationship 
covered by the rules. [my emphasis] [DISP 2.7.6 R]
consumer
This is the only category under DISP 2.7.3 R to consider for Mrs A  given that she is not a 
micro enterprise, a charity, a trustee of a trust, a small business or a guarantor. Guidance 
from the rules says a consumer is any natural person acting for purposes outside his [or her] 
trade, business or profession. Mrs A acted as an individual in this case, especially as she 
was retired at the relevant time. I have not seen evidence to suggest that she was/is a 
professional in investments or that she conducted such a business or trade. Her role in the 
complaint appears to have been for purposes outside her trade, business or profession, so 
she is a consumer.
relationship
The rules cover a number of relationships. In terms of investments, the relationship between 
a customer and a business is one. Guidance from the rules says the word customer should 
be given its natural meaning  that is, a person who buys goods and/or services from a 
business. 
The service rendered to Mrs A by CM is essentially confirmed in the advisers undertaking it 
gave in her 2016 bond application and in its response letter to her in 2020 (as quoted 
above). She was quite clearly its customer and, as I noted above, its response even refers to 
an ongoing service provided after its initial advice to her and after her investment in the 
bond.
For the above reasons, I consider that Mrs A was a consumer, was CMs customer and is an 
eligible complainant.
Merit 
Suitability of Mrs As investment
I have addressed a number of similar complaints against CM about the same UKPDS bond 
investment, so I am familiar with the investments characteristics and I have access to its 
brochure. The bonds were used by UKPDS to raise capital which it then issued as loans to 
third-party firms for the business of property acquisition, development and sale. It appears 
that the proceeds of the property sales were to be used to service the loans, which then 
provided funds to be used in paying the coupons on the bonds (and to redeem the bonds). This meant there were a number of layers of risk involved. The bond issuer (UKPDS) was 
not the end user of the capital raised and it does not appear to have had any control over the 
third-party end users; so due diligence on UKPDS and on the end users would have been 
important. There is no evidence of such due diligence being conducted by CM for Mrs As 
investment. 
Furthermore, it is commonly considered that property-based investments can have 
associated high risks in terms of determining a reliable value of the underlying assets and in 
terms of liquidity of the underlying assets. Such risks were potentially heightened in the 
context of the relatively short three years term for the bonds and in the context of the bonds 
brochures confirmation that the end users operations were based on using an  advanced 
computer search algorithm  to identify suitable development sites  which suggests 
investment decisions not based on due care, skill and analysis by experienced managers.
I have not seen evidence that Mrs A was a high-risk investor with investment experience that 
made it possible for her to understand the risks involved in the bonds. Her evidence is that 
she had a low to medium risk profile and she has also referred to planned expenditure 
(related to a personal matter) that CMs principal was aware of at the time of advice  and as 
reason why she did not and would not have wanted a highly risky investment. In the absence 
of evidence to the contrary, I consider that what Mrs A has said is sincere. Overall and at the 
time of the investment, her profile did not fit that of an investor seeking a high-risk and 
sophisticated investment.
Overall, on balance and for the reasons given above, I do not consider that the bonds were 
suitable for Mrs A, and I also find that CM had no basis to give the undertaking  which it 
gave  that they were.
Putting things right
fair compensation
Fair compensation will be to put Mrs A as close as I can to the position she would probably 
now be in if she had not made the unsuitable investment in the UKPDS bonds. I take the 
view that she would have behaved differently. It is not possible to say precisely what she 
would have done differently but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair given 
available information, as summarised above, of her profile at the time.
what must CM do?
To compensate Mrs A fairly, CM must:
Compare the performance of her bonds with that of the benchmark shown below and 
pay her compensation in the amount of the difference between the fair value and the 
actual value of the investment. However, if the actual value is greater than the fair 
value, no compensation for financial loss is payable. 
Pay her interest, if set out below. Income tax may be payable on any interest 
awarded.
Provide her with details of the calculation of compensation in a clear and simple 
format.investment status benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional interest
Mrs As 
UKPDS 
PLC bondsstill Existsfor half of the investment, 
the Bank of England 
average return from fixed 
rate bonds; and for the 
other half, the FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income 
Total Return Index (prior to 
1 March 2017, the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market 
Income Total Return 
Index)date of 
investmentdate of 
settlementnot applicable
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. If at the end 
date the investment is illiquid the actual value should be assumed to be zero. This is 
provided Mrs A agrees to CM taking ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If that is not 
possible then CM may request an undertaking from Mrs A that she repay to CM any amount 
she may receive from the investment in future. 
fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark. To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the 
benchmark, CM should use the monthly average rate for fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 
months maturity as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown 
as at the end of the previous month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an 
annually compounded basis. 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investments should be deducted from 
the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, I will accept if CM totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mrs A had a low to medium risk profile for her investment in the bonds. She appears 
to have been prepared to take some risks in the investment. 
The average rate for fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to capital. The FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total Return Index is a mix of diversified indices representing 
different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds, and would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mrs As profile was somewhere in between these benchmarks, in the 
sense that she was prepared to take a small level of risk to attain her investment 
objective. The 50/50 combination above would reasonably put her into that position and it broadly reflects the sort of return she could have obtained from an investment 
suited to her profile.  
My final decision
For the above reasons, I uphold Mrs As complaint. I order Craig Mitchell to pay her 
compensation as set out above and to provide her with a calculation of the compensation in 
a clear and simple format.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman