DRN-2610602
The complaint
Ms W complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (when it was trading as TSB) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy which protected the monthly repayments on a credit 
card which Ms W took out in January 1999. 
Neither Lloyds nor Ms W could be certain exactly when PPI was sold or how Ms W took it 
out. But its not in dispute that she had PPI. So it must have been added to her account 
either when Ms W opened her credit card account or sometime after. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Because Ms W disagreed, her complaint comes 
to me for a final decision.
Ms W said PPI was mis-sold to her mainly because she doesnt feel it was something she 
ever needed. She told us that when she took out her credit card she had money in the bank, 
her employer paid sick pay, her car was paid for and her living arrangements at the time 
meant that she didnt have any household costs to meet and no significant outgoings. So 
she told us she wouldve been able to make her credit card monthly repayments even if she 
wasnt able to work. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ws complaint. Ill explain why. 
The original paperwork from the sale is no longer available. It wouldnt be reasonable to 
expect Ms W to remember all the details of a sale that took place so long ago. So I cant 
know exactly what Lloyds mightve said to Ms W when she applied for her credit card and/or 
the PPI. 
Lloyds has provided an example of a credit card application. I can see that this was in use 
when Ms W took out her credit card  and that she wouldve had to say if she wanted to add 
on PPI to her account, otherwise her credit card wouldve been issued without PPI. 
I dont know if this is the same form that Ms W wouldve filled in as its not clear exactly when 
she took out PPI on her credit card account . So Im not just relying on this.
In order to uphold this complaint Id have to find that its likely that Ms W wasnt given a fair 
choice about PPI or that it was added to her account without her consent. But I cant fairly 
say this based on the very limited information Ive got. I must look at the available 
information and take into account the wider circumstances. I have to be impartial. 
Thinking about her overall circumstances and what the policy offered, it looks to me like 
Ms W couldve found the PPI useful if she had needed to make a claim. 
On balance, this makes me think that its likely that Ms W was persuaded of the need to 
protect her credit card monthly repayments by taking out the PPI when it was offered to her 
and she decided to buy the policy. So Lloyds added PPI to her account at her request. 
In fairness to Ms W, Lloyds has looked at this complaint on the basis that it recommended 
she take out PPI as this gives her complaint the best chance of success. If a financial 
business makes a recommendation about PPI, it has an extra obligation to take reasonable 
steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable as well as giving important policy 
information in a clear way. 
Ms W told us she changed jobs in or around November 1999 and Ive seen information that 
shows she was paying for PPI in January 2000. So I've thought carefully about everything 
Ms W has told us about her job and financial situation when she took out her credit card. 
And as well as this, Ive looked at what Ms W has been able to remember about her next job 
 just in case theres a possibility she didnt take out the PPI at the same time she took out 
her credit card. 
Ive no reason to doubt Ms W when she told us that shes certain both jobs provided her with 
sick pay  even if she couldnt recall how much sick pay her employers wouldve paid. The 
policy couldve paid more than her minimum credit card repayments for up to 12 months if 
Ms W couldnt work as a result of accident or sickness. I think its very unlikely that her 
employment benefits wouldve matched this policy benefit. I say this because it would be 
unusual for anyone to have 12 months full sick pay entitlement  and often there might be a 
qualifying or probationary period before a benefit like this can be relied on. Im mindful that 
Ms W had been working in her job for just 6 months, in quite a junior position, when she took 
out her credit card.  
So I think the policy likely offered Ms W better sick cover than she couldve been sure her 
employer would pay.  
And the policy also covered Ms W in the event she lost her job unexpectedly and found 
herself out of work.
I dont know if Ms W wouldve always had money in the bank she couldve relied on to cover 
her monthly repayments if she wasnt able to work as everyones circumstances can change. 
The policy couldve cleared her card balance if she had claimed for the full 12 months it 
might potentially have paid out. 
So it looks to me as if a PPI recommendation was suitable for Ms W based on what shes 
told us about her circumstances at the time. 
Its possible that some information Lloyds gave Ms W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But it doesnt look like Ms W was likely to be affected by any of the policy 
exclusions or limitations. So, even if not everything was mentioned, I dont think that knowing 
more about things the policy didnt cover wouldve made any difference to Ms Ws decision 
to take it out.I dont know if Lloyds properly explained what the policy would cost, or what it might pay out 
if Ms W made a claim. But she chose to take out the policy when she didnt have to  so it 
appears that she wanted to have it. It seems to have been affordable for her at the time. 
Looked at overall, I dont think Ms W wouldve been put off buying the policy even if shed 
been better informed as it gave her useful protection in her particular circumstances. On 
balance, I think shed still have taken out the policy. 
This means I dont think that Ms W has lost out as a result of anything that Lloyds did wrong. 
So theres nothing it needs to do to put things right. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman