DRN-3728520
The complaint
A, a limited company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt process and accept an 
application for an account and explain the reason why.
What happened
A applied for an account. It was told that there was a discrepancy between the name given 
and identification document for one of the officials. It tried to rectify this and upload 
documents on a number of occasions. A thought that it had done so and couldnt find out 
why an account hadnt been opened. A was then told that HSBC hadnt received the 
documentation, the application had expired, and it wasnt accepting further applications at 
the time. A said there was a delay in it getting a Bounce Back Loan (BBL) until it applied 
through a different financial business. 
HSBC made offers to compensate A. These were of £100 in May 2020 for the difficulty A 
had using an online portal to submit a document; of £200 in October 2020 for the time A 
waited in call queues to discuss the matter; and of a further £100 after the case was referred 
to this service. It said that it wasnt able to establish why it didnt accept a passport copy that 
had been submitted. HSBC said it had to comply with identification and verification 
processes but apologised to A for the inconvenience.
Our investigator didnt recommend that HSBC do more than it had now offered to. He noted 
that A had said that it would accept £600 in compensation. HSBC had said that it didnt have 
the required verification document and had told A this. The application had expired on the 
system after several months. And HSBC had a record of A contacting it in October 2020 
about this. It responded to a complaint about the delay with a final response on 2 December 
2020 confirming that further information had been required. Our investigator thought that the 
compensation was in line with our published guidelines. And he said that although hed 
asked HSBC for recordings of its calls with A these werent available.
A didnt agree and wanted the complaint to be reviewed. It said that a phone call with HSBC 
in May 2020 was important evidence and that this was being withheld. It believed it was told 
that its application was successful. And that HSBC should have done more to contact it 
about what was happening as a matter of principle. A had tried to contact HSBC and was 
told that it couldnt conclude the process. A missed out on 18 months of free banking and a 
BBL.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The call that A refers to isnt available and Im satisfied that HSBC has made reasonable 
attempts to find this. It doesnt have to keep recordings, and this wont be available for my 
review.
I looked carefully at the information that has been submitted by HSBC. And I can see that on 
21 May 2020 HSBC noted that a representative of A had called its complaints team. The 
representative referred to having tried to submit documents on several occasions. And to 
having received a missed call about it that morning and being unable to contact the person 
involved. The documents were resubmitted during this call and a note added to the system 
to say that this had been done. A final response to that complaint was issued stating that the 
documents had been submitted. And £100 was offered in compensation. A was directed to 
raise any further concerns with the Business Telephone Banking Team. There was no 
reference made to the application being successful although I accept that this was the 
impression the representative may have gained.
HSBC hasnt been able to explain why the document wasnt then accepted. Its next call note 
of contact from A is dated 13 October 2020. The representative then had said thered been 
difficulty getting through and that they were told something different each time. In a 
complaint response to A of that date HSBC accepted that A had been subject to long call 
waiting times. And it was offered £200 for the time spent holding on calls to Commercial 
Customer Relations. It was told that if it could provide documentary evidence of this and any 
time waiting for the Business Account opening team this compensation could be 
reconsidered. The next call record is 30 November 2020 and A says that it had been waiting 
for a call back and that when it contacted the Account opening team it is told to go through to 
complaints. On 2 December 2020 HSBC apologised for having not been in touch sooner and 
told A that it hadnt provided the required information and the application was no longer 
current. And that it wasnt accepting new applications at the time until 14 December 2020 
which I understand to be the result of the pandemic.
In light of this I thought that there had been poor communication and that A had been 
inconvenienced during the application. And having noted that £200 of the compensation 
offered was for call waiting I considered that £400 was a reasonable request from A for other 
compensation. Through our investigator I asked HSBC if it was prepared to pay a total of 
£600. And when it did agree our investigator put this offer to A for me saying that while I 
appreciated the time that had passed since A indicated it would accept this amount (in 
November 2021) Id be looking only at what HSBC did in this complaint. A didnt agree and 
said that it had been further inconvenienced by the way HSBC had made inaccurate claims 
and had refused to take accountability. A had to battle to prove its credibility. And it wanted 
an additional fee for inconvenience.
my assessment  
This service provides informal dispute resolution and I can only fairly look at what HSBC did 
in dealing with the outcome. And not hold it responsible for the time taken before Ive 
reached my assessment and following the investigation carried out by this service. So, I 
wont be making any award for that.
I set out above my understanding of the key issues here. A thought it had provided the 
required information. It didnt hear anything further back from HSBC and in particular with 
details of any new account. I dont doubt that there was poor communication. But also, that 
HSBC didnt consider it had the required verification information. I dont think A could fairly 
rely on an account being opened until it had received confirmation. And when this didnt 
come through would reasonably need to think about mitigating the effect of that and making 
other arrangements for its banking and trading during the period. Having said that it didnt 
get a clear answer in my view as to what had happened until December 2020. 
There was never a guarantee that A would obtain an account with HSBC. And as time went 
on as I say reasons for A to think that there was an issue. So, Im not going to be holding 
HSBC responsible for any potential financial loss. And I note that A says in the event it did subsequently make other arrangements and access a BBL
A is a separate legal entity which cant suffer distress. So, Im thinking about the poor 
communication and inconvenience caused from HSBC and the acknowledged call waiting 
times. Having done so I consider that compensation of £600 is reasonable and in line our 
published guidelines. I appreciate that this is now less than the officials of A think 
appropriate, but Ive explained how I arrived at my assessment.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay A total 
compensation of £600.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman