DRN-3026344
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as L, complains AXA Insurance UK Plc have declined their 
buildings insurance claim.
All references to AXA also include its agents
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in full 
again here. Below is a summary of the events that lead to this complaint.
L made a claim for Storm Damage to the roof of their property in February 2020
L said the wind force from the storm had ripped the timber away and provided a 
quote from a contractor for work to rectify storm damage
AXA declined Ls claim. It said the damage reported was due to a natural breakdown 
of materials  and not caused by a one-off storm incident. It said the timbers had 
shown signs of rot and a breakdown over time
L feels AXAs inspection wasnt properly completed and disagrees with its findings 
about the condition of the areas assessed  such as whether there was rot to the 
timbers.
L said AXA only assessed the damage from ground level and took photos - and didnt 
get on the roof. L is also unhappy AXA declined to reinspect the damage when 
scaffolding was later erected by their contractors at the property
Unhappy with AXAs response, L brought their complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt recommend we uphold Ls complaint.
He said based on the information available, he wasnt persuaded AXA had acted 
unreasonably in declining the claim.
L disagreed with our investigator. They said the timber had previously been pressure treated 
and was in good condition. They reiterated their point the wind had lifted the panels creating 
a gap with allowed further damage through water ingress to their property.
Further developments
Following our investigators view Ls contractor provided further detail on why they 
believed the property was storm damaged, based on their observations at the time of 
their original inspection
The contractor said the timber panels had been loosened by wind and this resulted in 
the membrane and insulation behind the panels being compromised, allowing 
rainwater to penetrate it. 
They said the timbers were good condition when inspected up close  and the panels 
likely lifted in strong winds as a result of the failure or loosening of the fixings
Our Investigator put Ls contractors comments to AXA, but it said it didnt change its 
opinion
The complaint has now passed to me
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The policy doesnt define what a storm is, but I can see AXAs checks of weather 
conditions showed there had been wind speeds of 59 mph on the day of the storm, 
and it hasnt disputed some storm conditions were present
L said the wind force from the storm ripped the timber away. The damage described 
by L could be consistent with a storm, but I also need to consider whether the storm 
is the main cause of the damage  or merely served to highlight existing issues
Having reviewed everything available Im more persuaded by what AXA has said
AXA and L have both provided photos of the roof. And I can see from the photos 
there is signs of splitting to the wood and that the close-up photos provided by AXA 
do appear to show signs of rotting to the wood
I can also see the condition of the felt around the area of concern is in poor condition, 
and while I acknowledge Ls comments an area of this was repaired in 2018, this also 
persuades me it was not in good condition at the time - and likely broke down 
gradually as opposed to being caused directly by a storm
So, while Ive considered what Ls contractor has said about the force of the wind 
pulling the timbers out, I think the storm only served to highlight existing issues
L feels AXAs inspection wasnt properly completed, as it assessed the damage from 
ground level and took photos - and didnt get on the roof. L is also unhappy AXA did 
not attend to reinspect the damage when scaffolding was erected at the property
But its not unusual for insurers to inspect these types of claims in this way and I 
dont think it has acted unreasonably in doing so here. The photos and details 
provided by AXA show a clear representation of the roof and reported area of 
concern
AXA also provided a second opinion from another of its surveyors, as well as 
considering further comments from L. And its decision remained unchanged, so I 
dont think it handled the claim unfairly
Considering what Ive set out above, I dont think AXAs conclusion is obviously 
wrong and I do not intend to interfere in its decision to decline the claimSo for these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ls complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman