DRN-2375328
The complaint
Ms C and Mr H complain that they were mis-sold an Advantage Gold Account (AGA) by 
National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) in 1997.
What happened
Ms C and Mr H were sold an AGA by NatWest in June 1997.
They say that NatWest told them that having the AGA would improve their credit scores and 
their chance of securing lending thereafter.
NatWest says it didnt tell them that. It says it provided Ms C and Mr H with information about 
the AGA and they chose to take it out for its benefits.
Our adjudicator did not uphold Ms C and Mr Hs complaint. They disagree so the complaint 
has come to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After looking at the evidence and argumenta provided by both parties in this case, Ive 
reached the same conclusions as our adjudicator for the following reasons.
Before the AGA sale, Ms C and Mr H had previously had a fee free account with a 
substantial overdraft with NatWest. They had also had multiple loans. So, in my view they 
were aware that they could borrow money without taking out an AGA.
As they were experienced in financial matters at the time of sale, I think its more likely than 
not that theyd have been aware that fee free accounts, overdrafts and loans were widely 
available from other banks and financial institutions. So, I think its more likely than not that if 
theyd been told by NatWest that they had to take out an AGA to ensure further lending in 
the future, they would have queried this, looked elsewhere and found the lending they 
wanted.
I also think the AGA wouldve been of interest to Ms C and Mr H when they took it out. I say 
this because the AGA benefits included discounts on overdrafts and loans, and free travel 
insurance if they took out a Gold credit card. They say they travelled up to 3 times a year at 
the time and NatWest has provided evidence that they immediately applied for a Gold credit 
card which provided access to the travel insurance; they also subsequently benefitted 
financially from their overdrafts and loans with NatWest over the following years.
So, while I dont doubt their honest recollections, I think its more likely than not that their 
memory is mistaken and that they chose to take out the AGA based on the information they 
were given, and NatWest didnt fail to tell them about anything that would have put them off 
taking it out.
So, I dont think NatWest did anything wrong in the AGA sale.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Ms C and Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman