DRN-2570029
The complaint
Ms D complains about the way American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) 
handled a charge back complaint. She feels she was left with no option but to accept a 
repair
What happened
Ms D says she bought a ring using her AESEL card on 9 March 2019 but unfortunately later 
that month the centre piece fell out. Ms D says she contacted the merchant on 22 March 
2019 to say she wanted a refund as she didnt think the ring was of satisfactory quality. She 
says the merchant wouldnt give her a refund but offered a remake or a repair.
She says she contacted AESEL for a chargeback request, but this was rejected on 25 April 
2019 on the basis that the merchant didnt offer refunds.
AESEL said it attempted a charge back request, but this failed as the merchants terms and 
conditions didnt allow for a refund in Ms Ds situation.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He felt AESEL had handled the charge back request 
correctly. But should have considered a Section 75 claim on Ms Ds behalf but didnt. On this 
basis he recommended that AESEL pay Ms D £200 compensation.
Ms D accepted this view, but AESEL didnt. it said that a Section 75 claim wouldnt have 
been appropriate as the outcome would likely have been the same as the chargeback 
request. And that a negative outcome would have added to Ms Ds dissatisfaction.
Our investigator considered this point but didnt change his view. He said we would normally 
expect a Section 75 claim to be offered when a charge back request failed.
AESEL didnt accept this further view and asked for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute that there was a problem with the ring Ms D purchased using her AESEL 
card. The central stone fell out shortly after purchase. I understand the ring has now been 
repaired.
A consumer has two options to try to resolve problems with goods purchased by credit card. 
Firstly, there is the charge back scheme which our investigator explained in detail in his 
view. He found AESEL had done nothing wrong with this claim and I agree with him.
AESEL put in a claim based on damaged or defective goods, the merchant successfully 
defended the claim pointing out its terms and conditions did allow for refunds but only in very 
specific circumstances which didnt apply to Ms D.  Having looked at the terms and 
conditions I would agree that Ms D wasnt eligible for a refund. I think AESEL did what I 
would have expected it to do  it put in a charge back request, and as the charge back 
scheme is voluntary, there is no automatic guarantee of a refund.
The second option open to a consumer is to put in a claim for a Section 75 claim. In this 
case there needs to be a breach of contract or misrepresentation. 
AESEL said in its response to us that it thought it would have been disingenuous to have 
pursued such a claim on Ms Ds behalf and would have only increased her level of 
dissatisfaction when it failed.
I am inclined to agree with AESELs point. For a Section 75 claim to succeed there would 
need to be either proof of misrepresentation or a breach of contract.  In looking at the charge 
back request AESEL asked Ms D to provide proof of goods not as described/defective I 
think if there were any evidence to support misrepresentation Ms D would have provided it at 
this point. 
Similarly, Ms D covered the breach of contract point in her charge back request as she 
referred to the merchants terms and conditions for a refund. I think if there had been any 
other contractual issues Miss D would have raised them at this point.
Ms D has been very clear about her complaint with us, and with AESEL I think if she felt 
there were other grounds to justify a refund that she would have put those forward when 
making her charge back request.
I think AESEL had enough information to conclude a Section 75 claim wasnt appropriate 
and wouldnt have succeeded. And I think it would have given Ms D a false sense of 
expectation had it pursued one. 
I think it would have been helpful had AESEL explained this option and why it didnt intend to 
pursue it to Ms D. But I dont feel this merits compensation of £200 as our investigator 
recommended as Ms D has suffered any financial loss as a result of AESELs action
We have asked Ms D for her comments regarding compensation so that I could take this into 
account in this decision. 
Ms D made two points for me to consider firstly she says AESEL gave her wrong information 
about dates. I appreciate there was some confusion over the date Ms D bought the ring and 
when she complained. But this didnt prevent the charge back request being pursued on her 
behalf and this wasnt the reason for AESEL not pursuing a Section 75 claim. I dont feel Ms 
D has lost out due to any confusion over dates so I dont feel I can reasonably expect 
AESEL to compensate her on this basis.
Secondly Ms D says that AESEL didnt contact the merchant on her behalf. I think this is 
unlikely as it obtained the merchants terms and conditions which formed the basis of the 
charge back request failing As I havent found AESEL did anything wrong regarding the 
charge back request, I dont think I can reasonably ask it to compensate Ms D for it.
.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Bridget MakinsOmbudsman