DRN-4313515
The complaint
Mrs M, on behalf of a limited liability partnership (LLP) that I will refer to as B, complains 
about the decisions of Hiscox Insurance Company Limited when settling her business 
interruption insurance claim(s), made as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
The following is intended as only a brief summary of the key events. Additionally, whilst other 
parties have been involved in the claim and complaint process, for the sake of simplicity, I 
have largely just referred to Mrs M, B and Hiscox.
B operates as a business providing swimming lessons and held a commercial insurance 
policy underwritten by Hiscox. The policy provided a number of areas of cover, including for 
business interruption. In March 2020, following the introduction of the government-imposed 
restrictions around the COVID-19 pandemic, B contacted Hiscox to claim for its losses.
Hiscox initially declined the claims, but following the outcome of a legal test case1, it agreed 
to meet Bs claims. However, Hiscox said that cover was limited to the periods that 
swimming pools were prevented from opening by the relevant regulations. Hiscox also 
deducted payments received from the Self-Employment Income Support Scheme (SEISS) 
from the settlement.
Mrs M is unhappy with both of these points. She has said that certain swimming pools B 
operates out of remained closed throughout 2020 and beyond. And that SEISS payments 
were not received by B, but rather by the separate partners, so this was not income of B or a 
saving of its costs.
Mrs M brought Bs complaint to the Ombudsman Service. Our Investigator thought that 
Hiscox had acted reasonably by limiting the claim to the periods swimming pools were 
specifically required to close. But he did think that Hiscox should not have deducted the 
SEISS payments.
Both Mrs M and Hiscox disagreed with this outcome. So, this complaint was passed to me 
for a decision. 
I issued my provisional decision on 4 August 2023. 
The following is an extract from that decision:
Largely, this complaint is limited to two key issues, and these are the focus of this 
decision. I do note that B has raised separate concerns over certain other savings 
that have been deducted from the settlement, but these concerns do not form part of 
the current complaint.
The two key issues for this complaint are whether the policy covers losses 
throughout 2020 and whether SEISS payments should be deducted from the 
1 FCA v Arch Insurance (UK) Ltd and others [2021] UKSC 1
settlement. I will deal with each of these in turn.
The periods of cover
The most relevant clause in Bs policy provides cover for:
financial losses and any other items specified under this section in the 
schedule, resulting solely and directly from an interruption to your activities 
caused by:
your inability to use the business premises due to restrictions imposed 
by a public authority during the period of insurance following:
b. an occurrence of a notifiable human disease;
A number of terms in this clause are defined within the policy. But it is not disputed 
that COVID-19 is a notifiable human disease for the purpose of the claim(s). Public 
authority is not defined by the policy though, and I do not think this is limited to the 
UK Government. I consider it could include local authorities  but only when acting in 
their capacity as such.
The majority of losses Hiscox has agreed to cover relate to the period between 
21 March 2020 and 25 July 2020. Hiscox has also agreed to provide cover in relation 
to one pool that was subject to local restrictions in August to September 2020. During 
these periods, the regulations introduced by the Government directed swimming 
pools to be closed. For example, regulation 4(4) of the Health Protection 
(Coronavirus, Restrictions) (England) Regulations 2020 said:
A person responsible for carrying on a business or providing a service which 
is listed in Part 2 of Schedule 2 must cease to carry on that business or to 
provide that service during the emergency period 
And swimming pools were specifically listed in Part 2 of Schedule 2. This restriction 
continued until 25 July 2020. As mentioned, there was also a localised restriction that 
impacted one swimming pool B used and that Hiscox agreed to cover. I do not 
consider it necessary to go into detail on this, as the form of restriction was the same 
 merely limited geographically.
So, it was only within these periods that swimming pools were specifically required to 
close. 
There were other restrictions and guidelines which would likely have impacted Bs 
business. These included the social distancing guidelines and so on. However, whilst 
these restrictions may have caused a hindrance of use, they would not themselves 
have led to an inability to use the relevant premises. B may have had to adapt its 
processes and may not have been able to provide for as many customers as it would 
have wanted to, but this would not be an inability of use which is what the policy 
requires.
These, and other, guidelines may though have led other parties to make certain 
decisions. The nature of Bs business means it operates out of various different 
swimming pools owned by third parties. Some of these third parties are local 
authorities. And some of these owners, including local authorities, took the decision 
not to open their swimming pools to B.
Taken in the round, it seems the underlying reason for this was that the swimming 
pools were primarily used by other groups  including schools  and that the additional procedures required to make sure the pools adhered to the guidelines 
meant it was not practical to open the pools to B as well.
But this means it was the decision of these third parties that caused the inability of B 
to use the premises, rather than the restrictions themselves. 
Mrs M has provided a great deal of evidence around this part of the complaint. And I 
appreciate that the third-party owners may have found themselves in a position 
where guidelines and risk assessments meant that decisions were taken not to allow 
B to use the premises.
But there were alternative options. The third parties could have opened the 
swimming pools for exclusive use by B. And if swimming facilities were required for 
school children, that couldve been provided by another pool. It seems very likely this 
would not have been practical and it is not surprising that this was not the decision 
taken. But this does demonstrate it was the third-parties decision of who to open the 
pools to.
As mentioned, some of the third-party owners were local authorities. However, this 
does not mean that when making a decision over the use of swimming pools owned 
by the authority, it was exercising a public authority function. And even if it could be 
argued that it was, I do not consider that making a decision over who to rent a 
swimming pool to is acting to impose a restriction  which is what the clause above 
requires.
To quote from paragraph 116 of the Supreme Court judgment in the test case: 
We agree with the court below that restrictions imposed by a public 
authority would be understood as ordinarily meaning mandatory measures 
imposed by the authority pursuant to its statutory or other legal powers. 
Imposed connotes compulsion and a public authority exercises compulsion 
through the use of such powers.
The local authorities in Bs case did not impose a restriction on who could use the 
swimming pools or on who they could be rented to. They merely made the decision 
not to open them to Bs business.
Taking everything into account, I am not currently persuaded that during the period of 
insurance there was a restriction imposed by a public authority that caused an 
inability of B to use the swimming pools in question outside of the periods Hiscox has 
agreed to cover.
It follows that I consider Hiscox has acted fairly and reasonably when declining to 
cover any losses outside of these periods.
SEISS
Mrs M is also unhappy that Hiscox deducted money received from the Government 
through SEISS payments from the settlements of Bs claims. Our Investigator agreed 
with Mrs M. He thought the payments from this scheme did not act as a saving 
against a fixed cost, so he did not think Hiscox was entitled to deduct these 
payments from the settlement. I have come to a different provisional finding and have set out my reasons for this 
below.
However, before discussing Hiscox actions here, it is helpful to set out some of the 
background to this scheme. The Government provided financial support to 
businesses during the pandemic via a number of different schemes. These included 
SEISS, furlough, and also a range of other grants that I will refer to them collectively 
as business support grants.
In 2020, the FCA, HM Treasury, a range of insurers and the Association of British 
Insurers, ("ABI") made a number of statements particularly in relation to these 
business support grants. They confirmed that how these grants were treated for tax 
purposes was not determinative of how they should be treated for insurance claims. 
And that, ultimately, insurers should not be deducting the amount of these grants 
from claim settlements. Hiscox has agreed not to deduct money received from 
business support grants from settlements.
However, no such statements were made in relation to furlough or SEISS. And 
Hiscox considers that payments through these schemes are deductible from claim 
settlements. 
Hiscoxs position on furlough is directly supported by the judgment in Stonegate2. 
This judgment, in part, considered whether furlough payments should be deducted 
from relevant business interruption insurance claims. The judge in Stonegate 
determined that furlough payments were deductible from the relevant claim 
settlement as a saving.
The judges findings were made based partly on the fact that furlough payments were 
paid to businesses by the Government to cover part of the cost of paying employees 
wages. Paying employees their wages is an expense the policyholder would normally 
have. As a result of the furlough payments, the policyholder saved on having to pay 
these wages.
The judge in Stonegate considered not only the contractual position presented by the 
policy in the court case, but also the principle of indemnity and associated doctrine of 
subrogation. 
This is the basis which insurance, largely speaking, works. And effectively means 
that a claimant is only able to recover their losses and is not able to put themselves 
back in a better position that they otherwise would be. And where the circumstances 
mean the loss the claimant has suffered has been reduced  such as because of a 
payment made by a third party  the insurer may be entitled to benefit from this 
reduction in loss.
B did not receive any furlough payments, and the judgment did not involve any 
consideration of SEISS, as no payments under this scheme were made to the parties 
involved. However, I consider the reasoning of the judge something I need to take 
into account when thinking about the SEISS payments received by the partners 
involved in B.
In considering whether SEISS payments had a similar effect to that set out above, it 
is necessary to determine whether they reduced the loss suffered by B. This might 
either be because they reduced a cost that B otherwise would have had to meet. Or 
2 Stonegate Pub Company v MS Amlin and Others [2022] EWHC 2548 (Comm)because the SEISS payments limited the reduction in income B experienced as a 
result of the pandemic.
It is helpful at this point to confirm that B is a limited liability partnership (LLP). As 
such, it is technically a legal entity in its own right. It is this entity that is insured and 
so is the policyholder. And it should also be pointed out that the partners involved in 
this LLP received the SEISS payments directly  they were not paid to the LLP for 
distribution and the LLP had no legal right to them.
However, the LLP is also essentially formed by the partners involved. These partners 
are entitled to a proportion of the profits of the LLP and any SEISS payment paid to 
them was effectively linked to the profits of the LLP in previous years3. (It should be 
noted that the partners may have been entitled to SEISS payments in respect of any 
other business activity that was unconnected with B, but Hiscox has only deducted 
the proportion relating to B.)
So, it is clear that the LLP, the partners and the SEISS payments are all intrinsically 
linked. The LLP may not have received the money itself, but it was paid to the 
partners based on the previous performance of the LLP.
Bs accountant has referred to the tax position, and confirmed the SEISS payments 
would have been recorded on each of the partners own tax returns. However, the 
judgment in Stonegate, with reference to Riley on Business Interruption Insurance 
(11th ed), suggests account classification in tax returns. etc. is not determinative for 
insurance purposes in these situations.
It is fairly common that there is a difference between accounting practices and the 
way funds are treating from an insurance point of view. As long as this is done fairly 
and reasonably, there is no issue with this. So, I dont think the tax position in relation 
to these payments is particularly helpful or determinative.
Our Investigator did not consider Hiscox had demonstrated the SEISS payments had 
reduced a cost to B. I agree with this to an extent, and I am not persuaded that 
Hiscox has demonstrated that the SEISS payment received by the partners has 
reduced any specific cost or expense B would otherwise have had.
The only payments out that would be potentially relevant are the drawings by and 
distribution of the profits to the partners. But this distribution is based on the amount 
of profit generated. And this is subject to other decisions of the business on what to 
spend its income on  for example whether some of it needs reinvesting back into the 
business. So, the amount of money the LLP generates doesnt necessarily dictate 
the amount the partners are provided. Given the separation of the LLP and its 
partners, this means there is not a direct correlation between these SEISS payments 
and the distribution of Bs profits.
However, the other way of considering the SEISS payments is that they were a form 
of income. Income is defined in Bs policy as:
The money paid or payable to you in respect of your activities. 
The Ombudsman Services understanding of what is fair and reasonable in relation to 
SEISS payments has been one that has evolved, much like the wider legal 
landscape around business interruption insurance claims. Previously, we have 
3 See The Coronavirus Act 2020 Functions of Her Majestys Revenue and Customs (Self-Employment
Income Support Scheme) Directionconsidered that an individual may not have considered a government grant, of the 
nature of those paid to businesses in relation to a novel situation such as the 
pandemic, to be income.
However, as the judge in Stonegate referred to, in paragraph 267 of the judgment, 
the clauses in a policy should be construed, if there is any room for argument, to 
accord with the basic principle that the policy was a contract of indemnity.
So, thinking about the principle of indemnity and the fact that insurance is, effectively, 
there to cover losses of a policyholder that cant otherwise be recovered, I need to 
consider whether it is fair for Hiscox to cover Bs loss of income where the partners 
that make up B have received money from a different source, which is based on the 
money they would likely have received were it not for the cause of the claim.
Thinking about the situation holistically, I am persuaded that Hiscox considering the 
money received from SEISS to be income would be fair and reasonable. If Hiscox 
does not deduct the SEISS payments, the larger claim settlement that then resulted 
would be paid to B. But then this, assuming it amounted to profit, would be distributed 
to the partners who had received the SEISS payments. They would, effectively, be 
being paid twice. I dont consider this would align with the principle of indemnity even 
taking into account the structure of an LLP.
So, for the purposes of Bs claim(s), I consider it was fair and reasonable for Hiscox 
to treat the SEISS payments as income.
In some circumstances there may be a difference in the calculation that needs to be 
made to the claim settlement. However, Bs policy provides cover for loss of income. 
So, whilst Hiscox has applied a rate of gross profit to work out whether B saved any 
variable costs, the SEISS payment would directly reduce the amount of income lost. 
So Hiscox does not need to amend its calculation in this situation.
I invited both parties to provide any further comments or evidence that they wanted me to 
consider. Neither party responded to my provisional decision disagreeing with the outcome. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and noting that neither party provided any further evidence to disagree with 
the outcome, I have come to the same decision as in my provisional decision for the same 
reasons. 
As set out above, I am not persuaded that during the period of insurance there was a 
restriction imposed by a public authority that caused an inability of B to use the swimming 
pools in question outside of the periods Hiscox has agreed to cover. And I consider that 
Hiscoxs decision to limit the settlement to the periods it has was, in all the circumstances of 
this case, fair and reasonable.
I also consider that the SEISS payments received by the partners involved in B acted to 
reduce the loss B otherwise would have incurred. So, for the purposes of Bs claim(s), I 
consider it was fair and reasonable for Hiscox to treat the SEISS payments as income.
I know this outcome will be disappointing for B, but I hope Ive provided Mrs M with a 
thorough explanation of why I have come to this decision. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman