DRN-1570070
 
The complaint
Ms N complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited declined her claim for blood tests 
requested by one of her treating consultants, and hormone testing recommended by another 
of her treating consultants.
What happened
Ms N has had treatment for breast cancer and remains under the care of a number of 
consultants. Her treatment included chemotherapy, as a result of which she's experienced 
chemically induced ovarian failure and is going through early menopause. During the course 
of her treatment Ms N was told she had an elevated level of CA 125, a protein which is used 
as a marker for ovarian cancer. One of Ms N's consultant's recommended she had surgery, 
a therapeutic bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy, to prevent her developing ovarian cancer, 
and to make management of her menopausal symptoms easier.
 On 23 April 2019 the consultant who had recommended this surgery wrote to AXA saying:-
'I have arranged to check (Ms N's) testosterone level as this will inform the management of 
her hormone replacement after her ovaries are removed'.
Ms N emailed AXA the same day saying that her consultant had written to them about 
further blood tests, which would be done while she was being prepped for her surgery the 
following week. She asked for these to be authorised. AXA acknowledged her email the 
same day saying they couldn't provide authorisation for the blood tests at that point, but 
would speak to their medical team and get back to her.
On 27 April 2019 AXA advised Ms N that the blood test wasn't approved as 'it relates to 
HRT treatment which is not supported under the terms of your plan'.
Ms N raised a complaint about AXA's decision. AXA replied to this on 9 May 2019 advising 
her that the hormone test was described as a 'pre-op' test and couldn't be approved, as the 
proposed surgery to remove her ovaries wasn't covered by her policy.
Ms N also sought approval of hormone profiling recommended by another of her treating 
consultant's. On 7 May 2019 the consultant wrote to AXA requesting this was authorised. 
She said 'this is important as it has been a while since (Ms N) has had a period and I need to 
establish where she is in relation to the menopause'.
AXA initially told Ms N this wasn't covered as it related to the menopause - a natural 
ageing process which wasn't covered by her plan. Ms N complained to AXA reminding them 
that her menopause was chemically induced, and not due to natural ageing. She also told 
them that the test was required to monitor her breast cancer. AXA then sought Ms N's 
permission to contact her consultant, to seek clarification of the relevance of the blood tests 
to that treatment. AXA contacted the consultant for this information on 9 May 2019. The following day they 
received a response from the consultant's office saying :-
'the reason ..... needs to check (Ms N's) hormone levels, is that if she is not post-
menopausal and does not have an oophorectomy then she may require ovarian suppression 
with zoladex.' 
This was reviewed by AXA's medical team and on 16 May 2019 Ms N was advised that her 
hormone testing had been approved. 
AXA responded to Ms N's complaint about declining her hormone testing on 17 May 2019, 
but didn't uphold it.
Ms N then complained to our service. Our investigator considered the case but didn't 
recommend the complaint be upheld. In respect of tests to check her testosterone levels he 
initially said that her policy doesn't cover menopausal symptoms, whether the menopause is 
naturally occurring, or chemically induced. So he didn't think AXA had done anything wrong 
in declining the claim. 
Ms N responded to this saying that she was tired of having to point out that her menopause 
was related to her breast cancer treatment, so AXA should cover these tests. Our 
investigator accepted that in these circumstances AXA couldn't exclude the tests on this 
basis. But as the tests were related to surgery which wasn't covered by her policy, he still felt 
AXA had acted reasonably when they declined cover.
In respect of the hormone profiling our investigator said that it was reasonable for AXA to 
seek clarification of why this was required. And as this was done, and the test approved, 
within a couple of days of Ms N's consultant contacted them, he couldn't ask AXA to do 
anything further.
Ms N didn't accept our investigator's opinion so the case has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand how frustrating it was for Ms N that AXA's immediate response to her request 
for blood tests to check her testosterone levels was they weren't covered as it's related to 
the menopause and HRT treatment, which isn't covered by her policy. Her consultant's letter 
doesn't refer to the menopause and Ms N had previously explained to AXA why she didn't 
accept this as a valid reason for declining her claim. 
But the letter from her consultant makes it clear that this test was requested to manage N's 
hormone treatment after her proposed surgery. And as the surgery wasn't covered by her 
policy I can't say AXA did anything wrong in declining the claim. But I do think AXA should 
have clearly set out why the claim was being declined, based on why the test had been 
requested. As this would have provided Ms N with a clear explanation of why the test wasn't 
covered.
I don't think the letter from Ms N's consultant requesting approval of her hormone profiling 
made it clear why this was being requested. The letter refers to establishing where Ms N 
was 'in relation the menopause'. Once again AXA's initial response was to say this wasn't 
covered as her plan doesn't support 'treatment for, or any symptoms of the menopause'. So  Ms N had to go back to them and explain that her hormone levels impacted her breast 
cancer treatment and the frequency of her surveillance and scans.
I appreciate that this must have been very upsetting and frustrating for her. But once they 
had her comments AXA did seek her authority to request further clarification from her 
consultant. And I can't say it was AXA's fault that the reason the profiling was required 
wasn't clearly explained by her consultant.
I can see that Ms N considered this unnecessary but I think it was reasonable for AXA to 
seek confirmation that the test was related to her breast cancer treatment. And once this 
was done, and confirmation received that the test related to her ongoing treatment if she 
didn't have an oophorectomy, the test was approved within a few days.
I can understand why Ms N found AXA initial response to her claims frustrating, particularly 
as this was a difficult time for her. But as one of her claims clearly wasn't covered by her 
policy, and AXA agreed to cover the other, within a reasonable period of receiving further 
information, I won't be asking them to do anything further.
 My final decision
 For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I don't uphold Ms N's complaint 
against AXA PPP Healthcare Limited.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2020.
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman