DRN-3715442
The complaint
Mrs E complains about the advice given by Retirement Direct Limited (RDL) to transfer the 
benefits from her defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme, take the maximum 
available tax free cash (TFC) and a one off taxable income payment, and then use the 
remaining funds to purchase an annuity. She says the advice was unsuitable for her.
Mrs E is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading this decision Ill largely 
refer to representations as being made by Mrs E.
What happened
Mrs E held benefits in an occupational pension which shed accrued working for an employer 
between 1978 and 1984.
Ive seen a copy of a letter from the pension scheme to Mrs E from December 2008. This 
indicated it was writing in response to a letter shed recently written to the scheme. And the 
subject of the letter was early payment of pension benefits. The letter explained that Mrs E 
was unable to take her pension benefits early at that time.
Mrs E contacted RDL in February 2009 for advice about her pension as she was looking to 
release money from it. RDL sent Mrs E an introductory letter, after shed signed an authority 
form, explaining it would now contact her pension providers for information. The letter also 
included a section called Meeting your objectives. This said Pension unlocking is 
unsuitable for most people and circumstances and will almost certainly reduce your 
retirement income. Whilst we are awaiting the required information from your pension 
provider(s) we would recommend that you investigate the possible alternative methods of 
meeting your financial objectives. Only when all alternatives have been explored can 
pension unlocking be considered suitable. And it went on to summarise potential 
alternatives such as utilising existing assets, taking state benefits if appropriate, borrowing 
either on a secured or unsecured basis or negotiating debt solutions with existing lenders. In 
a conversation approximately a week later Mrs E indicated she needed to reduce her debt 
and outgoings and had no other way of doing so.
On 24 March 2009, RDL completed a fact-find to gather information about Mrs Es 
circumstances and objectives. It noted she was 51 at the time, separated and had two 
dependent children. Mrs E was self-employed, working 16 hours per week and also in 
receipt of benefits. She lived in rented, local authority accommodation. RDL recorded that 
she jointly owned the home shed shared with her former partner and was a party to the 
mortgage on that property. But it had been informally agreed that her former partner would 
meet the mortgage repayments. Mrs E had no savings and had outstanding debt of 
approximately £11,000. It was noted that shed been subject to a county court judgement 
approximately two years earlier and had entered into a debt management plan (DMP), 
paying £60 per month.
There was an income and expenditure summary completed which indicated that Mrs E had 
disposable income of approximately £340 per month, although this doesnt appear to have 
accounted for payments to the DMP. But the fact find asked which from a list of statements 
best described Mrs E income and expenditure. And the option We struggle to survive and 
maintain a decent standard of living was selected. RDL noted that Mrs E hoped to release 
£12,000 from her pension to repay the debt in full and use £1,000 to potentially start a new 
business. There was a question why Mr E believed it was appropriate that she use her 
pension to do this which was answered I am struggling as I have a huge debt over my head. 
I want to know if the pension is worth unlocking. I want some peace of mind as well.
RDL also carried out an assessment of Mrs Es attitude to risk, which it deemed to be 
cautious.
RDL wrote to Mrs E on 30 March 2009, enclosing a copy of the fact find for her to check to 
ensure the information was correct. And Mrs E signed a copy to say that it was. The letter 
also set out information that RDL said it intended to use during its next appointment with 
Mrs E, which would involve discussing options to meet her objectives. It set out the cash 
equivalent transfer value (CETV) of the DB scheme, £24,368, and gave a summary of the 
benefits that the existing scheme would provide at the normal scheme retirement age of 60.
There was also a brief analysis of whether Mrs Es existing retirement provisions would meet 
her stated need of an income of £180 per week in retirement. And it was concluded that the 
DB scheme and state pension would fall short of this, only providing approximately £127 per 
week. The letter did explain though that the DB scheme was Mrs Es only private pension 
and currently constitute a large portion of your overall retirement income. It went on to 
explain that if you were to take your pension early, your income will probably be 
considerably less than you could expect if you waited until your retirement date and you will 
have less to live on when you retire.
I understand a phone conversation then took place on 1 April 2009 to discuss this initial 
report. The call note provided by RDL says the benefits due under the DB scheme were 
discussed and that RDL would usually recommend exploring alternative options for raising 
money. But there werent any alternatives available to Mrs E. So, it said it would look at the 
available options for the pension, as Mrs E understood this was likely to result in a loss of 
retirement income.
The available call notes indicate there was then a further conversation on 22 April 2009. The 
note says the losses that would be incurred by transferring were discussed in more detail. 
And the notes record that RDL said, as Mrs E had no other realistic prospect of raising cash 
as the alternatives had been dismissed and she had confirmed raising cash now was much 
more important than the loss of any retirement provisions, it would be prepared to 
recommend the transfer if Mrs E was prepared to accept the disadvantages. And the note 
indicates that Mrs E was willing to accept these disadvantages. As a result, RDL agreed to 
send its recommendation in writing.
The call notes reflect that Mrs E chased RDL a couple of times in the weeks that followed, as 
she was keen to go ahead with the transfer.
On 4 June 2009 RDL issued its written report recommending that Mrs E transfer her pension 
benefits out of her DB scheme to a personal pension, with a specific provider. It 
recommended she take the maximum available TFC (£6,092) as well as a one-off income 
payment of £695, net of tax. RDL recommended that Mrs E then use the remaining funds to 
immediately purchase an annuity, with a different provider. The annuity recommended was a 
level annuity so the benefits would not increase.
The letter explaining the recommendation said Mrs Es objectives were to raise £12,000 to 
clear debts and provide assistance to start a new business. It said transferring allowed her to 
raise funds now and this was a higher priority than any loss of retirement benefits. Taking an annuity was in line with Mrs Es preference not to take any investment risk. And while it 
wouldnt usually recommend taking more than the available TFC, it said due to the value of 
the pension, Mrs E needed more than the TFC to provide the level of capital she required.
The transfer went ahead in line with the recommendation made and an annuity was taken 
out which I understand pays Mrs E a fixed income of approximately £875 per year.
Mrs E complained in September 2021. In summary her representatives said that the advice 
was unsuitable, and the adviser had failed to exercise a duty of care. They said Mrs E had 
placed her trust in the adviser to recommend the best option. But it hadnt been made clear 
to her what she was giving up by transferring and shed been led to believe shed be better 
off. The representative said Mrs E didnt want to take risks with her pension, but the 
recommendation was to transfer into an investment fund in the hope it would outperform her 
existing provisions  which they thought was never likely to happen. They also didnt feel 
Mrs Es circumstances had been fully taken into account and overall felt the advice given 
was negligent.
RDL didnt uphold the complaint. It said that it had recommended Mrs E take an annuity that 
gave a guaranteed income, so no investment risk was involved. The income from the annuity 
was lower than that of her DB scheme. But Mrs E had been aware of this. It said there had 
been a lengthy advice process, Mrs E was aware of what she was giving up, shed 
repeatedly prioritised her short-term needs and there was no alternative way of meeting 
them. So, it felt the advice given was reasonable.
The complaint was then referred to our service. I issued a provisional decision earlier this 
month explaining that I didnt intend to uphold Mrs Es complaint. Below are extracts from my 
provisional findings, explaining why.
A number of the things that Mrs Es representatives have said about the suitability of the 
transfer dont appear relevant here. It has said part of the reason that the recommendation 
was unsuitable was that Mrs E did not want to take risks, doing so was not appropriate and 
valuable guarantees were lost as a result of the transfer. They also said that RDL indicated 
Mrs E would be better off. But the transfer here didnt involve investing Mrs Es pension in 
unit linked investments, or any other action that put the amount transferred at risk of 
decreasing. And I also havent seen anything that supports Mrs Es representatives 
argument that RDL indicated shed be better off in retirement by transferring.
Mrs Es existing scheme provided a guaranteed annual pension. There are varying accounts 
of what the guaranteed amount was  which Ill talk about more later. But in the letter the 
scheme sent to Mrs E in December 2008 it indicated that this was at least likely to be 
£2,334.80 per year, as this is what the scheme estimated the guaranteed minimum pension 
(GMP) would be at the normal scheme retirement age. This would continue to escalate in 
retirement and would also have provided a spouses pension. Mrs E could not though 
access any benefits from the DB scheme early.
RDL recommended that Mrs E use the transfer value of those benefits, the CETV, to release 
TFC and an additional payment and then purchase an annuity. That annuity provided a 
guaranteed level income for the rest of Mrs Es life (approximately £875 per annum), as well 
as a partial spouses pension (in respect of the GMP). So, the CETV was not invested in a 
fund that could go up and down in value  and not exposed to investment risk. Some money 
was released to Mrs E, to spend as she chose, and the rest was used to buy an annuity, 
which still provided a fixed guaranteed income, but at a lower level  which RDL explained. 
So, the guarantees were not lost  they were exchanged for alternative guaranteed benefits.
What I must decide now is whether the advice given  the recommendation to make that exchange  was suitable and in Mrs Es best interests.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
At the time, the then regulator, the Financial Services Authority (FSA), stated in its Conduct 
of Business Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB 
scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, RDL should have only considered a transfer if it could 
clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mrs Es best interests (COBS 19.1.6).
The main reason given by RDL for advising that Mrs E transfer was that she had indicated a 
preference for withdrawing money from her pension to address her short-term goals. And 
she believed this to be more important than the loss of any retirement benefits. But RDLs 
role wasnt simply to facilitate something that Mrs E mightve thought she wanted or needed. 
And her expressing a preference to do this doesnt, on its own, make the advice to transfer 
suitable.
When Mrs E first contacted RDL, the contact notes indicate she talked about wanting to 
clear her debt and reduce her outgoings. And this seems to have been her motivation 
throughout. It is recorded in the fact find as being of significant importance to her and she 
appears to have said she was struggling with the debt hanging over her and wanted peace 
of mind. She also agreed to a statement that she was struggling to survive and maintain a 
decent standard of living. And the contact notes, following the advice, indicate she was keen 
to obtain the cash sum discussed to appease creditors. So, I dont doubt that this was a 
major motivation for her.
RDLs introductory letter said only when all alternatives have been explored can pension 
unlocking be considered suitable. And I do agree that alternative options needed to be 
considered. But those options being explored and discounted doesnt automatically then 
make pension unlocking suitable  as the statement suggests. It still has to be in the 
customers best interests. 
RDL has said that there werent any viable alternative ways for Mrs E to meet her objectives 
 as she had discounted additional borrowing. And based on what Ive seen I think this is 
likely to have been true. Mrs E had no savings according to the information from the time. 
Her marital situation meant it was unlikely further secured borrowing against the property 
she jointly owned couldve been taken. And, it appears unlikely that any unsecured 
borrowing was possible. The county court judgment and DMP would likely have impacted 
her credit status significantly and made borrowing both more difficult and likely expensive. 
And in any event, she was looking to reduce her indebtedness. So, it doesnt look like there 
were alternatives available to her.
But the advice given by RDL didnt allow her to meet her objectives in full either.
The outstanding debt was recorded as being £11,000. But the amount she was able to 
release as a lump sum was only around £6,100, after RDLs fees were paid. And £1,000 of 
this was earmarked for other purposes. So, the lump sum would only have enabled Mrs E to 
clear slightly less than half of her outstanding balance, still leaving a significant amount 
outstanding. Which was unlikely to result in the peace of mind she was also apparently 
seeking.
I also cant see that her outgoings wouldve been reduced as a result of the advice. The 
information indicates that Mrs E was in a DMP in respect of her debts, with payments fixed 
at £60 per month. As the full outstanding balance would not have been cleared by the lump sum, payments to the remaining debt wouldve continued. And it is unlikely the amounts of 
these payments wouldve reduced. So, it appears likely her outgoings would always have 
remained the same.
But RDL did not address the fact that transferring would not have enabled Mrs E to fully 
meet these objectives. Nor did it provide any commentary or, more importantly, analysis as 
to why it thought only partially achieving these objectives was in her interests.
The only objective that mayve been met as a result of the advice was to raise approximately 
£1,000 to fund a course to help start a new business. I can see Mrs E indicated on more 
than one occasion the preference for part of the lump sum to help her potentially do this. So, 
I do think this was an objective that was discussed. However, Im also conscious that there is 
mention within the information from the time of her having applied for a job. So, there was 
the chance that a new business venture was not going to be necessary if she was 
successful in her application.
The advice given meant Mrs E was guaranteed to receive a lower income in retirement  
with the annual income from the annuity fixed, at a lower rate than was due under the DB 
scheme. Not to mention that the payments under the DB scheme wouldve continued to 
escalate in retirement. And the main purpose of a pension is to provide income in retirement. 
RDL recorded that the DB scheme was Mrs Es only real retirement provision outside of her 
state pension entitlement. So, she was heavily reliant on it. RDL did record that it and her 
state pension were unlikely to be enough to meet her retirement needs. But the advice only 
made that position worse.
So, given that the advice did not enable Mrs E to meet her stated objectives, and I dont 
think RDL did enough analysis to demonstrate a transfer was in Mrs Es best interest, I dont 
think it should have recommended Mr E transfer her pension out of the DB scheme.
Im also not sure that Mrs E necessarily understood the value of the benefits that she was 
giving up as the information around this was inconsistent.
Mrs E received a benefit increase statement from the DB scheme in April 2008. This said 
the pension payable from retirement was £1,126.86 per annum. This was repeated in the 
letter from the DB scheme in December 2008, in response to Mrs Es enquiry about taking 
benefits early. But that letter also talked about a GMP of £2,334.80 per annum being 
payable. It was unclear if this was in addition to or in place of the lower figure.
RDLs letter of 30 March 2009 said Mrs E would either be due a full pension of £2,674 per 
annum under the DB scheme at age 60 or that she could take a lump sum of £9,420 and a 
reduced pension of £1,889 per year  different figures again to the two the scheme provided. 
And RDL referred back to this information in its recommendation letter  although didnt 
directly repeat it. But a Transfer Value Analysis (TVAS) carried out on the same day that 
the recommendation was issued talks about Mrs E potentially being due a total pension of 
£3,339.74 per annum under the DB scheme at the scheduled retirement date  and 
suggests this mightve even been in addition to a lump sum.
I acknowledge that RDL gave a number of written warnings about the likelihood of Mrs Es 
retirement income being reduced. And I think she would reasonably have understood from 
the information RDL provided that she would be receiving less. But the information about 
what her benefits under the DB scheme wouldve been is inconsistent. So, just how much 
less she was likely to receive was likely unclear to her as this was not made clear by RDL. 
And one of the rules around pension transfer advice set by the FSA explained that 
comparisons should include enough information for customers to make an informed decision 
(COBS 19.1.2).So, in addition to the advice being unsuitable, I also dont think Mrs E was necessarily in a 
position to make an informed decision. Of course, I have to consider whether Mrs E would've 
gone ahead anyway, if RDL had advised her not to transfer and provided clearer information.
Ive considered this carefully.
One of the things recorded in the fact find, attributed to being said by Mrs E, was that she 
wanted to know if the pension is worth unlocking. Suggesting she hadnt made a decision 
at that point. And Mrs E approached RDL for advice, for which she was paying. And I think 
its advice wouldve carried weight.
That being said the information Ive seen indicates that Mrs E had already made enquiries 
directly to the DB scheme, before speaking to RDL, about potentially taking benefits from her 
pension early. So, it appears this was a course of action she was already contemplating.
And the information shed received from the scheme did talk about what shed receive under 
the scheme at the normal retirement age. Once she had that information, and had time to 
think about it, she contacted RDL looking to release money from her pension. And Mrs E 
was also clear that her financial position was causing her distress. She said she was 
struggling having a huge debt over my head.
Mrs E declared to RDL a debt of £11,000 and that she had entered into a DMP in respect of 
this. The income and expenditure information recorded at the time of the advice suggested 
Mrs E mayve had a surplus income of £340 per month, before payments to the DMP were 
taken into account. But Im not sure that this necessarily reflected the true position. Mrs E 
said she was struggling to get by  which calls into question whether she genuinely had an 
income surplus, particularly of this size. And it was noted her payments to the DMP had 
been restructured and reduced from £120 to £60. Which Im not sure wouldve happened 
had such a surplus existed.
Im also conscious, while Mrs E has said that there was an informal agreement with her 
former partner that they would meet the mortgage payments, there was an arrears letter in 
respect of the mortgage, addressed to Mrs E, provided to RDL during the application 
process. Indicating she was also being pursued in respect of this. I can also see that in some 
of the call notes after the advice had been given, Mrs E chased RDL to ask how long it 
would take to receive the money. And she indicated this was because she was being 
contacted by creditors. If a DMP was in place, there wouldnt usually be any further pursuit of 
the balance, provided the payments were being maintained. Which suggests that Mrs E 
mayve had other creditors she was also having issues with, which may not have been 
declared during the advice process.
On the subject of the call notes, I can see Mrs E made two phone calls to RDL chasing its 
letter of recommendation, as she was keen to proceed. And a further four, after the letter 
had been received and shed agreed to transfer in line with the advice, as she wanted the 
money to be released urgently. These were admittedly after RDL had said it would 
recommend a transfer. But I still think they indicate Mrs E was eager to proceed.
The documents provided by RDL during the advice process were also clear that Mrs E was 
likely to be worse off in retirement as a result of transferring. Warnings to this effect were 
sent in the initial welcome letter and repeated in the other written correspondence shared. 
And these documents were sent over the course of several months, with Mrs E having time 
to read and consider them. The contact notes indicate each time she spoke to RDL, she 
indicated she understood this, but had decided to proceed. And indeed, she noted in her 
own words that she had read the report and decided you should go ahead with the matter.Taking all of this into account, I think on balance Mrs E had come to think, before speaking 
to RDL, that her financial situation was having a detrimental effect on her and was 
untenable. Shed looked into addressing this through her pension already and I think had 
likely decided this was the only way she could do so. And I think it is likely she intended to 
do this. And so I think, even if RDL had advised Mrs E against doing so, her individual 
circumstances were such that shed have pursued the transfer and insisted on doing so.
As a result, I dont think Mrs Es position now is different to what it would have been even if 
RDL had advised against transferring. So, I dont intend to require RDL to take any action.
Responses to my provisional decision
I gave both parties an opportunity to make further comments or send further information 
before I reached my final decision.
RDL said it had nothing further to add.
Mrs Es representatives said, in summary, they felt my decision was unfair. They said Id 
highlighted problems with the financial advice and so felt the complaint should be upheld as 
they didnt agree Mrs E wouldve gone ahead with the transfer. In reference to my comments 
about the mortgage being in arrears they said Mrs E couldve found other ways to address 
this, such as using the surplus income referenced in my provisional decision. So, to suggest 
shed have transferred just to clear her mortgage arrears was nonsensical.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not inclined to depart from my provisional findings.
Mrs Es representatives are correct that I found issues with the advice provided by RDL. I felt 
that it was unsuitable. And I havent been provided anything that leads me to alter that 
conclusion. But in deciding what is fair and reasonable my role isnt just to look at whether 
an error has been made. Im also required to look at whether this has caused Mrs E a loss or 
to be in a different position than she otherwise wouldve been. And as I cant know for sure 
what otherwise wouldve happened, this means considering the information that is available 
and deciding on the balance of probabilities what I think more likely than not wouldve 
happened.
Mrs Es representatives have said she would not have taken the TFC in order to clear the 
mortgage arrears that I referenced. But my finding wasnt that she would. I referred to these 
arrears to support the point I made that it appears, based on the evidence available, that her 
financial situation may have been worse than was recorded. And I havent seen anything 
that leads me to depart from this conclusion. Mrs Es representatives have also talked in 
their response about Mrs E being able to use the surplus income Id referenced. But as I 
explained in my provisional findings, on balance I dont think such a surplus existed, 
particularly given what Mrs E said at the time of the advice about her situation and her 
having had to agree, shortly before the advice, a reduction to the payments she was making 
towards her DMP.
The representatives said they were bemused how I had concluded Mrs E would still have 
gone ahead with the transfer, had it been made clear to her that she wouldnt have met her 
objectives of clearing her debt by transferring. But Mrs E was aware of how much her debt 
was. She provided this information to RDL. And, while there were failings by RDL, it did make it clear to Mrs E how much shed receive in TFC by transferring. So, Im satisfied 
Mrs E had enough information to know that the amount she was receiving by transferring 
wasnt enough to clear her debt in full. But, for the reasons I largely explained in my 
provisional findings, I think, on balance, Mrs E felt that reducing her indebtedness was 
important, even if she couldnt clear it. She was very clear that she was struggling with her 
debt and this was impacting her. And I remain of the opinion shed concluded that 
addressing this, even partially, was more important to her at that point. And, as Im satisfied 
she had no other viable way to do this and had made enquiries about accessing her pension 
prior to speaking to RDL, I still think shed have always gone ahead with the transfer in order 
to do this  even if RDL had advised her against doing so. So, while Ive taken on board the 
comments made, I still dont think shed be in a different position than she is now, even if 
suitable advice had been provided.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman