DRN-2135093
The complaint
Mr F has made a complaint on behalf of his daughter, Miss F, because AXA PPP Healthcare 
Limited declined a claim on a private medical insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr F is a member of his employers private medical insurance scheme. Mr Fs family, 
including Miss F, are insured on the policy. Mr F made a claim as a GP had referred Miss F 
to a specialist as she was suffering from eczema. AXA declined the claim on the basis that it 
was a pre-existing condition which had been present before Miss F joined the scheme. Mr F 
made a complaint but AXA maintained their decision to decline the claim. Mr F made a 
complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. She 
thought it was reasonable for AXA to decline the claim on the basis of the medical evidence. 
Mr F sent in further evidence, which AXA considered, but they still declined the claim on the 
basis that it was present before Miss F was added to the policy. Having looked at all the 
evidence again the investigator still didnt think it was unreasonable for AXA to decline the 
claim. Mr F didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to look at everything again. He says, in 
summary, that the medical evidence doesnt suggest that Miss F had eczema before she 
was added to the scheme. 
So, I need to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that AXA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
 
Miss F was born in September 2019 and joined the scheme when the group policy came into 
force on 1 October 2019. The key issue for me to decide in this complaint is whether it is 
reasonable for AXA to decline the claim on the basis that Miss F had eczema before she 
joined the scheme. Whilst Mr F has made a number of representations, Ill only refer to the 
evidence and points which I consider to be central to the outcome of this complaint.
Mr F has a policy which has a moratorium underwriting. The policy terms and conditions say:
 
We call conditions which you were aware of when you joined pre-existing 
conditions. A pre-existing condition is any disease, illness or injury that:
 
You have received medication, advice or treatment in the five years before 
the start of your cover, or
You have experience symptoms of in the five years before the start of your 
cover: whether or not the condition was diagnosed.
I accept that Miss F did not have a diagnosis of eczema when she was added to the 
scheme. But the policy terms also include an exclusion for conditions which Miss F had 
experienced symptoms of before she was added to the policy. Im not upholding this 
complaint because I dont think it was unreasonable for AXA to conclude that Miss F had 
experienced symptoms of eczema before she joined the scheme for the reasons Ill go on to 
explain. 
Miss F was noted to have mildly dry skin in September 2019 when visited by a medical 
professional. The records say: Skin mildly dry. When Miss F was seen by a GP in early 
October 2019, she had rashes on her cheeks, neck and in the nappy area according to the 
notes. Miss F was prescribed cream for this. A few weeks later Miss Fs notes again refer to 
the GP visit for the rash and indicate that further advice about skin care was given. The later 
diagnosis of eczema, in December 2019, refers to a rash in the groin and nappy area which 
had developed into an eczema appearance. 
I accept that the medical professional who saw Miss F in September 2019 wasnt concerned 
about the dry skin but, within a very short period of time, Miss F was seen by her GP and 
was prescribed cream. When Mr F spoke to AXA about the claim he also indicated that the 
condition had been an issue soon after birth. So, taking all of the above into account, I dont 
think its unreasonable for AXA to conclude that the diagnosis of eczema was linked to the 
dry skin noted before the policy was taken out. 
Ive also taken into account that there were periods of time when, according to the notes, 
Miss Fs skin was described as normal and the medical notes say that the rash has gone. 
Mr F says, in summary, thats supportive of the eczema developing after Miss F was added 
to the policy. AXA says that the symptoms of eczema include dry skin, and that symptoms 
can come and go. I think AXAs argument on this point is consistent with published NHS 
guidance and information on eczema. I appreciate Mr F takes a different view of that 
information, but Im satisfied that it is reasonable to conclude that the symptoms of eczema 
include dry skin and that it is a condition which can come, go and/or worsen over time.  
Mr F has sent in pictures of Miss F in order to demonstrate that she didnt have eczema 
during the relevant period. Im not a medical expert but I appreciate the point Mr F is making 
in relation to the pictures. However, I cant tell from the pictures alone whether 
Miss F has relevant symptoms. For example, even if eczema isnt clearly visible, I cant tell if 
Miss Fs skin was dry. And Miss Fs notes refer to the eczema being in particular areas 
which also arent clearly and consistently visible from the pictures. So, the pictures havent 
changed my thoughts about the outcome of this complaint.
I want to make it clear that Im not suggesting that Mr F has acted dishonestly or thats hes 
acted with anything but the very best of intentions. However, my decision is based on the 
available evidence. Taking all of the above into account, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
AXA to conclude that Miss Fs symptoms had been present since at least late September, 
which was before she joined the scheme. That means I dont think it was unfair for AXA to 
decline the claim. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Miss F to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman