DRN-2373347
The complaint
Mr W complains that the Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, caused him inconvenience 
when its online banking service was unavailable when he wanted to transfer money to his 
wifes account. He wants compensation.
What happened
In early January 2020 Mr W wanted to transfer money from his account with Halifax but was 
unable to do so because the online banking service wasnt available. 
He complained to Halifax. It upheld his complaint but didnt offer him any compensation. It 
said that it understood online banking was his preferred method of banking and that it being 
unavailable inconvenienced him. But other alternatives, including telephone and in branch 
banking were available. There would be occasions when online banking was unavailable 
and other methods might have to be used and this was in the terms and conditions of his 
online banking facility. It wouldnt pay any compensation as he wouldve been able to 
conduct telephone banking in such circumstances. 
Mr W contacted Halifax who didnt change its position, so he brought his complaint to our 
service. He said hed been worried his wifes account may become overdrawn and that hed 
received compensation from another bank when its system was down. 
Our investigator didnt think Halifax needed to do anything further. He said that Mr W had 
been able to log on later on 1 January but hadnt completed a transfer. And he was also 
registered for telephone banking. He pointed out that the terms and conditions for online 
banking said that it wouldnt always be available and that the bank wouldnt be liable for any 
loss because other means of banking were available. So while the technical issue that 
prevented Mr W from using online banking was inconvenient, he couldve used telephone 
banking. He said Halifax had apologised for the inconvenience, which our investigator 
thought was enough, so he wasnt going to Halifax to pay any compensation. 
Mr W asked for a decision from an ombudsman. He said he hadnt thought to use telephone 
banking, as Halifax, like other banks, had been encouraging online banking. And he said 
hed been able to transfer money to his wifes account from another bank.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr W was concerned when he couldnt transfer money to his wifes account 
because Halifaxs online banking wasnt available. Thats understandable. But Im afraid Im 
going to have to disappoint him, as Im not going to tell Halifax to do anything further to 
resolve his complaint. Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute that Mr W was unable to use online banking for some time on 1 January 
2020. In its response to his complaint, Halifax acknowledged this caused Mr W 
inconvenience and apologised for this. 
Mr W wants Halifax to pay him some compensation. He says another bank did so. While I 
dont doubt Mr W, Im only able to consider the facts and circumstances of this complaint in 
considering what is fair and reasonable. 
We all experience some inconvenience in our day to day lives. Our service doesnt generally 
tell a business to pay compensation for minor inconvenience as our rules require there to be 
material inconvenience before we tell a business to pay compensation.
In this case Mr W tried for a short period of time to access his online banking and ultimately 
was able to transfer money to his wifes account from another bank. And although I 
understand that Mr W didnt think to use telephone banking, because banks have been 
encouraging online banking, telephone banking appears to have been an option available to 
him as he was registered for it. Halifaxs terms and conditions for online banking also 
indicate the service might be unavailable from time to time and it wouldnt pay compensation 
for that since it offered other banking methods. Taking all this into account, it wouldnt be fair 
of me to tell Halifax to pay compensation for the inconvenience experienced. I appreciate 
this will disappoint Mr W.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Helen Wheatley
Ombudsman