DRN-3797717
The complaint
Mr C says Santander UK Plc failed to notify him that better interest rates were available. 
What happened
Mr C says Santander ought to have told him he could have benefited from higher interest 
rates. He asks why it only advises when rates go down, and not up. He has lost money 
because of this and he wants compensation from Santander for its lack of communication.
Santander says Mr C opted out of marketing communications and so it would not send any 
information about other accounts, as he had requested. Also, it is the customers 
responsibility to ensure they hold the right accounts for their needs.  
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Cs complaint. He said Santander publishes its interest 
rates for all products online, as required. The terms of Mr Cs account do not require the 
bank to notify Mr C of other products and the rates they attract, only to changes to the rate 
on his product. And as Mr C opted to receive no marketing communications the bank would 
not have the ability to contact him about other products it felt may interest him.
Unhappy with this assessment Mr C asked for an ombudsmans review. He said Santander 
has a responsibility to ensure its customers receive the best interest rate available. Other 
providers do this by raising the rates on existing accounts and/or by contacting 
accountholders. It is not enough to publish the rates online. He provided an example of what 
other organisations do.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mr Cs complaint. I will explain why but first, as it is 
important context here, I want to set out what the powers we have, and what the rules we 
must follow, allow us to consider. Our remit is to look at the individual circumstances of a 
complaint; to assess if a business has made a mistake; and if so, to decide what it must do 
to put things right. We do not have the powers to review a banks systems, policies or 
processes. That is the role of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority.
In this case I have found no evidence of bank error. Santander has not breached the terms 
and conditions of Mr Cs account. It has complied with his request for no marketing material. 
It makes available, and updates, its range of interest rates on its website. Whilst I 
understand that Mr C feels this does not go far enough, and that it should proactively contact 
its savers if a better rate becomes available, it is not obliged to do this. Other banks and 
building societies may employ different processes to update their customers that Mr C sees 
as more fit for purpose, but that does not mean Santander has done anything wrong. And as 
I have explained above our role is not to review or comment on the processes and policies a 
bank has in place  rather it is to check that the bank has not made an error in how it has 
applied them to an individual customer.
In addition, whether or not a bank decides to increase the interest rate on an existing 
savings account is a commercial decision and not something we could interfere in. 
It follows I am not instructing Santander to take any action.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman