DRN-3484411
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited didnt allow them to buy-back a 
claim on their private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out a private medical insurance policy in February 2018 with AXA. Mr B 
made a claim on the policy in 2019, which AXA paid. The policy renewed in February 2020, 
and Mr Bs no claims discount (NCD) protection ended as hed made a claim. His NCD 
remained the same.
Mr and Mrs B got in touch with AXA in August 2021 to ask why Mr B didnt have NCD 
protection. AXA explained this was due to the claim in 2019. Mr and Mrs B werent happy 
with this. They say that when they took out this policy, AXA said that theyd have the option 
to self-fund, or buy-back, any claims they made during a policy year to preserve their NCD 
and NCD protection.
Mr and Mrs B say they had expected to buy-back the claim made in 2019 upon renewal, and 
they expected AXA to notify them overtly of this option. Mr and Mrs B say that AXA led them 
to believe this would happen at renewal, for example by sending a statement, a letter or by 
phoning them. Mr and Mrs B want AXA to allow them to buy-back the claim made in 2019, 
and to reinstate Mr Bs NCD and NCD protection.
AXA said it no longer held a recording of the call in 2018. So, it didnt dispute what Mr and 
Mrs B had said about the advice they got in 2018. But AXA also said that Mr and Mrs B 
knew about the option to buy-back claims, and they were sent renewal documents which 
reminded them of this option. And yet, Mr and Mrs B didnt get in touch with AXA until 
August 2021. So, it didnt agree to allow them to buy-back the claim now. But AXA said it 
could look to add the NCD protection at the next renewal, subject to the scheme terms.
Unhappy with AXAs response, Mr and Mrs B brought a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened but didnt uphold the complaint. In 
short, she said that Mr and Mrs B were aware of the option to buy-back claims, AXA sent 
them renewal documents which showed the change in the NCD, and she was satisfied the 
renewal information was clear.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with our investigators findings. As no agreement was reached, 
the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked through all the information, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. This 
is because:
Mr and Mrs B knew that they could buy-back claims at renewal to protect their NCD.
I think the renewal information was clear about the issues in dispute here. AXA 
explained that Mr and Mrs Bs policy was due to renew, and it explained how to 
access their renewal documents. AXA also encouraged Mr and Mrs B to check that 
the cover was still appropriate for their needs.
The 2020 renewal membership certificate showed Mr Bs NCD as 72%  which was 
the same as the previous year, while Mrs Bs NCD had increased to 74%. And 
crucially, Mrs Bs NCD protection said Yes, while Mr Bs said Ended.
The renewal documents also included information about how to keep the NCD, and 
what happens to NCD protection in the event of a claim. It said that the policyholder 
could pay AXA back for any claims made during the policy year, and AXA would then 
re-calculate the NCD and subscription.
Mr and Mrs B didnt get in touch with AXA until August 2021. I dont think AXA acted 
unreasonably by not allowing them to buy-back the claim made in 2019  the policy 
had already renewed twice since that.
Overall, I dont think AXA has acted unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances of this 
complaint. That means that I dont think theres anything it needs to do, to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman