DRN-4109959
The complaint
Miss M has complained that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) has 
declined a claim under the joint life assurance policy she had with her ex-partner.
Miss M is represented, but for simplicity I shall just refer to Miss M, rather than to her 
representative. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. In summary Miss M claimed under the policy when her ex-partner, Mr B, sadly passed 
away in 2022. L&G declined Miss Ms claim because it said that when applying for the policy 
in 2014 Mr B didnt correctly answer questions regarding his alcohol history.
Our investigator didnt feel that L&G had enough information to conclude that Mr B had 
misrepresented the amount he was drinking when he took out the policy. But they did find it 
was reasonable to conclude that Mr B had misrepresented with regard to the question as to 
whether he had been advised to reduce his drinking. Had L&G treated this as the only 
misrepresentation, the outcome would have been to request Mr Bs full GP history. 
Our investigator therefore recommended that L&G request the full GP records and reassess 
whether cover would or wouldnt have been offered in line with the relevant legislation, the 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA).
Both parties agreed to this course of action, so I am not able to re-visit the findings of our 
investigator in this decision. Rather the complaint now made is that L&G still declined the 
claim having reviewed the GP records. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He was satisfied that if Mr 
B had given full information at the application stage, L&G would not have offered Mr B cover.  
Miss M appealed.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware Ive only summarised the background to this complaint, and Ive left out 
some sensitive medical details and history, known to the parties. No discourtesy is intended 
by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I find are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to 
take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to 
the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Ive fully 
reviewed the complete file. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I recognise Miss M will be very disappointed 
by my decision, and I appreciate she feels that L&G is using its knowledge of how Mr B died 
to fit the narrative. But I dont find that is so and agree with the conclusions reached by the 
investigator for these reasons:
The medical records show that Mr B was advised to reduce his alcohol consumption 
in January 2010 when he was noted to be drinking 30 units a week. Im satisfied that 
it was reasonable for L&G to conclude that Mr B should have answered the 
application question about whether he had ever been told by a health professional 
that he should reduce the amount of alcohol he was drinking positively. Additionally, I 
find it is very likely that Mr B was advised to reduce his alcohol intake in when he was 
admitted to hospital with pancreatitis and was recorded as consuming 70 units a 
week.
If a consumer fails to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation, the 
insurer has certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is - what CIDRA 
describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation.  In order for a misrepresentation to be 
a qualifying one under CIDRA the insurer must show that it would not have entered 
into the contract at all or would have done so on different terms. L&G has done so. It 
has provided underwriting evidence that had the question regarding advice to reduce 
his drinking been answered correctly it would have declined cover for Mr B at the 
application stage. 
As our investigator explained, Im unable to share commercially sensitive information 
but I have reviewed the information sent together with a further communication from 
a senior underwriter. Given that underwriting evidence Im satisfied that L&G wouldnt 
have offered Mr B cover had the question above been answered positively. The 
misrepresentation is therefore a qualifying one under CIDRA.
Miss M finds it hard to believe that Mr Bs gout would have dissuaded L&G from 
offering him cover. However, given Mr Bs complicated medical history at the time of 
the application, L&Gs underwriters would have taken a holistic approach using their 
knowledge and experience. This approach would have taken into consideration not 
only the episodes of gout in 2010 and 2011 but the advice to reduce alcohol 
consumption as well as other red flags for alcohol abuse in the medical history, 
including pancreatitis and high ferritin levels. 
L&G concluded that the misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless. That means 
that L&G can avoid the contract and refuse all claims. It seems to me that the 
misrepresentation may well have been careless rather than deliberate. But I dont 
need to make a finding on this point as the outcome for Miss M is the same. This is 
because L&G would not have entered into the contract if the question referred to 
above had been answered correctly. L&G has offered to return any premiums paid if 
Miss M doesnt wish to continue with the policy. Again, I find this is fair and Miss M 
will need to advise L&G how she wishes to proceed.
In all the circumstances, and despite my natural sympathy for the position Miss M 
finds herself in, I dont find that L&G acted unreasonably by declining her claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman