DRN-1419872
The complaint
Mr C complains that HSBC UK Bank plc recorded a default on his current account, after 
deciding to close it. He attempted to repay his overdraft twice, but the payment was rejected 
and Mr C feels this was HSBCs fault.
What happened
Mr C had a current account with HSBC but, after reviewing his account, it decided that it 
could no longer offer him banking products and services. In January 2019, HSBC gave Mr C 
60 days notice that his account would be closed in March 2019. This letter said that Mr Cs 
arranged overdraft would come to an end when the account was closed and any overdrawn 
balance would need to be repaid or the account would be subject to its collections process; 
which could result in a default notice or final demand letter being sent.
Mr Cs account was overdrawn when it closed and when he tried to repay the balance, his 
payment was rejected. This was because the account had been stopped to prevent any 
debits or credits. Mr C spoke to HSBC and it said it would arrange for the stop to be lifted 
when Mr C wanted to make the payment. But no payment was made, so HSBC sent Mr C a 
default notice in May 2019, followed by a final demand letter in June 2019.
Mr C complained that the default had affected his credit file. He said that hed tried to pay the 
outstanding balance off twice, but wasnt able to as it had been blocked. He said he didnt 
receive the warning letters about the default as hed moved address. He hadnt told HSBC 
as his account was being closed. 
HSBC said that the closure letter it had sent Mr C advised that the account would close in 
March 2019 and that payment to clear the overdrawn balance needed to be made before 
that date. It said Mr C had attempted to make a payment on the date of the closure and the 
following day, but these were declined as an 'inhibit' had been placed on the account as it 
was to be closed. HSBC said that Mr Cs account had been closed and defaulted correctly in 
line with its procedures, and all the relevant correspondence had been issued to the address 
it held for Mr C.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He 
acknowledged that HSBC hadnt sent Mr C details of how he could pay his account while it 
was blocked. But he said that Mr C was still obliged to repay his overdraft debt, and he 
wouldve been aware of the need to repay this by the date given in the letter telling him his 
account would be closed. The investigator said Mr C had been told that the account would 
default if a payment wasnt received, and this was then applied in July 2019 when no 
payment was made. The investigator thought that HSBC had acted within the Information 
Commissioner's Office guidance when applying the default. 
Mr C didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for his account to be reviewed. He 
said hed tried to pay off the balance but it bounced back because of an error made by 
HSBC. He said he didnt expect the account to default while he was making a complaint 
because of the rejected payment.  What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr C may not have understood HSBCs reasons behind its decision to end 
its banking relationship with him. But this is something it is entitled to do in accordance with 
the account terms and conditions. And it sent Mr C a letter giving him 60 days notice that his 
account would be closed. This letter was posted to Mr C and was available to him through 
his online banking. In relation to overdrawn accounts; the letter said:
Your arranged overdraft will come to an end when your account is closed and you will need 
to repay any overdrawn balance at this time. Please be aware, failure to repay an overdrawn 
balance will lead to your account being subject to our collections process. This could include 
interest and charges starting to accrue on the outstanding balance and you being issued 
with a default notice and final demand letters (where appropriate).
But hed said he didnt read this letter until March. Mr C then tried to pay back the money 
owed on the overdraft. But as he attempted this on the closure date of his account, there 
was already a stop (inhibit) from allowing it to accept payments in or out. So his payment 
attempts were rejected.
I can appreciate that this will have been frustrating. But it doesnt mean that the balance 
wasnt still owed, simply because his initial attempts to pay didnt go through. 
Ive listened to the call recordings where this situation was discussed. Mr C was told that this 
inhibit could be temporarily removed to allow the account to accept a payment, and that he 
should call back or visit a branch when he intended on doing this. The last call ended with 
Mr C saying that he would visit a specific branch. So it seems that HSBC was left with the 
reasonable expectation that it was Mr Cs intention to do this and so repay the debt. 
A complaint was logged at this time, and a response letter was then sent to Mr C. This said 
that HSBC didnt believe it had made an error, and gave a number that Mr C could call to 
repay the balance owed.
However, HSBC didnt receive a payment towards the debt and so it sent Mr C a default 
notice. I do appreciate that these letters were sent to Mr Cs previous address, as he hadnt 
notified HSBC that hed moved. I understand his reason for this was that the account was 
going to be closed anyway, but it remained that he owed HSBC the outstanding balance on 
his overdraft. 
The default wasnt applied until July 2019, after HSBC sent Mr C a final demand letter and 
almost three months after Mr C had spoken to HSBC about making the payment to clear the 
debt and from when Mr C knew the reason why his initial attempts hadnt gone through. So I 
think this gave Mr C a reasonable amount of time to contact HSBC to make the payment, 
when he wouldve been aware of the potential consequences if he didnt.
Taking everything into account, I dont think HSBC acted unfairly or unreasonably in applying 
the default to Mr Cs account in these circumstances. Although I appreciate that the reporting 
of the default has had an impact upon his credit record, should he now choose to pay off the 
outstanding balance, then the reporting on his credit file will reflect this. 
 My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2020.
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman