DRN-3197956
The complaint
Mr L complains that NewDay Ltd was irresponsible in its lending to him. He wants the 
interest and charges on his credit cards refunded and the accounts removed from his credit 
file.
What happened
NewDay provided Mr L with two credit cards. He says that at the time the cards were 
provided, and the credit limits increased he was in a spiral of debt, reliant on payday loans 
and credit card debt. He says that by providing the credit cards and increasing the limits 
NewDay made his situation worse, causing him stress and affecting his health.
NewDay didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint about irresponsible lending and Mr L referred his 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think that it was wrong to provide the first credit card (card 1) with a 
limit of £600 in July 2015. She thought the checks carried out before this account and credit 
limit were provided were reasonable. She also didnt think it unreasonable that the limit was 
increased by £1,000 in October 2015, noting no payments had been missed up to that point. 
However, she didnt think the next two increases should have been applied (May 2016 and 
December 2016). She said although Mr L was meeting his contractual payments he wasnt 
paying large amounts to help reduce his debt and that each time he had a limit increase he 
would spend near to the maximum. She noted that Mr L was taking out payday loans before 
the third and fourth limit increases. Overall, she didnt think the checks were sufficient at this 
stage and thought that had further checks taken place before the third and fourth limit 
increases, it would have been clear that Mr L was struggling financially.
Regarding card 2, our investigator didnt find it unreasonable that this credit card account 
was provided in October 2016 with a credit limit of £600 or that an increase in the limit to 
£800 was applied a few months later. However, she didnt think that the limit increase of 
£800 (taking the overall limit to £1,600) in June 2017 was proportionate.
Overall, our investigator partially upheld this complaint. She recommended that Mr L be 
reimbursed all interest and charges applied from the time of the increase on card 1 in May 
2016 to date and the increase on card 2 in June 2017 to date.
NewDay didnt agree with our investigators view. It said that Mr Ls income was declared 
when the accounts were opened and when the account is reviewed for credit limit increases 
it uses other external data in its affordability model. In terms of payday lending NewDay said 
that it wasnt obliged to have multiple credit reference agency data up to March 2016 and 
payday data wasnt available to it until that time. It said the presence of payday loans 
wouldnt be a sole reason to prevent a credit limit increase.
NewDay said that by increasing Mr Ls credit limit it was providing him with a facility and he 
could have declined the increases or not used the card to its limit. It noted that our 
investigator had looked at information in Mr Ls bank statements but said that it didnt have 
this information and the data available to it didnt suggest Mr L was in financial difficulty. It 
said its approach was in line with the rules regarding credit worthiness at the time of the 
increases and that it wasnt required to ask for a customers banks statements or payslips.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Card 1 was provided in July 2015 with a credit limit of £600. While Mr L had some 
adverse information recorded on his credit file I didnt think the information noted was 
such that the lending should have been refused. Based on a credit limit of £600 I 
thought the checks carried out were proportionate and I didnt think these raised 
concerns that meant further checks should have taken place. The information 
gathered didnt raise concerns about the affordability of the card and so I didnt think I 
could say Card 1 shouldnt have been provided.
The limit on card 1 was increased by £1,000 three months after it was provided. This 
was a significant increase but as Mr L was maintaining his payments and based on 
the previous information he had provided; I didnt think I had enough to say that 
further checks were needed before this new limit was applied.
Mr L increased his use of card 1 to near the new limit in the first month and spent 
over the limit in December 2015, January 2016 and April 2016. He was making 
payments towards the account suggesting he was meeting the minimum contractual 
requirements however he wasnt making any significant inroads into the debt. When 
the payday loan information started to be gathered Mr L was shown to be making use 
of payday loans. Given this, and that he wasnt maintaining the account in line with 
the terms (that is he was over the limit in three months between December 2015 and 
May 2016) I didnt think that a further limit increase should have taken place without 
further checks to ensure that the additional lending was sustainably affordable for 
Mr L.
I thought that before the increase was applied in May 2016, NewDay should have 
carried out a thorough review of Mr Ls financial situation. Had this happened, it 
would have realised that Mr L was struggling to manage his money and was also 
making frequent use of gambling sites. I thought this should have raised serious 
concerns that meant providing further credit to Mr L wasnt responsible.
In October 2016 Mr L applied for a second credit card with NewDay. Mr L already 
had a £2,200 credit limit on card 1 and was making use of most of that facility. As I 
thought a thorough check of Mr Ls financial situation should have happened in May 
2016 and this would have identified that Mr L was struggling to manage his money 
and using gambling websites, I didnt think it reasonable that any further credit would 
be provided, in this case in the form of a new credit card, unless there was evidence 
to show Mr Ls financial situation had improved significantly.
I looked at the information provided, and saw that Mr L was still struggling to manage 
his money, his debts were increasing, and he was making use of gambling websites 
at the time card 2 was provided. So, I didnt find there had been a significant 
improvement in Mr Ls financial situation and didnt think NewDay acted responsibly 
by providing this credit card.
In summary, I didnt think that NewDay should have provided the increase in credit limit on 
Mr Ls first card in May 2016 (or any subsequent increase) or provided him with the second 
credit card in October 2016.NewDay accepted my provisional decision. Mr L responded to my provisional decision 
asking whether 8% interest should be added to the refunds I had suggested. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L was provided with two credit card accounts, both of which are operated by NewDay. As 
I set out in my provisional decision, I think the checks carried out before the first credit card 
was provided were proportionate and as these didnt raise concerns about the affordability of 
the lending I dont think it was wrong that NewDay provided Mr L with a credit card limit of 
£600 in July 2015. I also do not think there is enough evidence to say that it was wrong to 
apply the first increase in the credit limit. However I think further checks should have taken 
place before the credit card limit was increased in May 2016 and had this happened, 
NewDay would have realised that Mr L was struggling to manage his money and that it 
wasnt responsible to provide him with further credit at this time. I didnt see any significant 
change in Mr Ls circumstances before the second credit card was provided and as I didnt 
think it responsible for further credit to be provided I didnt think that NewDay should have 
provided the second credit card.
Mr L asked whether 8% simple interest would be added to the refunds I had set out in my 
provisional decision. I understand why he has asked about this as in certain cases interest is 
applied to compensate a consumer for payments made which are subsequently required to 
be refunded. However, in this case, Mr L has been in debt with NewDay for the period this 
complaint relates to. Interest payments would only be applied if he had made overpayments 
on his account, that is the refunds result in the debts being cleared and a balance remaining. 
I have addressed this in the redress below but as I believe there is likely to be an 
outstanding balance after the refunds have been applied, I do not think it likely that interest 
will be applicable in this case.
Putting things right
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint. In the event the accounts have been 
sold, NewDay Ltd should buy these back and take the actions set out below. If this isnt 
possible, or NewDay isnt willing to do this, then it should work with the new owner to ensure 
the actions below are taken.
NewDay Ltd should:
refund Mr L all interest and charges applied from the time of the increase on card 1 in 
May 2016 to date;
refund Mr L all interest and charges applied on card 2;
remove any adverse information recorded about card 1 from May 2016 and any 
adverse information recorded about card 2 from Mr Ls credit file;
if Mr L still has outstanding balance on his cards after the refunds above NewDay 
should work with Mr L to ensure a suitable repayment plan based on Mr Ls income 
and expenditure at the time it is set up. If, after the refund, there is a positive balance, 
8% simple interest* should be added to any overpayment from the date the 
overpayment arose to the date of settlement.HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to take off tax from this interest. NewDay must 
give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. NewDay Ltd should take the actions set out 
above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman