DRN-3153922
The complaint
Mr A complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) declined his request for a partial 
premium refund on his car insurance policy. Mr A says his use of his car was severely 
curtailed because of Covid-19 restrictions, and as such he wants a refund of what he deems 
to be unused premiums. Mr A also said there was an error with his no claims bonus (NCB). 
What happened
Mr A first contacted Aviva in October 2020 because there was an error with his NCB. Mr A 
complained and following a conversation with Aviva, it rectified the issue and acknowledged 
the distress this anomaly had caused. It awarded Mr A £150 in compensation.
In further correspondence with Aviva in February 2021, Mr A requested a partial refund of 
the annual premium hed paid the previous year. Mr A said that hed used his car less than 
expected, due to government implemented travel restrictions, and thought he should now 
receive a refund.
Aviva said because his policy had ended, it couldnt make any changes to it. It also said that 
it wouldnt provide a retrospective refund just because Mr A hadnt used his car as he 
expected. 
Because of this Mr A complained. Aviva investigated Mr As complaint and didnt uphold it. It 
said it was unable to back date any changes. Aviva said it wasnt its policy to provide 
retrospective refunds simply because Mr As car had been used less. 
Mr A didnt agree and brought his complaint to our service. An investigator reviewed the 
complaint in line with the guidance issued by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in June 
2020 and said Aviva hadnt done anything wrong.
As Mr A didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Lets just touch on the NCB error first. Aviva only allow a discount for a set amount of years 
that were claims free. Mr A had more than this. So, I can see why there was an anomaly. I 
can also see from the telephone call notes that Aviva eventually got to the heart of the 
problem, and Im satisfied the compensation of £150 it awarded for the inconvenience 
caused is fair.
The refund request issue can be broken down into two parts. Mr A says theres an inequality 
at play and that your occupation and where you live has a part to play in how a customers 
premiums are calculated. Mr A also says that the mileage covered in the policy year is a 
leading driver of the premium and that Avivas algorithms didnt take into account his 
reduced mileage during government enforced restrictions.
I agree that occupation and address will more likely than not have an impact on a customers 
annual premium. These criteria are key drivers in informing insurers about the risk each 
individual presents. But the key word here is risk. Its the risk that these different criteria 
generate that drives the premium, not whether you live in what Mr A describes as a 
deprived or plush area. Its usually the number of claims reported from these areas that 
drive the premium. Its a similar case with occupation  its based on risk. So, it doesnt 
matter if you are an executive in a multi-national or a shopkeeper. Its the risk that your 
occupation brings, based on extensive statistics across the industry that will drive the 
premium. 
When Mr A took out his policy, he told Aviva what he would use his car for and gave an 
estimated annual mileage. Aviva then based its premium on this information, which Mr A 
accepted. I understand at the time the policy started Mr A and Aviva wouldnt have been 
able to predict the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic. But Im not persuaded that its fair and 
reasonable for Aviva to offer a retrospective refund, after Mr As policy has ended. I say this 
because even though Mr A did do less mileage during the year, this isnt something Aviva 
would have known about. 
During the Covid-19 pandemic, the FCA issued guidance to all insurers explaining how 
insurers should support their customers. And looking at this alongside what happened Im 
not persuaded Aviva has done anything wrong. This is because Aviva didnt know about Mr 
As changes until after his policy ended, and cover remained in place for other risks, not just 
mileage travelled on the road. So, Im not persuaded it would produce a fair and reasonable 
outcome if I directed Aviva to refund some of a premium because a policyholder hasnt 
needed all the cover the policy provided. Aviva has provided the cover it agreed to when the 
policy was taken out and wasnt notified of any changes until after it had finished. 
I appreciate that Mr A says he wasnt to know about the potential differential in mileage when 
the policy was taken out. He says he didnt foresee the pandemic either. And I agree. But 
Mr A couldve contacted Aviva before the policy ended, and he didnt. Mr A says he wasnt to 
know this, and Aviva shouldve contacted him. But we wouldnt expect an insurer to contact 
each customer individually about potential changes to his or her premiums. The onus is on 
the customer to notify Aviva of any changes in circumstance, and I note that Aviva have set 
out very clearly in its policy terms and conditions that it wants to know if there are any 
changes to the information set out in the Information Provided By You document, certificate 
of motor insurance or on your schedule. It also provides a link to the customers account 
where changes can be notified.
But Mr A says it was impossible to contact the administrator of the policy and he couldnt 
actually speak to anyone to let them know about his reduction in mileage. He says the 
website doesnt give a telephone number to call. But this was an online only account, with 
various links to Mr As account highlighted in the policy booklet. I know Mr A has advised 
he couldnt remember his password, but Aviva has advised that a new password was 
requested on this account previously, so Mr A was aware he could do this to gain access to 
his account. 
So, taking everything into account Im satisfied that Aviva did enough to address Mr As NCB 
issue. Mr A attempted to make retrospective changes to his policy, after it had ended. But I 
wouldnt expect Aviva to refund any premium for this for the reasons Ive set out above. I 
know Mr A will be disappointed with this outcome. But Im satisfied Aviva has dealt with 
everything appropriately and I wont be asking it to do anything more.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman