DRN-3733927
The complaint
Mrs M and Mrs S, on behalf of a business - C, complain about a transaction fee applied to 
their merchant services account by WorldPay UK Limited.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both C and WorldPay. In my decision, Ill 
focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
C had a merchant services agreement with WorldPay. This enabled C to take customer 
payments by credit and debit card. A customer of Cs was overcharged on one particular 
transaction. When it was brought to Cs attention, they arranged for a refund to be made to 
the customer. WorldPay applied a fee of over £700 - which C wasnt expecting to be 
charged.
C complained to WorldPay, but they said the fee had been correctly applied. Unhappy, C 
referred their complaint to our Service for an independent review. Our Investigator 
considered the complaint but didnt recommend that it be upheld. As C didnt accept, their 
complaint has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. I wont comment on the 
referenced May 2019 voluntary code as I dont find it relevant to this complaint. It relates to 
protecting consumers from push payment fraud and scams. 
The transaction value
I can understand Cs frustration with this situation. Theyve explained they believe the error 
in their customer being charged over £30,000 instead of £3 was due to an electrical failure 
around the time of the transaction going through. C felt that given their normal trading 
patterns, a transaction of this value shouldve been identified and prevented from completing 
by WorldPay.
WorldPay have said the transaction amount had to have been manually keyed and approved 
by customer pin. Theyve also said they monitor accounts at a high level - rather than at an 
individual transaction level. 
I find that WorldPay didnt act unreasonably in not preventing the transaction going through  
even if it was outside of the normal trading pattern of C. WorldPay deal with millions of 
pounds, across thousands of transactions daily and it would be unreasonable to expect that 
theyd step in and prevent individual transactions - particularly where the card holder had 
verified the transaction using chip and pin. 
On balance, Im not persuaded that the referenced electrical failure caused the transaction to 
be processed for the larger amount. Based on experience, the cashier will have entered the 
transaction amount on the terminal, the card holder then enters their pin and the data is 
transmitted to Worldpay and ultimately debits the card holders account. 
An electrical failure prior to their card holder entering their pin will have voided the entire 
transaction. An electrical failure after the card holder entered their pin is extremely unlikely to 
have altered the transaction value the card holder had just approved by entering their pin. I 
find it more likely than not the wrong transaction value was entered by simple human error. 
However, even if I was to conclude that the electrical failure was responsible for the wrong 
transaction amount, the electrical supply is beyond WorldPays control and they couldnt  
fairly be held liable for any losses arising out of electrical issues. 
The fee charged
As Im not persuaded WorldPay have done anything wrong here, Ive then considered if the 
2.5% transaction fee is fair. Due to the nature of their business, C entered into a pay as you 
go contract with WorldPay. This meant that each transaction incurred a 2.5% charge. I find 
that WorldPay have fairly applied the transaction fee - in line with the agreement terms. 
C argues its unfair for WorldPay to charge a transaction fee in this circumstance. But 
WorldPay arent responsible for the customer being debited the wrong amount here. 
Transaction fees arent pure profit for WorldPay  it too will have incurred a cost for 
processing the transaction.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman