DRN-1901625
 
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Citifinancial Europe Limited (CEL) mis-sold her a single premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy when she took out a loan.
What happened
In 2003 Mrs M took out a loan with CEL and at the same time she took out a single premium 
PPI policy. The policy wouldve covered Mrs Ms loan repayments if she was unable to work 
due to accident or sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator thought Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld because he didnt think the cost 
of the policy had been made clear enough and didnt think there was enough evidence to 
show Mrs M was given the opportunity during the sale to actively confirm she wanted to take 
out the policy or that she understood it was a separate product from the loan.
CEL disagreed, so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
As outlined in the background to this complaint our adjudicator identified a number of 
reasons they thought Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. Although Im in agreement with 
our adjudicators thoughts, I only need one reason to uphold a complaint and Ive decided to 
uphold this complaint because I dont think Mrs M was given clear enough information on the 
cost of the policy. 
When CEL sold the policy it needed to make sure Mrs M was given enough information 
about the policy to decide whether it was right for her. That information also had to be clear, 
fair and not misleading. One of the key pieces of information Mrs M needed to understand is 
the cost of the policy.
For Mrs M to be fully informed on what the PPI policy was going to cost I think she would 
need to understand the following:
She was borrowing extra money to pay for the PPI premium;
 
Interest would be charged on the cost of the premium;
 
What the charge for interest would be; 
What the cost of the PPI premium was; and
 
A comparison of what the borrowing would be with and without PPI added.
 
CEL have provided examples of sales documents it says were in use at the time when the 
policy was sold. However, all the samples but the credit agreement, postdate Mrs Ms sale 
so I cant be sure these were the sale documents that were used.
I can see on the sample credit agreement that the amount of the loan and PPI premium 
would be listed but I dont think the credit agreement makes any of the above requirements 
very clear. Its not really explained that Mrs M is borrowing more to pay for the PPI or that 
interest is being charged on it. And to find out what the cost of the interest is on the PPI 
premium is by itself, as CEL have stated determining the monthly cost of the premium would 
require some additional calculation.  Meaning Mrs M wouldve had to work this out for 
herself.
I dont think this is presenting information in a clear, fair and not misleading way. So I dont 
think CEL did give Mrs M clear enough information on the cost of the policy before she 
agreed to buy it.
If Mrs M had been given all the information on the cost of the policy I dont think she 
wouldve agreed to buy it. I say this because she wouldve understood that she was 
borrowing money to pay for the policy premium and interest was being charged on this. I 
dont think Mrs M wouldve thought the benefit she got from the policy was worth the money.
As a consequence Mrs M has lost out as a result of CELs failings in this case.
Putting things right
Mrs M borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so her loan was bigger than it shouldve been and 
she paid more than she shouldve each month. So Mrs M needs to get back the extra shes 
paid. 
So, CEL should:
 
Work out and pay Mrs M the difference between what she paid each month on the 
loan and what she wouldve paid each month without PPI.
 
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mrs M paid each month from when she paid 
it until she gets it back. The rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a 
year from then on.
 
If Mrs M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, CEL can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
  HM Revenue & Customs requires CEL to take off tax from this interest. CEL must give Mrs 
M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
So for the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ms complaint against Citifinancial Europe 
Limited and direct it pay the fair compensation outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman