DRN-3535912
The complaint
Mr H complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd caused delays following his request to access his 
pension benefits, causing him a financial loss. 
What happened
Mr H had a pension with Zurich. On 23 November 2020, he approached them to enquire 
about accessing a lump-sum drawdown from his pension. Zurich responded, emailing Mr H 
the following day with the necessary claim forms, and asking him to complete a risk warning 
questionnaire (updating a previous one that had expired). Mr H, who was resident abroad, 
returned the completed documents to Zurich by courier the following day.
Mr H became aware in December 2020 there were problems delivering the documents to 
Zurich, and so emailed them on 17 December 2020. To help speed things up, he attached 
the completed claim form to this email. Zurich responded on 21 December 2020, advising 
him the risk questionnaire hadnt been included, and some questions were still unanswered. 
Mr H responded, saying Zurich hadnt sent him the risk questionnaire to complete, but after 
further exchanges agreed it had been included in their initial email. Mr H then emailed the 
completed risk questionnaire, with the remaining answers needed, to Zurich on 22 
December 2020. 
Zurich sought some further information, which Mr H responded to immediately. And using 
fund values taken on 23 December (the day after all the necessary information had been 
received), Zurich completed the transaction, and sent funds to Mr H on 6 January 2021.
Mr H was unhappy with the delays in accessing his funds. He complained to Zurich about 
this and added that it hadnt been clear he could have emailed his claim form instead of 
sending it via courier, and that it delayed things further by asking for information hed already 
provided or that wasnt needed. Zurich responded on 12 February 2021 disagreeing, saying 
they didnt believe thered been any drawdown process delays. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr H brought his complaint to this Service. But one of our 
Investigators didnt think Zurich had made any errors or caused any delays in the drawdown 
process. She explained that, in their initial communication with Mr H, Zurich were clear the 
forms could have been returned by email, and whilst there were clearly delays in delivering 
the documentation via the courier, these werent Zurichs fault. And following the signed and 
completed documents, sent by email, being received by Zurich, the drawdown was 
processed within Zurichs standard timeframe for processing transactions of this type. 
Mr H disagreed with our Investigator. He commented that Zurich have since altered their 
processes concerning email transmission of documents and felt Zurich should have offered 
the email option sooner than it did. He asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint, 
and so its been passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr H as he feels very strongly about the matter, so Ill explain why.
Ill deal first with Mr Hs complaint that Zurich werent clear the claim documents could have 
been emailed to them, rather than just sent. Responding to Mr Hs request to access his 
pension, Zurich emailed him a letter on 24 November 2020 (the letter was dated 23 
November). The letter included information about his lump sum options, and a lump sum 
payment risk warning questionnaire to complete, and said as follows on page 2:
Please either complete and return the questionnaire in the prepaid envelope 
provided or call us on [xxx] to provide the information we need.
The covering email provided the correspondence address, and also said: 
alternatively, you can email it to this corresponding email address
I think Zurichs email was sufficiently clear Mr H could have emailed his completed forms to 
them. This is in no way intended to be a criticism of Mr H in that he missed this message but 
having reviewed the document Im satisfied the instruction was sufficiently clear and visible. 
So, whilst its clear Mr Hs drawdown request experienced delays after he sent the form, I 
think these were most likely caused by the problems with the courier, and it wouldnt be fair 
to hold Zurich responsible for these. 
Addressing Mr Hs comment about Zurich altering their process involving the receipt of 
documents by email, I should explain our Service is an informal dispute resolution service. 
We deal with disputes between businesses and their customers, and its not in our remit to 
comment on, or instruct businesses to change their internal processes  that is the role of 
the regulator, the FCA. So, I wont be commenting on the types of communication methods 
Zurich should or shouldnt accept from their customers.  
So, turning to what did happen, theres no dispute Mr H immediately signed and returned the 
claim form via international courier (but not the risk questionnaire). Mr H became aware of 
the courier delivery delays in December. He emailed Zurich on 17 December 2020 to advise 
about the courier problems, attaching a copy of the form hed sent. He asked if Zurich would 
progress the drawdown using just an emailed form only. Zurich acknowledged this email 
immediately, letting Mr H know his request had been forwarded to their claims department. 
Zurich then advised Mr H on 21 December 2020 his emailed form was incomplete  it didnt 
include the completed risk questionnaire, and certain questions in the claim form hadnt been 
answered. Mr H responded, attaching Zurichs initial 24 November 2020 email, suggesting 
this hadnt included the risk questionnaire. He asked how he could have completed and 
returned something that hadnt been provided to him. He also questioned Zurichs statement 
that the claim form hed emailed hadnt been properly completed. 
Dealing first with the risk questionnaire, Im satisfied this was included with the information 
Zurich emailed to him on 24 November 2020. The covering letter and risk questionnaire 
appear to have been attached as one whole document. So, whilst I acknowledge it wasnt 
sent separately, I dont think this matters - Im satisfied it was sent and was sufficiently clear. 
Further, under the letter heading Next Steps I think its made sufficiently clear it needed to 
be completed and returned before Zurich can proceed with Mr Hs drawdown request. 
Looking now at the claim form, it begins by explaining how it needs to be filled in. And in 
relation to section 6, The lifetime allowance  questions, it says You must answer all the questions. I think this is a suitably clear instruction, with no ambiguity. Ive seen a copy of 
the returned claim form which appears to show Mr H hadnt answered all the questions in 
section 6  questions, 1, 2 and 3 had been answered, but not 4 or 5. And Ive seen various 
email exchanges between Mr H and Zurich in which he acknowledges those questions 
werent initially answered. 
Ive also thought about how quickly Zurich noticed the missing information, to see if there 
were any processing delays caused by them  and I dont think there were any. Their claim 
department received Mr Hs email on 17 December (a Thursday), and advised him of the 
missing information on Monday 21 December  a response period of two working days. 
Given Mr Hs 17 December 2020 email needed to be sent to the correct department to 
review and progress, I think this is a reasonable timeframe. 
Ive seen further communications happened on 22 December 2020, to clarify some final 
points relating to the claim form (including answering the missed questions 4 and 5), with 
Mr H emailing Zurich the signed risk questionnaire on that day. So, I consider it fair to accept 
this is the first date Zurich had all the necessary information to enable it to process Mr Hs 
drawdown request. As the information was received after 12pm, Zurich used the relevant 
unit prices from the following day  23 December 2020  to calculate the value of Mr Hs 
fund. Im satisfied this too is fair and is what Id have expected Zurich to do. And Zurich then 
processed the drawdown and sent the funds to Mr Hs account within a further eight working 
days. Again, Im satisfied this is fair and within the timescale Id have expected Zurich to do 
this. 
So, taking all of the evidence into account, Im satisfied Zurich began processing Mr Hs 
drawdown request as soon as theyd received all the information they were entitled to ask 
for, and didnt cause any unnecessary delays in processing it, so I wont be asking it to do 
anything further here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Mark Evans
Ombudsman