DRN-2225642
The complaint
Mrs N is complaining that a car Santander Consumer (UK) Plc supplied her through a 
conditional sale agreement wasnt as described.
What happened
In May 2014 Mrs N entered into a conditional sale agreement to acquire a car. The cash 
price of the car was around £9,000, it was five years old and was advertised to have 
travelled 31,000 miles. 
In July 2019, Mrs N looked to part-exchange the car but she says the dealership raised 
discrepancies with the mileage history which she thinks suggested the mileage had been 
tampered with. She said the DVLA had recorded the mileage on the car as 81,000 miles at 
May 2014 as opposed to the advertised 31,000. So the dealership wouldnt part-exchange 
the car at the original price offered. And she says shes lost out significantly as a result. 
Santander said it wasnt possible to know what had happened due to the passage of time. 
And it said it was possible this was a simple administrative error. But it said it had discussed 
this with the supplying dealership and they were willing to offer her £500 in compensation. 
Mrs N didnt accept this offer and referred her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint as she thought it was most likely the 
discrepancies were down to administrative errors. She said, from looking at the MOT 
mileage in May 2013, it seemed the previous owner had travelled around 6,000 miles 
between May 2013 and May 2014. And she thought it would be surprising if someone's 
driving habits changed so much. She thought this was consistent with the car having 
travelled around 31,000 miles over five years.
The investigator also said shed spoken with the DVLA to understand how it obtain its 
mileage information. And she said it had confirmed that the registration forms sellers 
completed at that time when selling a car provided an option to record the cars mileage at 
the time of sale. And it said this is where it was told the mileage was 81,000.
The investigator said there was no way of having the car inspected to assess if the mileage 
had been tampered with. But she noted a number of other historic administrative errors with 
inputting the mileage on the MOT history, which she thought suggested this was also likely 
to be an administrative error. Ultimately, the investigator thought it was most likely the 
discrepancies were down to administrative errors, rather than an actual issue with the car. 
So she thought the supplying dealer and Santanders combined offer was fair.
Mrs N didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and for the same reasons as the investigator. 
The investigator gave a detailed explanation for why she didnt uphold the complaint and I 
agree with what she said and for the same reasons. So I wont reiterate everything she said 
in my decision. But I shall briefly set out what I think are the key reasons why Im not 
upholding this complaint.
Mrs N acquired the car under a conditional sale agreement. Legislation implied a term into 
the contract that the car must be as described. Mrs N says she thinks the car had a travelled 
around 81,000 miles as opposed to the 31,000 miles that was advertised. Its not possible to 
know for certain what happened due to the passage of time and the fact that the car isnt 
available to be inspected any longer. So Ive thought about what I think was most likely to 
have happened. 
The car had only had one owner before Mrs N. It seems that person travelled around 6,000 
miles in the year before Mrs N acquired the car. They had the car for five years before Mrs N 
acquired it. I think its unlikely an individuals driving habits are likely to change significantly 
in such a short time. And I think this annual mileage is consistent with the car having 
travelled around 31,000 miles over the five years before Mrs N acquired it  which is what 
the supplier said was on the cars odometer. 
I can understand why Mrs N was concerned about what was on the cars history. And I can 
appreciate why she was unhappy to not be able to obtain the original part-exchange value. 
But Im satisfied the discrepancies were likely to be an administrative error by either the 
supplying dealership by putting the incorrect mileage on the V5C form or the DVLA mis-read 
it when inputting the data into the cars history. And I dont think this is something I can hold 
Santander is liable for.
Taking everything into account, Im not persuaded Ive seen enough to support that the car 
Santander supplied her wasnt as described. So it follows that I think Santanders offer of 
£500 in compensation is fair. And I dont think it has to do anything further to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I think Santander Consumer 
(UK) Plcs compensation offer of £500 is fair and reasonable in all circumstances. It should 
pay this to her directly if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2020. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman