DRN-2314192
The complaint
Ms L complains about how Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) dealt with a claim under her 
travel insurance policy when she fell ill abroad. 
All references to IPA include the agents it has appointed to handle claims. 
What happened
Ms L held a travel insurance policy, provided by IPA.
Unfortunately, Ms L fell ill while on holiday and was admitted to hospital. Ms L borrowed
money from her family to pay the hospital a deposit needed for her treatment, and contacted
IPA to register a claim under her policy.
IPA initially suggested it would organise a nurse-escorted flight home for Ms L. However,
IPA subsequently discovered Ms L wasnt registered with a UK GP. IPA therefore said
Ms Ls claim wasnt covered under the terms and conditions of her policy.
Ms L said she hadnt visited a doctor in over two years, and her previous doctor at university
hadnt informed her shed been deregistered from its practice. IPA said if Ms L could obtain
evidence that shed been deregistered by her GP without her knowledge then it would
assess the claim again.
Concerned about the rising medical costs, Ms L discharged herself from hospital and
travelled back to the UK alone on her amended original return flight. Ms L was taken to
hospital the day after her return to the UK.
Ms L complained to IPA, who said its decision to decline her claim was correct under the
terms and conditions of her policy. However, IPA said because of the circumstances of
Ms Ls illness, it wouldnt be fair to apply the policy terms to her situation. IPA therefore said
it would cover Ms Ls claim and settle her hospital bills and other expenses. IPA also
acknowledged it should have offered Ms L a nurse chaperone at her own expense and
offered to pay her £400 compensation for failing to do this.
As Ms L remained unhappy, she brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator
concluded that IPA hadnt acted incorrectly in declining Ms Ls claim and said IPA had paid
Ms Ls medical bills as a gesture of goodwill. But our investigator acknowledged that IPA
should have offered Ms L non-financial assistance while she was abroad and said the £400
offered was fair compensation for its failings.
Ms L didnt accept our investigators opinion, so the complaint was passed to me. I made my 
provisional decision about Ms Ls complaint in October 2020. In it, I said:
Rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Principles for
Business) say:
a firm should pay due regard to the interest of its customers and treat them fairly.
Under the FCAs Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook, an insurer must:
handle claims promptly and fairly;
provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim, and provide
appropriate information on its progress;
not unreasonably reject a claim.
In deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive taken into account the above
rules and guidance as well as the terms and conditions of Ms Ls policy, and the specific
circumstances of her complaint. Having done so, I dont think IPA acted fairly or reasonably
by turning down Ms Ls claim while she was abroad.
The terms and conditions of Ms Ls policy say:
Significant or unusual exclusions or limitations
You must be a permanent resident of, and registered with a General Practitioner in,
the United Kingdom.
Under the section of the policy entitled Important Health Requirements  For All Insured
Persons, the terms and conditions say:
You must comply with the following conditions in order to have full protection under
this policy. If you do not comply we may refuse to deal with your claim
This insurance will not cover you if you:
4. are not a permanent resident of, and registered with a General Practitioner in the
United Kingdom.
The requirement for a policyholder to be registered with a UK GP is common to most, if not
all, travel insurance policies and I think this is clearly set out within Ms Ls policy terms and
conditions, which I note were sent to her in a link by email on 1 May 2019.
The primary purpose of the requirement to be registered with a UK GP is to enable an
insurer to carry out reasonable investigations into a policyholders medical history before 
confirming that a claim is covered. An insurer is entitled to be satisfied that a claim does not
arise from a pre-existing medical condition and/or that the policyholder wasnt undergoing
medical tests or investigations when the policy was purchased before it confirms cover.
Ms L wasnt registered with a UK GP. Ms L has explained the circumstances surrounding
this and I understand she may have had no knowledge that she had been deregistered but,
under a strict application of the policy terms and conditions, her claim isnt covered as she
doesnt comply with the policy requirements.
However, this service makes decisions based on what we think is fair and reasonable in all
the circumstances. In this case, based on the nature of Ms Ls illness, I dont think IPA was
disadvantaged by Ms Ls failure to be registered with a UK GP and its inability to obtain her
medical records as a result.
Im pleased to see IPA has acknowledged this in its final response letter to Ms L. It has said
the condition she suffered from abroad was a new diagnosis and, so, wouldnt have been acondition which she was aware of or could have declared to it when renewing the policy. IPA
has also acknowledged that Ms L wouldnt have been undergoing any tests or investigations
for this condition prior to travelling as her lack of registration with a GP would otherwise have
come to light sooner. I dont think IPA paid Ms Ls claim as a gesture of goodwill  instead, it
said it was fair to consider Ms Ls claim as being covered under her policy.
IPA accepted cover four days after Ms L returned to the UK. However, I think IPA should
have done this sooner, while Ms L was still abroad and before she travelled back to the UK.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, IPA was in possession of all the necessary information it
needed to confirm cover two days after Ms Ls hospital admission, when it received a
medical report confirming her condition was newly diagnosed. Theres also a note on IPAs
file on the following day, saying Ms Ls former GP had confirmed she didnt previously have
the medical condition she had been diagnosed with abroad.
This means I think IPAs refusal to accept cover while Ms L was abroad was unreasonable in
the circumstances. And IPA has acknowledged that even if Ms Ls claim wasnt covered by
her policy, it should have offered Ms L the option of having a nurse escort at her own
expense.
Ive considered what award of compensation I think is fair and reasonable in the
circumstances for the distress and inconvenience Ms L experienced as a result of IPAs
actions in this case.
The medical reports which Ive seen are very clear in recommending that Ms L needed to
return to the UK in business class, with a nurse escort. IPAs notes acknowledge that a
nurse escort was necessary and ambulance transfers both abroad and in the UK were also
being looked into. But, when making an award of compensation, I cant take account of what
Ms Ls repatriation should have cost IPA. Instead, I can only consider the impact of IPAs
actions on Ms L.
Because IPA refused to accept her claim, Ms L discharged herself from hospital against
medical advice. Ms L told us she did this because, understandably, she was worried about
rising medical costs. Ms L travelled back to the UK alone on a long-haul flight, aware she
was travelling both against medical advice and without the recommended medical
assistance. Ms L says her medication was taken from her at the airport to be checked, she
wasnt sure she was administering her own medication correctly (which was the reason a
nurse escort had been recommended) and she didnt have appropriate monitoring 
equipment for her condition. I have no doubt that travelling alone, with a potentially serious
newly-diagnosed medical condition will have been very frightening for Ms L.
While I havent seen any medical evidence that Ms Ls condition worsened because of the
flight, I understand she was taken to hospital the day after her return.
Overall, Im satisfied Ms L experienced significant distress and inconvenience as a result of
IPAs actions in this case and I intend to make an award of compensation in the category
which our service considers substantial. I think a payment of £1000 compensation would be
fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
While I appreciate the situation will also have been very worrying for Ms Ls parents, they
arent insured under this policy and are not therefore eligible complainants under our rules.
This means I cant make an award of compensation for any distress and inconvenience they
themselves suffered.
Ive seen an email from July 2019, from Ms Ls father to IPA, confirming that the agreedclaim payment had been received. Ms L has subsequently told us about various expenses
claimed for which IPA didnt pay. If Ms L is unhappy because certain costs claimed for are
still outstanding, then shed need to complain to IPA directly before this service would have
the power to consider the matter. This is because the Financial Ombudsman Service cant
get involved in a complaint unless the business concerned has been given an opportunity to
resolve the issue first.
So, my provisional decision was that IPA should pay Ms L a total of £1000 compensation, 
including the £400 compensation already offered. 
IPA responded to my provisional decision and said it settled the claim as a gesture of 
goodwill, rather than as a claim that was covered under Ms Ls policy. IPA said it didnt think 
my intended compensation award was justified and that our investigator had agreed its 
compensation offer of £400 in recognition of its failings was fair.  
Ms L said she was happy, in principle, with my provisional decision but that she was 
disappointed to learn IPA had all the relevant information about her claim much earlier in the 
process than she was aware of. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken IPAs additional comments into account, but I wont be changing my decision. 
Industry rules say its unreasonable for an insurer to reject a policyholders claim because of 
a breach of a policy condition or warranty unless the circumstances of the claim are 
connected to the breach. The medical evidence which IPA had showed Ms Ls condition was 
newly diagnosed, so Ms Ls lack of registration with a GP didnt have any impact on the 
claim in this case. Therefore, I dont think IPA acted fairly or reasonably by declining Ms Ls 
claim and I think it should have accepted cover while Ms L was still abroad.
Im not bound by our investigators findings when reaching my decision, and I dont think 
IPAs offer of £400 fairly compensates Ms L for the experience of travelling home alone, 
against medical advice and without the recommended medical assistance. 
Im satisfied Ms L experienced distress and inconvenience at a level which falls into the 
range wed consider as substantial and I think an overall award of £1000 compensation is 
fair and reasonable for the impact of IPAs actions on Ms L. 
Putting things right
IPA needs to put things right by paying Ms L a total of £1000 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience she experienced. 
This includes the £400 compensation which IPA has already offered. 
My final decision
Im upholding Ms Ls complaint about Inter Partner Assistance SA and I direct it to put things 
right in the way Ive outlined above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2020.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman