DRN-3194157
The complaint
Mr N complains about the transfer of his Stocks and Shares ISA from Vanguard Asset 
Management, Ltd, referred to as Vanguard or the transferor to a third-party provider 
referred to as the transferee.  
Mr N says that as a result of the delays, he missed out on a rare opportunity to invest in a 
US Fund  when the markets were favourable  and as a result hes lost several thousand 
pounds.  
Hes unhappy that Vanguard has only paid £300 compensation for the delays. 
What happened
On 26 February 2020, Vanguard received an application to transfer Mr Ns ISA. But 
Vanguard wasnt provided with the transferee bank details, until 19 March 2020.  
In due course, on 24 March 2020, Vanguard raised the cash expectation. But from this point 
onwards there were numerous system issues that prevented the expectation from being 
authorised resulting in delays. Consequently, the transfer wasnt completed until 4 June 
2020.   
Vanguard upheld the complaint. In summary, it said: 
Its system issues caused delays in the transfer of Mr Ns ISA. 
The process usually takes 30 business days, from the date of receipt of valid 
instructions  which includes bank details  but it didnt receive those until 19 March 
2020.  
It offered Mr N £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
It doesnt accept that Mr N incurred any losses, as hed already encashed his funds  
held in the US Funds  in January 2020, prior to the transfer. 
After the transfer had completed, Mr N drip fed into the US Fund rather than using his 
lump sum to invest, therefore its not responsible.  
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Vanguard clarified that once an expectation is raised  in this case on 24 March 2020 
 it could still take eight business days to complete. So, had there been no issue 
approving the expectation, the transfer couldve been completed by 3 April 2020 at 
the earliest. 
But using the 30-day timescale from 19 March 2020 as the starting point, Vanguard 
still wouldve had roughly until 28 April 2020 to complete the transfer. So, in the 
circumstances the transfer completed roughly a week outside of the timescale.  
In the circumstances, the £300 compensation offered by Vanguard for the distress 
and inconvenience caused is broadly fair and reasonable. 
In terms of the loss of opportunity to invest in the US Fund  and any (potential) 
financial loss arising from that  Vanguard isnt responsible. 
Although Mr N said that he intended to invest a lump sum in the US Fund in 
March/April 2020, his trading transactions and notes with the transferee suggest 
otherwise. 
The documents from the transferee, in brief show: 
oOn 3 June 2020, prior to the completion of the transfer Mr N bought £100 
worth of units in the US Fund.
oOn 5 June 2020, after the transfer, Mr N bought £50 worth of units. 
oHe didnt buy anything further until July 2020.  
Mr N explained that his normal pattern of investing was to drip feed into funds. But 
during the period of the delay- between March/April 2020  the markets had dropped 
by 50%, so hed intended to invest a lump sum. But because the markets recovered, 
he didnt do as hed planned.  
But despite what Mr N says he wouldve done (in hindsight), hes not satisfied that Mr 
N wouldve, given his pattern of drip feed investing. Therefore, he cant say Vanguard 
are responsible for any loss.  
Despite what Mr N says  that he made his intentions clear to Vanguard when he 
chased up the transfer  the message dated 15 April 2020 only said that he hadnt 
been able to invest in a positive period in the market.
Mr N disagreed with the investigators conclusion and in short said that he was under no 
obligation to disclose what his investment plans were to Vanguard. Vanguard might not have 
advised him to sell his investments earlier to expedite the transfer. The fact that his 
investment strategy had been to drip feed into a fund isnt evidence that he was going to do 
the same on this occasion. He wouldnt have been calling Vanguard to expedite the transfer 
if his plan was only to invest £50 or £100 into the US Fund. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. In summary, he said:
Whilst Mr N has no obligation to notify Vanguard of his plans, it wouldve been 
evidence of his intention to invest in the US Funds and couldve supported any 
potential claim for financial loss. 
Even if Mr N called the business to chase up the transfer, this isnt evidence of him 
doing so to invest in the US Funds.  
Mr N disagreed with the investigators conclusion and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
He provided a transaction document relating to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP), 
which he says shows that he was indeed investing a large lump sum with available cash. 
The date of the transaction also details 7 April 2020, and the investments did well after 
purchase. 
The investigator having considered the points wasnt persuaded to change his mind. In 
summary, he said:
He wished to correct the length of the delay  which was one month and one week  
and not a week as hed initially suggested. 
Mr N experienced a loss of expectation rather than a loss of opportunity. 
The evidence provided by Mr N shows that hed invested a couple of thousand 
pounds into the fund towards the beginning of April, and this is the time he wouldve 
expected the transfer to go through. 
Despite having varied investments in different funds, Mr N didnt invest a higher 
amount in the fund in question. 
The transfer amount  of around £33,000  was considerably more than the investments Mr N was making into his SIPP. 
In this instance, he cant say that Mr N, on a balance of probabilities, was more likely 
(than not) to invest the entire lump sum into the US Fund. Therefore, he cant say 
that Mr Ns entitled for any compensation for loss of opportunity. 
So far as the loss of expectation is concerned, hes satisfied that the £300 
compensation is broadly fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
Mr N maintains that hes invested a lump sum in a range of funds simultaneously, because 
the transferee provided these, unlike Vanguard. However, if the investigator cant know for 
certain what Mr N wouldve done  without him making his intentions clear  he feels like no 
one could ever be entitled to any compensation for lost opportunity. He doesnt know what 
he couldve done differently. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators latest conclusions for much the same 
reasons. Im not going to uphold this complaint. 
For the record, I dont think the business behaved reasonably in dealing with Mr Ns request 
to transfer his ISA. But because the business has already upheld the complaint the key issue 
for me to consider is redress, and whether (or not) its fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Having done so, on balance Im satisfied that the £300 compensation paid for the distress 
and inconvenience caused by the delay is broadly fair and reasonable. Im not persuaded 
that Vanguard is responsible for Mr N not being able to invest in the US Fund when the 
share value dropped.  
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much
recognise Mr Ns strength of feeling about this matter. Hes provided detailed submissions to 
support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont 
take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as 
much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider
the evidence presented by Mr N, and the business, and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding whats 
fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best industry practice. 
But its for me to decide, based on the available information Ive been given, whats more 
likely than not to have happened.
I dont think theres any dispute that Vanguard is responsible for the delays Mr N 
experienced in the transfer of his ISA. I note Vanguard received the instructions on 26 
February 2020, but for reasons that were outside of its control, it couldnt proceed with the 
request. Therefore, I cant blame Vanguard for not being able start the process immediately 
upon receipt of Mr Ns instructions. 
Im aware that on 19 March 2020 Vanguard received all the necessary information (including 
the bank details) that it needed to proceed with Mr Ns request. On balance I think that was 
probably the earliest date on which it couldve actioned Mr Ns instructions. I note that on 24 March 2020, Vanguard raised the cash expectation  which I think is reasonable  but its 
from this point onwards that the issues started.
I note that for various reasons Vanguard couldnt get the expectation authorised. Vanguard 
also accepts that owing to system errors it couldnt complete the transfer until 4 June 2020. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr N says, I think the £300 
compensation paid for the distress and inconvenience caused is broadly fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances.   
Despite what Mr N says about not being able to invest a lump sum in the US Fund, I dont 
think the business is responsible for this, or any loss he mightve potentially suffered, 
because on balance I cant safely say that this, notwithstanding the delays, was attributable 
to any wrong doing by the business. 
In the circumstances, I dont think Mr N instructed Vanguard to transfer his ISA so that he 
could specifically invest a lump sum, in the US Fund, within a certain time period. Im mindful 
Vanguard says that it hasnt seen evidence of an investment order in place when the 
transfer order was made, so it doesnt accept that its responsible for Mr N not being able to 
do what he says he wouldve done. 
I note Vanguard previously said:
We have paid Mr N (name anonymised) £300 goodwill for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by the delay but are unable to calculate for missed investment opportunity as a result 
of the delay as Mr N hasnt provided evidence of an investment order he had in place with 
his new provider but has dripped fed his investments in over a period of time after the 
transfer completed.
Based on what Vanguard says, on balance I think its unlikely that Mr N was going to depart 
from his usual style of investing. Im aware that despite having an opportunity to do so, post 
transfer, Mr N still didnt invest a lump sum in the US Fund. 
I note in January 2020, and prior to his instructions to transfer, Mr N sold his shares in the 
US Fund. Mr N says that he did this to make the process run smoother, but I dont think it 
was necessary for him to personally sell his shares. 
I also note that by selling his shares, his money was no longer subject to the market 
movements. In other words, if the share price in the US Fund increased, he wouldnt have 
benefitted because hed already cashed out. I also note Mr N didnt instruct Vanguard to 
transfer his ISA until a month after he sold his shares. Im mindful that Vanguard says that 
because of this, Mr N didnt suffer any financial loss. 
In summary, I note that on 3 June 2020  prior to the transfer completion  Mr N invested 
£100 in the US Fund. I note on 5 June 2020, after the transfer, he only invested another 
£100, although I think the investigator referred to £50. He didnt buy any more units until July 
2020, even though he had the funds to do so.  And even then, Mr N still only invested similar 
sums, in line with what he usually did, going into August 2020. On balance this would 
suggest that Mr N wasnt going to invest a lump sum come what may. If he did, I think its 
likely that he wouldve done so, as soon as the funds were transferred, and he had the 
opportunity to do so.  
  
Mr N says that his behaviour in this instance isnt comparing like for like because hed 
intended to invest the lump sum when the markets were unusually low, but hed reverted to 
his drip feed strategy when the markets had recovered. But in my opinion, I dont think this 
means Vanguard is responsible for Mr N not being able to invest into the US Fund, in the unprecedented and extremely rare occasion that the prices had dropped to 50% in a short 
space of time. Neither Mr N, nor Vanguard, had any idea that this was going to happen, and 
Vanguard had no control over market movements. So, in the circumstances, I cant blame 
Vanguard for this or the markets subsequently correcting itself.  
I agree with Mr N that he was under no obligation to disclose his investment plans to 
Vanguard. But I also agree with the investigator that this wouldve been evidence of his 
intention at the time. So, despite what Mr N now says, on balance I cant safely say that he 
only wanted to transfer his shares so that he could invest a lump sum into the US Fund. 
Like the investigator, I dont think Mr N chasing Vanguard about the transfer  which a 
customer is entitled to do in the circumstances  is evidence that he was intending to invest 
a lump sum in the US Fund. I note the message dated 15 April 2020, only said that he hadnt 
been able to invest in a positive period in the market, not that hed been unable to invest a 
lump sum in the US Fund. 
Im mindful of what Mr N says about investing a lump sum in his SIPP around a similar time, 
but Im afraid in this instance, what he did in relation to a different investment doesnt 
persuade me to change my decision in this case. On balance, I still dont think Mr N was 
likely to invest a lump sum in the US Fund, because he didnt, despite having had an 
opportunity to do so. 
I appreciate Mr N will be thoroughly unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the
Investigator. Whilst I appreciate his frustration, Im not going to ask the business to anything. 
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint
and give Mr N what he wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman