DRN-4082675
The complaint
Miss D and Mr S are unhappy with how AWP P&C SA handled a claim they made on their 
travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss D and Mr S went on holiday with their young son. Unfortunately, Mr S and their son 
both became ill, with unrelated medical conditions. 
They both sought treatment and their son was diagnosed with chickenpox. As a result, they 
were quarantined in their resort accommodation. To avoid being stuck in a single room for 
the rest of their holiday they moved to self-contained accommodation at additional costs. 
They claimed on their travel insurance policy for their expenses, including medical expenses 
and, the additional accommodation and one nights accommodation at the first resort which 
hadnt been refunded. 
AWP settled the claim in part but made various payments into the wrong bank account. 
Miss D and Mr S were also unhappy with the settlement of the claim which they didnt think 
was enough. As their complaint wasnt resolved they made a complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. He upheld the complaint based on the 
available information and recommended AWP pay a further £1, 895 towards the costs 
claimed by Miss D and Mr S and 8% simple interest from the date of the claim to the point of 
settlement. He also recommended that AWP pay £300 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused by delays in handling the claim. 
Miss D and Mr S didnt think £300 fairly reflected the distress and inconvenience caused by 
the stress and sheer amount of time AWP had taken up. AWP asked their claims team to 
review the claim. They said the claims team had reviewed the claim and the accommodation 
costs had been paid in full under the medical expenses section. 
The investigator said that AWP hadnt evidenced the details of the settlement and that hed 
set out the payments received by Miss D and Mr S when he reached his opinion. So, this 
further information didnt change his thoughts about the overall outcome of the complaint. As 
it wasnt possible to reach an agreement, I need to make a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that AWP has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Im satisfied its fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint and I think the £300 
compensation our investigator recommended is fair. 
I say that because: 
AWP hasnt taken issue with any of our investigators findings in relation to the wider 
circumstances of the claim. They accept theres a valid claim. 
I think its reasonable to conclude Miss D and Mr Ss trip was effectively cut short for 
six days as they had to quarantine and couldnt fly home due to their sons chicken 
pox. They were confined to their room, couldnt use the facilities and had food 
brought to their room. The initial resort they had booked refunded Miss D and Mr S 
for five days-worth of their accommodation costs, not six. So, I think its fair and 
reasonable for the extra day to be covered by their insurance. 
AWP have said the accommodation claim has been paid in full. However, theyve not 
provided any further persuasive or compelling evidence in support of this. Ive not 
seen sufficient evidence to persuade me a payment for one nights accommodation 
at the first resort was included in the settlement of the claim. Ive placed more weight 
on the information Miss D and Mr S have provided about the payments theyve 
received. On the basis of the evidence I have Im not persuaded this amount is 
included in the settlement figure.  
Ive thought about the fact that AWP paid for Miss D and Mr Ss alternative 
accommodation. The particular circumstances of this case mean that, had Miss D 
and Mr S stayed in the original resort as planned, AWP would have had a much more 
significant bill for the holiday effectively being cut short. So, by moving to alternative 
accommodation and getting a cash refund Miss D and Mr S significantly mitigated 
AWPs losses. Therefore, in the particular circumstances of this case, I think it is still 
fair and reasonable for AWP to pay the alternative accommodation costs as well.
Ive taken into account Miss D and Mr Ss comments about the service they received 
and the delays in settling a claim. That includes, for example, payments being made 
into the wrong bank account. I think £300 fairly reflects the stress and time spent in 
chasing up the claim. I dont think its fair and reasonable to direct AWP to make a 
further payment.    
Putting things right
AWP needs to put things right by: 
Paying an additional £1895 in settlement of the claim plus 8% simple interest from 
the date of the claim notification to the date of settlement 
Paying £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by delays and 
poor customer service.  
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint and direct AWP P&C SA to put things right in the way Ive 
outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D and Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman