DRN-3092490
The complaint
Miss K complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc trading as Barclaycard wont refund a payment 
made on her credit card to an online seller of gold bars.
What happened
In June 2020 three gold bars were purchased through an online marketplace using Miss Ks 
Barclays credit card. The total cost charged to her card for this transaction was £12,000. 
When she received the parcel from the seller Miss K says it didnt contain any gold bars.
So she complained to the online seller, but this proved fruitless. Miss K had paid for the 
transaction using her E-Money account. So she complained to her E-Money provider. But 
she was unsuccessful with that also because it said purchases of gold werent covered in its 
purchaser protection policy. So having used her credit card to fund the e-money account to 
fund the purchase she complained to Barclays.
Barclays looked into the matter, but it didnt think it could help. This was because it didnt 
think it could pursue a chargeback because it didnt have a reasonable prospect of success 
in its view. It also thought a Section 75 claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 should be 
unsuccessful. So it didnt think it could do any more for Miss K.
Miss K didnt think this was fair, so she brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into the matter. Overall, she didnt think Barclays had acted unfairly by declining Miss 
Ks request for a refund. Miss K didnt agree. So the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should make very clear that this decision is not about the online marketplace, which isnt a 
financial service provider and so doesnt fall within my remit. Nor is it about the seller of the 
gold bars or the E-Money provider. This decision is only about whether Barclays has treated 
Miss K fairly in not refunding the transaction under the obligations it has. Its liability here is 
limited to these issues only and is not all encompassing.
authorising the transaction
Miss K says she made the transaction funding it through her Barclays Credit card via the E-
Money provider. She doesnt dispute the amount, the recipient, the date or any other 
elements of the transaction. Barclays has explained how it received the transaction and 
applied it to Miss Ks account. So all things considered I think the transaction was properly 
authorised and Barclays correctly applied this charge to Miss Ks credit card account.
could Barclays challenge the transaction through a chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Miss K 
does here, Barclays (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through a chargeback process.
I dont think Barclays couldve challenged the payment on the basis Miss K didnt properly 
authorise the transaction, given the conclusions on this issue that Ive already set out.
Barclays is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. But this transaction here is not the simplest of 
transactions. The payment didnt go directly to the online seller of the gold bars. Barclays 
paid the E-Money Provider who then paid the online seller.
Barclays has explained that it couldnt chargeback on the basis that the E-Money provider 
didnt make the transaction to the online seller because its clear that this did happen. And 
Barclays has explained that it couldnt chargeback on the basis of the purchaser protection 
because that doesnt cover sales of gold. So Barclays says it didnt think it had a reasonable 
prospect of success and so it didnt try a chargeback. So considering what it knew and the 
overall circumstances here, all in all, I dont think Miss K has lost out due to Barclays 
approach to chargeback here.
how about the Consumer Credit Act 1974?
The transaction was made using Miss Ks Barclayss credit card. Under section 75 of this 
Act, in certain circumstances, she has an equal right to claim against Barclays as she does 
against the supplier if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. 
In summary section 56 has the effect of making Barclays responsible during the antecedent 
negotiations leading up to Miss K entering into the agreement. In essence this means 
Barclays can be held responsible for the things that were done or said during the sales 
process before agreement was reached.
For a valid claim under this legislation there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement 
in place. This is often referred to as the DCS relationship or simply DCS. This means there 
needs to be the necessary three-party relationship. This often looks like:
A debtor (who makes repayments to the creditor for the borrowing for the purchase)
A creditor (who has to send the borrowed amount direct to the supplier)
A supplier (who has to provide what was purchased to the debtor)
This means the person who paid for the goods, the debtor, has a contractual relationship 
with the supplier, as well as with the credit provider, the creditor. But this isnt the case here. 
Miss K has a relationship with the E-Money Provider and her credit card was used to pay the 
E-Money Provider. The E-Money Provider then paid the online seller. And Miss K had a 
contract for the purchase directly with the online seller but didnt pay them directly. So in 
essence this is a four-party relationship. 
Accordingly Im satisfied that there isnt the necessary DCS relationship present to make 
Barclays responsible under this legislation. And thus it is fair that Barclays isnt responsible 
for any failings by online seller. So Miss Ks complaint here fails.
I should add that even if the DCS chain was made out Id still not necessarily be persuaded 
that Barclays had treated Miss K unfairly. It isnt clear that any misrepresentation was made 
here or that a breach of contract had occurred. Just because Miss K didnt receive the gold 
bars doesnt mean that the online seller didnt send them her. After all she says she received 
the package and if the seller had no intention of sending the gold why bother sending an empty package. So it is at least possible that it was lost in transit and it isnt clear what the 
agreed responsibilities of the parties were with regard to transit of the gold. And it seems 
clear that the delivery mode was agreed by the parties.
Miss K says a chargeback should be made. But Im not persuaded by this. And its important 
to remember that the Chargeback scheme isnt run by Barclays and it isnt the final arbiter of 
decisions in the scheme.
She also points the amount the seller insured the gold for. But I dont see why this would 
make a difference to whether Barclays had done anything wrong here. Im not persuaded 
that this shows the seller breached the contract. And even so due to the DCS issue even if it 
had Barclays wouldnt be liable. As the gold wasnt delivered a claim can be made on the 
insurance. And Miss K can raise a complaint against the delivery service if she can show it 
did something wrong.
So I think that Miss K hasnt lost out here as I think Barclays made a fair decision in not 
taking the chargeback issue further. Im satisfied the necessary relationship (DCS) isnt in 
place here so Barclays cannot be held liable for any breach or misrepresentation by the 
online seller. And I think Barclays correctly applied the cost of the gold bars to Miss Ks 
credit card account. So I dont think I can fairly require Barclays to refund Miss K for it. 
I appreciate this isnt the decision Miss K wants to read. And she has clearly lost out. But I 
dont think Barclays has treated her unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Barclays Bank UK Plc 
trading as Barclaycard.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman