DRN-2737440
The complaint
 Mr W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly denied his claim for the reimbursement of 
Debt Collection Charges (DCC) and treated him unfairly also when they assessed his claim.
What happened
 Mr W had two loans with HFC Bank plc (HFC) which were taken out some time around 
1998. Unfortunately, Mr W fell into arrears on his repayments and in or around 2001 HFC 
appointed a firm of solicitors - who Ill refer to as R, to collect the debt. Mr W was later 
taken to court and judgement for £7,198 was granted to HFC. 
Mr W says the judgement was for the combined balance on both his loans and afterwards he 
made regular monthly payments of £90 to R to clear the debt. In June 2004 Mr W made a 
lump sum payment of £4,450 towards the outstanding balance. 
Mr W has told us he understood the lump sum payment fully cleared what he owed to HFC 
because the sum he paid was that given to him by R as the settlement figure. But later R told 
him that wasnt the case and further court proceedings were taken against him to recover the 
amount R believed was still outstanding. Mr W says that in the course of those proceedings, 
he presented evidence to the judge which proved his case. And afterwards R called to tell 
him they were taking no further action against him. Believing, therefore, that hed fully repaid 
all the amounts he owed to HFC Mr W made no further payments to R. 
HFC later became part of the same group as HSBC UK Bank plc. HSBC set up a voluntary 
scheme the purpose of which was to compensate HFC customers for DCC which R had 
levied when recovering their debts on behalf of HFC. R had levied a flat rate of either 16.4% 
or 16.67% of the debt. But the amount was considered unreasonable.
HSBC says they sent a letter to Mr W dated 11 April 2019 inviting him to contact them on the 
basis he might be due a refund under the review. But Mr W says he didnt receive the letter. 
However, Mr W did contact HSBC. He said he did so after watching a television programme 
highlighting the issue and which urged viewers to contact HSBC if they believed they were 
affected.  
HSBC looked into Mr Ws claim and concluded that he wasnt entitled to a DCC refund. 
HSBC didnt think Mr W had fully repaid the outstanding balance on his two loans which was 
a requirement under the review in order to qualify for the refund. They said around October 
2005 there was an outstanding balance in the region of £1,500 on one of the loans which 
was written off and the same happened in 2007 in respect of the second loan, when just 
under £1000 was also written off. 
Mr W didnt agree with HSBCs conclusion and referred his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. He didnt think Mr Ws loans were repaid as 
Mr W had argued. He was persuaded there were outstanding balances on both of Mr Ws 
loans which were later written off. He therefore agreed with HSBC that Mr W didnt qualify for 
a refund under their review. 
Mr W didnt agree with the investigator either and his complaint has been passed to me for 
consideration and final decision. 
Much of Mr Ws very detailed response to the investigators opinion focussed on the way he 
says HSBC handled his DCC claim. He doesnt think HSBC handled it professionally or dealt 
with him in an appropriate manner. Mr W had wanted his allegations about HSBCs conduct 
during the claims process dealt with separately, perhaps as a new complaint. But I didnt 
think that was necessary. I explained to Mr W that because what hed told us about how 
HSBC behaved towards him was in the context of their rejection of his DCC claim, where our 
rules permitted, I would consider what hed said as part of my review into the rejection of that 
claim. Mr W agreed to proceed on that basis. 
Mr W has told us that HSBCs behaviour towards him personally and his DCC claim 
generally, breached FCA rules and HSBCs own codes of conduct. He has listed a number 
of instances in which he believes HSBC acted wrongly. And hes argued that if we were to 
uphold his complaints about HSBCs actions, then by extension his DCC claim should 
succeed.
In summary, Mr W says HSBC: 
Made false statements about his entitlement to a DCC refund. 
In the conduct of their review of his DCC claim, failed to properly engage with him as 
a vulnerable customer.
Invited him to make a claim for DCC knowing all along it had no prospect of success.
Retrospectively altered the address on the 11 April 2019 letter in order to disguise 
the fact that in error it was sent originally to his old address.  
Denied documents and records relating to his accounts existed.
Gave misleading and contradictory information about how his debt was made up.
Refused to release information to him
     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
But before I come to my conclusion in detail, I should like to mention a couple of things 
briefly. 
Firstly, Mr W has explained that at times he has found dealing with this case quite 
distressing. He has also explained the personal and family health issues hes had to cope 
with in recent years. I am very sorry to hear about those issues and I fully appreciate they 
would have made things extremely difficult for Mr W. And in spite of those difficulties Mr W 
has shown considerable patience whilst Ive been carefully reviewing his case knowing, as I 
do, the importance of the outcome to him. 
Secondly, Mr W has provided very detailed submissions to us on his case. And whilst Ive 
considered everything hes provided very carefully, there are aspects of Mr Ws case that 
Ive decided wouldnt be appropriate for me to determine. In addition, there are also other 
aspects of his case that our rules dont permit me to consider. Ill explain why thats the case 
in my conclusions, details of which I now come to.  
Ive considered Mr Ws case in two parts:
The decline of his DCC claim; and 
Information HSBC provided to Mr W  
the decline of the DCC claimThe crux of Mr Ws case is that DCC was added to the outstanding balance on his loans 
which he believes he fully repaid and therefore is entitled to the DCC refund. However, I 
dont propose to make a finding on this aspect of Mr Ws case for these reasons: 
More recently Mr W provided me with a copy of a statement sent to him by R which 
appeared to show that on 18 October 2002 a collection charge of £1,060.77 was added to 
one of his loans. I sent this evidence to HSBC for comment, because from time to time in 
their representations to us, HSBC seemed doubtful whether or not DCC was ever included in 
the debt Mr W was asked to repay to HFC. 
In their response HSBC have in turn, shared full details of recent court proceedings which Mr 
W took against the bank in 2020. In the course of those proceedings Mr W argued many of 
the same points that have been the subject matter of his complaint to this service. In other 
words, Mr W argued he was entitled to a DCC refund because he fully repaid his debts to 
HFC, and the repaid amount included DCC.  
The documents shared by HSBC show that Mr W was unsuccessful in those proceedings. 
After considering the evidence from both parties, the judge granted summary judgement as 
well as costs in favour of HSBC. 
Since this service is an alternative to the courts, we are not obliged to look into the same 
subject matter where the courts have already given a ruling. Having seen the court 
documents, Im satisfied the courts have done so in relation to Mr Ws claim for the refund of 
DCC. I do not therefore consider it appropriate for me comment further on the merits of Mr 
Ws DCC claim. 
I know Mr W has argued important though his DCC claim is to him, it has largely become a 
secondary issue. He has told us that he considers the more important aspect of his case 
now is the way HSBC conducted themselves during the consideration of his claim under 
their DCC review. So, I turn to what Mr W has said about HSBCs conduct and why, as I 
explained earlier our rules do not permit me to consider some of Mr Ws complaints about 
that conduct.
Information HSBC provided to Mr W
Our jurisdiction is set out in rules made by the Financial Conduct Authority, known as the 
DISP rules. In summary, these rules say that our service has power to consider complaints 
about the provision of, or failure to provide, a financial service. The rules go on to give a 
comprehensive list of financial services or activities which may be the subject of a complaint.
But the High Court in the case of R (Mazarona Properties Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman 
Service [2017] EWHC 1135 (Admin), found that the banks handling of a consumers 
complaint about a review conducted by the bank did not amount to the provision of, or failure 
to provide, a financial service. So, a complaint about the handling of that review was not 
within our jurisdiction. 
Having carefully considered at all the complaints Mr W has made about HSBCs conduct 
when, as part their review they assessed his DCC claim, it seems to me that many of his 
complaints are in effect about how HSBC handled that review. But complaints by Mr W 
about what happened in the course of the review cant be considered as complaints about 
the provision of or failure to provide, a financial service by HSBC to him. So, even if the way 
the review was conducted fell short of the standards Mr W might reasonably have expected, 
bearing in mind the courts ruling in Mazarona, I cannot, consider any of Mr Ws complaints 
about that. 
Having looked very carefully into each of Mr Ws complaints Im satisfied the complaints Im 
about to list fall within the category of complaints about the conduct of the review and it 
follows therefore, that based on the ruling in Mazarona, I cannot consider them. 
These complaints are that HSBC:Made false statements about his entitlement to a DCC refund. 
In the conduct of their review of his DCC claim, failed to properly engage with him as 
a vulnerable customer.
Invited him to make a claim for DCC knowing all along his claim had no prospect of 
success.
Retrospectively altered the address on the 11 April 2019 letter in order to disguise 
the fact that in error it was sent originally to his old address. 
But not all Mr Ws complaints are about how the DCC review was conducted. Broadly, Mr W 
is also concerned about statements HSBC made and information they provided in 
connection with the debt Mr W owed to HFC. And although Mr Ws complaints in that regard 
arent of themselves to do with the provision by HSBC of a financial service to him, 
nonetheless, I am satisfied that I can consider these elements of his complaint. Thats 
because our rules allow me to consider complaints relating to an activity that is ancillary to 
the provision of a financial service. In Mr Ws case, the activity being complained about 
concerns statements made, and information provided by HSBC about his debt. And the 
financial service to which that activity is ancillary, is the banks lending and debt collection. 
 denied documents and records relating to his accounts existed 
When HSBC contacted Mr W in 2019 it was to determine whether Mr W had a valid claim for 
DCC. HSBC explained that available records were limited because the passage of time 
meant certain records had been destroyed. In their letter of 9 October 2019 HSBC also told 
Mr W that R no longer held records relating to his accounts. They explained this meant 
information regarding the amounts and dates of individual payments that hed made towards 
his loans couldnt be provided. 
Ive seen the copies of the documents Mr W subsequently received from HSBC in response 
to his data subject access request (SAR). Theres a considerable amount of historic 
information that HSBC was able to extract from their systems - including loan application 
forms, the terms and conditions of the loans, copy correspondence at the time of the 
application as well as historic loan repayment data. 
Mr W believes this shows HSBC werent being straight with him about the records they had 
relating to his loans. 
I can understand why after receiving the information HSBC sent to him, Mr W might 
reasonably conclude the documents werent exactly limited in nature as suggested by 
HSBC. Although, on balance I do think it is likely that when in 2019 HSBC told Mr W that R 
wouldnt still have records of his accounts in their possession, they were probably right. And 
in fairness, Mr W was told by HSBC they did retain some records on their HFC Collections 
systems.
But the fundamental point seems to me to be this. HSBCs records showed there were 
outstanding balances on Mr Ws loans that were written off. HSBC made clear to Mr W that 
the records were limited to the extent they couldnt be relied on alone to prove conclusively 
Mr W didnt qualify for a DCC refund under their review. In that context Mr W was invited to 
provide his own records or recollections in case they proved the position wasnt as HSBCs 
records seemed to suggest. I can well understand Mr Ws disappointment that whenever 
records he had as well as his recollection of events werent enough to satisfy HSBC that he 
had a valid claim. But in the circumstances and in the context in which HSBC told Mr W their 
records own were limited, Im not persuaded there was any subterfuge on HSBCs part when 
they made that statement. 
contradictory information.Mr W says in their letter dated 11 April 2019 HSBC explained the DCC in these terms:  they 
are a percentage based charge for the recovery of debt and would have been added to the 
debt when passed to [R] for collection
But later, according to Mr W a different explanation was given in HSBCs 9 October 2019 
letter which said the DCC is the last cost paid after the full outstanding amount has been 
repaid. 
Mr W says the 11 April 2019 letter makes clear that when accounts were passed to R, at that 
point DCC would have been applied to the amounts that he owed to HFC. He believes the 
subsequent October explanation to the effect the DCC was the last cost (my emphasis) 
which is paid after the full amount of the debt had been repaid is contradictory.
Mr W was entitled to be given accurate information about what he owed to HFC and what 
was included in that amount. But I dont agree he was given misleading or contradictory 
information in that regard. 
Looking at the statement Mr W received from R dated 18 October 2002, on balance it seems 
reasonable to conclude the DCC was added to Mr W overall debt when it was passed to R 
for collection. And that is what the 11 April 2019 letter said. I am also satisfied the DCC 
would only then be repaid once the full outstanding debt itself is repaid. Thats in effect what 
the 9 October 2019 letter said. I do not find that the letters HSBC sent to Mr W in April and 
October 2019 were inconsistent in the information they conveyed regarding the composition 
of the amounts he owed to HFC.
Refusing to release information
Ive seen no evidence Mr W requested information from HSBC that might have helped him 
understand his claim but was told by HSBC they wouldnt sent it to him. And ultimately Mr W 
made a SAR to HSBC and received the personal information HSBC held about him. 
Furthermore, Im not aware having received information following his SAR Mr W believes he 
should have been provided with other items of information, but HSBC have refused to let him 
have it. In any case if that were the position Mr W would need to complain to the Office of 
the Information Commissioner rather than this service.
I anticipate this will come as disappointing news to Mr W but in relation to the complaints this 
service has the power to consider, I havent been persuaded HSBC has treated Mr W 
unfairly. 
  
My final decision
 For all the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman