DRN-4306183
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Advisory Services Limited (HLAS) gave her 
unsuitable investment advice. She says that by December 2017 almost 11.5% of her 
portfolio was invested in the Woodford Equity Income Fund (WEIF) and this was too much. 
What happened
Mrs B approached HLAS for advice in April 2017. As part of its fact finding, HLAS 
established that:
Mrs B had fairly limited investment knowledge and mostly been guided by her 
husband historically. However, she had been investing since mid-1990 and therefore 
had plenty of experience of the potential volatility of the stock market having 
invested through stock market downturns in 2001 and 2008/9. HLAS noted that 
during these downturns Mrs B didnt panic sell. 
Overall Mrs B had capacity to deal with potential losses, and even if the portfolio 
were to suffer a drop in value of around 50% it wouldnt impact on their current or 
future standard of living given hers and her husbands strong financial position. 
Mrs Bs combined income with her husband exceeded their households monthly 
outgoings, and as such she didnt require a large cash fund. 
Mrs B was considering retiring after the age of 60 (from 2023 onwards), but Mrs B 
was also considering working some hours after that age. Regardless, Mrs B and her 
husband were happy with the projected income from their various pension schemes, 
and so this portfolio didnt form part of their objectives for their retirement.
Her ideal asset mix involved investing primarily in equities because the primary 
consideration with the money was to achieve long term growth. In addition, Mrs B 
had no short term objectives with the money, and had a good understanding of risk 
and reward. 
Mrs B was happy to manage the portfolio going forward, but was looking for advice 
from HLAS to help her rebalance her investments. She confirmed she wasnt looking 
for an ongoing review service or advice. 
Overall, Mrs B and her husband were happy with their current situation but were 
asking for advice regarding rebalancing the current portfolio. Neither Mrs B nor her 
husband had any short term needs for these funds, and no firm plans on when 
[they] may eventually access them. Therefore any movements in value both 
wouldnt affect [their] current standard of living or any future plans. 
As a result of this review, HLAS recommended that Mrs B invest her £135,000 (split between 
her ISA and her SIPP) between 12 different equity funds. These were focused primarily in 
the UK, with some exposure to the US, Japan and Europe. 
Of relevance to Mrs Bs complaint, HLAS recommended Mrs B have 11.5% of her portfolio 
invested in the WEIF. At the time, the WEIF was an all equity fund, predominantly invested 
in the UK. A factsheet from October 2016 shows that over 64% of the WEIF was invested in 
medium, large and mega capped companies, with a focus on healthcare, financials, 
consumer goods and industrials. The factsheet explained that the fund aimed to provide a 
reasonable level of income together with capital growth. 
And it said that it would invest primarily in shares of companies listed in the United Kingdom, 
although it could also invest in unlisted companies, overseas entities, and derivatives. 
Mrs B in fact had already invested in the WEIF of her own accord  and by March 2017 had 
just over £20,400 invested in the WEIF between her SIPP and her ISA. This meant that the 
net effect of acting HLASs recommendations was to rebalance, and in fact reduce, her 
exposure to the WEIF. 
Mrs B accepted the recommendations, and the investments were made over the course of 
the following 6 months. 
Following the suspension and subsequent liquidation of the WEIF, Mrs B complained. HLAS 
looked into her complaint, but didnt think it had done anything wrong. It explained the 
reasons why the WEIF had been included on Hargreaves Lansdowns Wealth lists and 
explained the recommendations she had been given in 2017. 
It said that it considered the recommendation to invest a portion of her funds in the WEIF 
was suitable for her and aligned to her desired asset allocation. However it said that there 
couldnt be any guarantees in relation to performance  and, after the advice was provided, 
the decision to remain invested in the WEIF was Mrs Bs. 
Mrs B remained unhappy and referred her complaint to this service. She said that the advice 
she had been given wasnt appropriate given the concerns that the fund was already 
breaching its investment limits at this time. She said that HLAS continued to keep the WEIF 
on its Wealth lists right up until suspension, and didnt indicate there were any issues with 
the fund until the funds suspension. She asked that she be compensated for her investment 
in the WEIF. 
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Bs complaint, but didnt agree it should be upheld. 
In short, she considered that the advice Mrs B had received had been suitable for her  and 
the WEIF was sold alongside a basket of other investments, so it wouldnt be fair to look at 
that in isolation. She considered that the overall portfolio Mrs B had been advised to invest 
matched her attitude to risk and her objectives  but there were no guarantees about the 
performance of the individual funds she was recommended to invest in. 
Mrs B didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to decide the matter. 
She said that her complaint was primarily due to the fund breaching its limits and HLAS still 
recommending it to her at the time, as well as the fact that it continued to keep the fund on 
its wealth lists until suspension. She said that her losses amounted to around 42% of her 
investment in the WEIF, and this was not in line with the UK Equity Stock market performance of the same period. 
She also made reference to an article published by Hargreaves Lansdown and further 
communications in 2019 during which it said that it had been speaking to Woodford for 
some time about the number of unquoted and hard-to-trade companies in his portfolio  she 
asked whether these conversations were happening when HLAS recommended the WEIF to 
her. 
She said the comments above clearly showed that HLAS had concerns and failed to 
communicate them to its clients, and in fact pedalled a contra view. She said that if the 
WEIF had at least been removed from the Wealth lists, then clients like her who had been 
recommended an investment in it wouldve sold at a time when that was still possible. She 
concluded by saying that it wasnt reasonable for HLAS to hide behind the comments made 
in the suitability letter. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mrs Bs comments in detail, and I hope that she doesnt take it as a 
discourtesy that I havent replied to every comment she has made. The purpose of my 
decision is to focus on the key issues in the complaint and provide my reasons for deciding 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I should make clear that this complaint only considers the investment advice she received 
from HLAS  it did not maintain or put together the Wealth lists, and therefore Mrs Bs 
complaint about the WEIFs continued inclusion on those lists isnt something HLAS is 
responsible for. 
In providing investment advice to Mrs B in April 2017, HLAS needed to follow the rules set 
out in COBS 9.2 Assessing suitability. These rules explained that HLAS needed to:
Obtain information from Mrs B about her knowledge and experience, her financial 
situation and her investment objectives. 
Provide advice which met her investment objectives, ensure she was able to 
financially bear any related investment risks consistent with those objectives and had 
the necessary experience and knowledge in order to understand the risks involved in 
the transaction. 
My role in looking at Mrs Bs complaint isnt to substitute my opinion on what suitable 
investment advice was for her at the time  its to decide whether it was fair and reasonable 
for HLAS to have concluded that the investments it recommended were suitable, based on 
the information she provided at the time. 
As part of this assessment, Im satisfied that whilst past performance considerations may 
play a part in the decision to recommend one investment over another, performance isnt 
something HLAS had the power to predict for the future  and it didnt offer any guarantees 
about the investments it recommended. This means that the poor performance of an 
investment is not an indication that it wasnt a suitable recommendation and isnt something that I can take into account when looking at whether HLAS treated Mrs B fairly. 
Furthermore, its clear that Mrs B wasnt sold just one investment  HLAS made a number of 
recommendations, and it wouldnt be fair for me to consider one of those investments in 
isolation, because thats not what the adviser was doing. In advising Mrs B, he was looking 
at her portfolio overall, and deciding a suitable mix of investments  which may have 
included, to varying degrees, investments which complemented each other in terms of risk 
and in terms of Mrs Bs objectives, resulting in a portfolio that was suitable overall. 
Im satisfied that when looking at Mrs Bs portfolio, it matched her appetite for risk as well as 
her objectives. As Ive noted in the background above, the fact find which HLAS carried out 
showed that Mrs B had no immediate need for the money she was investing, and was 
looking for capital growth above all else. 
Im therefore persuaded she was clearly comfortable with an all equity portfolio, and what 
she was after was in fact a rebalancing exercise which HLAS carried out. This exercise 
involved reviewing investments she had bought alongside her husband and recommending 
any changes. Within this context, Im not persuaded recommending she retain, but reduce, 
her investment in the WEIF was unsuitable.
I can see that apart from the WEIF, Mrs B had another almost 37% in other UK equity funds 
(broadly split between large cap, mid-cap and micro-cap UK companies) which made her 
portfolio primarily UK equity based. The remainder of the portfolio was split between 
collective investments focused in the US (a fund tracking the performance of the FTSE USA 
Index), Japan (primarily large and mega cap companies), the far east and Europe. In looking 
at each of the collectives that Mrs B was recommended she retain or invest in, I can see that 
they all contributed to the overall suitability of the portfolio by balancing large and stable 
companies, with funds specialising in opportunities for growth. Based on everything that 
HLAS knew about Mrs B, Im satisfied these investments were consistent with what she was 
looking to invest in and aligned with both her long-term objectives as well as her attitude to 
investment risk. 
In terms of the recommendation to retain some investment in the WEIF, Im not clear what 
breaches Mrs B is referring to (in terms of technical breaches, there were no reportable 
liquidity breaches by the WEIF in 2017 that Im aware of)  but Im satisfied it was clearly in 
line with the other investments that formed part of HLASs recommendations. In April 2017 
the WEIF was very much an all equity UK fund, with some exposure to unquoted stock and 
smaller companies. It was in line with the types of investments she was looking for, her 
exposure to it was limited to around 11.5% (less in reality), and the performance of the 
investment to that point had been encouraging.
In other words, Im not persuaded there was anything inherently unsuitable with the WEIF or 
inconsistent with what Mrs B had told HLAS she was looking to invest in. As Ive noted 
above, Mrs B was after equity investments for the long-term and she had already invested 
over £20,000 in the WEIF herself. Im therefore persuaded it was fair and reasonable for 
HLAS to consider it a suitable investment for her, based on what it knew about her, and 
recommend she retain her holding in it. 
For all these reasons, Im not persuaded HLAS treated Mrs B unfairly in the particular 
circumstances of this case.    
I accept that a large part of Mrs Bs dissatisfaction has been caused by the poor 
performance of the WEIF in subsequent years, and she now faces a significant loss from her investment in it. However, Im not persuaded this is something which HLAS couldve 
foreseen or known about in advance, and instead Im satisfied this was an unfortunate 
consequence of investing in an equity fund. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman