DRN-3762834
The complaint
Ms A is unhappy that following the closure of her account Metro Bank PLC (Metro) hasnt 
returned the balance in her account.
What happened
Ms A says that she had talked to a man Ill call J for a few years. J was in the army and was 
due to retire. Ms A was initially asked to buy mobile phones for J and entered into contracts 
for these. The last message Ms A received from J was in August 2021. After this she 
received a ransom message. Ms A contacted Js general who said hed be able to get funds 
from friends and family and send them to Ms A who should then send them on as instructed 
to pay the ransom of £35,000. Its clear that Ms A received and passed on funds through her 
account from 1 September 2021. Metro became concerned when Ms A received and paid 
out £6,902.55 on 6 and £5,648.59 on 7 October 2021.
Metro told Ms A that on 13 October 2021 it became concerned about various credits to her 
account and restricted it while it investigated them. Ms A contacted Metro on 15 October as 
she was unable to use her debit card and was advised of the restriction and asked to send in 
evidence, which Ms A did. Metro contacted the sending banks and found that the funds were 
fraudulent.  
On 10 November 2021 Metro wrote to Ms A giving her notice that her account would be 
closed on 17 November. Metro said this was in accordance with its terms and conditions. 
But Metro didnt load any fraud markers to CIFAS. When the account was closed, Metro sent 
Ms A the remaining funds in her savings account but said it couldnt give her the balance in 
her current account as the funds didnt belong to her. 
Ms A is unhappy with Metros decision not to return funds she considers to be hers, with the 
closure of her account and with the service she has been provided with. She was left with no 
access to funds to live on for a month, says she wasnt provided with any support and was 
treated like a criminal rather than a victim. As a result, Ms A has suffered financially and 
emotionally. Ms A also had to make numerous calls to Metro in relation to returning her 
funds and also went to one of its stores on the advice of Metro staff that proved fruitless. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint recommended that it be upheld and asked 
Metro to return the remaining balance in Ms As account and interest. She noted that Ms A 
was herself the victim of a scam and said that although Metro received a request to return 
funds paid into Ms As account it was under no obligation to do so. The investigator also said 
that it wasnt fair or reasonable that Ms A should lose out financially in these circumstances. 
Metro didnt accept the investigators findings. It said that it had applied Claytons rule that in 
essence says that the first funds to be paid in are the funds that are paid out first. The result 
is that the balance in Ms As current account (which included Ms As salary that was paid in 
at the end of September 2021) was returned to the sender of the £6,902.55 payment. Metro 
also said that in accordance with The Lending Standards Boards Contingent 
Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code) it doesnt ignore requests from sending banks 
to repatriate funds.  
I considered Ms As complaint and issued a provisional decision on 3 October 2022. In it I 
said:
In making this decision Ive taken into account Metros own terms and conditions, relevant 
industry guidelines and good practice, regulations such as the Payment Service Regulations 
2017 (PSRs), legislation such as the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA); as well as what I 
consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
Its not in dispute that Ms A is the innocent victim of a cruel scam and that she received and 
passed on fraudulent funds unwittingly. Basically, she was a money mule who passed on 
funds received from other scam victims. 
The CRM Code says that after receiving notification of concerns from a sending bank a 
receiving bank should respond in accordance with the procedures set out in the Best 
Practice Standards. The Best Practice Standards produced by UK Finance in October 2017 
set out standards for sending and receiving banks to follow when processing a claim for an 
authorised push payment scam like this one. It sets out several relevant principles: 
 The sending bank should notify their customer that because they authorised the 
transaction, the right to the funds is with the recipient. And that the outcome will 
depend on the receiving firms investigation and whether any funds remain. 
 The receiving bank will need to find evidence that the recipient has obtained the 
funds fraudulently. 
 Following the receiving firms investigation, identified funds should always be 
repatriated back to the sending firm at the risk of the receiving firm, subject to various 
exceptions. One of these exceptions is where there is a credible complaint or dispute 
from the recipient of the funds.
So, whilst the normal practice is that fraudulent funds are returned to the sending bank this 
isnt always the case. The receiving bank should investigate whether its customer received 
the funds fraudulently and if this isnt the case there is no obligation to return them. Ms A 
provided a credible explanation for receiving the funds and passed on the whole amounts 
credited to her account almost immediately. She wasnt party to the fraud the senders of the 
funds were involved in and so Metro was under no obligation to return the funds.  
I appreciate that in returning funds to the sending bank Metro wished to treat the scam 
victims who sent them fairly. But the result is unfair for Ms A, its own customer. In returning 
funds Metro has relied on Claytons rule. The purpose of the rule in Claytons case is to 
enable the drawing of a legal distinction over ownership of combined funds that cant 
otherwise be easily identified. The situation can easily arise on a current account where, 
over time, there are multiple deposits and withdrawals. In simple terms, the rule states that if 
an account is in credit, the first amount deposited will also be the first withdrawn.
But the rule isnt absolute and in this case the origin of the remaining funds in Ms As 
account is clear. She received her salary on 30 September 2021. Miss A then unwittingly 
received fraudulent funds which she almost immediately transferred out of her account. The 
transfers in and out were exactly the same and there was only one transaction by Ms A in 
between. So I dont think theres any question that the remaining funds are from Ms As 
salary and its clear Ms A hasnt benefited from the funds. 
Metro has referred to its terms and conditions in not returning funds to Ms A. I accept that 
the terms and conditions allow Metro to debit Ms As account. But I consider the term that 
allows this could be considered unfair under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 and so ought 
not to apply in the circumstances of this case where Ms A is herself the victim of a scam. 
I also consider that Metro ought reasonably to have noticed the unusual transactions from 
Ms As account and to have asked her questions about the reasons for them. If Metro had 
asked Ms A proportionate questions about the reason for the first of these larger transfers I consider it more likely than not that the scam would have been uncovered and Ms A would 
have been prevented from making the payment meaning that the subsequent payments 
would also have been prevented. Whilst I wouldnt expect Metro to return funds to Ms A that 
werent hers, I consider that if Metro had done more to protect Ms A the whole problem could 
have been avoided. In the circumstances, I dont consider Ms A should be the one that loses 
out financially. 
Closure of Ms As account
A bank is entitled to close an account with a customer, so long as it does so in a way that 
complies with the terms and conditions of the customers account. The terms and conditions 
of Ms As account  which both Metro and Ms A had to comply with  say that Metro can 
close Ms As account in certain circumstances. Based on the evidence Ive see Metro was 
entitled to terminate its relationship with Ms A.
Service provided to Ms A
Ms A let Metro know that she was a scam victim herself soon after she was advised her 
account was restricted and Metro accepted this. Whilst Metro offered to raise a scam claim 
for the funds that belonged to Ms A that she lost in the scam, it hasnt provided a lot of 
sympathy and support. 
I think that the service Metro provided to Ms A fell short in this case. Metro took too long to 
complete its investigation and return some funds to Ms A (from her savings account). Ms A 
first contacted Metro around mid-October and savings account funds were released a month 
later and Ms A was told at this point that the current account balance wouldnt be returned. 
Ive also listened to the call recordings in which Ms A repeatedly asked about the return of 
funds. Ms A was promised return calls that didnt take place and was given false information 
when she was told that if she attended a Metro store her funds would be returned to her. 
Making calls to Metro was particularly difficult for Ms A as she could only do so in set breaks 
from work. 
As Ive set out above, I consider Metro should have returned Ms As funds. I appreciate that 
its failure to do so made things difficult for Ms A financially and also added to the distress 
she experienced at a difficult time for her after discovering she was herself the victim of a 
long-running scam. Given all these points, I think Metro should pay Ms A £250 
compensation. 
Overall, for a number of reasons, Im not satisfied Metro has acted reasonably in not 
returning the balance of Ms As account and so Ive provisionally decided it should return the 
closing balance to her with interest as set out below and compensation to reflect the distress 
and inconvenience it has caused.
Both parties acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision but didnt make any further 
comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision but neither has provided 
any additional points for me to consider. In the circumstances, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional decision which I have reproduced above.
My final decision
I require Metro Bank PLC to:
- Pay Ms A £1,368.98;- Pay interest on the above amount at the rate of 8% simple from the date Ms As 
account was closed to the date of settlement;
- Pay Ms A £250 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman