DRN-3947107
The complaint
Mr H has complained about Barclays Bank UK PLCs discretionary investment management 
as a whole, including the manner in which its communicated with him and the level of 
customer service its provided - but in particular, Mr H has said that it unsuitably invested his 
pension funds within his Self Invested Pension Policy (SIPP) in lower risk assets, and that he 
has lost out on enhanced growth as a result.
What happened
In April 2010, Barclays recommended that Mr H transfer a personal pension policy held with 
Aegon into a Standard Life Flexible Retirement Plan (the SIPP), using a discretionary 
management service.
Mr Hs circumstances at the time, as recorded in the Investment Suitability Form and set out 
in the Financial Planning Report of 17 April 2010, were as follows:
He was 66 and married.
His net worth, excluding his business and pension funds, was just under £5m.
He was a higher rate taxpayer, earning over £150,000 pa.
Mr H wished to reinvest the value of a personal pension policy (PPP) - around £447,000 - to 
achieve his goals. These were described as being to simplify his affairs and benefit from 
bespoke fund management within a SIPP, which would drive performance of his pension 
funds, from which he would draw income at some point in the future.
In the report, Mr H was recorded as having a medium-low risk attitude, which was 
described as follows:
You are likely to be comfortable with investments that have some risk in order to reach your 
investment objectives. You want better returns than those offered by a bank or building 
society savings account and are prepared to put a limited part of your money in stock 
market investments. While the possibility of small fluctuations in your wealth doesnt bother 
you, you would prefer investments that are unlikely to fall substantially in value by the end of 
your intended investment period. You would be happier with a steadier but lower rate of 
growth than a higher but more volatile one, and you accept that this may limit the potential 
for your money to grow, and that there is a possibility that it may not maintain its spending 
power.
In a document entitled a Financial Personality Questionnaire, Mr H answered a number of 
questions on a scale of strongly agree to strongly disagree and these answers were used 
to identify Mr Hs attitude to risk.
In an application form for the Private Banking Gerrard SIPP Investment Services, the 
discretionary investment management service referred to above, Mr Hs attitude to risk was 
confirmed as low, with an investment objective of emphasis on capital growth.
The standard terms and conditions for this service were set out as follows:
Where you have completed and signed the New Client Form indicating a requirement for 
the Discretionary Investment Management Service, we will manage your portfolio on a 
discretionary basis in accordance with the investment criteria indicated in the New Client 
FormSubject to such investment criteria, we shall be entitled, at our absolute discretion 
and without any specific prior reference to you, to execute and effect settlement of any kind 
of transaction on your behalf in relation to investments of a type set out in clause 4 below.
Clause 4 set out the types of permitted investment which would be used within a 
discretionary management portfolio, including shares in UK and overseas companies, 
bonds, deposits, unit trusts and long term insurance contracts.
An Individual Pension Discretionary Services Agreement was then completed in November 
2016, and signed by Mr H on 14 November 2016, in which Mr Hs risk attitude was 
reaffirmed. Mr Hs risk profile of medium-low was described as having the following 
investment objective:
To achieve a total return in excess of the return on cash deposits over the long term with a 
minimum recommended investment period of five years.
The Neutral Asset Allocation, i.e. in general terms the default means of achieving this 
objective, would be cash and short bonds amounting to 17% of the portfolio, bonds 
representing 26%, equities 34%, and alternatives then accounting for 23%. 
This was accompanied by the following explanation:
While the portfolio will invest in asset classes which individually are risky in nature, the 
overall blend should reduce the volatility of portfolio returns. The expected fluctuation in 
capital value and income yield of the portfolio is limited and we consider there to be a risk to
principal over the five year minimum recommended investment period.
The transfer and reinvestment proceeded, but Mr H complained to Barclays in May 2020, 
saying in summary that hed been confused by the way that the wealth management service 
had operated, that hed had difficulty in interpreting the reporting information it had sent to 
him, and that the risk profile of his investments had been medium-low when this should 
have been high, and would have produced enhanced performance.
In response, Barclays declined to uphold the complaint, saying that it considered that it had 
provided a reasonable standard of service and that it had done its best to stay in touch with 
Mr H and assist him with his investment needs.
It also considered that it had provided clear information relating to the charges associated 
with the service provided and it included several historical reports to demonstrate the 
information it had provided over the years.
As to the matter of Mr Hs risk profile, it said that it was its responsibility to agree a risk 
profile with Mr H, and there were several elements to this. It said that, in accordance with 
the documents which Mr H had completed and signed at the outset, it had agreed to 
manage Mr Hs pension funds on a medium-low basis. It said that Mr H had reaffirmed his 
satisfaction with this risk profile in an email to its representative in September 2016.
This risk rating was changed, Barclays said, to moderate following a meeting with a 
different representative in November 2018. However, the accompanying letter said that 
further action would need to be taken to formally change the SIPPs discretionary portfolio. 
But in the meantime, the representative said that Mr Hs asset allocation remained suitable.Barclays said that no changes were made to the discretionary portfolio, however, and that 
an email from the representative in February 2019 said the following:
During our call last Friday you confirmed that you wish that no changes to be made to your 
SIPP portfolio  this will mean the portfolio will remain aligned to a Medium-Low risk profile 
instead of the Moderate risk profile that was agreed following our meeting on 15/11/2018.
Barclays therefore considered that it had invested Mr Hs portfolio in line with his agreed 
attitude to investment risk.
It did, however, say that it regretted not being able to respond to Mr Hs concerns sooner, 
and offered him £100 in respect of this.
Dissatisfied with the response, Mr H referred his complaint to this service, saying that his 
principal complaint was with the discretionary service system as a whole. This was a 
systemic failure on behalf of Barclays, Mr H said. In summary, he said that his funds were 
invested contrary to his wishes and interests, that the portfolio consistently unperformed the 
benchmark, and that the communication hed received was poor. 
It had failed in the latter regard to pay due regard to his information needs and communicate 
with him in a way which was clear, fair and not misleading, in breach of the FCAs Principle 
7.
Mr Hs secondary complaint related to suitability. Although his financial advisers email to 
Barclays in April 2014 said that the immediate task was to consider the increase in his risk 
profile, the response was that this posed concerns due to there having been a 25% 
reduction in value in the high risk portfolio in 2008.
Mr H considered that the intention had been to deter him from investing in a high risk 
manner by providing misleading data and not responding to legitimate arguments in favour 
of doing so. His investment objective had at all times been growth, he had a high risk 
tolerance and his capacity and appetite for risk were high, and his investment horizon 
exceeded five years, he said.
Barclays should therefore have advised him to invest in a high risk strategy, but he was 
pressured not to. 
Further, Mr H said, the nature of the reports provided to him masked the fact that the 
portfolio had underperformed its peers.
The FCAs guidance on the fair treatment of customers included six expected outcomes, 
and Barclays had failed in all of these. Outcome three in particular required that he be 
provided with clear information and kept appropriately informed before, during, and after the 
point of sale, but Barclays hadnt complied with either this guidance, or Principle 7. 
Therefore, he hadnt been aware of the portfolios poor performance, nor that he could 
switch portfolios. 
Mr H was also concerned that he hadnt received the service hed paid for and that a clear 
contract setting out the fees for the services which would be provided may not in fact exist. 
Further, the fee had increased unreasonably and without justification, Mr H said. 
Mr H said that his email of May 2020 was treated as a complaint, but it contained issues 
which needed to be resolved at a time of market turmoil when advice on such matters was 
of particular importance. This will have resulted in a cost to him.Our investigator considered the complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld, saying the 
following in summary:
Although the evidence suggested that Mr H had been prepared to take considerable 
risks in his business dealings, individuals could accept different levels of risk with 
various aspects of their finances. As such, that high risk attitude may not read across 
into areas such as retirement planning.
Barclays needed to assess not just Mr Hs risk attitude, but also his capacity for loss. 
Although Mr H had contested these aspects, had Barclays not been able to agree an 
appropriate level of risk, it wouldnt have provided the discretionary management 
service to Mr H. The alternative would have been an execution only service, 
meaning that Mr H would be responsible for his investment decisions. But it didnt 
appear to be the case that Mr H wanted this kind of investment approach.
Rather, Mr H was keen to establish the discretionary service, whereby Barclays 
would make the investment decisions on his behalf. And he was satisfied that the 
nature of the service Mr H signed up to was made sufficiently clear.
Mr H was informed of the level of risk that he was assessed as being willing to take 
and this was presented to him in an understandable fashion. Descriptions were 
attached to each risk rating, along with example portfolios and asset allocations. It 
should therefore have been sufficiently clear that Mr H wasnt being invested in line 
with a high risk portfolio.
Mr Hs attitude to risk was assessed twice, with the same outcome being reached on 
each occasion.
The objective as set out in the medium-low description was just that  an objective. It 
wasnt a guarantee that any particular performance could be achieved. And although 
in a conversation with the investigator, Mr H had explained his view that there was a 
direct correlation between higher risk investments and higher returns, those higher 
risk investments had represented less than 60% of his portfolio.
The available evidence didnt support the position that Mr H was seeking to maximise 
his capital return, but, as set out in the portfolio description, to achieve a total return 
in excess of the return on cash deposits over the long terms with a minimum 
recommended investment period of five years.
The objective was therefore to achieve capital growth, but based on this 
outperforming cash deposits rather than on equity returns which would maximise 
growth.
The documentation didnt support the position that Mr H was a high risk investor.
Mr H disagreed, however, saying the following in summary:
Barclays didnt provide the service he was paying for  one in which they would act 
as his trusted profession advisers.
He had no knowledge of SIPPs or pensions in general, as evidenced by his 
communications at the time, and he envisaged his involvement in these affairs as 
being very limited.
He told Barclays that he had a poor memory, and as dissatisfaction with his 
interactions set in, he lost the initial clarity of his understanding that a high risk 
mandate suited his circumstances  and didnt realise the loss which would arise 
from Barclays failure to implement his wishes. He avoided engagement with the 
SIPP, but nevertheless hoped that Barclays were doing the right thing.
The evidence showed that he didnt really relate to, or engage in, Barclays risk 
profiling procedures, as evidenced in an email from September 2016 in which he 
said that he didnt think there was a huge difference in expected or actual 
performance between the different risk categories. This wasnt the case, but 
Barclays didnt correct him on this.Evidence from the email exchanges with his IFA in 2014 indicates that the latter 
advised him to invest with a high risk mandate, that Mr H preferred a high risk 
mandate, and that he understood the risk/reward implications.
The courts had held that an adviser must ensure that sufficient information is given 
so that a customer understood the risk of the investment, but this hadnt been 
forthcoming from Barclays. It was Barclays duty to explain and discuss the 
risk/reward issues relating to his SIPP, but it didnt. Mr H tried to discuss these 
issues in 2014, but got nowhere.
Barclays decision to invest his portfolio in a lower risk manner may have been due to 
concerns relating to the majority of its SIPP clientele. But this level of caution didnt 
apply to him. And hed lost out in the probable sum of over £50,000 as a result.
The risk profiling exercise was spurious and Barclays ignored what he and his own 
IFA had said about preferring a high risk profile. Barclays consistently steered him 
towards lower risk, despite his concerns about this, as evidenced by a letter from 
December 2010. This said that Mr H had said that a low risk rating, as indicated by 
the risk profiling, might not offer the right level of risk/reward, and that Mr H could 
therefore move to a medium risk mandate, and that he should let it know in writing if 
he wished to do so. His preference for high risk wasnt even offered as a possibility.
His objective was to maximise growth. Barclays should have entered into more detail 
as to why it was recommending the particular profile, but all it did was issue its 
generic risk mandate descriptions and didnt engage with him or his IFA in response 
to what they had said.
The clearest evidence of Barclays ignoring his preference for high risk was in April 
2014, when in response to his IFAs comment that updated risk profiling would 
indicate a marked appetite for risk, Barclays said that this was quite a shift from his 
existing profile, and provided the description of a high risk investor.
Hed made it clear in his own email to Barclays in March 2014 that his preference 
was for the highest risk on offer, to which Barclays replied that it was up to Mr H and 
that it could manage and advise him on a high risk basis. But due to the obstructive 
nature of Barclays processes, he lost the will to do so.
Mr H then summarised his case against Barclays in similar terms to those expressed above, 
adding that over time he developed an aversion to Barclays and what he considered to be its 
unhelpful, opaque, self-serving way of working. Mr H said that he disengaged and followed 
the path of least resistance, hoping that Barclays, as the professed expert, was acting in his 
best interests.
Mr H said that his conclusion was that Barclays failed to provide the advice which should 
have been forthcoming from a competent practitioner, and had also failed to exercise 
reasonable skill and care. As such, he said he should be reimbursed for his losses.
Mr H also submitted commentary relating to financial documents, one of which was the 
financial planning report dated 10 April 2010. He said that this, along with the risk profiling 
exercise, was produced before key aspects of his financial circumstances had been 
resolved. This was therefore not the moment to reach conclusions or provide financial advice 
on his post retirement years ahead.
Mr H said that the low risk strategy pursued by a trusted professional was manifestly 
unsuited to his circumstances and resulted in substantial financial loss. Barclays procedures 
were clearly designed to produce protective documentation to show that any wrongdoing 
was the responsibility of the client rather than the professional adviser.
The financial report said that his objective was as follows:..you feel you need the services of a private banker who will take a hands on approach with 
the management of the underlying funds to drive performance to establish as large a pot as 
possible from which to draw income at some point in the future. 
And that:
your main concern  was to ensure your current pension funds are being managed in the 
most efficient way to maximise the growth potential on these funds going forward.
Mr H enquired as to whether the investigator agreed that his objective was clear in 
accordance with the above.
The financial planning report further recommended that Mr H retain a cash reserve so that 
he wouldnt need to draw on his pension fund early, but he understood that the capacity 
provided by this was a routine requirement for higher risk investments, and that lower risk 
investments were recommended for individuals who didnt have this capacity. This was, Mr 
H, said further evidence that a higher risk portfolio was suitable for him.
Mr H further said that the record of him and his wife being assessed together  for example 
the report saying that it became apparent that their knowledge of pensions was extremely 
limited - meant that it was possible that the low risk profile was influenced by what his wife 
had told Barclays.
The tick box exercise conducted by Barclays didnt amount to an individually tailored 
wealth management strategy, Mr H said, and he queried as to whether this was accepted by 
the industry and by this service.
Mr H said that the Individual Pension Discretionary Services agreement of November 2016 
was a requirement imposed by Barclays as a consequence of changes it was making rather 
than any concern to provide a good service. Mr H said his risk profile hadnt been 
reassessed since 2010, despite it knowing about major changes in his financial 
circumstances following retirement.
Mr H said that, with the benefit of hindsight, it seemed unbelievable that he could have 
agreed to a medium low risk profile. He didnt understand how SIPPs worked and despite 
deep scepticism, he followed Barclays advice. As evidenced by the 35 page Individual 
Discretionary Services Agreement issued in 2016, Barclays interaction was driven by a 
procedure designed to protect it from future challenge rather than to ensure he was 
appropriately informed.
Mr H was now aware that there was a very clear relationship between higher risk and higher 
growth, and that investors who might need to access cash at unforeseen times would be 
advised against investing in a high risk way. But he and his wife had been identified as high 
net worth individuals with substantial cash sums to meet short term needs. And so this didnt 
apply to them.
A further investigator took over Mr Hs case, but having reviewed the matter, also didnt 
think that the complaint should be upheld. He said the following in summary:
In his view, the evidence indicated that Barclays had provided Mr H with a 
personalised service, including the risk profiling and the assessment of Mr Hs 
circumstances and objectives as set out in the financial report.He acknowledged that Mr H didnt feel that hed had enough time to understand the 
documents provided, but said that, under such circumstances, Mr H ought to have 
been aware that he didnt need to sign the documentation.
In terms of the suitability of the advice, he said that, given Mr Hs inexperience with 
pension matters, this might ordinarily be at odds with a higher risk profile. This, in 
conjunction with the risk profiling questionnaire, indicated to him that Mr H was 
attributed the right risk attitude.
He couldnt see any examples of poor or erroneous communications from Barclays, 
but even if he could, it was only if it could be demonstrated that this had caused a 
loss that we would make an award. He said that, whilst misunderstandings can 
occur, he didnt think the available evidence supported the position that poor 
communication had resulted in a loss for Mr H.
As to the risk profiling itself, Mr H had, when asked whether he sought adventure, 
said that he disagreed, and also disagreed with the statement that he took more risk 
than other people, which indicated that he didnt have a high risk attitude.
The investigator noted that, in 2014, although Mr H had suggested that a higher risk 
profile would be appropriate, he nevertheless signed documentation to say that a 
medium low profile was appropriate for his needs. The description of this was that 
the portfolio would seek to return a lower, steadier rate of growth than higher 
volatility assets. This seemed to be consistent with the report from 2010. 
Had Mr H disagreed with Barclays conclusion on his attitude to risk, he could have 
invested as an execution only client.
In Mr Hs response to the prior investigators assessment, hed said that he was 
conscious from the outset of his lack of knowledge about pensions and SIPPs, and 
that he understood nothing about their complexities. In line with FCA guidance, 
which said that a recommendation must be consistent with an individuals experience 
and knowledge of the risks involved, the lower risk rating was therefore appropriate 
for Mr H.
Mr H remained of the view that he had tasked Barclays with giving advice in a complex area, 
but that it had comprehensively failed to do so. It hadnt shown any interest in his individual 
circumstances once the sale had completed, and it had pressured him into putting ticks into 
boxes and signatures against documents to put them in the clear.
Mr H also maintained his opinion that hed been swamped with extraneous information which 
masked the important aspects of his portfolio and its performance, which compared 
unfavourably to the benchmark. He understood more of it now, but still found much of it to be 
incomprehensible, he added. Hed let the documents build up, but even if hed read them in 
detail he didnt think he would have become aware that the portfolio underperformed a 
comparable tracker fund. Mr H did wish to make it clear, however, that his complaint wasnt 
about the poor performance of the Barclays fund managers.
Mr H asked that this service consider that hed made clear his lack of SIPP expertise and 
consequent dependence on Barclays advice. He also asked that his own comments about 
his attitude to risk be taken into account, along with the scepticism he felt, and continues to 
feel, about financial personality questionnaires. He thought that it should be considered 
reprehensible that a high net worth individual would be advised to invest in low risk funds, 
just as it would be to recommend a high risk portfolio for someone with little wealth.
Mr H also wished to make clear that, contrary to what the investigator had said about him 
considering his approach to be high risk, it was more the case that, objectively, a high risk 
portfolio was clearly the one which best matched his circumstances.Mr H also thought that the description of high risk when relating to SIPPs was misleading, 
as they were required to protect peoples pensions. SIPPs were low risk by comparison with 
most investments. But Barclays reticence to invest other people in high risk investments 
shouldnt have applied to him. The potential gain from a high risk portfolio was likely to be 
greater than from other risk levels, and the downside risk was limited due to the lack of 
likelihood that hed need to encash his pension investments early or at a low level.
The investigator placed a significant amount of reliance on the risk profiling questionnaires, 
Mr H said, but asking such questions in the abstract or answering them without 
understanding the SIPP investment context was of limited value. And the fact that some of 
the questions had been answered in his wifes handwriting added further doubt to the 
documents. And although Barclays had said that it would give him feedback on his financial 
personality and its implications for his investment decisions, Barclays didnt do so.
It was up to Barclays as to what tool it used to determine the quality of the advice it provided, 
but this needed to have been suitable advice. High risk was unquestionably the right choice 
for him, Mr H said, and he was entitled to rely on Barclays to advise him accordingly.
The complaint wasnt being brought with the benefit of hindsight, Mr H added. His loss was 
entirely predictable to anybody who understood SIPPs. Barclays employed defective 
methods of identifying the right portfolio for him, which resulted in a substantial loss.
Barclays had steered him into making the wrong decision and had relied heavily in risk 
questionnaires to determine the right level of risk for his portfolio. But it had drawn incorrect 
responses from at least one of his responses, and if he checked further, he would probably 
find that they had done the same with others.
As agreement couldnt be reached on the matter, it was referred to me for review.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint on 26 September 2022, in which I set out my 
reasons for not upholding the complaint. The following is an extract from that decision.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The complaint file contains many detailed submissions, and although I havent necessarily 
included every point made in my overview of whats happened above, or within my analysis 
below, Id reassure both parties that Ive nevertheless considered those submissions in full. 
But Im issuing this as a provisional decision so that either party may comment further  
albeit Id appreciate as succinctly as possible - on my findings as set out below. 
The assessment of Mr Hs risk attitude
I note that Mr H has said that he lost clarity of his understanding that a high risk investment 
portfolio would have suited his circumstances. But whilst I accept that Mr H may have a poor 
memory, the assessment of his attitude to risk  as Ive said above, a key issue here - wasnt 
drawn out over several years. It occurred at the outset of his relationship with Barclays, and 
was determined by way of questions to which he provided responses. 
I acknowledge Mr Hs scepticism about the way in which his attitude to risk was established, 
but the methods employed by Barclays arent at odds with the way in which other providers 
in the industry would assess an individuals attitude to risk. And my view is that assessing 
the answers an individual might give to specific questions relating to their risk attitude is 
neither an inappropriate way of determining this, nor do I think it at odds with the manner in which the regulator would expect such fact finding to be conducted.
This attitude to risk was also tested at several points over the years, at one point certainly 
involving Mr Hs IFA, and so even if Mr H didnt understand the nature of the investment risk 
to which his pension funds were exposed, his IFA would have been able to assist him in that 
regard.
But the assertion that Mr H didnt understand the nature of the investment risk runs 
somewhat contrary to his argument that he tried to raise his risk profile, but was deterred 
from doing so by the misleading communications from Barclays. Mr H must have had some 
understanding of the risk profile attributed to him and the way in which his pension funds 
were invested, or ought to have been with the assistance of his IFA, hence his exploration of 
other higher risk options.
And Im afraid Im not persuaded that Mr H was provided with misleading information about 
why Barclays had concerns about him moving to a higher risk portfolio. Its comments 
relating to the historic performance of the higher risk portfolio seem reasonable to me, but 
again, had Mr H nevertheless wished to invest in a higher risk portfolio  notwithstanding the 
deterrent tactics he said were employed by Barclays, which I address further below - he 
could have done so. 
Mr H has said that he wasnt given sufficient advice or information about the risk rating of the 
recommended portfolio, but Im afraid I cant agree on this point. The descriptions of both the 
medium-low risk profile and the manner in which the portfolio would be invested, and the 
types of return it was aiming to achieve with its asset allocation, were in my view sufficiently 
clear. 
The suitability of the risk rating to Mr Hs circumstances
Mr H has further said that Barclays decision to invest him in a lower risk portfolio wasnt 
suited to his individual circumstances, but there are a couple of points here. The first is that it 
wasnt Barclays decision to invest him in the recommended portfolio. This was Mr Hs 
decision, based upon the recommendation given, but which had in turn been based on the 
information gathered, notably relating to his attitude to investment risk.
The second is that, given Mr Hs recorded attitude to risk, the description of the portfolio and 
its objectives, all of which, as Ive said above, I think were clearly set out, I dont think that 
the recommendation was necessarily unsuitable. As the initial investigator said, Mr H may 
well have had a higher risk perspective to other aspects of his finances, but the indications 
here, in terms of what Barclays could determine by way of its risk profiling exercise, were 
that he was well suited  certainly in terms of retirement planning - to the advice given by 
Barclays. 
I agree that circumstances, beyond an individuals attitude to risk, should be taken into 
account, and Mr H has commented that the recommendation given to him to retain a cash 
reserve was consistent with a high risk investor  and that lower risk investments were 
recommended to individuals who didnt have this capacity. Mr H has also asked that I 
consider as reprehensible the prospect of a high net worth individual being advised to 
invest on a low risk basis. But I dont think this is right. A cash reserve, in addition to other 
types of longer term investment, at whatever end of the risk scale, are a fairly routine 
recommendation and provide for the daily necessities or unexpected events, without needing 
to draw on funds which might be unobtainable or otherwise financially disadvantageous to 
access.
And simply because someone may have high net worth, it certainly doesnt mean that a default position should be taken that their pension assets should be invested in a high risk 
manner. This service receives complaints from high net worth investors who have 
complained on the very basis Mr H suggests should be presumed as suitable for such 
individuals  that although they may have had significant other assets, they nevertheless 
wished for a cautious approach to be taken with their pension funds.
The ultimate choice of investment fund should be determined on the basis of the particular 
individuals circumstances and objectives, and their identified attitude to risk, as was the 
case here. Mr H may feel that the reality was somewhat different, and that his capacity for 
loss meant that it was obvious that his pension funds should have been invested in a high 
risk portfolio. But again, capacity for loss and willingness to put those funds at risk dont go 
hand in hand. And I dont think Barclays erred here in assessing Mr Hs attitude to, or 
appetite for, risk for his pension funds as being medium-low. I think it would have been far 
more questionable for Barclays to have focussed on his overall net worth and largely 
disregarded his assessed attitude to risk.
Mr H has further said that SIPPs are low risk by comparison with most investments. This 
isnt the case, Im afraid. The SIPP is simply the wrapper, and within that an individual is able 
to invest in any permitted way, which can range from very low risk assets, e.g. cash, to very 
high risk ones, e.g. many unregulated collective investment schemes. So having a SIPP 
didnt mean, in itself, that this was a low risk proposition.
Furthermore, although Ive noted Mr Hs argument that it was recorded that he wished to 
maximise fund growth, an objective of increasing the value of a pension fund doesnt rule out 
investment in more cautiously rated portfolios. The objective remains for as much growth as 
possible, but within the framework and parameters of the assets in which that portfolio would 
invest. Few investors would I think be content to sacrifice all growth potential for the sake of 
absolute safety (although this isnt unheard of), but the level of growth might be limited by 
the identified attitude to risk.
And as with the second investigator, I dont think Mr Hs argument that he was seeking a 
high risk portfolio which would maximise growth sits well with, for example, his disagreement 
with statements such as him seeking adventure, or his neutral stance towards taking more 
risks than other people. But although I accept that there are other more ambiguous answers 
within the questionnaire, there are, in my view, some quite indicative statements as to Mr Hs 
attitude to investment risk.
As further examples, in answer to the statement In order to achieve high returns, I am 
willing to choose high risk investments, Mr H said that he disagreed. And in answer to the 
statement It is likely I would invest a significant sum in a high risk investment, Mr H also 
said that he disagreed. The questionnaire also tested Mr Hs attitude towards lower risk 
investments, asking his view on the statements I would accept small fluctuations in the 
value of my portfolio in exchange for protection from inflation and As long as my 
investments are increasing in value, it does not matter to me if the markets are doing even 
better, to which Mr H agreed on both counts.
Mr H may dismiss this as a tick box exercise, and may disagree with the interpretation of 
some of the answers, but I dont think statements such as these were difficult to understand, 
and his answers to them are, in my view, demonstrative of him not having a high attitude to 
risk, and therefore not being suited to a high risk portfolio, at the time.
Mr H may also be of the view that he was unaware of the investment implications of being 
categorised as a low-medium investor, but I think the descriptions of the attitude to risk 
attributed to him and the portfolios objectives, as set out above in the What happened 
section, were sufficiently clear and not misleading. Was Mr H deterred by Barclays from investing differently?
Mr H has further said that the letter of December 2010 evidences that he wanted a high risk 
profile, but was deterred from doing so  a pattern which hes said was repeated in the 
intervening years. But Im afraid my reading of this is different. Mr H had queried whether a 
low risk mandate  as determined by his own answers to the risk profile questionnaire, rather 
than Barclays guidance  was right for him in terms of risk/reward, and he was offered the 
opportunity to move to a medium risk profile. I cant see that this would in any reasonable 
sense have deterred Mr H from moving up that scale, nor that, in the knowledge that he 
could move to a medium risk profile, that the decision would very much be his, perhaps in 
conjunction with the expertise of his IFA, as to whether to move to a high risk profile.
Barclays simply needed Mr H to confirm whether he wished to elevate his risk profile in 
writing, but as far I can tell, this didnt happen. And if Mr H didnt think that Barclays was 
addressing his or his IFAs questions to his satisfaction, it might reasonably be expected that 
this would be raised at the time, and before investing his pension funds  as identified by Mr 
H, a not inconsiderable sum - in the recommended portfolio. I acknowledge Mr Hs position 
that he was somewhat disengaged due to what he considered to be the sub-par service he 
was receiving from Barclays, but again, I think it might reasonably be expected that Mr H or 
his IFA would have sought satisfactory answers to their questions before investing.
Mr H has referred to email communication in March and April 2014 as evidence of him 
seeking a high risk investment profile, but whilst hes said that he lost the will to do so due to 
the obstructive processes employed, I dont think that the response  I can help guide you 
through the risk profiling, but it is absolutely up to you and I can manage and advise you on 
a high risk basis - bears this out. My view is that any reasonable reading of this is that it is 
an offer to facilitate Mr Hs wishes, rather than obstruct them. Barclays may have sounded a 
note of caution relating to Mr Hs wish to elevate his risk rating, but I dont think this was 
unreasonable, given the potential ramifications for Mr H and his retirement planning. 
Ultimately, however, it was, and was clearly described as being, Mr Hs decision.
Ive also noted Mr Hs comment that the financial report prepared in April 2010 was 
effectively premature, and omitted key aspects of his post retirement finances. But my 
observation here would be that, of the parties involved, Mr H would surely have been the 
best placed to know this, and so if necessary defer any decision making, or at least revisit it 
at a later time when the complete picture was known. The evidence does in any case 
indicate that Mr H revisited his assessed attitude to risk in subsequent years, but as Ive said 
above, he was offered the opportunity to change this if he wished.
The documentation provided by Barclays
Turning then to Mr Hs suggestion that the documentation issued by Barclays was a 
protective measure to suggest that any investment shortcomings were the fault of the client 
rather than itself, I think there might reasonably be a corollary here  in that the 
documentation is designed to not just protect Barclays from future claims, but also, as is 
required by the regulator, to place an individual in a suitably informed position as to what is 
being recommended. 
Mr H may have been provided with a lot of information, and I note that the valuation reports 
were detailed documents. But they did set out the valuations of each asset class, with a 
grand total, at the beginning of those documents. Further, if Mr H had questions as to any 
aspect which he considered to be unclear, he had the opportunity to clarify this with Barclays 
or his IFA. And I dont think I can fairly or reasonably conclude that it was designed to hide 
important aspects relating to the investment of his pension funds. For example, aside from 
what Ive said about the valuation reports, the initial suitability report from April 2010 was 17 pages long, but I think the information it contained was set out in a clear and transparent 
fashion, including the fees which would be charged and the risk rating which had been 
attributed to Mr H. Therefore, I dont think Barclays has failed to provide Mr H with a clear 
assessment of its risk analysis for him, or in setting out that the recommended medium-low 
portfolio was suitable for him.
And whilst Ive noted Mr Hs scepticism around the risk profiling procedures employed by 
Barclays, I dont think the available evidence supports the position that Mr H was pressured 
by Barclays into ticking boxes or signing documents. 
Mr H has further contended that his and his wifes circumstances and objectives may have 
been conflated, but as Mr H himself has said, even if Barclays applied the assessment of 
both of them having very limited knowledge of pensions, this applied equally to him as it did 
to his wife. And so its difficult to see how this might unfairly have influenced the risk 
assessment.
Barclays complaint handling
Mr H has said that his initial complaint email of May 2020 contained questions relating to his 
portfolio which needed answering due to febrile market conditions. That it failed to do so, 
and simply dealt with the complaint issues, will have caused him further loss, hes said.
Having looked at the questions which Mr H raised, one related to an actual valuation and a 
notional valuation, had the portfolio been invested differently, and the other to the fees which 
had been charged. 
Barclays responded to the initial email of 28 May 2020 by confirming on 3 June 202 that it 
would be dealt with as a complaint, to which Mr H replied on the same day saying that his 
requests remained outstanding and that he would like answers by 5 June 2020. He 
reminded Barclays of this on 5 June 2020 and it responded on the same day, saying that Mr 
Hs adviser was trying to provide the information hed requested. 
Mr H expressed dissatisfaction that his deadline of 5 June 2020 might be missed, and Mr Hs 
adviser then provided reports  on the same day - which showed the performance of its 
discretionary portfolios across the various risk profiles up to December 2019. 
The adviser further said that he would endeavour to obtain the fee information Mr H had 
requested, but attached a fee schedule showing the cost of the discretionary portfolio 
management service. 
Taking the above into account, whilst I agree that Mr Hs requests werent immediately 
identified in the complaint acknowledgement, I can see that Barclays did then try to answer 
Mr Hs questions and provided portfolio performance information for comparison purposes 
by his deadline of 5 June 2020.  
Barclays has itself conceded that it took longer than it should to then address Mr Hs 
complaint, but it offered £100 in respect of this, which I think is probably the right amount.
And so I dont think it needs to take any further action in that regard.
Summary
Overall, I think one of Mr Hs comments in his response to the initial investigators 
assessment is quite telling. Mr H said that, with the benefit of hindsight, it was unbelievable 
to him that he could have agreed to a medium-low risk profile in 2010. But the fact remains that he did, and further still did so on the basis of what I consider to have been quite clear 
communications from Barclays as to what was being proposed, and the risk level which hed 
been assessed as having. I dont think this was, certainly for a clearly intelligent individual 
such as Mr H, difficult to understand, even for a layman in pension matters.
That higher risk profiles may, since 2010, have outperformed the lower risk ones, might of 
course have given Mr H pause for thought as to whether he made the right decision, and I 
can see that he reconsidered this over the years, but nevertheless chose to remain invested 
in the more cautiously rated portfolio. I acknowledge that Mr H doesnt feel like hindsight is 
required here  hes of the view that the loss was predictable to anyone who understood 
SIPPs. But as Ive said above, Im not certain that Mr H has himself understood the nature of 
SIPPs. These can contain a range of very differently risk rated assets.
Hindsight does of course offer a different perspective on investment decisions, and with that 
benefit, Mr H may consider that he would, or perhaps should, under the guidance of 
Barclays, have invested differently. But that doesnt detract from the fact that it was 
ultimately Mr Hs decision to invest as he did. This was based on the recommendation 
provided by Barclays, but given the information available to it in 2010, especially its 
assessment of Mr Hs attitude to investment risk for his pension funds, my current view is 
that Barclays didnt unsuitably advise Mr H to invest in the recommended portfolio. 
In response, Mr H has submitted a significant response and has commented that the case 
needed to be presented as if for a court, fully supported by evidence. 
Ive read the entirety of Mr Hs response, but will summarise what I consider to be the main 
points below:
The FCA had urged caution about using risk profiling tools to replace more 
traditional know your customer approaches, and that they should be used to support 
discussions about a customers attitude to risk. This didnt happen here, despite his 
obvious need in view of his expressed maximum growth/high risk preference.
The suitability consideration failed as it focussed on the risk profile (which Barclays 
later dropped itself) rather than an understanding of his financial situation, investment 
objectives, and capacity for loss. It also wasnt conducted with the required 
reasonable skill and care. Barclays then proceeded to assess his risk profile in an 
erratic and incomprehensible way over the next ten year period.
Hed expressed his preference for a high risk portfolio from the outset, and then 
repeatedly thereafter. He also met all the criteria for a high risk rating, and a high risk 
portfolio was the most likely to deliver maximum returns.
His unambiguous and clearly documented choice was high growth. He wasnt 
seeking high risk. The words high risk didnt correspond with his own view of high 
risk. The suggestion that he sought high risk for the adrenalin rush was absurd.
He wanted a higher proportion of shares because they typically attain a higher return 
over the longer term. For other investors, bonds might be more suitable as they were 
more stable, but offered lower potential returns. The former approach would be 
suited to an investor like him. He had plenty of cash assets and the required attitude 
to risk.
Barclays should have known that a high risk portfolio was the most likely to deliver 
his objective of maximising growth, and it should have known that he matched the 
corresponding suitability criteria.It would have been right for Barclays to ensure that he understood that past 
performance was no indicator of future growth, and that the final decision was his, 
but if it was its recommendation to invest in anything other than a high risk portfolio, 
then it needed to provide the reasons for this.
Mr H said that he trusted that I would agree that for someone like him, a high risk 
mandate was the correct one. Any other conclusion seemed incredible.
Although Barclays at times suggested a small increase in his risk rating, and at 
others offered to increase the risk level to high, this was subject to him signing away 
its contractual responsibility and accepting this himself.
The suitability review in 2019 said that Mr Hs risk tolerance was high, thereby tacitly 
recognising that the 2010 report was fundamentally wrong. But even then, Barclays 
only proposed increasing the profile to moderate risk, and so didnt take account of 
his preference, as required by the FCA.
The risk profiling and suitability assessment was Barclays responsibility, and the risk 
profiling was defective, and not legally valid. He matched all the criteria for a high 
risk rating, but Barclays obstructed this.
The investment services application form bore his signature, dated 8 July 2010, and 
by an individual incorrectly identified as his financial adviser on 13 July 2010. Ticks 
were added after he had signed the form, and without his knowledge or consent. It 
must be assumed that he hadnt been made aware of the content of the application 
form, along with the low risk rating selected for him and adhered to for the next ten 
years. He wasnt provided with either this document, or the SIPP application form.
In the asset mapping investment suitability form, the rationale for the low risk 
mandate had been left blank. The words evidenced by the risk questionnaire 
demonstrated that Barclays had considered the risk questionnaire as the primary 
means of determining his level of risk.
His financial adviser had told him that a high risk strategy would be the most suitable, 
and informed Barclays accordingly.
The email to Barclays on 6 March 2014 contained the clearest possible expression of 
his high risk/maximum growth preference. But although Barclays said that it could 
help him through risk profiling, it said that it was up to Mr H and that it could manage 
and advise him on a high risk basis. But this demonstrated that there was no clear 
process for deciding and managing the change.
Barclays had tried to scare him off his high risk preference by citing the 
performance of a high risk portfolio in 2008, but the way in which it did this was highly 
misleading.
Even by 2020, when Barclays was aware that his objective was maximum growth, 
and that he had the required attitude to risk and capacity for loss, it still said that it 
needed further information about his assets outside of Barclays to determine his 
capacity to sustain a higher level of risk.
It continued to insist that matters be discussed over the phone, which was then 
confirmed in subsequent written correspondence, along with what had been 
agreed. But this put the onus on him to refute the content of the emails, when he 
didnt have the time or energy to do so.It had been suggested that his complaint wasnt justified because when Barclays 
made superficial offers to change the mandate to high risk, he didnt take them up. It 
had also been suggested that this showed that his preference wasnt genuine. But 
this would be a serious misreading of the situation.
Had Barclays used the risk profiler as the start of a conversation, this would have 
been the proper process. But Barclays acted differently, requiring him to sign the 
client self assessment form if he considered he had a different risk rating, which then 
relieved Barclays of the responsibility to undertake the proper suitability assessment.
The discretionary portfolio management brochure set out services which he didnt 
receive, including a dedicated private banker who would stay in touch and with whom 
he would meet regularly to discuss progress and explore new insights to help him 
make the most of his money. This misleading description required further detailed 
analysis.
The primary issue in his original complaint was the opaqueness of Barclays systems 
and communications, which was a failure to adhere to the FCAs Principle 9  to pay 
due regard to the information needs of clients and communicate information in way 
which is clear, fair and not misleading. 
He had no copies of many of the key documents and it appeared that he wasnt 
provided with them. He was also pressured into verbal communication, leaving no 
evidence. 
Barclays assigned responsibility to multiple different individuals and roles in different, 
conflicting documents. And his private banker was responsible for discussing 
suitability on an initial and ongoing basis, but never did so. There was no listening or 
discussion about his preference for a high risk investment strategy.
Mr H said that Id made an erroneous assumption that hed retained the services of 
an IFA after hed appointed Barclays to manage his SIPP.
There were several aspects of the communication between him and Barclays which 
suggested that his and his wifes attitude to risk had been confused.
Mr H has also specifically addressed the content of my provisional decision in a separate 
section of his submission, which Ill summarise as follows:
The weight of the evidence indicating that he had sought a high risk portfolio was 
overwhelming.
He expressed concerned about the apparent bias in my provisional decision in favour 
of Barclays. The decision had presented Barclays evidence in one way, in the what 
happened section, and his in another - Mr H says. This suggested that parts of 
his evidence were untrue and cast doubt on the veracity of his complaint as a whole.
With regard to my position on risk profiling, Id said that it was Mr Hs decision to 
invest in the recommended portfolio, but the investigator had correctly summarised 
this by saying that hed been steered away from a high risk portfolio.
He also hadnt suggested that a high risk portfolio should be the default position for a 
high net worth investor  rather that it was his own circumstances and attitude to risk 
which made him suitable for this.It couldnt be reasonably argued that the decision to invest in the recommended 
portfolio was his - the evidence indicated that Barclays took the decision, despite his 
objections, and then falsely implied that it had his agreement to do so.
I had implied that there would need to be a once and for all decision about the level 
of risk, but this should be kept under review and changed as necessary.
My comment that, contrary to Mr Hs seeming understanding that SIPPs were low 
risk investments, a SIPP wrapper could contain both high and low risk investments 
was misleading  hed been referring to his own SIPP, which was low risk. And Mr H 
asked me to agree that all the investments contained within his SIPP were low risk.
I had said that there was equivalence between the objective of maximising fund 
growth and simply increasing the value of the pension funds. But this was in no way 
consistent with this services commitment to be fair, reasonable and unbiased.
Mr H also rejected that, within the risk profiler, his stated preference to not seek 
adventure would mean that he had a low risk attitude towards investment. It wasnt 
the case that someone who invested in a high risk SIPP portfolio was likely to be 
seeking adventure.
The bottom line here was that the words high risk in relation to his SIPP in no way 
equated to high risk in the sense that I appeared to be thinking about it.
Mr H said that I had also questioned the credibility of his comments, such as his 
understanding of what was being proposed. I shouldnt find his lack of understanding 
surprising, given that he had no experience or investing or investments.
My implication that the complaint has been made with the benefit of hindsight was 
damaging to his case, Mr H has said, and this needed to be corrected. No hindsight 
was required to understand that greater growth could be expected from the high risk 
portfolio  this was simply accepted wisdom.
The communications from Barclays werent clear, for example, the contradiction in 
the suitability report between the objective of maximising growth and the description 
of the low/medium risk strategy.
Hed received a copy of the suitability report from this service, but it wasnt in his file 
and he was a conscientious filer. As such, in the absence of evidence to the 
contrary, it seemed that it hadnt been sent to him.
He also didnt have a copy of the personal client profile, from which his risk attitude 
had been defined.
In conclusion, Mr H said that didnt think that my provisional decision was consistent with this 
services objective to be fair, reasonable and unbiased, and he hoped a review of the matter 
and the available evidence would strengthen his case
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive noted above, Mr H has at several points in his response to the provisional decision 
said that he has presented his evidence as if to a court. Mr H has also referenced a particular court case as being relevant to the issues under consideration here. 
So I think its worth firstly setting out, as a reminder, that this service is an alternative to the 
courts, and whilst I need to have regard for the law, along with the relevant guidance, rules 
and regulations, Im required to decide the outcome of the case on the basis of whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Were designed to be a quick and informal alternative dispute resolution service, and whilst I 
acknowledge that the objective of quick may regrettably not have been achieved here - 
albeit due in no small part to the complexity of the case, requests for extensions to deadlines 
which we have accepted, and the significant size of the submissions received  it remains 
the case that we are nevertheless an informal alternative to the courts. 
And as such, and again as Ive set out above, whilst Ive read and noted the entirety of Mr 
Hs submissions, Ive summarised above what I consider to be the main points of Mr Hs 
response to my provisional decision, and rather than being a point by point analysis of Mr 
Hs response, the below commentary addresses those main points.
Barclays use of a risk profiling tool
So, to firstly address the matter of the use of risk profiling tools, such as that used by 
Barclays, I agree that it would be helpful for these to be used as part of wider discussions, as 
set out by the FCA. But I note that, in the overview section of the suitability report, it said 
the following:
You would prefer your funds to be managed in line with your agreed attitude to risk as 
defined by the financial Personality Assessment and your discussions with [private banker].
And so it was the case that the assessment of Mr Hs attitude to risk wasnt confined to a risk 
profiling questionnaire  as Id expect, discussions were also held around this. And if its now 
Mr Hs contention that they werent, and this was an inaccurate statement within the report (I 
address Mr Hs comment that he doesnt have his own copy of that report further below), 
then it might reasonably be expected that this would have been raised at the time the report 
was produced. 
Im also not persuaded that the risk profiling exercise produced an incorrect result, nor that it 
was defective or somehow invalid. The questions/statements were clear, and as I said in the 
provisional decision, although some answers may have been ambiguous, there was in my 
view a clear indication that Mr H had a low risk attitude with regard to the proposed 
investment. 
For example, in answer to the statement In order to achieve high returns, I am willing to 
choose high risk investments, Mr H said that he disagreed with this. Although Mr Hs 
answers needed to be consider holistically, and as a part of wider discussions, individual 
statements such as this can quite reasonably be used as an indication as to whether a high 
risk strategy would be appropriate. And this was in my view an unambiguously clear 
indication that Mr H didnt want to invest in high risk investments to achieve high returns.
Mr H further agreed with the statement that, as long as his investments were increasing in 
value, it didnt matter to him if the markets were doing even better. Mr H disagreed that he 
sought adventure, and disagreed that it was likely he would invest a significant sum in a high 
risk investment. I think the amount invested in the SIPP could reasonably be considered to 
be a significant amount. So again, these answers were consistent with the lower risk rating 
attributed to Mr H.And although Mr H feels that his and his wifes attitudes to risk may have been confused with 
his, this was risk profiling exercise specifically for him, and it was signed and dated by Mr H. 
So I dont think the available evidence supports the position that Mrs Hs risk attitude has 
been confused with, or for, Mr Hs.
The accuracy of the risk assessment and how it was conveyed to Mr H
A fundamental aspect of Mr Hs complaint is that he doesnt feel that he was correctly 
assessed and that therefore suitability of the recommended portfolio was fundamentally 
flawed. But as a basis for the discussions which were then held, as set out in the suitability 
report, and taking account of his other circumstances and objectives, as also set out in the 
same report, these types of questionnaire answers are helpful in determining the right 
portfolio. 
Mr H may feel that he met the criteria for a high risk rating, and its fair to say that he had 
significant assets. But as set out in the provisional decision, a high capacity for loss doesnt 
necessarily mean that an individual is prepared to put capital at risk. And the answers to the 
risk profiling statements, along with discussions which followed, determined Mr H to have a 
low/medium risk rating. 
The asset mapping investment suitability form may simply said that the rationale for the low 
risk was evidenced by the risk questionnaire, but the above evidences that discussions 
were also held regarding this.
Barclays did need to make Mr H aware as to why the particular risk mandate had been 
selected. But the description of this risk rating was set out in the suitability report, along with 
the proposed strategy of achieving growth in line with that risk rating. And so if Mr H felt that 
certain documents which preceded or followed that report had in some way been doctored 
(although I note that theres no suggestion that the risk profiler itself had been doctored, 
bearing as it did Mr Hs dated signature), or that the risk profile description in the suitability 
report didnt match his own outlook or his circumstances, then this was his opportunity to 
challenge this. But I cant see that Mr H informed Barclays that he disagreed, and that he 
was then obstructed by Barclays from changing this.
I would also reiterate that, simply because an individual might in other respects seem to be 
suited to a high risk profile, such as having high net wealth/cash reserves and a number of 
years until retirement, it doesnt follow that they should be attributed that high risk profile if 
theyd expressed a cautious approach in terms of investing  as was the case here. This 
isnt uncommon  it simply isnt the case that high net worth individuals have  or should be 
presumed to have  a high attitude to investment risk. And so I dont think it seems 
incredible, as Mr H suggests, that an individual in his position would have been attributed a 
low/medium attitude to risk, especially when taking account of the answers he provided in 
the risk profiler document.
For the reasons already set out, Im afraid I dont agree that Mr H had expressed a high risk 
preference and that a move to this was blocked or obstructed by Barclays, either in 2010 or 
at any later point. Nor do I think that the suitability consideration failed on the basis that it 
focussed solely on his recorded attitude to risk. The investment report was a 17 page 
summary of his financial position and objectives. The objectives were restricted to retirement 
planning in that particular report, with other financial matters having been covered in another 
report. But following a summary of Mr and Mrs Hs financial position, a description of the 
attitude to risk determined through the risk profiler questionnaire and related discussions, 
there then followed a section dedicated to identified needs, and the recommendation in 
order to achieve Mr Hs objectives.It's fair to say that one of those objectives was to maximise fund growth, but this isnt 
incompatible with a low/medium risk rating, and I would refer to my comments on this in the 
provisional decision, and further comments on this as set out below.
And I think it might be prudent to address here Mr Hs comments about not wanting to take 
unnecessary high risks, but rather that he was seeking high growth. Although some funds 
may be marketed or called high growth, what they mean is that a higher risk strategy will 
be employed to try to attain high growth. As theres no guarantee of high growth, they are 
in essence high risk. Put simply, in order to achieve high levels of growth, higher levels of 
risk need to be taken. I think Mr H is aware of this, but I do in any case wish to clarify that 
point. 
Mr H has further said that his risk profile was always high, but notwithstanding my comments 
above about the answers he gave to particular statements in the risk profiling questionnaire, 
if this was the case then I would have expected this to have been determined in 2010, and 
for him to have challenged the clear low/medium risk attitude attributed to him in the 
suitability report. 
I accept that Mr Hs lack of experience in pension matters wouldnt have been a barrier to a 
high risk categorisation, but Barclays relied on the risk profiling tool and discussions held, as 
observed in the suitability report, to determine his attitude to risk. And although Mr H 
considers that Barclays disagreed with his stated preference for high risk investments, I cant 
see any record of this, and Barclays then obstructing this, in 2010. Further discussions were 
held over the years relating to his risk rating, and the suitability of the approach taken, at 
which points both Mr H and his financial adviser were afforded opportunities to change this if 
required. 
As such, I cant agree that the process employed by Barclays, which Mr H has said denied 
him the opportunity of a proper discussion around his risk rating, was inappropriate. The 
evidence suggests that discussions were held around this, and as I set out further below, Mr 
H was offered the opportunity to review the risk profiling after 2010.
Barclays communication with Mr H and responses to risk attitude queries
Mr H has further said that Barclays assessed his risk profile in an erratic and 
incomprehensible way after 2010, and that over the years it failed to discuss with him the 
way in which his objectives, capacity for loss and attitude to risk were considered together to 
arrive at the selected investment strategy. But I dont think the evidence of the 
communication between him and Barclays, or even Mr Hs own evidence which hes relied 
upon in his response the provisional decision, bears this out. For example, Mr H has himself 
referred to an email on 6 March 2014 in which he said that he found the discussions about 
risk profile and asset allocation particularly helpful.
Mr H has referred to the emails from 6 March 2014, in which he said he was inclined to go 
for the highest risk on offer, as being evidence of Barclays multiple failings in addressing his 
true risk rating. But I take a different view. Whilst Mr H seems to view the response as 
incomprehensible, it seems to be clear to me, in that Barclays said the following:
I can help guide you through risk profiling, but it is absolutely up to you and I can manage 
and advise you on a high risk basis 
And if anything was unclear about this, then I think it would have been up to Mr H or his IFA 
(see below further comments on the involvement of Mr Hs IFA beyond 2010) to enquire 
further.Barclays then tried to facilitate the move to a high risk rating in further emails in April 2014. 
As Ive noted above, although Mr H may have considered the client self assessment form 
confirming himself as a high risk investor to be passing the risk to him, I dont think this was 
an unjustified request from Barclays. It had already offered to guide him through risk profiling 
and to advise him on a high risk basis  at which point the suitability assessment could have 
been undertaken.
Mr H has said that Barclays tried to scare him off a high risk rating, but I dont think it was 
acting inappropriately in using the declines in financial markets in 2008 as an example of 
what could happen in extreme situations with a high risk strategy. Businesses are often 
faced with allegations that they underplay the risks of investing in, for example, high levels of 
equities, and to suggest that Barclays was trying to scare Mr H into remaining as he was 
implies that Barclays had a vested interest in maintaining the status quo. But I cant see why 
that would be the case, and it isnt in any case borne out by its repeated attempts to assist 
Mr H if he wished to move to a higher risk rating. 
Ive noted that Mr H disputes that those were genuine attempts to assist him in his change of 
recorded risk rating, again saying that the meaning of emails (sometimes following meetings) 
was incomprehensible. Hes further said that Barclays didnt answer specific questions he 
had posed, such as his query about the expectation of higher return for higher risk, which he 
said the adviser answered by citing the above example of equity falls in 2008. But if Mr H 
didnt understand what was being said, or thought that his questions werent being properly 
answered, then it was open to him to seek clarity on this at the time.
And although Mr H has further said that later emails in 2020 are evidence that his preference 
for high risk was ignored, the communications from Barclays, in which it said that it would 
recommend that he move from a low/medium profile to a moderate profile were very much 
couched as an advisory course of action. If Mr H disagreed and wished to invest in a high 
risk manner, he could nevertheless have instructed Barclays to do so.
In that sense, my view remains that, although Barclays appropriately determined a risk rating 
which it considered suitable for Mr H, and proposed the managed investment strategy which 
would be consistent with that, it was open to Mr H to tell Barclays that he wished to invest 
differently. And the evidence supports the position that a change in Mr Hs risk rating was 
considered several times over the following years, but not implemented. But this was 
ultimately Mr Hs decision to make  as evidenced by the its absolutely up to you comment 
quoted above.
Mr H has also said that Barclays insisted on further information regarding his assets in 2020 
to undertake a revised assessment of his attitude to risk. But having reviewed those emails, I 
dont think what it was requesting  knowledge of the assets held outside of Barclays - was 
unreasonable. And I also dont think the process of conducting discussions over phone calls 
- effectively in person  and then confirming the outcome of those discussions in 
subsequent emails, was inappropriate or in any way underhand. 
Mr H may feel that he didnt have the time to refute what he considered to be errors in those 
emails, but I dont think I can attribute blame to Barclays for the absence of such corrections, 
if required.
Barclays dropped its risk profiler questionnaire in 2013, Mr H said, alluding to it therefore 
never having been fit for purpose, but he has then referred to an email in March 2014 
(following a meeting) in which Barclays described the quantitative and qualitative methods it 
used to determine risk appetite  which included discussions and the financial personality 
questionnaire, which was then considered alongside Mr Hs capacity for risk. So whilst the 
questionnaire may have altered in its format, I dont think it could reasonably be concluded that Barclays dropped the same risk profiler/discussion methodology it had employed since 
the one undertaken in 2010.
And despite implying that Barclays ignored his high risk preference at the outset and over 
the following years, Mr H has himself noted the occasions upon which it offered to increase 
his risk rating, and so it cannot in my view reasonably be concluded that Barclays obstructed 
his attempts to elevate his risk rating. 
Further, Mr Hs assertion that Barclays implied that any such elevation in his risk rating 
wouldnt make much of a difference wouldnt sit comfortably with its request that he 
acknowledge the implications for such a move by way of the client self assessment form. If 
the former were true, then there would seem to be little need for the latter.
I also dont agree that the comment about Mr Hs high risk tolerance, and high capacity for 
loss, in the 2019 suitability review was a tacit recognition that this had previously been 
incorrectly recorded. The evidence supports the position that Mr Hs attitude to risk had been 
addressed several times over the intervening years, with  as identified by Mr H himself  
opportunities to increase this if he wished to do so. And the available evidence also doesnt 
support the position that Mr Hs financial adviser told Barclays that Mr H had a higher risk 
rating, but that it obstructed efforts to implement this. Rather, as set out above, information 
was provided about historic performance of the high risk strategy. It was then up to Mr H to 
inform Barclays as to whether he wished to move to the high risk rating.
Mr H has said that it must be assumed that he didnt see the application for the discretionary 
investment service, but given that it bore his signature, I cant agree that this is more likely 
than not to have been the case. But Id in any case reiterate my above comments about the 
suitability report, in which the description of the risk rating attributed to Mr H, and the 
proposed investment strategy which aligned to this, was clearly set out. I dont think it can 
fairly or reasonably be concluded that Mr H wasnt aware of this.
The services set out in the discretionary portfolio management brochure received in July 
2013, such as understanding his circumstances and risk attitude, werent provided, Mr H has 
said. I note that this was sent three years after the advice to transfer into the SIPP, but Id in 
any case again point to the suitability report as indicating otherwise. The evidence, much of 
which has been provided by Mr H himself in the form of email communication, also suggests 
that Mr H did have regular discussions with Barclays relating to his plan and the risk rating. 
As such, I dont think the brochure requires any further detailed analysis, as suggested by Mr 
H, to enable me to fairly and reasonably decide this complaint.
My view on what Mr H considers to have been the opaqueness of Barclays systems and 
communications remains the same as that set out in the provisional decision, and for the 
same reasons. Mr H may consider some of the documents to be unintelligible, but I think 
that, whilst often containing a lot of detail, they were set out in a clear enough format. 
Ive noted Mr Hs observation that, in an email from Barclays dated 14 April 2020, it said that 
it accepted that the number of documents hed received in the past should have been 
streamlined to as few as possible and that it would improve this position in the future. But 
this indicates to me that, although it in general terms provided comprehensive 
documentation to its clients, Barclays was responsive to Mr Hs communication needs and 
was committing to addressing this in the future.
Nor do I think the evidence supports the position that Barclays was reluctant to communicate 
with Mr H in a written format. Key documents, such as the suitability report, were set out in 
writing, and there are many examples of Barclays communicating in writing over the years 
since 2010  with no pressure that Ive seen that this instead be conducted over the phone. There are instances where a phone call is recommended, but as Ive said above, I dont 
think the in person approach was inappropriate, or was a way of Barclays not needing to 
commit to discussions in writing. 
Mr H has said that he didnt have the time or energy to refute agreed discussion points in 
emails which followed verbal discussions, but I think its unlikely that Barclays would have 
deliberately misrepresented such discussions on the assumption that Mr H wouldnt then 
take the time to seek to make the necessary corrections. 
Mr Hs use of an IFA
Mr H has further asserted that Ive incorrectly assumed that he had the services of an IFA 
after hed appointed Barclays to manage his SIPP. But Id refer to the following extract from 
my provisional decision, which was itself part of Mr Hs own response to the investigators 
assessment:
The clearest evidence of Barclays ignoring his preference for high risk was in April 2014, 
when in response to his IFAs comment that updated risk profiling would indicate a marked 
appetite for risk, Barclays said that this was quite a shift from his existing profile, and 
provided the description of a high risk investor.
And later in his response to the provisional decision, Mr H also refers to the same contact 
from his IFA about an elevation in his attitude to risk:
Summary of 5 emails BH/JT/MW (my IFA) 19 March - 14 April 2014 (see 2.2.2 for
full version) I discussed the SIPP with our IFA [name of IFA], who had a full understanding of 
our finances, and we agreed on the need to move my portfolio to a high risk mandate in line 
with my objective to maximise growth.
I dont therefore think the available evidence, as provided by Mr H himself, supports the 
position that he didnt have the services of an IFA after the transfer of funds to the SIPP. But 
I dont in any case think this would have a bearing on the outcome here. For the reasons 
given, I dont think that Mr H wood have needed the services of an IFA to be able to 
understand what was being proposed by Barclays in terms of the investment strategy, or its 
views on his risk rating.
Mr Hs comments specifically on the provisional decision
Ive firstly noted with dismay Mr Hs view that Ive demonstrated bias in favour of Barclays. I 
can assure him that this isnt the case, nor would there in any event be any reason for me to 
do so. I also dont think that the evidence, as set out in the provisional decision, supports 
that position.
The format of the What happened section was designed to be a factual analysis of exactly 
that  the background to the complaint. And where either party has made comments on the 
complaint, I think its quite reasonable to preface that with either Mr H has said.. or 
Barclays has said. Barclays didnt make any submissions in response to the 
investigators assessments (or my provisional decision), but Mr H did. And these rightly 
needed to be taken into account in my further consideration of the matter. Therefore, the 
bullets above summarising the responses to the initial assessments and my provisional 
decision will naturally be along the lines of Mr H has said. So I dont think the way in 
which the provisional decision was formatted is indicative of any bias towards either party.
Ive also noted that Mr H has made comments relating to the investigators assessment of 
his complaint, but to clarify, the purpose of a referral to an ombudsman is that the case is looked at entirely afresh. And so, whilst my views may in many ways be broadly similar to 
those expressed by the investigators, and Ive needed to set out their findings above to give 
context to Mr Hs responses, I havent been influenced by their views on the case, nor is this 
a rubber stamp of their findings. Id confirm that my findings on the case are my own. 
Therefore, whilst I acknowledge that Mr H disagrees with much of the investigators 
commentary, Ill focus below on Mr Hs responses to my provisional decision.
Firstly addressing Mr Hs view that Ive incorrectly suggested that hes said that a high net 
worth individual should by default be attributed a high risk rating, my meaning in both the 
provisional decision and this decision is to explain that, simply because an individual such as 
Mr H may have characteristics which would suggest possible suitability for a high risk profile, 
those characteristics wouldnt by themselves mean that this was the case  as had been 
demonstrated by Mr Hs responses in the risk profiler questionnaire and the discussions held 
on this as referred to in the suitability report.
I also disagree that Ive suggested that risk assessment is a once and for all event, and I 
cant see how this could reasonably have been inferred from my comments. For clarity, I 
agree that this should be reassessed over time.
Further, my comment about a SIPP wrapper being capable of containing both low and high 
risk investments is not in my view misleading. And I do maintain that Mr Hs comment that 
SIPPS are low risk by comparison to other investments is suggestive of a misunderstanding 
of the function of the wrapper itself.
Mr H has said that he was referring to his own SIPP, which was low risk, but I dont think 
thats an obvious inference from his comments. And I think its worth reminding Mr H of 
those comments here. In his email to the investigator dated 29 March 2022, he said the 
following:
Its worth repeating that the words high risk in the context of SIPPs are (in my opinion)
misleading. SIPPs are required to protect peoples pensions - they are low risk by 
comparison with most investments.
This quite clearly, in my view, referred to SIPPs in general, rather than Mr Hs own plan.
Mr H also asked me to agree that all of his SIPP investments were low risk, from his 
perspective. But again, I think this suggests a misunderstanding of the way a managed 
portfolio works, which would typically contain a number of investments which bear different 
levels of risk to produce an overall, well diversified investment strategy. In the case of this 
portfolio, according to its description at the time of initial investment, 34% of the funds would 
be allocated to equities (and according to the valuation reports which have been produced, 
this has remained the case since). As Mr H is clearly aware that equities (or shares) 
represent higher risk, then Im afraid that I cant agree that, even from his perspective, all of 
the investments within his SIPP were low risk.
Mr H has also commented that I aligned the phrase maximise fund growth with an 
objective of increasing the value. Hes said that the former meant achieving as much 
growth as possible, whereas this wasnt the case with the latter. This, he said was in no way 
consistent with this services commitment to be fair, reasonable and unbiased. I confess Im 
unsure as to how this might reasonably be construed to demonstrate bias, but it does in any 
case also rather ignore my further comment within the same sentence that the objective 
remains for as much growth as possible, but within the framework and parameters of assets 
in which that portfolio would invest. As such, Im satisfied that this commentary is consistent 
with a fair and reasonable analysis of the situation.Mr H has also objected to my observation that, within the risk profiler, his stated preference 
to not seek adventure would mean that he had a low risk attitude towards investment. It 
wasnt the case that someone who invested in a high risk SIPP portfolio was likely to be 
seeking adventure, he added. But again, this has been taken out of the overall context of my 
commentary on Mr Hs answers. My point was, and remains, that the cumulative effect of the 
answers Mr H provided in the risk profiler would quite reasonably, in my view, have led to the 
conclusion that Mr H wasnt suited to a high risk portfolio.
Mr H has further said that the bottom line is that the words high risk in relation to his SIPP 
in no way equate to high risk in the sense that I appeared to be thinking about it. But I 
disagree. I think I understand quite well the meaning of high risk in relation to his SIPP. 
And Id refer Mr H to my comments above about high risk and high growth
Its also Mr Hs view that Ive questioned the credibility of his comments, such as his 
understanding of what was being proposed as the investment strategy. But my comments on 
this are an opinion based upon the facts - which Im required to express here on a fair and 
reasonable basis - and I remain of the view that, given the discussions referred to in the 
suitability report, the content of the report itself, and then discussions held over the years 
afterwards, Mr H either was, or ought reasonably to have been, aware of what was being 
proposed both in terms of the risk profile attributed to him and how this might translate into 
an investment strategy.
Mr H has further said that I shouldnt find his lack of understanding surprising, given that he 
had no experience of investing or investments. But I dont think he would need any particular 
experience of investing to be able to understand the content of the risk profiler questionnaire 
(and the answers he provided) or the suitability report. And as Ive said before, if anything 
remained unclear, then it was open to Mr H to seek clarity on this from Barclays.
My implication that the complaint has been made with the benefit of hindsight is damaging to 
his case, Mr H has said, and needs to be corrected. No hindsight is required to understand 
that greater growth could be expected from the high risk portfolio  this was simply accepted 
wisdom, Mr H added. But again, I think this is a fundamental misunderstanding of the way 
financial markets work. If Ive misunderstood Mr Hs meaning here, then I apologise for 
possibly stating the obvious  but to be clear, there is simply no guarantee that a high risk 
strategy will produce high growth. And there have for several periods spanning many years 
since the 1990s when high risk strategies (usually involving high levels of equity investment) 
have produced negative returns. And in the same periods, lower risk strategies will have 
produced higher returns. 
As a demonstration of this, Mr H may wish to consider that, after the high the FTSE 100 
achieved in December 1999, this wasnt then surpassed until some 16 years later, due to 
various factors (such as the credit crisis of 2008/09) in the intervening period. And so if an 
investor had invested in purely FTSE 100 equities, or other quoted shares, as many higher 
risk funds do, over that period then they wouldnt have witnessed the high growth which Mr 
H may think is automatically associated with high risk. I accept that a high risk strategy may 
produce high growth over certain (often quite long) periods, but this isnt guaranteed, and the 
slow and steady returns produced by a lower risk strategy are typically preferred by, and 
more suited to, lower risk investors, as Mr H had been identified as being here.
And again to be clear, Im in no way suggesting that Mr H has misrepresented the facts in 
order to claim compensation. But I do think its relevant to point out that the kind of growth 
which a higher risk strategy may have exhibited since 2010 would in no way have been 
guaranteed  or could have been foreseen with any degree of certainty. 
Its Mr Hs further view that the communications from Barclays werent clear, for example, what he considers to be the contradiction in the suitability report between the objective of 
maximising growth and the description of the low/medium risk strategy. I do agree that on 
the face of it there might appear to be a tension between the two concepts. But as Ive said 
above, the objective of maximising growth isnt at odds with any particular risk rating. Its the 
case, however, that the likely level of maximum growth will be restricted by the level of risk 
an individual is assessed as being prepared to take.
I think its also worth noting some of the wording used in the suitability report which does 
seek to manage expectations of growth in line with the low/medium risk rating:
Your main concern for this meeting was to ensure your current pension funds are being 
managed in the most efficient way to maximise growth potential on these funds going 
forward. You would prefer your funds to be managed in line with your agreed attitude 
towards risk as defined by the Financial Personality assessment and your discussions with 
[name of private banker] your Private Banker (my emphasis)
And
My recommendation is that you transfer your existing Personal Pension into [the SIPP] now 
to achieve your goal of more active management within your pension arrangements with the 
aim of growing the funds in line with your attitude towards investment risk in 
conjunction with your Investment Manager [name of IM]. (my emphasis)
And so I think that Mr H would have, or ought reasonably to have, understood that the 
objective of maximising returns would be managed in line with his agreed risk rating  and 
the description of this and the associated investment strategy which was provided.
I note that Mr H has said in his response to my provisional decision that hed received a copy 
of the suitability report from this service, but it wasnt in his file and he was a conscientious 
filer. As such, Mr H said, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, it seemed that it hadnt 
been sent to him.
Its Barclays position that the report was provided to Mr H, and so if there is any 
disagreement as to whether this was the case, I need to decide on a balance of probability 
what is more likely than not to have been the case. I wouldnt simply conclude that, as Mr H 
says that he couldnt find his own copy, that it wasnt sent or received at the time.
In thinking about this, therefore, firstly, as a high profile business which needs to adhere to 
prominent regulatory requirements such as issuing a written recommendation report, I think 
its more likely than not that Barclays sent the document. It would have had no clear reason 
not to, and would have faced regulatory consequences if it didnt routinely do so. 
And then, as to whether Mr H received it, I think Mr Hs description of himself as a 
conscientious filer might reasonably cut both ways here. I dont in any sense dispute that 
description, and Mr H clearly has an eye for detail. And so I think its more likely than not 
that, had he not received a summary of the meeting held and the recommendations, as he 
was more likely than not to have been told he would at the meeting itself, he would have 
queried this. The sum involved would after all be quite a sizeable investment with no written 
rationale as to the recommendation around this.
And so, on balance, although I accept that Mr H may no longer have his own copy, I think its 
more likely than not that it was both sent and received. And although I appreciate that Mr H 
disagrees, my view remains that the content (such as that quoted above) would have been 
clear enough to make Mr H aware of what was being proposed.Ive also noted Mr Hs comment that he doesnt have a copy of the personal client profile. 
But as Ive said above, the risk profiler bearing his answers to the statements, and which 
formed the basis of the discussions referred to in the report, bore his dated signature. And 
so I think its more likely than not that the answers to the statements which formed the basis 
of his recorded attitude to risk were his own - and could therefore reasonably be relied upon 
as part of the process to determine his risk rating.
Summary
For the reasons given above, and on a fair and reasonable assessment of the case, my view 
remains that this complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
I know this outcome will disappoint Mr H, and I understand how strongly he feels about the 
matter  especially what I consider to be the key aspect of the risk rating attributed to him by 
Barclays. But its not possible for me to conclude, on a fair and reasonable basis, that his 
risk rating was incorrectly categorised at the outset in 2010, that this wasnt fairly 
communicated to him, and that Barclays either didnt provide him with opportunities to, or 
actively obstructed him from, changing that investment approach over the years since. 
My final decision
As such, for the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman