DRN-3309267
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain about the settlement U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has paid them for a 
claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J have travel insurance as a benefit of a packaged bank account.
On 28 February 2020, Mr and Mrs J flew abroad to a country Ill call A. They were due to 
return to the UK on 28 March 2020, flying via a country Ill call S.
However, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, S government closed its borders to non-
nationals. This meant Mr and Mrs Js original return flight was cancelled by their airline on 26 
March 2020. Mr and Mrs J were able to book a new flight with a different airline on 30 March 
2020 at a cost of around £1695. They ultimately returned to the UK on 2 April 2020. UKIs 
records suggest that Mrs J told UKI that theyd received a refund of around £654 for the cost 
of the cancelled, unused return flight. So Mr and Mrs J made a claim for the additional costs 
theyd incurred in buying new flight tickets.
UKI accepted Mr and Mrs Js claim. However, it settled the claim under the delayed 
international departure cover provided by the policy. This section limited settlement to £250 
per person, which meant Mr and Mrs Js additional costs werent fully met. UKI told Mr and 
Mrs J that their claim wasnt covered by either the cancellation or curtailment sections of the 
policy. It acknowledged it ought to have given Mr and Mrs J this information sooner though, 
so it offered them £75 compensation to reflect the upset this delay had caused.
Mr and Mrs J were unhappy with the settlement and they asked us to look into their 
complaint. They felt that as their original airline had cancelled their return flight, the claim 
should be assessed in line with the cancellation section of the policy.
Our investigator thought UKI had handled Mr and Mrs Js claim fairly. As Mr and Mrs J 
hadnt cancelled their trip, she didnt think the claim fell within the scope of cancellation 
cover. And as Mr and Mrs J hadnt cut short their trip, she didnt think it was covered under 
the curtailment section either. While Mr and Mrs Js claim wasnt strictly covered by the 
delayed international departure provisions, she thought UKI had settled the claim fairly in line 
with this section of the policy. Thats because Mr and Mrs J had been delayed abroad. She 
also concluded that the compensation UKI had offered Mr and Mrs J was reasonable.
Mr and Mrs J disagreed. They maintained that their airline had cancelled their flight  it 
hadnt been delayed. They felt that the definition of a trip included a policyholders return to 
the UK  which they hadnt been able to complete due to this flight cancellation.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs J, I think that UKI has settled their 
claim fairly and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. So 
Ive considered, amongst other things, the terms of Mr and Mrs Js policy and the 
circumstances of their claim, to decide whether UKI treated them fairly.
Ive first turned to consider the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Js policy, as these form 
the basis of their contract with UKI. Its clear that Mr and Mrs J strongly feel that as their 
original flight was cancelled by their airline, their claim should be settled in line with the 
cancellation section of the policy. Ive thought about this.
The cancellation section of the policy is titled: Cancelling your Trip (before you are due to 
start your trip. It says that it provides cover for a policyholders unused travel and 
accommodation (amongst other) costs if a trip has to be unavoidably and necessarily 
cancelled. UKI has defined a trip as follows:
a journey that begins and ends at your home during the period of insurance and which is:
outside the UK; or
within the UK, where you are staying in pre-booked accommodation for three or more 
consecutive days.
In my view, the contract terms make it clear that cancellation cover only applies before a 
policyholder is due to start their trip. And the definition makes it clear that a trip begins at a 
policyholders home. In this case, theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs J had been able to 
travel from their home in the UK to A, as theyd planned and theyd been able to undertake 
broadly four weeks of their holiday before the return flight was cancelled. This means I think 
theyd been able to start and undertake the majority of their planned trip. As such then, I 
dont think it was unreasonable for UKI to conclude that Mr and Mrs Js claim wasnt covered 
by the cancellation section of the policy.
Ive next considered whether UKI shouldve settled Mr and Mrs Js claim in line with the 
policy curtailment cover. This section is called Cutting Short your Trip (after your trip has 
started). This section does cover reasonable additional travel costs if a policyholder has to 
return home early because of one of a specified list of insured events. 
However, Mr and Mrs J didnt return to the UK early. They were due to fly back to the UK on 
28 March 2020. In fact, as a result of the flight cancellation, their trip was actually extended 
for a further period. I dont think I could fairly find then that Mr and Mrs J cut short their trip. 
And so it follows that I dont think it was unfair for UKI not to settle the claim under the 
curtailment section of the policy.
Instead, UKI settled the claim in line with section B Delayed or Missed Departure (on the 
day you are travelling). This provides the following cover:
Missed International Departure (outbound or on your return)
We will cover you for reasonable additional accommodation and travel expenses to get you 
to:
 your trip destination on your outward journey; or return you to your home on your return journey
if you fail to arrive at your point of international departure in time to board your pre-booked 
aircraft, ship or train as a result of:
 the scheduled public transport or connecting scheduled flight on which you are travelling to 
your point of international departure not running to timetable; or
 the private car in which you are travelling being involved in an accident or breaking down.
2. Delayed International Departure (outbound or on your return)
We will cover you for your additional accommodation, travel and refreshment costs if you 
have checked in and your pre-booked aircraft, ship or train is delayed by more than four 
hours beyond the time shown on your travel itinerary at the point of international departure.
3. Abandoned International Departure (outbound only)
We will cover you for your:
 unused deposits;
 accommodation and travel costs (including car hire, excursions and activities); and
 unused kennel, cattery, professional pet sitter or car parking charges
that you have paid or legally have to pay if you choose to abandon your trip because your 
pre booked aircraft, ship or train is delayed beyond the time shown on your travel itinerary at 
the point of international departure from the UK by more than:
six hours if your trip is scheduled to last four nights or less; or
 12 hours if your trip is scheduled to last five nights or more.
In these circumstances, Mr and Mrs J didnt miss their international departure either because 
of a delay of public transport to get them to the airport in time, or because of a delay in 
getting to the airport because of a car accident or breakdown. This means their claim isnt 
covered by the missed international departure section.
Neither did Mr and Mrs J abandon their trip on the outbound journey. As Ive set out above, 
Mr and Mrs J seem to have been able to travel on their outbound journey as planned. So I 
dont think UKI acted unfairly when it decided their claim wasnt covered by this section of 
the policy either.
UKI agreed to settle the claim in line with the delayed international departure cover, which 
has a policy limit of £250 per person. This appears to have been because the impact of the 
airlines cancellation of Mr and Mrs Js flight was that they were delayed abroad for a few 
days. I note that this section of the policy specifically excludes flights which are cancelled by 
the operator, so on a strict interpretation of the policy terms, it seems Mr and Mrs Js claim 
wouldnt have been covered. However, it seems UKI has assessed this claim outside of its 
policy terms and conditions in view of the circumstances surrounding Covid-19. In my view, 
this was a fair and reasonable response from UKI. And Im satisfied the claim has been 
settled in line with the applicable policy limit.
Ive considered the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, but I dont think theres any 
other section which would provide cover for the remaining balance of the costs of Mr and 
Mrs Js additional flights. This means then that I find that the settlement UKI has already paid 
Mr and Mrs J is fair and reasonable.UKI acknowledged that it couldve given Mr and Mrs J relevant information about their claim 
sooner than it did. It offered them £75 compensation in recognition of this error. I dont doubt 
that the information delays Mr and Mrs J experienced caused them some frustration. So I 
think its appropriate for UKI to recognise the impact this is likely to have had on them. In my 
view, £75 is a fair compensation award and therefore, Im not directing UKI to pay anything 
more. Its now open to Mr and Mrs J to contact UKI should they wish to accept its offer if they 
havent already done so.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that UKI has settled this claim fairly 
and reasonably and has made a fair offer of compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman