DRN-3963113
The complaint
Mrs V complains about the service she received from Metro Bank PLC when transferring an 
ISA. 
What happened
In April 2020, Mrs V transferred funds into a fixed-rate ISA account she had opened with 
Metro Bank. It appears the ISA had a fixed rate for one year. 
In April 2021, the fixed rate ended, and Mrs Vs account was transferred to an instant access 
ISA. Mrs V says Metro Bank did not tell her what the new interest rate would be. She called 
Metro Bank and requested a closing statement for the fixed-rate account and an opening 
statement for the instant access account. This information was not sent to Mrs V.  
Mrs V then opened an ISA with a third-party business with a view to transferring the funds 
she held with Metro Bank to that third-party. The third-party business requested transfer of 
Mrs Vs funds on 8 October 2021. Metro Bank closed the account and sent funds to the 
third-party, which were received by cheque on 3 November 2021. Mrs V says Metro Bank 
caused delays in facilitating that transfer. She said that no closing statement had been sent 
by Metro Bank when her account was eventually transferred to the third-party business. 
In November 2021, Mrs V complained to this service.
Following the complaint to this service, Metro Bank said it should have told Mrs V that no 
closing statement would be issued because the interest rate was shown on her usual 
monthly account statements. Metro Bank offered to pay £125 to Mrs V to compensate her for 
its errors.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and thought Metro Banks offer was a fair way to 
settle the complaint. Mrs V did not accept our investigators view. She said that she had not 
received any monthly statements from Metro Bank. She said our investigator had not 
considered the issues arising from the delayed transfer. Mrs V also reiterated what she 
thought amounted to poor service from Metro Bank. 
Our investigator looked again at the complaint. Her view remained that the £125 offered by 
Metro Bank was a fair way to settle the matter. Mrs V did not agree. She thought Metro Bank 
should send hard copies of her statements by special delivery and suggested compensation 
of £280 or higher. 
Metro Bank later accepted there was a brief delay in processing the transfer request from 
the third-party business and offered to increase the compensation payable to Mrs V to £150. 
In July 2022, it offered to send by registered post all of the monthly statements Mrs V should 
have received. However, this information was not received by Mrs V until November 2022, 
and she believed that the documentation was incomplete. 
Mrs V did not receive the £150 compensation until January 2021 and the documentation 
Metro Bank agreed to send was not in the format Mrs V requested. Mrs V thought further 
compensation should be payable. Metro Bank later offered to pay a further £50 to Mrs V, 
taking the total compensation in respect of this complaint to £200. 
As Mrs V did not accept the amount of compensation offered by Metro Bank, the matter was 
referred for an ombudsmans decision. I understand Mrs V has now received the 
compensation Metro Bank offered. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After carefully considering the issues raised in Mrs Vs complaint, Im satisfied the £200 
Metro Bank has already paid is a fair way to settle this complaint. Ill explain why. 
I can see why Mrs V wanted to be provided with straightforward information about her ISA 
account. She wanted to see the balance upon the opening of the account and also how 
much interest her funds had earned during the one-year fixed rate. I can see why she also 
wanted information as to what the interest rate would be when that fixed rate came to an end 
and the account was transferred to an instant saver account. 
Mrs V requested that information in a specific format. Metro Bank said it did not produce 
information in the format requested and referred Mrs V to her monthly bank statements. I 
dont think it would be necessary for Metro Bank to produce the information in the format Mrs 
V requested if she could see that information elsewhere. But the issue here is that Mrs V 
says she did not receive any monthly statements. 
I have seen evidence from Metro Bank to indicate that the statements were produced on a 
monthly basis. But no evidence has been provided from Metro Bank to indicate those 
documents were sent monthly to Mrs V. I think if they had been sent, Mrs V would have 
received at least some of the paperwork and I accept her evidence that she did not receive 
any statements purportedly sent on a monthly basis. 
When it became apparent that Mrs V had not received the statements, it then took Metro 
Bank many months to send copies of the relevant documentation to her. When that 
information was received, it was not delivered in the manner that had been agreed. I can see 
how not knowing how much interest she had earned on her ISA would have caused Mrs V 
some frustration. I can also see how having to chase Metro Bank for this information over 
many months would have caused some inconvenience to Mrs V. 
Mrs V said that Metro Bank caused a delay in transferring her ISA. I can see that the transfer 
may have taken a little longer than I would usually expect to see. And Metro Bank accepted 
there was a small delay in transferring her funds to the third-party business. In those 
circumstances, it is possible Mrs V may have marginally lost out if the account for the third-
party business had a better interest rate than that which she was receiving from Metro Bank. 
Metro Bank offered to increase compensation from £125 to £150 to take account of this 
delay. 
Putting this all together then, I can see that Mrs V was put to some trouble because of what 
appear to be a number of omissions in the provision of information relating to her account. 
And its possible she may have lost out on a small amount of interest because Metro Bank 
accepts it caused a minor delay in transferring her ISA to the third-party provider. I think it is 
fair for Metro Bank to put these things right for Mrs V. 
That said, I can see that Metro Bank has already recognised its errors in this case and has 
paid £200 already to Mrs V. Im satisfied that the payment of £200 is fair compensation in 
this case for the effort Mrs V was put to in chasing the missing information and for any 
marginal ISA interest she may have missed out on because of Metro Bank. On that basis, as 
Mrs V has already received this compensation from Metro Bank, I dont need to tell it to take 
any further action in this case.  My final decision
My decision is that the £200 Metro Bank PLC already paid to Mrs V is a fair way to settle the 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman