DRN-4222376
The complaint
B complains American International Group UK Limited (AIG) excluded pollution cover from 
its insurance policy at renewal in 2018. And B is unhappy with the service AIG provided 
when it renewed the policy in 2021. 
B is represented in bringing its complaint. Ill refer throughout my decision to the 
representative as Mr G.
What happened
B is a company involved in the production of electricity, which it supplies to a utility company.
B had insurance with AIG that included directors and officers liability and public liability. In 
2018 B renewed the policy. AIG excluded pollution cover at that time.
Mr G became aware of the exclusion in 2021. He asked AIG to reconsider it, but they 
declined. Mr G felt the exclusion was unfair. Thered been no change in Bs electricity 
generating activities. And AIG hadnt explained clearly why thered been an increase in risk 
that meant theyd had to add the pollution exclusion to the policy. Mr G complained through 
Bs brokers.
In response the brokers explained, broadly, that whilst the risk may not have changed, AIGs 
approach to the risk may have changed. Since the exclusion had applied to the policy since 
2018 and the insurance market had hardened since then, it was unlikely AIG would provide 
the cover going forward. AIG confirmed that explanation reflected their position.
Mr G brought Bs complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. He felt AIG had failed to 
address the concerns hed raised. And he was unhappy with the service theyd provided in 
2021.
Our investigator said its for an insurer to decide what risks it will cover. AIG werent 
responsible for selling the policy to B or ensuring it was suitable for Bs needs. So, we could 
only consider whether AIG had made the broker aware of the pollution exclusion before the 
policy was renewed. And he was satisfied AIG had done that. So, he didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Mr G didnt think our investigator had addressed the complaint he was making on behalf of 
B. And since he didnt accept the investigators view, Bs complaint was passed to me to 
review afresh. I recently issued a provisional decision, an extract of which follows:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons Ill explain, Ive come to the same outcome as our investigator. Im issuing a 
provisional decision to give the parties the chance to make further comments before I issue 
a final decision. Thats because my reasons are different in part and more detailed than our 
investigators. Even so, I may not mention here everything the parties have said. No 
discourtesy is intended by that  it simply reflects the informal nature of the service we 
provide. Ill focus on what I consider key in coming to my decision.
I note Mr Gs strength of feeling about this complaint. As I currently understand things, Mr G 
says Bs complaint is about AIGs actions relating to the underwriting of the policy, the 
service they provided at renewal and their response to Mr Gs concerns, rather than the sale 
of the policy. Mr G makes several points, which Ill summarise:
Bs business required pollution cover. Given Bs field of activity, that was its primary 
exposure and its main reason for buying insurance. AIG ought to have been aware 
of that. And if they couldnt provide that cover, they shouldnt have offered the policy 
to B at all. AIG failed to understand the risks B wanted to cover. Theyve benefited 
from many renewals of the policy without providing the cover B required. They should 
therefore pay back the premiums.
AIG have failed to give a reasonable explanation as to why they removed pollution 
cover. They said the exclusion was applied as a result of a review of the business 
activities of B. But Bs activities in relation to electricity generation hadnt changed 
since B started trading. And the risks of those activities were actually decreasing.
AIG failed to explain how the exclusion met the requirements of the Insurance Act 
2015, conduct risk and requirements to treat their customers fairly. The policy had to 
cover the primary purpose for buying the policy. All B needed was cover for defence 
costs relating to pollution claims against its directors and officers. The other risks the 
policy covered, such as claims by creditors and suppliers, were unlikely to arise. B 
had a policy they were never reasonably going to be able to claim under.
The representative of B who was involved with the 2018 renewal was an 
unsophisticated customer; they wouldnt have understood the implications of 
removing the pollution cover; Mr G, whos an experienced insurance professional, 
wasnt involved at the time.
The renewal was carried out based solely on a statement of fact. Mr G felt this was 
an inappropriate process given B runs a bespoke business. Underwriters should 
have considered it.
The 2021 renewal was dealt with at the last minute. B didnt have time to negotiate 
cover with an alternative insurer. It would have been costly to cancel the AIG policy if 
B had found alternative cover once the renewal had gone through.
AIG have said, in summary:
B arranged the renewal of its insurance through a broker. It was the brokers 
responsibility to check B had the cover it required.The renewal would normally have been completed on-line by the broker. But during 
that process in 2018, Bs involvement in supplying electricity to a utility company was 
flagged to AIGs underwriters. The exclusion should have applied all along. AIG 
applied the pollution exclusion in view of B being involved in electricity generation for 
a utility. That was in line with their standard approach for companies involved in the 
utilities sector.
The broker confirmed theyd discussed the amendment to the policy with B and B 
was happy to go ahead with the exclusion in place. The broker accepted the terms 
on Bs behalf.
I cant decide whether AIG were in breach of the Insurance Act  only a court can decide 
that. But I can decide if AIG have acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances of Bs 
complaint and, in deciding that, I take account of relevant law. For the reasons Ill explain, I 
think they have.
Its important to consider what activities AIG were carrying out. As far as Im aware currently, 
AIG werent directly involved in advising B about the insurance it was buying. B were 
represented by a broker in their renewal discussions with AIG. AIGs obligations were limited 
to ensuring the information about the cover they were offering was clear, fair and not 
misleading. They didnt have to check the cover was suitable for Bs needs.
AIG set out clearly to the broker that the pollution exclusion would apply. They asked the 
broker to confirm B were happy to go ahead with the renewal on that basis. And the broker 
confirmed, specifically referring to the exclusion, that B was. It was reasonable for AIG to act 
based on what the broker had told them.
Whilst I note Mr Gs point that Bs representative at the time may not have understood the 
implications of the exclusion, AIG couldnt have known that as they werent in direct contact 
with Bs representative.
Even if AIG had been directly involved or it could be said the broker had been acting as their 
agent rather than Bs, this was a policy renewal for a commercial customer. I think AIG did 
enough in the circumstances. They made clear the changes they were making to the policy. 
B had the chance to check whether those changes meant the policy continued to provide the 
cover its business operations needed. If Bs representative at the time had been unsure 
about that, they could have checked with other company members before renewing or taken 
advice. It was reasonable for AIG to process the renewal based on Bs confirmation it was 
happy with the policy amendments.
AIG explained to Mr G, broadly, the exclusion of the pollution cover followed a review of Bs 
business activities and a change in AIGs approach to the risks they were prepared to cover. 
Its for an insurer to decide what risks it wishes to cover. I think they provided a reasonable 
explanation in response to Mr Gs question about that. Theyve since explained they dont 
provide pollution cover to businesses involved in supplying electricity to utility companies. 
So, they werent treating B any differently to other customers in a similar position. In the 
circumstances, I dont think they treated B unfairly.
Mr G says B didnt have time to change the insurance provider in 2021 as the renewal terms 
were received from AIG late in the day. The broker told Mr G theyd accepted AIGs terms 
because of that. They said the cancellation condition was so draconian theyd had no 
choice but to accept the terms and didnt have time to look elsewhere.The correspondence suggests Mr G looked at whether other insurers would provide the 
cover B required in 2021 and that the pollution exclusion wasnt unusual. And Mr Gs 
confirmed alternative terms he looked for at the time excluded pollution cover. I understand 
that in 2022 he obtained two quotes for limited pollution cover for the costs and expenses of 
defending claims against directors and officers arising out of pollution.
I dont think the evidence is sufficiently strong for me to conclude AIG prevented B from 
obtaining the insurance it required from an alternative provider in 2021. Im not persuaded 
the cover Mr G thinks was appropriate was available with another provider then in any event. 
But even if Im wrong about that, I dont think it changes the outcome of this complaint. If the 
AIG policy didnt provide the only insurance Mr G felt B needed, the renewal with AIG could 
have been put on hold. If, as seems to have been the case in 2022, an alternative insurer 
could have provided the cover B wanted in 2021, it could have gone ahead with that insurer 
instead.
In summary, based on what Ive seen so far I dont think AIG are to blame if B has been 
paying for insurance that doesnt cover the primary risks B faces. They werent involved in 
advising B on cover. The explanation AIG gave Mr G about why the pollution cover was 
excluded was reasonable. And Im not persuaded AIGs actions caused B to renew with 
them in 2021 on terms B feels were unsuitable.
Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand Mr G will be disappointed, I dont intend to 
uphold Bs complaint.
Developments
Mr G/B havent commented on my provisional decision and AIG have accepted it. So, Ill go 
on to make my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since there are no further comments from the parties for me to consider, I see no reason to 
change my provisional outcome. For the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, I dont 
uphold Bs complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman