DRN-2762589
The complaint
Miss S is complaining about NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua. She says they lent to her 
irresponsibly when they gave her a credit card in August 2016, and again when they 
increased her credit limit in April 2017.  
What happened
Miss S applied for an Aqua credit card in August 2016. On the application she told Aqua that 
she had annual income of £22,000, and that she was living with her parents. Aqua approved 
the application and gave Miss S a credit card with a credit limit of £900.
In April 2017, Aqua offered Miss S an increase to her credit limit. Miss S had the opportunity 
to decline the increase, but she didnt  so the increase went through automatically. The 
credit limit was increased to £1,650.
Miss S complained to Aqua in September 2019. By this point she was struggling with 
persistent debt, needing to take out loan after loan in order to meet repayments on her 
existing debt. Miss S said it should have been obvious in August 2016 that she couldnt 
afford any more debt as her debt level was more than her annual income. And she said she 
shouldnt have been given a credit limit increase  she said by this time she was using a 
number of payday loan companies and also using her Aqua credit card for a lot of gambling 
transactions.
Aqua didnt uphold Miss Ss complaint. They said theyd considered the information Miss S 
had supplied, as well as information held by credit reference agencies (CRAs), and that Miss 
S had met their acceptance criteria for the initial limit of £900. Aqua also said the credit limit 
increase was offered after a risk-based assessment which took into account how Miss S was 
managing her account and other credit commitments. Aqua noted that Miss S had had a 
number of gambling or cash transactions  they said this is one of the factors taken into 
consideration in their risk assessment. Finally, Aqua said Miss S had the opportunity to opt 
out of the credit limit increase. 
Miss S brought her complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into it. Our 
investigators view was that Aqua should have been concerned about the level of debt 
Miss S had at the time of her application (£27,900). And she noted that Miss Ss credit file 
showed a number of credit agreements taken out within the previous twelve months, most of 
which were maxed out. Our investigator felt this should have prompted Aqua to look more 
closely at Miss Ss situation before lending to her. She noted that if Aqua had looked at 
Miss Ss bank statements they would have seen a concerning number of gambling 
transactions, with a high value. Our investigator said this was a clear indicator that providing 
Miss S with more credit would have been irresponsible.
When looking at the credit limit increase, our investigator concluded Aqua shouldnt have 
offered this. She said Miss S had taken out several other loans between the account 
opening and the credit limit increase. And she said it was clear Miss S was continually 
gambling. To put things right, our investigator said Aqua should refund all the interest 
charges applied since the account opening, and that they should remove any adverse 
information about the account from Miss Ss credit file.
Aqua didnt accept our investigators view and asked for an ombudsman to look at the 
complaint. They said they dont consider the ratio of debt to income and instead estimate 
customers disposable income to determine affordability, in line with the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) guidance. They said theyre not required to obtain bank statements prior to 
lending. 
In relation to the credit limit increase, Aqua said Miss S managed her account well. And they 
said the risk data showed no arrears, or repayment or debt management plans with any 
external credit providers. So they disagreed with our investigators view that they type of 
spend and total debt would indicate financial difficulty  instead they said from what theyd 
seen Miss S wasnt experiencing any financial difficulty.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I appreciate itll be disappointing for Aqua, Ive decided to uphold Miss Ss complaint. 
Ill explain why.
The FCA sets out rules and guidance about what lenders need to do before lending to 
customers. In essence, they need to make reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure 
that a customer will be able to repay the debt in a sustainable way. The lender has to take 
into account the potential for the debt to adversely impact a customers financial situation.
When Aqua considered Miss Ss application in August 2016, they noted that Miss Ss 
income was £22,000 and her unsecured debts totalled £27,900. They also noted that she 
had nine active credit accounts. Aqua said their assessment that the credit card would be 
affordable for Miss S was based on an estimate of disposable income. And, given that 
Miss S was living with her parents at the time, I can understand that  shed have had limited 
non-discretionary expenditure.
However, Im not happy with their approach. Miss Ss debts far outweighed her annual 
income despite the fact that she was living with her parents and so had limited essential 
expenditure. This should have been a significant cause for concern for Aqua  its a clear 
indicator that Miss S might have been experiencing financial difficulties. 
The FCA rules anticipate that lenders will obtain more information and carry out further 
checks if theres any indication that the customer is experiencing financial difficulties. Im 
satisfied Aqua should have obtained more information to understand Miss Ss expenditure 
and her level of debt. I think its fair to say Aqua should have asked for Miss Ss bank 
statements to do this.
If Aqua had looked at Miss Ss bank statements, theyd have seen that the number of 
gambling transactions far outweighed any other expenditure on Miss Ss account. And theyd 
have seen that the spend on these transactions far outweighed Miss Ss declared income. 
For example, in July 2016, Miss Ss spend on these types of transactions was over £18,000 
in just one month.
Im satisfied that if Aqua had reviewed these statements, theyd have come to the conclusion 
that providing further debt to Miss S would adversely impact her financial situation, and that 
she wouldnt be able to repay the debt in a sustainable way. So theyd have declined her 
application.
So Ive concluded that had Aqua carried out suitable checks, they wouldnt have lent to 
Miss S  and they need to put things right. I note Miss S has cleared her credit account with 
Aqua. So Aqua will need to refund all interest and charges that Miss S has paid them since 
August 2016. And they should ask the CRAs to remove any adverse information relating to 
this account from Miss Ss credit file.  My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im upholding Miss Ss complaint. NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua 
need to refund all interest and charges to Miss S. And they need to remove any adverse 
information relating to this account from Miss Ss credit file.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman