DRN-3130048
The complaint
Mr G complained that Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) lent to him 
irresponsibly and provided him with a loan that was unaffordable.
What happened
Everyday Loans provided a loan to Mr G as follows:
Date taken Date repaid Number of monthly 
instalmentsLoan 
amountMonthly 
repayment
8/01/2016 27/02/2018. 30 £3,000 £252.32
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. He didnt think Everyday Loans should 
have provided Mr G with the loan and he asked Everyday Loans to pay redress for this.
Everyday Loans didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. It mainly said:
 it had worked out Mr Gs year to date salary using information it saw on his pay slip and 
this gave him a disposable budget of around £81
 our adjudicator had relied on provisions in a lending code that had been rescinded and 
replaced so it disagreed with a decision based on a report that was no longer in use.
As the complaint hasnt been settled, it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
Ive kept all this in mind when deciding Mr Gs complaint and after independently reviewing 
this complaint, I've come to the same overall conclusion as our adjudicator and for broadly 
the same main reason. Ill explain why I say this. 
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding Mr Gs complaint. Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a 
borrower can afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
And its important to keep in mind that when working out if a loan looks likely to be affordable 
a lender must take a borrower focussed approach and think carefully about the impact of 
the lending on the customer. The lending decision shouldnt just be about the business risk 
to the lender of not getting its money back.
A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can sustainably repay 
the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere. The rules dont say what a 
lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and proportionate checks 
should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a borrower has left to spend 
on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into account the loan amount, 
the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a proportionate check might mean a 
lender should also find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the 
borrowers overall financial situation.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make 
repayments for an extended period).
Before it agreed to lend to him, Everyday Loans gathered information from Mr G by asking 
him about his income and expenses and looking at some of his recent bank statements. It 
saw his most recent payslip and also checked Mr Gs credit file to understand his existing 
monthly credit commitments and credit history. Everyday Loans said that based on these 
checks it was satisfied that the loan was affordable for Mr G.
But, whilst I've thought carefully about what Everyday Loans has said, including the 
comments it has made in response to our adjudicators view, I dont think that Everyday 
Loans made a fair lending decision when it provided the loan. 
Mr Gs average take home pay was significantly less than the notional figure Everyday 
Loans worked out.
In its affordability assessment it assumed that Mr G would be able to rely on his net monthly 
pay being around £2,499. But Everyday Loans was able to see that his actual average take 
home pay for the three months running up to him taking out this loan was significantly less 
than this  in fact, he took home an amount that was generally around £2,000 between 
September - December 2019 (shown as £2,020 and £1,983 on his bank statements from this 
period and £2,027 on his December 2015 payslip).
I dont think it was reasonable to ignore the evidence of his actual pay. In particular, 
Everyday Loans had no way of knowing whether the year to date figures it relied on were 
typical of Mr Gs likely earnings over a full year  especially when the information it obtained 
suggested this wasnt so. 
When Everyday Loans had carried out credit checks to see what Mr G was paying to service 
his existing debts it noted his creditor repayments were around £265. And Everyday Loans 
relied on statistical information to assess what someone in Mr Gs particular situation would 
be likely to spend each month and allowed a figure of £1,174 for his spending on general 
living costs  which seems reasonable to me. 
But on these figures, this meant it was likely that Mr G wouldnt have any surplus income at 
all. I say this because his monthly earnings were almost £500 per month less than Everyday 
Loans affordability calculation suggested. So, on these figures, Mr G would have had no spare cash at all. In reality, rather than having 
a notional £81 surplus he would face a significant shortfall each month.
And I think Everyday Loans couldve seen this by looking at what the information shown in 
its credit checks and Mr Gs bank statements revealed about his overall financial situation.
It isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a credit history showing 
other borrowing or an impaired credit record  and these things wouldnt necessarily be 
reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan application.
But I think Everyday Loans should have been concerned about the extent Mr Gs existing 
borrowing coupled with the information it was able to see on the bank statements it obtained 
showing that Mr G was effectively operating in overdraft despite loans from other high cost 
lenders. In the run up to applying for this loan, Everyday Loans saw that he was routinely 
incurring planned and unplanned overdraft fees when he exceeded the account overdraft 
limit of £1,200. 
And despite what Mr G had told Everyday Loans I dont think anything Mr G said was 
enough to satisfactorily explain what Everyday Loans was able to see in its own background 
checks about his evident financial difficulties and his reliance on credit. 
Like our adjudicator, I think the information Everyday Loans gathered overall painted a 
picture of someone struggling to manage money problems effectively and it included clear 
warning signs that Mr G was already experiencing financial difficulty  so it shouldve 
realised that further lending was unlikely to be sustainably affordable for him. 
And I think Everyday Loans shouldve appreciated that having to pay an additional monthly 
repayment for this loan when he was already over-stretched financially and unable to cover 
the cost of his existing credit commitments on top of his likely monthly outgoings was 
unlikely to be sustainably affordable for Mr G. 
All in all, I think it shouldve been apparent that this borrowing looked like a continuation of 
the pattern of reliance on expensive payday and unsecured loans that Everyday Loans could 
see on its credit checks.
The fact that Mr G repaid the loan early didnt mean that he was able to do so in a 
sustainable way. All the signs were that Mr G was unable to effectively manage debt he was 
already responsible for paying and he was relying on taking out new credit to supplement his 
income in order to be able to make the monthly repayments he owed. 
This is why I am upholding Mr Gs complaint that he should not have been given the loan.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr G to repay the capital amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. 
But he has paid extra for lending that should not have been provided to him. In line with this 
Services approach, Mr G shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he borrowed.
Everyday Loans should do the following:
 add up the total amount of money Mr G received as a result of having been given the loan. 
The repayments Mr G made should be deducted from this amount. If this results in Mr G having paid more than he received, then any overpayments should 
be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the overpayments were 
made until the date of settlement).
 Whilst its fair that Mr Gs credit file is an accurate reflection of his financial history, its 
unfair that he should be disadvantaged by any adverse information recorded about a loan 
that was unfairly provided. So Everyday Loans should remove any negative information 
recorded on Mr Gs credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans should give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if 
he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Gs complaint and direct Everyday Lending 
Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) to take the steps set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman