DRN-3261470
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with Santander UK Plcs decision to close his account while he was 
working overseas.
What happened
Mr M held an account with Santander and had his communication preference set to online 
correspondence. 
In February 2020, Santander carried out a review on Mr Ms account and attempted to 
contact him as part of their ongoing Know Your Customer (KYC) checks. Santander sent 
letters to Mr Ms registered address and attempted contact by telephone to a UK number 
registered on the account. In April 2020, Santander were informed by a third party that Mr M 
was overseas for work and, due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, couldnt return home. 
Santander held an international contact number for Mr M which matched the location where 
they were told Mr M was. Santander continued to contact Mr M by letter only  to the 
registered UK address. In July 2020, after no successful contact, they closed the account.
Mr M became aware of the account closure when a family member told him he had received 
a cheque from Santander. 
Mr M complained but Santander didnt think theyd done anything wrong. They explained to 
Mr M its not in their procedures to contact customers by secure messaging or webmail. 
They also confirmed that Mr M being in another country would not be enough for them to 
change their process. Alongside the account closure, Mr M was also unhappy at the time 
Santander took to respond to his complaint. He said he spent a lot of time and money 
chasing Santander for a response and wants to be compensated. Mr M also wants to know 
the full reasons why Santander closed his account. In addition, Mr M had a credit card 
account with another provider closed due to his direct debit being cancelled without his 
knowledge. Mr M also had to try and arrange other banking arrangements while being in 
another country. 
As he remained unhappy, Mr M brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ms complaint. He said Santander were entitled to review Mr Ms 
account but thinks they should have done more to try and contact him before closing it. Our 
investigator asked Santander to allow Mr M to complete the KYC review, and re-open the 
account if they were satisfied with the checks. And to pay Mr M £300 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
Santander didnt agree. In summary they said; 
the family member who informed Mr M about the cheque could have told him about 
the previous letters if they had permission to open Mr Ms post;
Mr M could have returned home on evacuation flights at the start of the pandemic;
if Mr M had access to other bank accounts, he could have amended the direct debit 
to his credit card company to avoid the closure;
they had two international contact numbers listed for Mr M but neither were set as his 
preferred number.

As an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed to me.   
In December 2021, I issued a provisional decision. In it, I said;
Firstly, its important to point out that I cant stipulate what policies and procedures a bank 
should have in place or ask them to change them. But I can uphold a complaint if I think a 
customer has been treated unfairly because of a policy or procedure the bank has in place. I 
think thats what has happened here  Ive explained further below.
Were Santander entitled to review and close Mr Ms account?
Santander has important legal and regulatory obligations they must meet when providing 
accounts to customers. These obligations are ongoing, so do not only relate to when an 
account is opened. To comply with their obligations, Santander may need to review an 
account and/or restrict access. I can see thats whats happened with Mr Ms account. 
When Santander didnt receive a response from Mr M regarding the review, they decided to 
close his account. I appreciate Mr M wants to know why Santander took the action they did, 
but Im unable to share the full reasons why. I would, however, like to reassure Mr M that 
based on the information and evidence Ive seen, I think Santander were entitled to carry out 
the review. 
Banks sometimes choose to end their relationship with customers - this can be due to a 
number of reasons and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason to the customer. Just the same 
as if Mr M decided to end the agreement with Santander and use another bank, he wouldnt 
have to explain why. 
The terms of Mr Ms account states that Santander can close an account by giving 30 days 
notice. Having reviewed the circumstances, Im satisfied Santander did comply with these 
terms. They wrote to Mr M and confirmed in writing the account would be closed if they didnt 
hear from him. I appreciate Mr M didnt get these letters because he was overseas  but that 
doesnt mean Santander didnt comply with the terms of the account. Because of that, I dont 
think its appropriate for me to ask Santander to reinstate Mr Ms account if they dont want 
to. 
Should Santander have done more when trying to contact Mr M?
Santander confirmed their process doesnt state to use secure messaging or webmail when 
contacting customers regarding KYC reviews. While Santander havent shared the reasons 
for this, its not in my remit to ascertain what their policy should be. I do, however, have the 
remit to consider whether Mr M has been treated fairly alongside the procedure in the 
individual circumstances of this complaint. 
Santander wrote to Mr M in February 2020 to the registered address on Mr Ms account. Im 
pleased to see Santander took further steps to try and contact Mr M  and they telephoned 
him on his preferred contact number. In April 2020, Santander were made aware by a third 
party that Mr M was overseas. 
I appreciate it is a customers responsibility to keep their contact details updated at all times. 
Mr M has explained, and shown evidence, to show he regularly visits the country he was in 
at the time Santander carried out the KYC reviews. Because of that, he updated his account 
with an international phone number and updated his overall communication preference away from post and letter. I think these are appropriate steps taken by Mr M to ensure he could 
always be contacted. I also think its reasonable Mr M didnt make the international contact 
details his preferred contact method. I say that because Mr M has explained he travels due 
to his work  and the only reason he remained in the country for so long was because of the 
global pandemic and the inability to travel home. However, Mr M did have internet access 
and therefore could have remained connected to Santander through the secure messaging 
facility.
Santander has confirmed they held two international phone numbers for Mr M but said they 
didnt contact him on either of these telephone numbers because they werent listed as his 
preferred number. Im unsure why Santander continued to write to Mr M at his UK 
registered address when they were aware, he was in another country. Im also satisfied 
Santander would have been aware of the travel restrictions at the time. Santander has said 
that Mr M could have returned home on an evacuation flight. However, Mr M was in another 
country due to a work contract. I also dont think its reasonable for Santander to suggest the 
actions Mr M should, or could, have taken in relation to returning home when they havent 
been able to speak to him about any of his personal circumstances. 
Santander also confirmed that as Mr M became aware of the account closure through his 
family member informing him about the cheque, its reasonable to assume the family 
member could have opened previous post. I appreciate why Santander may think this could 
be the case. However, I havent seen anything to satisfy me that Mr M had any agreement in 
place for his family member to open his post on his behalf. And even if he had, it wouldnt 
change the circumstance that Santander were informed that Mr M wasnt in the country, and 
despite having alternative contact methods for Mr M, they didnt divert from their standard 
process. I havent seen any reasonable explanation for this.
I dont know what the outcome of the KYC checks would have been if Santander had 
successfully contacted Mr M. And Ive explained above why I think their actions were 
acceptable when closing the account. However, I do think if Mr M had been contacted in 
another way, he would have been aware of the potential account closure and could have 
made mitigated his distress by making alternative arrangements for direct debits and other 
payments. Ive no doubt finding out your UK bank account has been closed while youre in 
another country due to a global pandemic would be significantly distressing. I think the 
distress would have then likely been increased by an unrelated credit card account being 
closed due to the direct debit being cancelled because of Santanders actions. Ive also 
considered the time and effort on Mr Ms part by trying to contact Santander and arrange 
alternative banking arrangements with other providers. As I think Santander should have 
stepped outside of their usual process in the unique and individual circumstances of this 
complaint, I think they should pay compensation to recognise the distress caused. I think a 
compensation amount of £300 fairly reflects the inconvenience and distress caused to Mr M. 
 So, I thought Santander should pay Mr M £300 to put things right.
Mr M responded. In summary, he said the whole situation caused him a lot of personal 
distress, expensive calls to no avail and the cancellation of his credit cards and cash awards 
that hed built up over time through his Santander account. Mr M confirmed Santander have 
still not answered why they closed his account; or offered any apology or compensation for 
out of pocket expenses let alone the distress factors during a pandemic while he and his 
family were stuck overseas.
Santander responded and agreed to pay the £300 compensation.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my decision hasnt changed. Santander accepted the decision and Mr M 
didnt have any further evidence or arguments. And therefore, I see no reason to depart from 
my provisional findings.
I would like to add that Im aware Mr M is still unhappy that Santander havent given him a 
reason on why they closed his account. As explained in my provisional decision, banks 
arent obliged to give a reason to customers when they close accounts  so I cant fairly ask 
them to do this on this occasion.
Putting things right
In summary, Im satisfied Santander were entitled to close Mr Ms account in the way they 
did. But, in the circumstances of this complaint, I think they should have done more when 
trying to contact Mr M. If they had done, I think the distress to Mr M would have been 
significantly reduced. So, Santander should pay Mr M £300 compensation.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Santander UK Plc should pay Mr M £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman