DRN-3232288
The complaint
Miss K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to cancel a Standing Order.
What happened
Miss K says she went to a Barclays branch in around April 2021 to cancel a Standing Order 
(SO) for her rent payment of £515. She says about three weeks later in May 2021 she 
realised the SO hadnt been cancelled and £515 had been taken from her account which she 
would like refunded.
Barclays says it has a record of a possible fraud on Miss Ks account in April 2021 for which 
she attended a branch. It says it doesnt have a record of any attempt to cancel the SO but 
accepts it ought to have advised her that it could attempt a recovery of it. Barclays has 
offered £100 compensation for that part of the complaint and says the SO was to an estate 
agent.
Miss K brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He 
thought Barclays didnt have any notes about an attempt to cancel the SO which he said he 
would have expected. The investigator thought Miss K could have cancelled the SO herself 
via her banking application (app) and thought the £100 compensation offer appropriate in 
circumstances where there was no guarantee the SO would have been returned.
Miss K doesnt accept that view and says the banking app wasnt working.
The complaint was referred to me and I asked both sides for further information. I asked 
Miss K for details of her rental agreement and if she had spoken to her landlord or its agent. 
I also asked her if she gave us permission to speak to the estate agent to understand the 
terms of the agreement. I asked Barclays to confirm if it had tried to recall the money.
Miss K says she doesnt have a copy of the rental agreement and hasnt provided details of 
the estate agent or told us if she gives us permission to speak to it about the agreement.
Barclays says it tried to recall the payment, but the estate agent said it was a payment due 
under the rental agreement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Miss K will be disappointed by my decision.
I appreciate Miss K says she attended the branch to cancel the SO. But having looked 
carefully at Barclays records I can only see reference to the fraud issue. I think it likely that if 
the SO had been cancelled then an audit record would have been kept on Barclays systems. 
It follows that I cant be sure what took place in branch and that it would be unfair to 
conclude that Barclays made a mistake by not cancelling the SO. I also appreciate Miss K 
says her banking app was not working and that she reported that to Barclays. But I cant see 
any record of Barclays being told that.
I asked Miss K for her rental agreement as I think it likely that she would have been 
responsible for the payment in any event. I can see the SO was payable to a firm of estate 
agents who have confirmed to Barclays that the payment was required under the agreement. 
So, I think on balance this was a payment due under an agreement and I would have 
expected Miss K to have been able to have provided a rental agreement if that wasnt the 
case. It follows that I think that even if Barclays attempted a payment recall at the time that 
such a recall would have been unsuccessful in these circumstances.
There is no dispute here that Barclays ought to have advised Miss K about the recall option 
sooner than it did. I have made clear I dont think Miss K would have received the SO money 
back. Im satisfied that Barclays compensation offer of £100 is fair and reasonable and takes 
into account the inconvenience Miss K was caused.
Overall, I cant fairly conclude Barclays made a mistake by not cancelling the SO and in any 
event think it likely that Miss K was obliged to make a contractual payment. It is of course up 
to Miss K if she wishes to accept the compensation offer.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the main part of this complaint and that Barclays Bank 
UK PLC has made a fair and reasonable compensation offer of £100. Miss Ks acceptance 
of that offer would be in full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 January 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman