DRN-2542753
The complaint
Mr F has complained that Nationwide Building Society wont refund a credit card payment
which he says he didnt authorise.
What happened
Mr F was abroad with two friends from 25 to 29 April 2019. He said that, whilst on a night 
out, they were approached by a woman advertising a bar which offered free drinks. When 
they arrived at the bar, they were asked to open a bar tab with a bank card. Mr F said he 
first used his debit card but that failed so he used his credit card to open the tab. The bar 
provided adult entertainment. Mr F said after twenty minutes he couldnt remember 
anything and believed his drink had been spiked. But he did remember that he settled the 
bill in cash. He said he wasnt supplied with a receipt for the payment and he didnt think to 
ask for one.
The next day he tried to use his debit card, but it was blocked. He contacted Nationwide. 
He found out both of his cards were restricted. The agent talked through some of the 
transactions on his account. He found out that a payment for £784.38 had been made to 
the bar with his credit card. He told the agent that, although hed opened a tab with his 
credit card and had entered his PIN, hed settled the bill in cash. He was asked if he 
wanted the restriction removed from his credit card and he said no because he needed to 
pay his hotel bill.
When he arrived back in the UK, Mr F raised a fraud complaint with Nationwide. He said 
hed already paid for drinks and services in cash and hadnt authorised the card payment. 
He also wanted to know why Nationwide had allowed the payment to go through, if there 
was a restriction on his credit card at the time. 
He asked Nationwide for a refund.
He also raised a chargeback claim because hed paid twice for the drinks and services. 
And he made a complaint under s.75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 on grounds that he 
hadnt received any goods or services for the payment.
Nationwide investigated his complaint and decided not to refund him. It said there was 
no evidence of fraudulent activity because the disputed payment was made with Mr Fs 
card and PIN. It said it couldnt raise a chargeback without proof that hed paid for the 
same
drinks and services in cash. And it said that he couldnt rely on s.75 because the payment
was made to another business, not the supplier of the drinks and services. In other words,
there wasnt a debtor-supplier- creditor relationship.
Mr F didnt think Nationwides decision was fair, so he brought his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into his complaint and recommended that it be upheld. She found 
that although the payment was authorised, Nationwide shouldve blocked the transaction 
because: -
Hed first tried to use his debit card, but it failed.
If Nationwide blocked his debit card, then it shouldve blocked his credit card too.
It failed to contact Mr F asking him to confirm the payment.
As the payment was made to a club, which was known for scams, it 
shouldve identified Mr F as potentially vulnerable to the same scam.
The investigator asked Nationwide to refund the disputed payment together with 
interest. 
Nationwide disagreed with the investigators view. It said:
the debit card mightve been blocked because of previous activity on the card.
The security systems on credit cards and debit cards dont interact.
The behaviour on current accounts can be vastly different to that on credit 
cards, which are typically used for larger purchases. So, the security system 
wouldnt necessarily have been triggered by the amount of the disputed 
payment.
This was the first transaction on the credit card so its system couldnt have 
detected if Mr F had been visiting bars that evening or had impaired judgement.
Its system cant tell if a bar is legitimate or not, as names and owners 
change frequently.
It wasnt practical to call customers in the early hours, but even if it had called Mr 
F, it doubted that he wouldve acted differently.
I issued a provisional decision on 15 December 2020. I decided not to uphold Mr Fs 
complaint. In summary, I concluded that hed authorised the disputed payment and that 
there were no reasons why Nationwide shouldve suspected that he was at risk of financial 
harm or abuse.
Mr F didnt accept my provisional decision. He said the disputed payment was unusual and 
out of character for his account and so Nationwide shouldve stopped it. And he said it hadnt 
explained why it blocked his debit card and not his credit card. He didnt accept that his debit 
card was blocked because of his purchases while abroad. He said hed told it he was going 
to be abroad and the transactions were for a low value.
This case has now come to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered Mr Fs comments but Im afraid that Ive not received any additional 
information which has caused me to change my earlier decision. I still consider that Mr F 
authorised the disputed payment and that Nationwide is not obliged to refund it. Although I 
set out my reasons in my provisional decisions, I will repeat them again here.
As I explained in my provisional decision, the starting position in law is that a bank or 
building society is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the 
terms and conditions of the customers account.
And under the relevant regulations, Nationwide is required to refund the amount of an
unauthorised transaction. But Nationwide can hold Mr F liable for any disputed transactions
if the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that he made or authorised them
himself.
A payment transaction is regarded as having been authorised by the payer only if the payer
has given his consent to the execution of the payment transaction. The regulations go on to
say that such consent must be given in the form, and in accordance with the procedure,
agreed between the payer and its payment service provider. The form and procedure are
usually set out in the terms and conditions. This typically involves entering their card and PIN 
into the card terminal.
Mr F admitted he inserted his card into the card machine and entered his PIN. On this
evidence alone he is treated as having authorised the disputed payment. It doesnt matter if 
he didnt see the final amount or if all he did was open a bar tab, which he later settled in 
cash.
Im satisfied from the evidence, therefore, that Mr F gave his consent to the transaction.  
And, because of what the regulations say, Im afraid I consider its fair and reasonable for 
Nationwide to treat him as having authorised the disputed payment. This means that 
Nationwide is not obliged to refund him.
However, there are some situations in which a bank or building society should reasonably 
have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a disputed payment. And as a 
matter of good industry practice at the time, I may also consider whether Nationwide 
shouldve taken proactive steps 
to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam; or 
to minimising risks, impact and incidences of financial harm.
(Protecting Customers from Financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse  Code of 
Practice).
Ive thought about this carefully. Nationwide said the disputed payment did trigger its fraud 
detection system. It said it blocked his card within seconds of the payment to stop further 
transactions. However, the disputed payment went through before it could contact Mr F. And 
our experience is that its impossible to stop a credit card transaction once the system has 
authenticated and authorised it. He didnt use his credit card for any other payments. Had he 
done so then he might have found he couldnt use his credit card, so the system had 
worked.
Nationwide didnt send a text message asking him to confirm if the disputed payment was 
genuine. However, Im afraid I dont think a text message wouldve made a difference. If a 
text message were sent, then it wouldve been sent after hed entered his PIN. There are two 
scenarios here and neither work in his favour. The first is that Mr F entered his PIN when he 
opened the bar tab  before hed ordered any drinks or services. At that point, it was his 
intention to open a bar tab, and hed switched cards to do so when his debit card didnt work. 
So, I think its more likely than not that he would have replied, yes if hed received a 
message asking him to confirm the activity. But I dont think this happened. I wouldve 
expected to see a transaction for £0 in the statements or in the credit card audit but there 
isnt one.The second scenario is that he entered his PIN at the point of payment. But this contradicts
his evidence that he paid in cash. However, I think its more likely that his PIN was entered 
at the point of payment. And if he entered his PIN at the point of payment, then I think he 
wouldve confirmed he was making a payment if hed received a text message. Although, I 
think its more likely he wouldnt have responded, as on his own admission, he couldnt 
remember what was happening and was in no fit state to do anything.
For these reasons, I dont think there was anything Nationwide could do to stop the payment
and I dont think a text message wouldve made a difference. And besides, Nationwide was 
entitled to treat the disputed payment as authorised by him.  
Mr F hasnt responded to my findings. Instead hes asked why Nationwide treats credit cards 
differently from debit cards. Nationwide explained that the security systems for debit cards 
and credit cards operate differently and dont interact. Im sorry that Mr F isnt satisfied with 
this answer, but the two cards do operate under different rules. However, Nationwides 
systems did place a block on his credit card, so they did work, despite the different rules. 
I agree that if hed already paid in cash, and was charged more than the cash payment, then 
this was a duplicate or overpayment and the chargeback process was the more appropriate 
remedy. However, Mr F didnt have a receipt for his cash payment. So, Im afraid he couldnt 
prove that hed paid in cash, as required by the rules.
In relation to s.75, I dont think Nationwide has shown that the club and the merchant were
different entities. Its possible the merchant was trading under a different name but the two
were one and the same. So, Im not convinced that the section 75 claim fails because theres
no debtor-creditor-supplier relationship. But, again, the difficulty is that Mr F cant prove he
paid for the same drinks and services in cash and that, consequently, he didnt receive
goods or services for the credit card payment.
Taking everything into account, I find, on balance, that Mr F authorised the disputed
payment. I dont consider that it was made fraudulently. I accept he might not have been 
aware of what was happening at the time and no doubt he is now shocked to find himself 
landed with the expense. But for the reasons Ive given, I consider its fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances for Nationwide to hold him liable for the disputed payment.
Im very sorry this will be disappointing news for Mr F. I understand he is experiencing other 
difficulties with refunds due to the pandemic. I agree these are testing times for consumers 
and I sympathise with his frustrations. I hope the reasons for my decision in this case are 
clear.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Razia Karim
Ombudsman