DRN-2909543
The complaint
Mr S complains that Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited trading as Sun 
Life Financial of Canada (Sun Life) failed to send his adviser important letters he was sent in 
September 2018 and December 2018. He says this led to the loss of a valuable Guaranteed 
Annuity Rate (GAR).  
What happened
Mr S has a Sun Life pension plan which provided a GAR through another provider. The 
annuity was payable on 14 February 2019, Mr Ss 60th birthday. The guarantee would expire 
29 days after that date. 
Mr S said hes a US resident and UK citizen and that he spends a lot of time away from the 
UK. So in March 2016 he sent a letter of authority to Sun Life asking them to send copies of 
all future communications they might send him to his adviser. He did this so he wouldnt miss 
important communications from them.
Sun Life acknowledged his request on 1 April 2016. But their acknowledgement didnt tell 
him that it wasnt their policy to send copy letters to advisers. Instead, it said theyd release 
information to representatives of Mr Ss adviser who completed data protection questions. 
Following receipt of the letter of authority, and Mr Ss advisers request for information about 
the policies he held with them, Sun Life provided them with the requested information. This 
included a copy of Mr Ss pension retirement pack. That included details of the guaranteed
annuity payment date. 
But Sun Life didnt send copies of Mr Ss pre-retirement packs in September 2018 and 
December 2018 to his adviser. Mr S said that this is why he was unable to take up the GAR 
before it expired. The pension policy in question remains invested.
Unhappy, Mr S complained to Sun Life in April 2020. Hed now been told that Sun Life didnt 
send communications such as the September 2018 and December 2018 letters to their 
clients advisers. But he asked Sun Life how he was supposed to know that, especially given 
all his other pension providers provided that service. 
In their final response letter sent on 15 May 2020, Sun Life didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
They said that theyd sent the information his adviser wouldve needed about the GAR in the 
retirement pack theyd issued as part of their 2016 request. They said that theyd also sent 
clear information to Mr S about the GAR in the September 2018 and December 2018 letters. 
Unhappy with their response, Mr S brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator 
issued two views on the complaint. In his first view, he didnt uphold the complaint. He said 
that the 1 April 2016 letter Sun Life had sent acknowledging the letter of authority didnt 
explicitly state that Mr Ss adviser would be sent copies of correspondence thatd been sent 
to him. And while he could see why Mr S had assumed copies of any correspondence would 
also be sent to his adviser, he felt that Sun Life had followed their practice of only providing 
information to third parties when requested.
Our investigator also noted that Mr S had confirmed that both he and his adviser were aware 
of the special conditions that applied to his policy. Given this, he didnt think it would be fair 
or reasonable to hold Sun Life responsible for the loss of the GAR. 
Mr S didnt agree with our investigators review. He summarised his points of disagreement 
as follows:
1. He said Sun Life didnt decline his request for ALL correspondence to be copied to 
his adviser when they replied to his request on 1 April 2016. 
2. He said it was unacceptable and unfair for Sun Life to state that their policy is not to 
copy all their correspondence to advisers four years after being asked to do just so.
3. He said that Sun Life hadnt followed their own precedent of previously copying 
correspondence to his adviser. And that it appeared that Sun Life was being selective 
in what it does copy. 
4. He disagreed with what he felt our investigator had inferred about it not being the 
providers responsibility to update the client of a loss of benefit. He felt it would be 
extremely unfair to give the client responsibility to remember, for a plan that was 
taken out many years ago. He felt this wasnt treating customers fairly. 
5. He explained that in view of all the above, he was seeking compensation from Sun 
Life for failing to copy his adviser as hed requested. He felt this had resulted in the 
loss of his GAR option.
6. He suggested what he felt would be fair compensation under the circumstances. 
So our investigator asked for additional information from Sun Life. They provided a copy of 
Mr Ss letter authorising Sun Life to provide information to his adviser. After receiving this, 
our investigator issued a second view. He still didnt uphold the complaint. He felt that as Mr 
S and his adviser had both known about the importance of 14 February 2019 for the GAR, it 
wasnt fair or reasonable to hold Sun Life responsible for its expiration. He acknowledged 
that Sun Life couldve made their position on the provision of communications to advisers 
clearer. But felt that their response to Mr Ss letter of authority hadnt indicated that all 
correspondence would be automatically sent to his adviser.
Mr S didnt agree. He felt that Sun Life hadnt made him aware that they wouldnt send 
communications to his adviser unless they requested information. Therefore hed had no 
reason to think his adviser wasnt getting all relevant communications. So he felt that Sun 
Life were responsible for the expiry of his GAR.  
As agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Ss complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
The rules governing this services handling of complaints require me to determine this 
complaint by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable. In doing so, I have to take into account all the circumstances. That must include consideration of the actions and 
responsibilities of all parties involved. I am required to be fair to both of the parties to the 
complaint.
I first looked at Mr Ss initial request to Sun Life and their response. 
Was Sun Lifes response clear about how information would be shared?
The key point in this complaint is that Mr S requested, in a letter of authority dated 17 March 
2016, to change agency for all the policies he held with Sun Life to his adviser. And to 
appoint his adviser as his servicing agent on those policies. Mr S said he had no way of 
knowing Sun Life couldnt accommodate his request. 
Mr S said that 11 other pension providers accepted the same request without any issues. 
But Sun Life said: We cannot accommodate sending our regular correspondence to third 
parties or IFA's - as well as our own clients. They also said that: We always respond to a 
third-party request in writing - if they request information. As the plan holder Mr S is the 
owner of the plan and we are obliged to send him our letters and regular communications.  
Ive seen the letter of authority, and it specifically requests: All future communication and 
income derived from every policy and/or investment held with you should be sent to [adviser 
name]. But when Sun Life replied to Mr Ss request on 1 April 2016, their response didnt 
explicitly state that they would only share communications with Mr Ss adviser if they 
requested information. 
I agree with our investigator that the wording in Sun Lifes letter means they would only 
respond to requests for information, rather than sending all communications direct to Mr Ss 
adviser as well as him. The letter states: Please note that information will be released to any 
individuals who are employed by [adviser name] and who can complete our data protection 
questions. I consider that this explains that an adviser would have to ask for information 
before it could be released to them. But I do acknowledge Mr Ss interpretation that all 
communications sent to him would also be shared with his adviser is not unreasonable. So I 
can understand why, after receiving that letter and given his initial request, Mr S didnt think 
there were any issues with all future communications to him also being sent to his adviser. 
So I looked next at whether this lack of clarity caused the loss of the GAR. 
Could the GAR have been taken up despite relevant letters not being sent to Mr Ss adviser?
Given the 1 April 2016 letter wasnt completely clear that all future communications wouldnt 
also be sent to Mr Ss adviser, I need to decide whether that lack of clarity directly led to the 
expiry of the GAR.
Mr S has told this service that his adviser contacted Sun Life in July 2019 ahead of their 
annual review meeting with him. They needed to get information for his annual review. Mr S 
hasnt been able to provide evidence of correspondence that Sun Life provided to his adviser 
without them directly requesting it. I appreciate that Mr S said its been hard to determine 
what information had been provided directly to his adviser and what had been provided on 
request. But from what Ive seen, Im not persuaded that Sun Life had previously provided 
information to his adviser without it being requested first. 
Mr S told this service that it was standard industry practice for businesses like Sun Life to 
copy correspondence to their customers advisers. I acknowledge that many other providers 
do offer this service. But from the evidence Ive seen, Sun Life have followed their normal 
process for Mr S and his adviser. So I cant agree that theyve treated Mr S unfairly, as I consider that theyve treated him the same as their other customers.
I also note Mr Ss point that until hed been advised by Sun Life that they dont send all 
communications to advisers, even if a client has requested this, he couldnt have known that 
they werent sending those communications to his adviser, as his other pension fund 
providers send his adviser everything. I acknowledge that Mr S wouldve expected any 
letters from Sun Life to be sent to his adviser as well as to himself. So Ive looked at what 
communications were sent.
Sun Life wrote to Mr S around five months ahead of his 60th birthday, in September 2018. 
This letter confirmed at the top of page 2 that the GAR was only available at 14 February 
2019. They wrote to him again on 18 September 2018, sending him his annual plan 
statement. This stated in a highlighted box on the third page that the plan had a GAR and 
this option would end on 15 March 2019. This gave Mr S an additional 4 weeks beyond the 
expiry date to take advantage of the GAR. And Sun Life wrote to Mr S again 6 weeks before 
his 60th birthday, in December 2018. This letter again confirmed that the GAR was only 
available at 14 February 2019. Mr S said he was in the US when these letters were sent. He 
said he only found one of the pre-retirement letters after hed met with his adviser on 22 July 
2019. 
I acknowledge that none of these letters were shared with Mr Ss adviser. And I understand 
that Mr S believed all his communications from Sun Life were also sent to his adviser. I can 
also see that Mr S didnt receive the letters straightaway, as he was living away from the 
address the letters had been sent to. But, while I acknowledge Mr S holds Sun Life 
responsible for the expiry of his GAR, I dont agree theyre responsible. Ill explain why.
Mr S has told this service that both he and his adviser were well aware of the GAR. I can see 
that his adviser had requested 32 different documents in his 22 March 2016 request to Sun 
Life, including: 17. Any guarantees associated to the plan e.g. guaranteed annuity rates, 
bonus rates, guaranteed fund at Scheme Retirement Date etc. And Sun Life have told this 
service that they sent a retirement pack and information about the GAR following this 
request. So its clear that both Mr S and his adviser had been aware of the GAR well in 
advance of Mr Ss chosen retirement date. As this was Mr Ss 60th birthday, it was easy for 
him to remember the date.
Mr Ss adviser contacted Sun Life on 2 July 2019 to request key information ahead of the 
annual review meeting with him. This included information on the GAR. 
From what Ive seen, Mr Ss adviser had no reason to expect information about Mr S to be 
sent from Sun Life unless they requested it. And Mr S said: There is no issue of [my 
adviser] and my awareness of the annuity option; we were very much aware. The issue is 
that [my adviser] never received the expected form to elect the option for the annuity. So his 
complaint hinges on him and his adviser not receiving the form they both knew they needed. 
Mr S also said: Not only were [my adviser] and I fully aware of the fact that my policy had a 
Guaranteed Annuity Rate (GAR) option in it, but [my adviser] pro-actively enquired with Sun 
Life as to the whereabouts of the form to select this option. Unfortunately, the enquiry was 
made too late because [my adviser] had not received copies of the forms. This request was 
made in July 2019, ahead of Mr Ss advisers annual review meeting with him. As Im 
satisfied that Mr Ss adviser shouldve known theyd need to request the relevant form, it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to hold Sun Life responsible for not sending it to them 
without request. 
Mr S told this service that he didnt expect Sun Life to be aware he was out of the country 
when they sent him important letters in September 2018 and December 2018. He said that they didnt need to know this if theyd followed his letter of authority and sent those letters to 
his adviser as well. But from what Ive seen, both Mr S and his adviser already had sufficient 
information to be able to process his retirement in time for the GAR option not to be lost. 
Im sorry that Mr S has lost the GAR option. While I do acknowledge that Sun Life couldve 
been clearer that they wouldnt be able to copy all correspondence they sent to him to his 
adviser, Im not persuaded that lack of clarity led to the loss of the GAR. So I wont be asking 
Sun Life to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman