DRN-2382252
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the delays and the re-scheduled appointments made by British Gas 
Insurance Limited (British Gas) in relation to a claim he submitted.
What happened
Mr C had a Homecare agreement with British Gas. 
In November 2019, the flushing system to the toilet needed fixing as it was damaged, so 
Mr C contacted British Gas. 
The appointment was booked for 5 November 2019 for the engineer to look at the damage. 
Having waited all day, the engineer contacted Mr C late in the day that he couldnt attend as 
there was an emergency appointment he had to attend to instead. The visit was re-
scheduled for 6 November. An engineer attended as planned on 6 November 2019, but 
parts were required. There was a delay in getting availability for the parts so Mr C was told 
the engineer would be back to fix the toilet on 20 November. No-one arrived so Mr C called 
British Gas and was made aware that the parts hadnt arrived, and someone would come the 
following day, on 21 November. The repair was completed satisfactorily on 21 November. 
British Gas paid Mr C £40 compensation for the delays caused.
Following an annual boiler service that was completed, Mr C noticed a smell in the boiler and 
an appointment was booked for 25 November 2019. British Gas called Mr C at 5pm to inform 
him the engineer couldnt attend that day. Mr C was unhappy about the last-minute changes 
to appointments and asked to speak to a manager. He spoke to a manager around 5:30pm 
on 25 November; a Saturday appointment was booked on 30 November 2019. The manager 
also paid Mr C £30 compensation for the failings in its service. The visit was carried out on 
30 November and the work was completed. 
Mr C was further unhappy that the price for renewing the agreement had increased by 34% 
for the year March 2019 to March 2020. He complained to British Gas and received a 
response from a customer manager. The manager explained that prices had increased 
across the board but offered a 10% discount on the price quoted. British Gas said the price 
took into account a number of factors such as the age, the type and number of appliances 
and how many claims were made. Mr C renewed the agreement but with the minimum 
cover.
Mr C was unhappy with British Gas and referred the complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into the complaint and thought the payment of £70 was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr C disagreed with the investigator. He said the compensation he received hadnt taken 
into account the poor service, the multitude of appointments that had to be rescheduled, the 
lack of communication and repeatedly ignoring his requests to speak to a manager. He was 
unhappy with the increase of premium in renewing the policy. He asked for the complaint to 
be referred to an ombudsman. 
So the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that there were failings in the service provided by British Gas. The key 
issue I need to therefore decide is whether British Gas dealt with the poor service 
appropriately and whether the compensation it paid was fair and reasonable taking into 
account the circumstances on Mr Ss complaint. I also need to decide whether the increase 
in the premium at renewal was in line with our approach and fair and reasonable. 
Poor service 
Having reviewed what happened, I can see there were issues with re-scheduling 
appointments. I appreciate the frustration Mr C has experienced. He had to wait all day for 
an engineer and was told late in the day that he couldnt attend and then having to 
re-schedule the visit. However, I can also see that British Gas did contact Mr C and the 
appointments were re-scheduled  though I think it could have been informed him earlier in 
the day. With regards to fixing the toilet, a further delay was caused because the parts 
werent available. And with regards to the boiler, I understand again that Mr C was contacted 
late in the day after having waited all day for an engineer to arrive. I agree the 
communication could have been better but I dont agree there was a complete lack of it. I 
understand British Gas explanation that on occasions the engineer is called to an 
emergency appointment instead and I dont think thats unreasonable. And in regard to not 
being able to speak to a manager, my understanding is that Mr C spoke to a manager on 
25 November 2019 and he paid £30 compensation for the poor service provided to Mr C.
On balance, while the service wasnt as expected and things didnt always happen as they 
should have, British Gas has recognised its failings and paid Mr C £70 compensation for 
this. Im satisfied this amount is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Renewal premium
I understand the frustration Mr C felt in having had his premium increased. British Gas 
explained this was due to the age, type and number of appliances that were covered. It also 
explained that the premium was dependent on the number of claims being made. However, 
it offered Mr C a 10% discount and Mr C chose to renew the agreement with minimum cover. 
He has since chosen to go with a different provider. I appreciate as a loyal customer, this 
isnt something he wanted to do. However, Im not persuaded the explanation given by 
British Gas for the increase is unreasonable or unfair and its Mr Cs choice whether he 
wanted to continue the cover on that basis.
Conclusion
Overall, I understand the frustration Mr C experienced in not always receiving the service he 
expected from British Gas. But Im satisfied that British Gas dealt with the issues in an 
appropriate manner and while Mr C wants a detailed explanation of why the service was 
poor, I dont think its appropriate here. In both claims Mr C made, the problem was fixed. I 
realise he experienced inconvenience at the same time, but having looked at all the 
available information, I think the compensation of £70 Mr Cs been paid is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I dont think British Gas needs to do 
anything further.
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint against British Gas Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2021.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman