DRN-1958975
The complaint
Miss M complains that Car Giant Limited mishandled her car finance application.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss M, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
There doesnt appear to be a dispute that Car Giant were told by Miss M not to make a 
finance application to the company Ill call B. 
Car Giant accept this was done in error and to compensate Miss M for this error theyve 
agreed to pay her £50 compensation. 
Whilst Miss M has explained that she has been told the searches completed would impact 
on credit applications Ive not seen details of failed applications. And, even if I had those 
details it would be difficult to separate any financial impact, if any, that the searches from B 
had had from the searches completed by the other businesses Miss M did approve Car 
Giant to make applications to.
I can see that Car Giant quickly arranged to remove reference to the searches made from 
Miss Ms credit file, so the impact was minimised, and, in all the circumstances, I think their 
offer of £50 compensation was reasonable. Im therefore not asking them to take any further 
action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman