DRN-4323044
The complaint
Miss T is unhappy that Santander UK Plc (Santander) has not refunded her money after 
she became the victim of a safe account scam. 
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary:
On 10 October 2021, Miss T entered her card details into a phishing email after clicking on a 
link. Soon afterwards she realised it was a scam and called the bank who blocked her card 
and reissued a new one. A few days later (13 October 2021) Miss T was contacted by 
someone purporting to be a bank employee and explaining her account had been 
compromised. Miss T subsequently transferred £1,774.80 and £2,883.88 from her current 
account and £1,973.67 from her savings account (a total of £6,632.35) into what she 
believed was a safe account. The bank tried to recover Miss Ts funds once she notified it of 
the scam but only £6.77 remained in the beneficiary account.
The bank did not uphold the complaint. It said she authorised the transactions without 
completing appropriate checks to ensure the veracity of the call. It had provided her with 
appropriate warnings about this exact scam during a call on 10 October 2021. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She felt there was cause for concern before 
Miss T made the payments and that she didnt have a reasonable basis for believing the 
transactions were genuine. She also didnt think the payments were so out of character that 
Santander ought to have intervened.
Miss T did not agree. As the complaint could not be resolved informally, its been passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully noted the representations made by all the parties, but I wont be addressing 
every single point thats been raised. It doesnt follow that the points havent been 
considered, simply that I dont need to particularise every point in reaching an outcome I 
consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Ive instead concentrated on the 
issues I think are central to the outcome of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulatory rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened 
in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
There is no dispute that Miss T has been a victim of fraud and I am deeply sorry for that, but 
it doesnt automatically mean Santander is liable for some or all of her losses. 
Did Miss T authorise the transactions?
The question of authorisation is a key one in a case of this kind. Because, although its not in 
dispute that Miss T didnt set out to be scammed, under the Payment Services Regulations 
2017 (PSRs), and general banking terms and conditions, she is presumed liable in the first 
instance if she authorised the transactions. 
When Miss T reported the scam to Santander it wasnt clear whether she was accepting that 
she authorised the payments herself or whether she was saying someone else made them. 
Miss T was called by someone purporting to be from the bank and the evidence from the 
bank does suggest these were authorised payments. Whether Miss T made the transactions 
herself or was tricked into allowing them to be made (for example by providing secure 
account details or access via sharing computer screens)  means they are authorised, even 
though Miss T may have been tricked into doing so and was the victim of a scam. 
In broad terms, the starting position is that a firm is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. 
However, where a customer makes a payment as a consequence of the actions of a 
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer 
even though they authorised the payment. 
The CRM Code
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether 
Santander should have reimbursed Miss T in line with the provisions of the Lending 
Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) it has signed up to and 
whether it ought to have done more to protect Miss T from the possibility of financial harm 
from fraud. 
Theres no dispute here that Miss T was tricked into making the payments. She thought she 
was protecting her savings, but this wasnt the case. But this isnt enough, in itself, for Miss T 
to receive a full refund of the money under the CRM Code.
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited number of 
circumstances. 
One such circumstance might be when a customer has ignored an effective warning. 
A second circumstance in which a bank might decline a refund is, if it can be demonstrated 
that the customer made the payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that:
 the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; 
 the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or 
 the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions within the CRM Code, but they do not apply in this case.The CRM Code also outlines the standards a firm is expected to meet. And it says that when 
assessing whether the firm has met those standards, consideration must be given to 
whether compliance with those standards would have had a material effect on preventing the 
APP scam that took place.
I am also mindful that when Miss T made these payments, Santander should fairly and 
reasonably also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other 
signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). And in 
some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional steps, 
or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined to make 
a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from 
fraud. 
Did Santander meet its obligations under the CRM Code and did Miss T ignore an effective 
warning?
The Code says that where firms identify APP scam risks in a payment journey, they should 
take reasonable steps to provide their customers with effective warnings. It also says that 
effective warnings should be risk based and, where possible, tailored to the APP scam risk 
indicators and any specific APP scam types identified through the user interface with which 
the customer is initiating the payment instructions.
The individual transfers were relatively small, (although I appreciate its a lot of money to 
Miss T) and I dont think Santander ought reasonably to have identified a risk on the 
individual payments through the user interface. Banks cant reasonably be involved in every 
transaction. There is a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could 
potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments. 
That said, it seems that Santander did provide a warning for friends or family which is what 
Miss T selected at the time the payment was processed. 
I haven't repeated the warning that was shown during the online payment process because 
Miss Ts choice (albeit I appreciate this may have been under the scammers influence) 
made it very difficult for Santander to give a tailored and impactful warning. It's also the case 
that, had answering transfer to own account led to a warning that met the definition of 
'effective' under the CRM Code (that's not a finding I need to make here), it would be 
irrelevant because Miss T didnt see that particular warning  so I cant say Miss T ignored 
an effective warning either.
Did Miss T have a reasonable basis for belief or could she have done more to mitigate her 
losses?
I need to consider not just whether Miss T believed she was sending money under 
instruction from the banks fraud department, but whether it was reasonable for her to do so. 
Ive thought about the steps Miss T took to reassure herself about the legitimacy of the 
transactions and whether it was reasonable for her to proceed with the payments. 
Miss T teaches people not to fall for scams so has more awareness in general. The call with 
the bank three days before does highlight that Miss T reasonably ought to have been more 
cautious and taken further steps when she received the call from the scammer. 
There were warnings within the call on 10 October 2021 about the exact scenario that 
followed. The security officer made it clear exactly what would happen next following clicking 
on a phishing email link as Miss T had done. In particular he said imagine you get a call 
telling you your account is not safe and that you need to transfer your money from one 
account to another for safety reasons. He went on to say that criminals are calling customers pretending to be from there bank or other organisations and advising to move 
money from their account for security reasons.
The security officer reassured Miss T her account was secure and made it clear this would 
be the premise on which a scammers call would be based. He said never transfer money to 
another account and that if someone tells you to do so - its a scam. He covered off number 
spoofing and repeated warnings to never transfer money out of your account for security 
reasons. During this call Miss T confirmed she would not be moving money by phone and 
that she wouldnt do what a caller in this scenario was telling her to do.
The security officer told Miss T that if she was concerned, she should call the number on the 
back of her bank card.
There was no indication during this call that there would be any follow up call from 
Santander, or any further action was needed. And I feel the bank did all it could to reassure 
Miss T her bank account was safe - which it was  certainly from any unauthorised 
transactions connected with the phishing email. And Santander had warned Miss T about 
being tricked into authorising a transaction herself  which was now the only risk to the 
account on the back of the phishing email.
There were other signs that things were not quite right during the payment journey. The 
confirmation of payee warnings for all three payments warned account name does not 
match. I appreciate Miss T does not recall these and I also appreciate calls like this do 
create pressure  but overall given everything Ive said above, I dont think Miss T had a 
reasonable basis for belief.
Vulnerability under the code
There are provisions under the code which might lead to a refund, even when a customer 
doesnt have a reasonable basis for belief. The relevant part of the Code, says: 
A Customer is vulnerable to APP scams if it would not be reasonable to expect that 
Customer to have protected themselves, at the time of becoming victim of an APP scam, 
against that particular APP scam, to the extent of the impact they suffered. This should be 
assessed on a case-by-case basis.
So, this is the definition of vulnerability in relation to the Code. It isnt about being medically 
ill or medically vulnerable  although that may be a factor. Whats key is whether Miss T was 
vulnerable to the extent that she wasnt in a position to protect herself from the particular 
scam she fell victim to.  
Its clear from all that has been said Miss T was going through a lot  in particular she has 
some serious medical issues from which she was slowly recovering from at the time. Im 
sorry to hear of all Miss T has been through. Not just in terms of this scam, but also whats 
happened to her prior to the scam. 
But Ive considered whether there were vulnerabilities present at the time to such an 
extent that Miss T was unable to take steps to identify the scam she fell victim to or to 
recognise steps she might take to test the legitimacy of what she was being told by the 
fraudster. To do so I must consider the details of the scam, Miss Ts actions throughout, 
and the wider circumstances of what was happening in her life at the time. 
I dont doubt Miss T has suffered as a result of her physical well-being. But there is also 
evidence within the circumstances that suggests she was capable of taking steps to 
protect herself from fraud and financial harm. For example, she was quickly able to identify the email she had clicked on the link for was fraudulent and she was able to call 
the bank to notify it. She engaged with the adviser during this call and did not come across 
as vulnerable. After her claim was declined Miss T told Santander she was struggling to 
breathe at the time of the transactions. I dont have any indication of what happened on 
the call with the scammer but on the call three days earlier (other than some audible 
coughing) Miss T was clearly able to articulate herself and there were no signs of 
breathing difficulties then. The medical letter of 6 October 2021 (a week before the scam 
call) indicates mild shortness of breath. 
Miss T even explained she helps the elderly with fraud and scams. Overall, I think there 
was more she might reasonably have done that would have led to the scam being 
uncovered when she was called a few days later. For example, she could have called the 
number on the back of her bank card as agreed in the call with Santander three days 
before.
Having thought very carefully about everything Miss T has told us, whilst Im not saying 
Miss Ts circumstances had no impact on her at the time, Im not persuaded that it would 
be unreasonable to expect her to have protected herself against the particular scam she 
fell victim to. And so, I dont find that Santander need refund Miss Ts entire loss under the 
vulnerability clause of the code.
Should Santander have done more to try and prevent the scam and protect Miss T?
As well as the CRM Code, a bank still has wider obligations and a duty to protect its 
customers, as far as is reasonably possible, against the risk of financial harm from fraud and 
scams. As such, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for a bank to take 
additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment to help protect its 
customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Miss T has commented on other banks and systems where transactions have been reversed 
but I cant comment on that. I am looking at Miss Ts case against Santander. Every case is 
judged on its own merits and what may appear (on the face of it) to be a similar set of 
circumstances, may often transpire not to be the case.
As Ive already mentioned above, Banks cant reasonably be involved in every transaction. 
There is a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could potentially be 
fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments.
There is no documented threshold for intervening on a payment, but it is for me to decide 
when assessing this particular case - what I think is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. The amount of money Miss T sent, while clearly not insignificant to her, 
doesnt in and of itself suggest to me any heightened risk of fraud. Santander did stop a 
fourth payment. 
Did Santander do enough to recover Miss Ts funds?
Ive thought about whether Santander took reasonable steps to recover Miss Ts funds once 
it was made aware she was the victim of a scam. The scam payments were made on 13 
October 2021 between 19:14 and 19:32 and Miss T reported the scam to Santander on 14 
October 2021. Santander contacted the receiving bank the same day but all except £6.77 
(which I can see was returned to Miss T a week or so later) remained. I have seen the 
evidence which shows, all but a further £1 had left the scammers account within minutes of 
the final transfer on 13 October 2021 and the remaining £1 withdrawn two hour later. So 
before Miss T had a chance to report it to Santander. This is not unusual as scammers 
usually remove funds within hours. I dont think Santander couldnt reasonably have done any more to try and recover Miss Ts money.
I realise my decision will be a significant disappointment to Miss T. I sympathise with her 
circumstances, and I am sorry she has fallen victim to a scam. But having considered all the 
evidence and arguments, Im not upholding her complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman