DRN-3686718
The complaint
Mr H complains that esure Insurance Limited mishandled his claim on a motor insurance 
policy.
Where I refer to esure, I refer to the above-named insurance company and I include 
employees and others insofar as I hold esure responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is an executive car, first registered in 
2007.
For the year from late July 2021, Mr H had the car insured on a comprehensive policy with 
esure. Any claim for accident damage was subject to excesses totalling £400.00.
Unfortunately, in late March 2022, the car was damaged in an accident. Later, esure said 
that the pre-accident value of the car had been £3,500.00 and the estimated costs to repair it 
were more than that. So esure treated the car as a total loss. 
Mr H complained to esure that it had under-valued his car and should repair it.
By a final response dated early April 2022, esure turned down the complaint. It said it had 
valued the car at £3,566.00 but deducted £66.00 for minor damage to the bonnet and a 
wheel. Mr H brought his complaint to us without delay.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. The investigator 
didnt think that esure had treated Mr H unfairly. The investigator agreed with esures 
valuation of £3,500.00. The investigator said that £500.00 upgraded brakes and premium 
brand tyres may not necessarily add value to the car.
Mr H disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
To say that improved and upgraded brakes and new tyres all round would not affect 
the value of a car when selling is utterly ridiculous.
He was not given the value of an equivalent replacement. So he had to buy a new 
lesser model car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms included the following:
We will:
 pay to repair the damage or
 replace whats been lost or damaged if its more cost effective than repairing it; or
 pay to settle your claim.

We will decide which method we use to settle your claim.

 We wont pay more than the market value of your car at the time of loss, less the 
total excess payable.
So esure would decide whether to pay to repair the damage or whether to make a payment 
up to the market value of the car at the time of its loss. The Financial Ombudsman Service 
expects an insurer to treat a damaged car as a total loss if the estimated cost of repair 
exceeds a percentage  say 70% - of the pre-accident market value.
And the policy defined market value as follows:
The market value is the amount you could reasonably have expected to sell your car 
for on the open market immediately before your accident or loss. Our assessment of 
the value is based on cars of the same make and model and of a similar age, 
condition and mileage at the time of accident or loss. This value is based on research 
from motor trade guides including: Glasss, Parkers and CAP. This may not be the 
price you paid when you purchased the car.
So esure said it would base its market value on the trade guides. 
And the Financial Ombudsman Service expects insurers to use the retail values in the trade 
guides. That usually produces a range of values. Unless one of the values is significantly out 
of line with the others, or there is more persuasive valuation evidence, we will usually find 
that a value within that range is a fair value.
Ive noted the make, model, specification and recorded mileage of Mr Hs car.
I have no reason to doubt Mr Hs statement that he had spent money on new tyres and 
upgraded brakes. But theres not enough evidence that this had any effect on the market 
value of his car.
For a car like Mr Hs at the time of the accident, Ive seen retail values in the trade guides as 
follows:
Cazoo £3,303.00
Glasss £3,440.00
CAP £3,955.00
Parkers £4,770.00
Of course, Mr H wouldve preferred the highest value. And I have no reason to doubt his 
statement that he couldnt buy a like-for-like replacement for £3,500.00 shortly after the 
accident.
Nevertheless, I find the trade guide values are the best evidence of the pre-accident value. 
And esures value of £3,500.00 falls within the range of the trade guide values. So I dont 
find that £3,500.00 was unfair or unreasonable.As the estimated cost of repairs of Mr Hs car exceeded the market value, I dont find that 
esure treated him unfairly by declining to pay to repair the car.
Overall, I dont find that esure treated Mr H unfairly. I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct 
esure to increase the value or to do any more in response to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint . I dont 
direct esure Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman