DRN-3843600
The complaint
Miss V complains that Zopa Bank Limited trading as Zopa didnt make her aware of the 
implications of taking out a reduced payment plan. She would like the money she paid to pay 
off her arrears refunded and to pay this off across the term of the loan. And compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I think Zopa were helpful in offering Miss V a three-month reduced payment plan 
from January to March 2022 when her financial circumstances unexpectedly 
changed. From the online chat I have seen I think Zopa did make Miss V aware that 
failing to make payments would put her account in arrears which might affect her 
credit file. 
Zopa admitted in its final response letter that the direct debit for the contractual 
payments  wasnt reinstated at the end of the three-month reduced payment plan as 
it should have been. Instead, Zopa took a fourth payment as per the  reduced plan. 
Zopa has since told us it couldnt collect the contractual payments as the direct debit 
had been cancelled. But if it was Miss Vs responsibility to change her direct debit I 
cant see Zopa made that clear to her.
Zopa also admitted in its final response letter that it sent Miss V an email on 8 June 
2022 confirming her reduced payment plan had ended.  It apologised that she 
received this late since her reduced plan should have ended at the end of March. 
Had this email been sent in March I think Miss V would have known what she needed 
to do with regards to her loan and arrears prior to the reduced plan ending and prior 
to getting a default notice.
I think the £100 compensation that our investigator recommended is reasonable. I 
think Zopas communication wasnt as clear as it should have been  and mistakes 
were made in taking a further reduced payment and sending an email confirming her 
reduced plan had ended months after it had. I dont doubt this caused Miss V both 
distress and inconvenience.
I dont think I can reasonably ask Zopa to refund the arrears Miss V paid and allow 
her to pay these off over the term of the loan as she originally requested. It was 
made clear to her that arrears would accrue. And as I understand it Miss V was able 
to pay off the arrears in full. But if Miss V is struggling financially as  a result of paying 
off the arrears I suggest she speaks to Zopa to see how she manages her account 
going forward.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement Zopa Bank Limited trading as Zopa should pay Miss V £100 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman