DRN-1574200
 
The complaint
Mr S says Gain Credit LLC, trading as Lending Stream (Lending Stream), irresponsibly lent 
to him. Mr S says the borrowing left him in financial hardship.
What happened
This complaint is about six short-term loans Lending Stream provided to Mr S between 
September 2012 and January 2018. There are three chains of lending and Mr Ss borrowing 
history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1 22/09/2012 26/02/2013 5 £100.00   £55.00
Break
2 27/01/2017 02/02/2017 6 £250.00 £125.50
Break
3 19/08/2017 27/12/2017 6 £250.00 £106.00
4 16/11/2017 23/11/2017 6 £500.00 £298.80
5 17/12/2017 Outstanding 6 £200.00 £150.00
6 08/01/2018 Outstanding 6 £500.00 £313.60
 
In its response to Mr Ss complaint Lending Stream agreed to uphold loan one, pay redress 
and remove any adverse information about the loan from Mr Ss credit file. Mr S rejected the 
offer.
As Lending Stream had already offered to put loan one right, our adjudicator didnt have to 
make a finding on that loan in the assessment of the complaint. The adjudicator went onto 
uphold loans two to six as it was clear Mr S was having problems managing his money at 
the time of the lending and the loans shouldnt have been given.
Lending Stream agreed with the adjudicators recommendation. But it said Mr S still owed 
£700 for loans five and six. So, the redress it calculated would be offset against the 
outstanding balance and Mr S would still owe £67.87.Mr S didnt agree with the offer. He didnt think he should have to repay the outstanding 
amount as the loan was unaffordable. 
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr S could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether Mr S could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. As Lending Stream already offered to uphold loan one, like the adjudicator I dont need to 
make a finding on this. And Lending Streams redress calculations were as we would expect 
them to be.
The adjudicator then went onto uphold the complaint about loans two to six on the basis that 
Lending Streams own checks showed that Mr S was struggling with his finances and had 
defaulted on multiple accounts prior to taking loan two. Lending Stream agreed with the 
adjudicator and offered to put the matter right. And again, the calculations for the redress 
were as we would expect them to be. So again, I dont need to make any further findings on 
whether loans two to six shouldve been granted. 
But, for completeness, I confirm I agree that loans one to six should be upheld.
It seems that Mr S didnt make any repayments towards loans 5 and 6, this means the total 
amount of principal outstanding is £700. Lending Streams offer totalled £632.13 so that 
amount would be offset against the outstanding principal balance leaving £67.87 still 
payable. Mr S has said he doesnt think he should have to repay this as the lending was 
unaffordable. I can appreciate why Mr S feels as if he shouldnt repay the principal sum, but 
that isnt the position this service takes. Ive explained below how we look into these types of 
cases. 
When a business has made an error  either because it accepts one has been made or we 
decide something has gone wrong  the starting point, for this service, is that a consumer 
should be put back into the position they would have been in had an error not been made. 
However, this is not always possible especially in cases that involve lending money. 
In cases of irresponsible lending, such as this, this service has to acknowledge that the 
consumer has received a sum of money and has had the benefit of it. This is why in such 
cases we ask the lender to refund any extra that has been repaid by a consumer, so for 
example interest and charges. We also direct any additional interest payment to the 
consumer to reflect the loss of use of those funds. This has the effect of providing the 
consumer with an interest free loan. By doing this, in our view, a fair outcome is reached. 
Ive thought about what Mr S has told us and I do have sympathy for his position. I can 
understand why he wants the outstanding balance written off, and his liability for the lending 
to be ended. But, in the circumstances of this complaint, Im not in the position to ask 
Lending Stream to do that. I know Mr S will be disappointed with my decision, but Ill explain 
why Ive reached it.
Mr S has had use of the funds and I dont think it would be fair in this case, to ask Lending 
Stream to write off this balance. Mr S, as Ive said, has used these funds and I think Lending 
Stream is entitled to recover what was lent  which is what it is proposing to do. 
I accept that Mr S hasnt repaid any of the outstanding balance due on loans five and six, but 
I cant say in this case, that should mean Lending Stream should write the balance off. But 
what Lending Stream should do is treat Mr S fairly when dealing with him and consider all 
reasonable courses of action while trying to recover the outstanding balance.  
I appreciate this decision will come as a disappointment to Mr S, but I want to assure him 
that Ive listened to his concerns, but on this occasion, I think the offer made by Lending 
Stream to resolve the complaint is fair and reasonable. 
Finally, what I would add is that Lending Stream and Mr S ought to try and work together to 
repay the capital amount outstanding, but Id remind Lending Stream of its obligation to treat 
Mr S fairly when doing so.  Putting things right 
For clarification purposes, what Lending Stream needs to do.
If the outstanding balance due on Mr Ss loans five and six has been transferred to a third 
party  which I think it has  Lending Stream should buy the loans back if it can. If Lending 
Stream cant buy the loans back, then it needs to work with the third party to make sure the 
following is achieved: 
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr S towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance.
B) Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr S which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr S originally made the payments, to the 
date the complaint is settled.
C) Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld outstanding loans, 
and treat any repayments made by Mr S as though they had been repayments of the 
principal on all outstanding loans. 
If this results in Mr S having made overpayments then Lending Stream should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
Lending Stream should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step 
E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus, 
then the surplus should be paid to Mr S. However, if there is still an outstanding balance 
then Lending Stream should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr S. 
E) Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ss credit file in relation to one to six. 
                                                                                                                              
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest. Lending 
Stream must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
If after doing the above Mr S still has an outstanding balance due, then Lending Stream 
should try and work together to come to a mutually agreeable repayment plan with Mr S in 
order to repay what is owed. As Ive said above, Id remind Lending Stream of its obligation 
to treat Mr S fairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Ss complaint. Gain Credit LLC 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2020.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman