The complaint
Mr M has complained about Acromas Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy about the 
way it valued his motorhome after a claim under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr M made a claim under his motorhome insurance policy and Acromas looked to settle his 
claim, but he wasnt happy with the valuation of his campervan. So, Mr M complained to 
Acromas as he felt that the offer wasnt enough. And as Acromas didnt change its position 
he complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. He thought 
Acromas had acted reasonably in valuing Mr Ms campervan. But as Mr M didnt agree the 
matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I dont think the 
complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr M, but Ill 
explain why.
I can understand Mr Ms position, as he clearly feels his campervan is worth a lot more than 
Acromas has offered him. And he feels that the offer Acromas has made has left him unable 
to replace his van with a similar model. Mr M provided a number of adverts that he feels 
shows his campervan was worth a few thousand more than Acromas has offered. 
As our investigator explained this service has an established approach to how it looks at 
valuation cases. When looking at the valuation placed on a vehicle by an insurance 
company I consider the approach they have adopted. And decide whether the valuation is 
fair in all the circumstances. But I must highlight that it isnt the role of this service to come to 
an exact valuation for a consumers vehicle, we just look to ensure the insurer has acted 
reasonably in making a fair market value offer. 
I pay attention to the various trade guides used for valuing vehicles and Ive looked at the 
evidence provided by both sides. The adverts Mr M has provided arent like for like but I 
think that is to be expected given the age of his campervan which shows it is difficult to 
gauge the value of the van. Similarly, Acromas couldnt use trade valuations in this instance 
given the age of Mr Ms campervan. But it did look at adverts in forming its view and used its 
engineers opinion in providing what it believed was a fair market value.
As our investigator explained adverts are often overpriced and allow a fair degree of 
DRN-1316776flexibility for negotiation. So I wouldnt expect the vans to sell for the advertised prices and I 
place less weight on these than on trade guides. I know Acromas wasnt able to get any 
valuations from the various trade guides, but Ive been provided with some evidence from 
one of the trade guides. And it is in line with Acromas offer so I cant say its offer was 
unreasonable. 
Although I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr M, I think Acromas has acted 
reasonably and has valued his campervan in a fair and reasonable way. I know his vehicle 
isnt easy to value and I can understand why he feels it is worth more. But Im satisfied that 
Acromas has paid a fair market value in the circumstances which is all it is obliged to under 
the terms of the policy. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman