DRN-2118255
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that One Insurance Limited have unfairly declined their claim for 
legal expenses insurance and provided poor service. 
Where I refer to One Insurance, this includes their agents and claims handlers.
For ease of reading, Ill mostly only refer to Mr B.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview here.
In 2019 Mr B contacted One Insurance to make a claim for the costs of taking legal action. 
He was in dispute with a builder and alleged that the builder was in breach of contract. Mr B 
says that it took him a lot of time and effort to be able to speak to someone about the claim.
Ultimately, when the claim was considered, One Insurance declined it. They said that the 
property dispute section of the policy excluded cover for disputes relating to building work. 
But they accepted there had been poor service and pointed out that the panel solicitor O 
had agreed to:
Send a letter before action to the builder;
If necessary commence court proceedings in Mr Bs name (but that Mr B would be 
liable for the court fee);
Appoint someone to enforce any judgement (but that this would be at Mr Bs cost as 
that isnt covered by the policy);
If the matter is disputed in a significant way, Mr B would need to get his own legal 
advice from an external source. 
One Insurance also offered £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. Mr B didnt 
accept this and referred his complaint to our service. One of our investigators didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld. She agreed with One Insurance that the exclusion had been 
fairly applied and she considered the compensation fair in the circumstances. Mr B 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
In July 2020 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Based on all Ive seen, Im intending to come to a different outcome to our investigator. Let 
me explain why. 
Mr Bs policy says under the property disputes section: We will pay costs for any dispute 
relating to events causing disruption to the quiet enjoyment of your home arising from 
nuisance or the trespass of third parties. Advisors costs to pursue a legal action for financial 
compensation for damages against a person or organisation that causes physical damage to 
your main home
The policy then goes on to list exclusions which include: Any costs relating to disputes 
arising from building, extending, rebuilding, renovating or amending any part of your home. 
The policy also has a contract disputes section which says: We will pay costs for any 
dispute relating to the purchasing or hiring goods and services for your own personal use as 
a consumer. Again there are a number of exclusions listed, but none within this section that 
relate to building work. 
Beyond this there is a further section of the policy that lists General Conditions and 
requirements for the policy. This section includes a further list of exclusions. 
The effect of this is that I think a reasonable reading of the policy is that there are various 
sections of cover under each heading, each with their own exclusions. There are also then 
global conditions and exclusions in the general conditions section which I think can 
reasonably be considered to be applicable to the policy as a whole.
Mr B says that the legal action he wishes to take is for a breach of contract relating to the 
contract he had with the builder for the provision of building services. He has also submitted 
a letter from a solicitor which states that his dispute is better described as a contract dispute 
than a property dispute. 
One Insurance have relied on an exclusion that in my opinion is specific to the property 
dispute section of the policy. But it appears Mr B isnt seeking cover for nuisance, trespass 
or damage to his property which are the heads of cover under that section. And I dont agree 
that the exclusion has been fairly applied in these circumstances. If One Insurances 
intention was to exclude contract disputes relating to building work, Id have expected there 
to be an exclusion in that section of the policy or within the general conditions. 
So, I intend to direct that One Insurance reconsider Mr Bs claim subject to the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy but without considering it to be a property dispute. 
One Insurance also offered Mr B £200 compensation and said theyd take certain actions on 
his behalf to make up for the poor service he received. Dealing with a legal dispute will 
always be a difficult time and so I cant fairly attribute all the stress Mr B experienced to the 
actions of One Insurance. But from what Ive seen so far, I think £200 is a fair amount to 
compensate for the poor service, so Im not intending to direct that this be increased.
Mr B responded and accepted my provisional decision, although he did raise some concerns 
about the legal costs he incurred when he started action outside of his policy which he then 
stopped due to a lack of funds.
One insurance responded to say they disagreed with my decision and raised some further 
points which Ill address below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered everything both parties have said, Im not persuaded to deviate from 
the outcome I reached in my provisional decision. Ill explain why.One Insurance have said that the claim naturally sits as a property dispute and that it would 
be ridiculous for them to have to repeat policy exclusions in more than one section. I dont 
agree this is the case. The property disputes section provides cover for nuisance, trespass 
or damage to property. This isnt the legal action Mr B wished to take. His dispute was with a 
builder about the satisfactory completion of work he was contracted for. Mr B also supplied a 
letter from a solicitor who concluded it would best be described as a contract dispute.
One Insurance or their agents drafted the policy terms. And the onus is on them to be clear 
about what is covered and any applicable exclusions. Here, I dont think it is fair to apply an 
exclusion  which I think the policy documents lead the reader to believe is specific to the 
property disputes section  to a claim relating to a contract dispute. I also dont accept One 
Insurances argument that repeating the exclusion would blur the distinction between 
property and contract disputes and that it would make the policy documents unreasonably 
long. 
I accept One Insurances point that many legal expenses insurers seek to exclude contract 
disputes arising from building work. I just dont agree that a reasonable reading their policy 
documents does so in the circumstances of Mr Bs complaint. 
I also understand the concerns Mr B has raised and he has submitted evidence of some of 
the costs he incurred when he started legal action outside of his policy. But I maintain that a 
fair resolution of this complaint is to direct that One Insurance reconsider the claim. There 
will be other terms and conditions which likely will include the requirement for prospects of 
success and proportionality. So, it wouldnt be fair for me to direct the One Insurance pay 
further redress until theyve had the opportunity to reconsider the claim and ensure that it 
meets the requirements of the policy.
If, but for the exclusion relevant to this complaint, the claim is covered  Id expect One 
Insurance to take appropriate steps if Mr Bs legal position has been prejudiced as a result of 
the initial decision to decline the claim. But this isnt something I can consider or comment on 
here. 
Putting things right
To put things right One Insurance Limited must take the steps detailed below. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
One Insurance Limited must:
Reconsider Mr and Mrs Bs claim against the remaining terms and conditions without 
relying on the exclusion that refers to building work under the property dispute 
section of the policy. 
Unless theyve already done so, pay £200 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 September 2020.
 
Richard AnnandaleOmbudsman