DRN-4505399
The complaint
Mrs S complains about Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (Red Sands) 
handled a claim under her pet insurance policy for treatment of her dog.
References to Red Sands include their agents who administer the policy.
What happened
Mrs S had a pet insurance policy with Red Sands, covering her dog. In February 2023. the 
dog needed surgery for a fractured hip on its right leg . Mrs S subsequently made a claim for 
the cost of the surgery (£3,333.23). But Red Sands declined the claim, saying the condition 
was bilateral, as the dog had fractured its other hip in January 2023. The second claim 
wouldnt be covered as the policy limit on any single condition in any one year was £4,000 
(which had already been exceeded from the claim in January 2023).
Mrs Ss vet said there was no evidence of the condition Red Sands said was present or a 
bilateral condition. The vet provided their diagnosis of the condition to Red Sands and 
discussion with Red Sands followed. Red Sands then said the dogs condition was hip 
dysplasia1  this was disputed by the vet, saying the diagnosis was speculative.
Red Sands considered Mrs Ss challenge as a complaint, but they didnt uphold it. In their 
final response they noted the clinical notes of the dogs treatment, including x-rays which 
Red Sands said showed the dog had a degree of hip dysplasia. Red Sands also referred to 
clinical notes that recorded a comment about suspected degree of hip dysplasia and, 
subsequently, to a claim for treatment of a fracture of the right femur in January 2023. The 
claim was for £3,025.49 to which a deduction of £412.37 was made, as the amount by which 
the claim (with earlier claims) exceeded the policy limit of £4,000 in any one policy year. Red 
Sands then referred to the subsequent claim for a similar fracture in the left leg some four 
weeks later. Red Sands concluded the same fracture in the bilateral opposing hip meant the 
policy wouldnt provide cover until the policy renewed in September 2023.
Red Sands referred to the policy terms and conditions that said a condition in one part of the 
body that previously occurred in another part would be considered as a bilateral condition 
(one condition) and covered by the same policy limit. A condition meant any injury or illness 
with a single cause or diagnosis. Mrs S had accepted the policy terms and conditions when 
she took out the policy. So, Red Sands confirmed they wouldnt accept the second claim.
Mrs S then complained to this Service, disputing Red Sands decline of her claim on the 
basis of a bilateral condition. Shed been affected both financially and emotionally by what 
had happened and the decline of her claim. She wanted Red Sands to settle her claim and 
subsequent invoices for the cost of treatment, up to the policy limit of £4,000. She also 
wanted compensation for the stress and anxiety shed suffered.
1 Hip dysplasia Is a condition that occurs during the growth stage in dogs, resulting in loosening of the hip joint 
which leads to dysfunction and pain. As the dog grows the cartilage and bone of the hip begin to wear down. 
Over time this can lead to arthritis, muscle atrophy and limited mobility. It most commonly affects large-breed 
dogs and research indicates the condition is hereditary.
Our investigator initially didnt uphold Mrs Ss complaint, concluding Red Sands didnt need 
to take any action. She referred to the clinical history of the dog in January 2023 and 
subsequently in February 2023, which together she thought indicated the same fracture in 
both the right and left hips, respectively, in January and February 2023. Looking at the policy 
wording, she thought it was clear that if a pet developed a condition in one part of their body 
which previously occurred in another part of the body (of which the per had two, such as 
legs), that would be considered to be bilateral and treated as one condition and subject to the 
same policy limit of £4,000 in any one policy year. Based on this, the claims for the 
investigation and treatment of the left hip were correctly declined as the policy limit had 
already been reached from the claims for the right hip in January 2023. 
The investigator noted subsequent information from Mrs Ss vet confirmed that while the 
initial diagnosis of the condition was incorrect, the dog had the same femoral head and neck 
excision (FHNE) condition in both the right and left legs. So, Red Sands had correctly 
applied the policy terms and conditions in treating these as one condition, with one policy 
limit for the year, declining the second claim as the limit had already been reached..
Mrs C challenged the investigators initial view, saying her specialist vets opinion there was 
no evidence of hip dysplasia or the initial (incorrect) diagnosis (Legg Perthes). The specialist 
vet also stated their professional opinion the condition wasnt bilateral. In their opinion the 
fractures in both legs in successive months were physeal fractures, fractures through the 
physis (growth plate) which meant a weak point in the bone in growing animals. This was 
different to a pathological fractures, which were spontaneous, occurring as a consequence of 
disease in the bone. In the vets view, pathological fractures would be bilateral  but it would 
be unfair to classify physeal fractures as bilateral. It was an unfortunate coincidence the dog 
suffered two fractures of the same type within a short period, to which the dog was 
predisposed due to its immature age.
Our investigator considered the further points and evidence from Mrs S and her specialist 
vet. However, considering it against the policy wording, she maintained her view Red Sands 
had acted fairly in treating the two fractures as one (bilateral) condition in line with the policy 
terms and conditions.
Mrs S disagreed with the investigators revised conclusions, and requested an ombudsman 
review the complaint. In disagreeing, she said Red Sands had initially declined the claim on 
the grounds of the original diagnoses of Legg Calve Perthes and hip dysplasia. But theyd 
changed their position when her specialist vet said there was no evidence of either condition. 
Mrs S said the policy terms didnt state factures were a bilateral condition. Taking her vets 
opinion, she said the only time fractures could be classified as a bilateral condition was if 
they were caused by a disease or illness (a pathological fracture as the vet had stated). That 
wasnt the case with the fractures that occurred with her dog.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Red Sands have acted fairly towards Mrs S. 
The key issue in Mrs Ss complaint is whether Red Sands acted fairly in treating the two 
episodes of surgery and treatment of Mrs Ss dog in January and February 2023 as a 
bilateral condition, and therefore as one condition for the purposes of assessing the claims 
against the policy limit of £4,000 in any one year for any one condition. Red Sands say they 
acted in line with the policy terms and conditions in treating the two episodes as one, bilateral condition and then assessing them against the policy limit. Mrs S, supported by the 
view of her specialist vet, says its unfair to treat the two episodes as one condition, that they 
werent bilateral. So, Red Sands should consider the second claim as a separate condition, 
against the ;policy limit of £4,000.
In considering the issue, Ive first considered Mrs Ss point that Red Sands initially treated 
the two episodes as one condition, based on the original diagnoses of Legg Calve Perthes 
and hip dysplasia. But theyd changed their position when her specialist vet said there was 
no evidence of either condition and the two episodes were hip fractures (with the cause 
being physeal fractures, not pathological fractures). While there is some indication from the 
clinical notes about hip dysplasia, given the central point of disagreement is whether the two 
hip fractures (in the right leg and left leg respectively in January 2023 and February 2023) 
should be considered a bilateral condition, Ive focused on this issue given the opinion of the 
specialist vet that carried out the surgery on both occasions.
Ive considered both views carefully, including the relevant terms and conditions of the policy 
together with the supporting information and evidence, including the clinical history of Mrs 
Ss dog and the views of her specialist vet. Starting with the terms and conditions of the 
policy, Red Sands refer to the following extract from the policy booklet  in their final 
response, in respect of bilateral conditions, under a heading Conditions that affect both sides 
of the body:
If your pet develops a condition in one part of their body that theyve previously had 
in another part of their body, well class it as one condition. This is called a bilateral 
condition, and both cases will be covered under the same vet fees limit. Bilateral 
conditions usually appear in places your pet has more than one of, such as ears, 
eyes and elbows.
For example, your pet may need treatment for an injured cruciate ligament in their left 
leg that costs £500. If you have our Super policy, which has a £1,000 limit, there 
would be £500 left for treatment if they injured the cruciate ligament in their right leg. 
This is because wed class these as the same condition.
A similar wording is contained in the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) which 
summarises the key elements of the policy. Under a heading Are there any restrictions on 
cover? it states:
! If your pet has a condition affecting a body part of which your pet has two, this will 
be considered as one condition.
Red Sands say that condition means any injury or illness with a single cause or diagnosis.
So, the key in this case is whether the clinical history of the dog (and the views of Mrs Ss 
specialist vet) indicates the same condition treated in January and February 2023, albeit on 
different legs of the dog. In considering this point, Ive carefully read the full opinion of Mrs 
Ss specialist vet and I think its important to set out what I think are the key aspects of their 
view. They say:
By definition a bilateral condition is a medical condition that affects both sides of 
the bodyA fracture can technically be classified as bilateral if it happens on both 
sides, and that may occur in  pathological fractures. Pathological fractures are 
spontaneous fractures that occur as a consequence of a disease in the bone 
(example is bone cancer). A physeal fracture (or Salter-Harris fracture), is a fracture 
through the physis (growth plate). Immature animals have open physis while they are 
growing, These physis are weak points in the bone because they are cartilage instead of bone. Due to the intrinsic weakness, fracture through the physis can occur 
with mild trauma. This is not considered a pathological fracture, as the bone has no 
disease.
[Name of dog] suffered a physeal fracture of the proximal right femur and 
approximately one month later suffered the same fracture on the left femur. This is a 
very unfortunate presentation and is unfair to classify it as bilateral. [Name of dog] 
had two fractures in a very short period of time, it was a coincidence that it happened 
to be the same type of fracture
In [name of dogs] case, it was predisposed to physeal fracture due to the age 
(immature). There was no confirmation with the investigations carried out that [name 
of dog] suffered hip dysplasia
Looking at the vets opinion, its clear Mrs Ss dog suffered the same fracture in both legs, 
which the vet thinks the dog was pre-disposed to because of its age. Looking at this opinion 
against the wording of the policy terms and conditions about bilateral conditions, I think it 
would be reasonably considered to be a condition in one part of the body that theyve 
previously had in another part of their body. That is, a condition that occurred in the right leg 
and then in the left leg a month later. 
While the vet draws a distinction between a pathological fracture and a physeal fracture, the 
wording of the policy doesnt make such a distinction, so I cant say Red Sands have acted 
unfairly in applying the bilateral condition wording to the case of Mrs Ss dog. 
Mrs S also says the policy terms dont state factures were a bilateral condition. But I dont 
agree this means Red Sands have acted unfairly. Thats because I wouldnt expect the 
policy to list every conceivable condition or injury that might be considered bilateral. Rather, 
the wording of the policy would be interpreted in the specific circumstances of a case. 
Im satisfied the policy wording can reasonably be interpreted to conclude the respective 
fractures were the same (bilateral) condition and so Red Sands acted fairly in treating them 
as one condition and applying the policy limit of £4,000 for any one condition in any one 
policy year, to decline the second claim for the cost of treatment.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2024.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman