DRN-3193498
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain because Chaucer Insurance Company Designated Activity Company 
(Chaucer) hasnt paid a claim for a cancelled holiday under their travel insurance policy. 
All references to Chaucer include the agents it has appointed to handle claims on its behalf.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs H held a single trip travel insurance policy, provided by Chaucer. The policy was
purchased in January 2020 and also covered their children.
Mr and Mrs H were due to travel abroad with their children on 27 March 2020. On 15 March
2020, the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  formerly the
Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)), advised against all but essential travel to the
country Mr and Mrs H were due to visit.
The following day, 16 March 2020, Mr and Mrs Hs airline cancelled their flights. Mr and Mrs
H made a claim under their policy with Chaucer for their accommodation costs, which they
were originally told were fully non-refundable. Mr and Mrs H have subsequently received a
60% refund of the money they paid from their accommodation provider.
Chaucer said the cancellation section of Mr and Mrs Hs policy didnt cover the
circumstances they found themselves in. Unhappy, Mr and Mrs H complained to Chaucer
before bringing their complaint to the attention of our service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and said she didnt think Mr and Mrs Hs
claim was covered under the terms and conditions of their policy. However, she thought it
would be fair and reasonable for Chaucer to pay their claim regardless. Our investigator said
Mr and Mrs Hs policy wouldnt have provided cover if theyd travelled against FCDO advice,
so she didnt think it was fair or reasonable for them to be left in the position of having no
cover if they travelled but also having no cover if they cancelled their holiday.
Chaucer didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so Mr and Mrs Hs complaint was 
referred to me. I made my provisional decision about this complaint in November 2021. In it, 
I said:
Industry rules and guidance
Relevant regulatory rules (the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Principles for
Business) say:
a firm should pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
The FCAs Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) requires insurers to:
act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its
customer;
handle claims promptly and fairly.
ICOBS 6 also requires insurers to give customers appropriate information about a policy in
good time and in a way that is easy to understand. This is so the customer can make an
informed decision about the arrangements proposed. Appropriate information includes the
information that must be set out in an Insurance Product Information Document (IPID)
which gives customers an at a glance summary of their cover. This includes a summary of
the insurance cover including the main risks insured, the insured sum and, where applicable,
the geographical scope and summary of excluded risks.
Relevant regulatory guidance (the FCAs The Responsibilities of Providers and Distributors
for the Fair Treatment of Customers) says firms should consider the impact of their actions 
or inactions  on the customer throughout the lifecycle of the service being provided.
Mr and Mrs Hs policy documentation
Ive looked at the documents relevant to Mr and Mrs Hs policy  the terms and conditions
and the IPID from the time the policy was sold, provided by Chaucer.
The terms and conditions of the policy, at page 7 under the heading Geographical Areas
says:
Please note: this policy does not cover your travel to a country or specific area or
event to which the Travel Advice Unit of the Foreign & Commonwealth Office or the
World Health Organisation has advised against all travel or all but essential travel.
At page 11, under the heading General Exclusions Applicable To The Whole Policy, the
terms and conditions say:
We will not cover the following
18. Any claim arising as a direct result of a situation highlighted by the Foreign and
Commonwealth Office where you have travelled to a specific country or to an area
where, prior to your trip commencing, the Foreign & Commonwealth Office have
advised against all (but essential) travel.
Page 1 of the IPID, under the heading What is not insured says:
Travelling to a country or to an area where, prior to your trip commencing, the FCO
have advised against all (but essential) travel.
On the date Mr and Mrs H cancelled their trip (and on the date they were due to travel, 27
March 2020), the FCDO was advising against all but essential travel to their intended
destination. So, if Mr and Mrs H had disregarded FCDO advice and gone ahead and
travelled anyway (if it had been possible to do so), they would have had no cover
whatsoever under their policy. This means Mr and Mrs H and their children wouldnt have
had the benefit of multiple sections of cover including missed departure, lost or stolen
baggage or emergency medical treatment abroad. So, in effect, if Mr and Mrs H had
travelled then their policy would have been of no use to them.
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Hs policy, at page 20 under the heading
Cancellation Or Curtailment Charges, say Chaucer will pay for certain costs if:
a) cancellation of the trip is necessary and unavoidableas a result of any of the following events:
1. The death, bodily injury, illness, disease, or complications of pregnancy of:
a) you
b) any person who you are travelling with
c) any person who you have arranged to stay with
d) your close relative
e) your close business associate
2. You or any person who you are travelling with being quarantined on the orders of
a treating doctor, called as a witness at a Court of Law or for jury service
attendance.
3. Redundancy of you or any person who you are travelling with (which qualifies for
payment under current UK redundancy payment legislation, and at the time of
booking the trip there was no reason to believe anyone would be made
redundant).
4. You or any person who you are travelling with, are a member of the Armed
Forces, Territorial Army, Police, Fire, Nursing or Ambulance Services or
employees of a Government Department and have your/their authorised leave
cancelled or are called up for operational reasons, provided that the cancellation
or curtailment could not reasonably have been expected at the time when you
purchased this insurance or at the time of booking any trip, which occurred or
became apparent within 5 days prior to the commencement of your trip or during
the course of your trip.
5. The Police or other authorities requesting you to stay at or return to your home
due to serious damage to your home caused by fire, aircraft, explosion, storm,
flood, subsidence, fallen trees, collision by road vehicles, malicious people or
theft.
Mr and Mrs H cancelled their trip because the FCDO advised against all but essential travel
to their intended destination (and their airline subsequently cancelled their flights). This isnt
one of the specific, listed insured events for which cancellation cover is provided under this
policy.
So, Mr and Mrs Hs claim isnt covered under the terms and conditions of their policy.
Therefore, Mr and Mrs H werent covered under their policy when they followed FCDO
advice and cancelled their trip. But they also would have had no cover under their policy if
theyd travelled against FCDO advice.
What is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances
In line with my remit, I also need to consider what I think is fair and reasonable in all the
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. In doing so, Ive had regard to the industry rules
and guidance outlined above, as well as to the relevant law (including the unfair terms
provisions in the Consumer Rights Act 2015).
Having done so, I dont think its fair or reasonable in the circumstances for Mr and Mrs H to
have no cover when they had to cancel their holiday due to a change in FCDO advice after
theyd bought the policy. Ill explain why.
I dont think the exclusion from cover of cancellation claims arising from the FCDO advisingagainst travel was clearly sign-posted to Mr and Mrs H, and I think the implications of this
werent made clear to them. I think this has left Mr and Mrs H in an unfair position.
The policy exclusions relating to travelling against FCDO advice which Ive quoted above
dont say that no cover is provided for the cancellation of a holiday in the event of FCDO
advice changing between the date the policy was purchased and the policyholders date of
departure. And, cancellation claims due to the FCDO advising against all but essential travel
arent included in the What is not insured section of the IPID, nor are they mentioned as a
specific exclusion under the Cancellation Or Curtailment Charges section of cover. The
IPID only contains the general exclusion that policyholders wont be covered if they travel
against FCDO advice.
Page 3 of Mr and Mrs Hs terms and conditions set out the schedule of benefits payable
under the policy. This says, amongst other things, that Mr and Mrs H can claim up to £2,000
per person in the event of cancellation of a trip (based on the Premier level of cover which
they held). Similar information is contained in the IPID. The IPID also says it is:
only intended to provide a summary of the main coverage and exclusions, it does
not replace the policy terms and conditions. Complete pre-contractual and
contractual information on the product is provided in your policy documentation.
Overall, this means a consumer would need to go further into the detail of their policy
wording to know whether they could successfully claim if they had to cancel their trip
because of changes to FCDO advice after theyd bought their policy.
When a consumer reaches page 20 of their policy documentation, which sets out the
cancellation cover available, claims arising from a change in FCDO advice arent listed as a
specific exclusion. Instead, claims for this reason are not listed as included within the cover.
Overall, I dont think the fact that theres no cover under this policy for cancellation claims in
the event of FCDO advice changing was clearly brought to Mr and Mrs Hs attention.
I dont think its fair or reasonable to expect consumers to be required to read the terms and
conditions thoroughly from beginning to end in order to understand important issues
regarding what is and isnt covered. I think policyholders would be entitled to expect a
restriction like an exclusion from cover for cancellation claims relating to a change in FCDO
advice to be more prominent (for example, to be in the IPID).
I also think the exclusion from cover of cancellation claims arising from a change in FCDO
advice isnt transparent enough. The section of the policy setting out what will be covered if
the policyholder is unable to travel is at page 20. But the exclusions relating to travelling
against FCDO advice arent presented in the same place. I think the way the cancellation
section of cover and the exclusions relating to travelling against FCDO advice are presented
separately means their combined effect isnt clear.
Chaucer has said that, if Mr and Mrs H had wished to purchase cover for cancellation of a
trip arising from changes in FCDO advice, they could have done so (at a higher premium).
However, for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think it would have been obvious to Mr
and Mrs H that they would have no cover whatsoever under this policy if FCDO travel advice
to their destination changed after they bought the policy. And, even with a cooling off period
allowing for the policy to be cancelled within 14 days of purchase, I think a consumer might
not be able to easily understand the full effect of the policy.
In the circumstances, I think this is unfair and results in a significant imbalance between Mr
and Mrs H and Chaucer. Mr and Mrs H were left without any cover at all when FCDO advicechanged and I think this shifted the rights and obligations under the contract significantly in
Chaucers favour. I think the terms and conditions didnt properly take Mr and Mrs Hs
interests into account and Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs H would have freely agreed to a
policy that left them without any cover in these circumstances if theyd realised that was how
the policy would operate. If they had, theyd have been able to purchase alternative cover. At
the time Mr and Mrs H bought their insurance, there were other travel insurance policies
available on the market which would have covered the circumstances they subsequently
found themselves in.
So, overall, I think the way the information about the cover available under this policy was
presented wasnt fair and I dont think Chaucer was acting in the best interests of its
customers when presenting the information in the way it did.
Therefore, I think the fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances would be for
Chaucer to treat Mr and Mrs Hs claim as covered under the Cancellation Or Curtailment
Charges section of their policy, and to assess their claim in line with the remaining policy
terms and conditions.
Mr and Mrs H replied to my provisional decision and said they agreed they didnt realise they 
would have no cover under their policy if FCDO advice changed, especially as the policy 
was branded as Premier.
Chaucer said it didnt agree with my provisional decision and sent a detailed response, 
which Ive summarised as follows:
Mr and Mrs Hs policy operates on a specified perils basis of cover only. Cancellation 
of a trip due to a pandemic or changes in FCDO advice isnt a specified peril, so no 
cover exists for the losses Mr and Mrs H are claiming for; 
The premium charged for this policy was reflective of the level of cover provided and 
Mr and Mrs Hs claim shouldnt be treated more favourably than those of others who 
have had their claims declined;
The IPID clearly highlights that there is no cover for travelling against FCDO advice, 
and the policy wording is clear that this is a general exclusion which applies to the 
entire policy. Therefore, this exclusion was signposted to Mr and Mrs H. Furthermore, 
an exclusion for travelling against FCDO advice is common in the market and the 
exclusion isnt unfair;
Mr and Mrs H had cover for the cancellation of a trip if cancellation arose from a 
cause specified in the policy. Changes to FCDO advice not being an insured peril 
does not equate to there being no cover under the policy;
Its for the policyholder to read and understand their policy wording and supporting 
documentation. If Mr and Mrs H required a policy that covered cancellation due to 
changes in FCDO advice, then they could have purchased one that contained such 
cover.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand and acknowledge that Mr and Mrs Hs claim isnt covered under a strict 
interpretation of their policy terms and conditions. However, my over-riding remit is to decide what I think is fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of Mr and Mrs Hs 
complaint. Regardless of what outcome has been reached in other cases, having considered 
the IPID and policy terms and conditions which are relevant to Mr and Mrs Hs claim, I think 
it would be fair and reasonable for Chaucer to treat this claim as covered under the 
cancellation section of the policy. 
An insurer is entitled to decide what level of risk it is prepared to accept in return for the 
payment of a premium but, for the reasons Ive set out in my provisional decision, I dont 
think the way the information about the cover available under this policy was presented was 
fair. 
While the IPID and general exclusions of the policy state that no cover is provided for 
travelling against FCDO advice, neither the IPID nor the policy terms and conditions state 
that no cover is provided for cancellation of a trip due to changes in FCDO advice. 
I dont dispute that Mr and Mrs H would have had cover under the cancellation section of 
their policy if one of the listed events stated as insured under that section had happened. But 
the fact remains that Mr and Mrs H found themselves in a position of having no cover 
whatsoever under their policy when FCDO advice changed after they booked their trip  they 
had no cover for cancelling their trip and theyd also have had no cover whatsoever if theyd 
gone ahead and travelled regardless. 
I think, if this had been made clear to Mr and Mrs H in their policy documentation, theyd 
have been in a position to buy alternative insurance cover which did cover cancellation due 
to changes in FCDO advice. 
Therefore, I wont be changing my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
Chaucer needs to put things right by assessing Mr and Mrs Hs claim under the cancellation 
section of their cover, subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy including 
any excess and/or policy limits.  
My final decision
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint against Chaucer Insurance Company Designated 
Activity Company and I direct it to put things right in the way Ive outlined above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman