DRN-2910273
The complaint
B, a limited company, complains about an exclusion in the business insurance policy it has 
with Hiscox Underwriting Limited.
Bs complaint is brought to this service by its directors, and so for clarity, any reference to 
Bs submissions includes those made by its directors on its behalf.
What happened
B has a business insurance policy with Hiscox. It provides cover for things such as, but not 
limited to; personal accident, professional indemnity, and public and products liability. 
In 2020, one of Bs directors made a claim under the personal accident element of its cover. 
The director had been advised by their GP not to work in view of the covid-19 pandemic and 
them being pregnant at the time. 
Hiscox declined the claim. It said the circumstances of the directors absence didnt fall 
within the terms of the personal accident cover  which it explained was designed to respond 
in the event someone was unable to work because of an accidental bodily injury or illness. 
Hiscox sent B another copy of the policy terms to support its decision, but having reviewed 
them, B complained about a pregnancy related exclusion and said it was a breach of the 
Equality Act 2010. 
Hiscox acknowledged the exclusion but didnt think it was a breach of the Equality Act. It 
said its policy wouldnt discriminate against a customer or treat them less favourably 
because of pregnancy. And that if there was a bodily injury or illness, a customers policy 
wouldnt be affected on the basis of them being pregnant. 
B remained unhappy with Hiscoxs position and approached this service. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened and having done so, didnt think the 
Equality Act applied and or that the claim had been declined unfairly. So, they didnt 
recommend Bs complaint be upheld.
B disagreed with those findings. It reiterated its concerns and said itd been sold cover for 
eventualities in which someone was unable to work. So, as no agreement was reached the 
matter was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Businesses are entitled to choose what levels of risks they do and do not want to insure 
when underwriting their policies. In this case, Hiscox has underwritten a pregnancy related 
exclusion into its business insurance policy. That exclusion reads:
We will not make any payment under this section forany accidental bodily injury or illness 
directly or indirectly arising out of or contributed to bypregnancy or childbirth. However, 
this does not apply to compassionate leave granted as a direct result of complications from 
pregnancy or childbirth.
It isnt my role to make a specific legal finding that Hiscox has, or has not, acted in breach 
the Equality Act. Findings on such questions of law are matters for the courts, not this 
service. However, having said that, I am not persuaded that the Equality Act actually applies 
to Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
The personal accident claim that Bs director made was not declined because of the 
pregnancy exclusion or because its director was pregnant. It was declined because there 
was no evidence of its director having suffered an accidental bodily injury or an illness. 
In line with the relevant rules and regulations, Hiscox must consider a claim both promptly 
and fairly, and it must not reject it unreasonably. Looking at the relevant terms and 
conditions in this complaint I can see the policy sets out that Hiscox will:
pay you the weekly benefit shown in the schedule if an insured personsuffers 
accidental bodily injury or illness which results in their temporary disablement; or is 
granted compassionate leave.
The policy specifically defines accidental bodily injury as:
An identifiable physical injury (including illness and sickness solely and directly resulting 
from the injury but not including any other illness, sickness, disease or naturally occurring 
condition), which is caused by a sudden, unexpected, specific event occurring at an 
identifiable time and place during both the period of insurance and the active time and which 
results in the insured persons death, permanent disablement or temporary disablement, 
within 24 calendar months of the date of the event. 
And it defines illness as: 
Disablement due to illness, sickness or disease which first manifests during the period of 
insurance and which results in the insured persons temporary disablement.
So I think its clear that an individual has to have suffered an accidental bodily injury or an 
illness in order to be eligible for the personal accident cover. And having considered 
everything that has been made available to this service, I am unable to identify any evidence 
which demonstrates that Bs director did suffer from an accidental bodily injury or an illness. 
I do acknowledge that Bs director had been advised not to work by their GP. And I fully 
appreciate that may have been both a challenging and upsetting time for them. But in view of 
the above terms I think Hiscox declined this claim in line with the relevant policy terms. 
I know B has concerns about Hiscoxs exclusion being discriminatory on a wider basis, but 
that is not a matter for this service to consider. My role here is to look at the individual 
circumstances of this complaint, and for the reasons given above I am satisfied that Hiscox 
declined Bs claim reasonably.
I am also aware that B says it was sold cover for eventualities in which someone was unable 
to work. I agree with this argument to some extent  because B was sold personal accident 
cover which would provide benefit in the event that someone was unable to work. But, like all 
insurance policies, the availability of that cover was subject to specific terms and conditions. Having listened to the sales call, Hiscox did not say that its personal accident cover would 
cover every eventuality that might lead to an individual being unable to work. And I note that 
its call handler referred to the personal accident cover being available in the event of 
someone being in an accident or suffering from an illness. So I dont think that Hiscox said 
the personal accident provision would cover all eventualities.
I realise that B may be further disappointed by these findings, but having considered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable, I will not be 
upholding its complaint against Hiscox Underwriting Limited.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman