DRN-4161309
The complaint
The estate of Mrs C has complained about a second charge secured loan that Mrs C held 
with Prestige Finance Limited.
Mrs T is representing the estate, and raised the following complaint points:
The loan ran past Mrs Cs planned retirement age.
A credit search wasnt carried out at the time the loan was taken.
The valuation of the property was only an external inspection, and the property was 
overvalued as a result as it was in a dilapidated state internally.
The direct debit wasnt set up immediately, which meant extra interest was charged.
The total repayment amount of the loan was estimated at approximately £120,000 for a 
£46,000 loan, which seems rather excessive.
Mrs C was in financial difficulty at the time of the sale, and was sold a product with a 
higher than normal interest rate, which pushed her further into difficulty.
In 2006 / 2007 the outstanding debt was increasing, rather than decreasing.
The interest rate being charged had increased even though the Bank of England base
rate has decreased.
What happened
This loan was taken out in October 2006 with a different lender and was for £40,000 plus 
PPI and fees. It was set up with a term of 25 years and had an initial interest rate of 9.06% 
variable. This gave an initial payment of around £390 a month.
The loan was transferred to Prestige in November 2015, and it has confirmed it has the 
responsibility to deal with complaints about things that happened before it took over the loan.
Mrs C died in June 2020, and later that year the property was sold. In the meantime, a 
complaint was raised by the estate. The original complaint was raised in a phone call and, 
from the notes recorded at the time, that related to the term of the loan, the amount due to 
be repaid and the value of the property versus the loan amount.
In August 2020 Mrs T emailed Prestige and detailed all the complaint points Ive set out 
above. Prestige didnt uphold the complaint and so Mrs T referred matters to our service.
The complaint was looked at by one of our investigators. She said that we couldnt consider 
the original sale of the loan as our jurisdiction didnt cover events before 1 April 2014 for this 
loan. That left the complaint point about the interest rate that was being charged (since 
1 April 2014), and how that varied. She didnt uphold that part of the complaint.
Mrs T asked that the matter be passed to an ombudsman to decide.
I previously issued a decision about our jurisdiction. In that I said the only part of this 
complaint we have the power to consider is in respect of the interest rate charged since 12 
August 2014 because everything else hadnt been complained about in time.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Earlier this month I issued a provisional decision about the complaint point Id said we could 
consider, the findings of which said:
Was the interest rate term fair?
Mrs Cs loan agreement says in section G:
The rate of interest will increase or decrease if and to the extent that there is a change in 
[original lender] base lending rate (see Condition 1 (3) and 3 (2) on page 2)
Those two conditions say:
References to [original lender] base lending rate means the base lending rate of 
[original lender] from time to time or, if no such rate exists, such other rate or rates as 
[original lender] may from time to time decide .
In the event of [original lender] base lending rate increasing or decreasing after this 
agreement takes effect, the rate of interest at letter G on the front of this agreement (or 
the rate of interest at that time) will be increased or decreased by the same percentage 
point(s), or fraction of a percentage point, as [original lender] base lending rate.
Having considered the agreement very carefully, Im satisfied it is clear the interest rate is 
variable, and it should vary in-line with any changes to the original lenders published base 
lending rate (BLR). Im also satisfied that the term is clear and fairly set out. I think it should 
have therefore been clear to Mrs C when she agreed to take out the loan that the initial 
interest wasnt fixed, it might vary and, if it does vary, what would impact that. 
Was the term applied fairly?
We know that the terms of Mrs Cs agreement set out that her interest rate would vary in-
line with any changes to the original lenders BLR. If that rate ceases to exist, the variable 
rate should vary in-line with another appropriate rate chosen by the business.
The BLR rate was publicly available, and weve obtained the historic rate information for 
the period in question. The BLR would have varied depending on the original lenders cost 
of funding and risk analysis. After January 2009, even though its cost of funding was 
constantly increasing, the original lender didnt pass any more of these costs on to its 
customers, instead maintaining the BLR at the January 2009 level. So, although the BLR
diverged from the cost of funding, this was only for the consumers benefit.
Between 12 August 2014 and November 2015 (which is when Prestige took over the loan) 
the interest rate should have varied in-line with the BLR. We know that, during this period, 
there were no changes to the BLR and no changes to Mrs Cs variable rate. So, I cant say that the lender acted unfairly during this period as the terms have been applied 
consistently.
When Prestige took over the agreement, it decided that the loan should follow the Bank of 
England base rate instead (as the BLR ceased to exist). The Bank of England base rate is 
an external benchmark and set independently, and not at the lenders discretion. It is also a 
published rate. Having considered everything, it is difficult to see how this would be an 
unfair benchmark rate to follow.
From what Ive seen, Prestige consistently implemented any changes to the Bank of 
England base rate to Mrs Cs variable rate, so Im satisfied then that Prestige has acted 
fairly too.
Mrs Cs loan was never set out to track the Bank of England base rate. I appreciate that 
since Prestige took over, her rate has followed the Bank of England base rate, but there 
was no obligation for it to do so prior to this. All that said, for the entire period Im able to 
consider, I can see the interest rate did follow the changes made to the Bank of England 
base rate and so I cant say Prestige acted unfairly.
Both sides confirmed receipt of my provisional decision and said they had nothing further to 
add. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and having read the full file afresh, I see no reason to depart from the 
findings in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs C 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 June 2023. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman