DRN-3939347
The complaint
Mr N complains about unsuitable advice from Tier One Capital Ltd to invest in a construction 
project, which was a private funding circle (PFC) investment. He says when he wanted his 
money returned he was told this wasnt possible.
What happened
Mr N became a Tier One client in 2015. Mr Ns circumstances at that time were noted as 
follows:
he was aged 44, married and had two children;
he was a company director, receiving a yearly salary of £12,000 and dividends of 
£60,000;
he owned his home worth £400,000, and had savings of almost £150,000;
he had experience of commercial/buy-to-let property, but no other significant 
investment experience.
An attitude to risk questionnaire was completed, which recorded Mr Ns attitude to risk as 
highest medium.
In April 2015, he was advised to invest £25,000 into the WA project. This was to be part of a 
syndicated loan of up to £2.75 million, which would be used to support the construction of 
new build homes. It was a two-year loan paying quarterly interest at 10% per year.
This investment was successfully redeemed. Then in February 2018, Tier One 
recommended that Mr N reinvest the £25,000 into the project, which he agreed to. This was 
again part of a syndicated loan, this time up to £5 million.
In January 2020, Mr N complained to Tier One. He said his original investment contract was 
for two years, hed asked for his funds to be returned, and it wasnt acceptable that he was 
told he had to keep extending the loan.
By this point the project had begun to experience difficulties, which affected interest 
payments on the loan and ultimately the return of his investment to Mr N.
Tier One issued a final response letter in August 2020. It acknowledged there had been 
gaps in the sales process with regard to record keeping. Tier One suggested delaying the 
resolution of the complaint until the project had finished, so there would be a clearer picture 
of what losses had been incurred. Alternatively, Tier One said it could work on the basis of 
an assumed loss of 40% - taking account of the interest already been paid, it said this 
equated to a loss of around £286. Tier One offered to pay this, together with £1,000 as a 
gesture of goodwill.
Mr N wasnt satisfied with the response and referred his complaint to this service. When 
replying to our service, Tier One said the advice given to Mr N had been suitable but our 
investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He said:
This was an unregulated investment. This type of investment could be recommended 
to high net worth individuals and self-certified sophisticated investors but Mr N didnt 
appear to meet the criteria for either of these.
The regulator advised that unregulated investments should not make up more than a 
very small part of an investors portfolio, and Tier Ones own guidelines didnt 
recommend investments such as this to amount to more than 30% of the total 
invested, but Mr N had other funds in unregulated investments and this investment 
would take him well above these guidelines.
So Tier One should not have recommended this investment.
The investigator recommended that Tier One carry out a calculation to compare the 
performance of the 2018 investment with a benchmark to see if Mr N had suffered a loss 
and, if he had, to compensate him for that.
Tier One didnt agree with the investigators view. I wont set out its comments in full, but in 
summary they included:
The risks were all explained to Mr N and he accepted them, both when he made the 
initial investment in 2015 and again in 2018 when he decided to reinvest the funds 
after the initial investment had been successful.
The summary of Mr Ns circumstances wasnt accurate; he had assets of £1.14m and 
investable assets of over £740,000, so he was both a high net worth and 
sophisticated investor. The investment amounted to 2.2% of Mr Ns total assets and 
3.3% of his investable assets  well within the regulators guidelines.
Its likely Mr Ns loss will amount to about 10% of his investment of £25,000, 
equivalent to 0.17% of his total assets.
Mr N made various investments both personally and in his business capacity, and 
was a frequent investor in unlisted companies, including at least one such investment 
in 2015, before he signed the high net worth and sophisticated investor certificate 
confirming he met the criteria for these. It complied with all regulatory requirements 
about categorising him in this way.
The investigator considered Tiers Ones comments but still thought the complaint should be 
upheld. He said:
His figures were based on the client asset summary, which included Mr Ns holdings 
in 2015 and 2018.
The assets Tier One had referred to included Mr Ns home, which wouldnt be 
regarded as investable  and nor would an investment property, which was referred 
to as Mr Ns parents house, or the shares in Mr Ns business which couldnt easily 
be sold without any impact on his business.
Based on the client asset summary document and review letter, Mr Ns investable 
assets were around £524,000 and the amount held in private funding circle 
investments was £175,000  or 33%. With that level of exposure to this type of 
investment, further investments of this type were not suitable. 
Although by 2018 Mr N could be regarded as a high net worth or sophisticated 
investor, the advice was nevertheless unsuitable.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint was passed to me to determine. I issued a 
provisional decision in which I agreed that the complaint should be upheld, but with a slightly 
different remedy. I set out my reasoning as follows:
Tier One gave Mr N advice about his investment. To do this, it needed to gather enough 
information about his circumstances to be able to advise, and ensure its recommendations 
were suitable for him.
Mr N completed a questionnaire in 2015. This recorded his attitude to risk as highest 
medium. His answers to the questions indicated he was prepared to take some risk in order 
to achieve investment gains. But he said he could only stand to lose a very small amount of 
the investment  recorded as None or very limited (0-5%).Mr Ns total assets were over £1m. but that included his home and other assets that were 
not liquid and couldnt easily be sold, including for example shares in his company. The 
assets that were investable amounted to around £525,000. I agree that by 2018 he could be 
considered a high net worth investor, and he did have a range of investments including other 
unregulated investments. I also agree the information provided to him included warnings 
about the risks involved. But providing risk warnings doesnt mean an unsuitable investment 
becomes suitable.
Unregulated investments dont provide the same protection as regulated investments, such 
as the cover given by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme. And the nature of such 
investments means they are likely to be more volatile or have liquidity issues. The suitability 
report for this project highlighted some of the risks, including that the borrower might fail in 
its obligatory payments, the underlying property investments were subject to changes in 
market value and, as there was no secondary market, the investment couldnt be traded 
easily.
The regulator has said unregulated collective investment schemes (UCIS) are rarely 
suitable for more than a small share of an investors portfolio. Even if this project didnt meet 
the definition of a UCIS it was unregulated and shared some of the risks of a UCIS, so I think 
the same principles apply. Mr N had other unregulated investments. The level of these taken 
together was much higher than the regulators guidelines and higher than Tier Ones own 
guideline of 30%.
I appreciate Mr N had business experience and that by 2018 he had a range of investments 
through Tier One. But these investments were based on the advice given to him. He had an 
investment property but this appears to have come from his family. And I note he specifically 
referred to the fact this investment was property based and had the security of a charge in 
place. He seemed to think this gave him personally some security for the loan. He made 
various references to the investment being asset backed. I think he found the idea of having 
land or properties acting as a security reassuring. But this was a syndicated loan, so Mr N 
had no priority over any other investors. I dont think Mr N would have understood the full 
risks of PFC in general. And the fact he had a portfolio of direct lending investments by 2018 
actually exposed him to more risk.
Mr N was prepared to take some risk. Tier One says he prefers to avoid investing in stocks 
and shares and is more comfortable with direct lending due to its asset-backed nature. It 
also says Mr N fully understood how the security was held. But as Ive said, he thought this 
investment gave him some personal security when that wasnt the case. From the outset, 
this was a higher risk, non-standard and unregulated investment. Taking into account his 
circumstances and the level of exposure he had to high risk unregulated investments, I dont 
consider it was suitable for him. And I dont think he would have invested in this if he hadnt 
been advised to do so. This includes the investment in 2015 and 2018.
I think its fair that any gains and interest payments from the initial £25,000 investment in 
April 2015 are taken into account when calculating redress as they are linked, and my award 
allows for this.
I set out in detail the directions I intended to make for Tier One to carry out a calculation of 
loss. I said Mr Ns first investment in 2015 was successful and he received interest payments 
 it was the investment in February 2018 which may cause losses. But the calculation should 
include all his gains and losses from the WA investments as they all need to be taken into 
account; with suitable advice he wouldnt have earned any interest from the WA 
investments.I said to compensate Mr N, Tier One should compare the value of Mr N's investment in the 
project with a benchmark, and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value 
of the investment. 
Replies to the provisional decision
Mr N has replied to confirm he accepts the provisional decision.
Tier One does not agree with the findings. It has referred to all the points it has made 
previously and provided some further comments, which I will summarise as follows:
Mr N has another complaint and some of the comments in the provisional decision 
seem to be confused with that complaint.
The provisional decision says the remedy is different from that proposed by the 
investigator. For completeness it would like an explanation of the differences and the 
reason for issuing a provisional decision.
The provisional decision says that by 2018 Mr N had a range of investments through 
Tier One, based on the advice given to him. But he already held an investment 
portfolio before he came to Tier One for advice.
The WA project concluded in July 2022 and Mr N received a total return of 
£23,237.64, creating a loss of £2,762.36. The remedy Mr N was seeking was to 
repay my investment. Any remedy should be based on this loss.
It contests the proposed benchmark, which is not appropriate  it hasnt been able to 
find any investment product that gives exposure to the performance of the FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income Total Return Index. It would like an explanation of why the 
redress is based on an index that its not possible for investors to gain exposure to 
when are others available, with investment products whose objective is to track the 
performance of these indices.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Tier Ones further comments but they dont lead me to change my 
provisional decision. My view remains as set out in the provisional decision but Ill make 
some additional comments as follows:
Tier One says some of the comments in the provisional decision seem to be 
confused with another complaint Mr N has referred to this service - in particular the 
reference to Mr N saying, when he wanted his money returned he was told this 
wasnt possible. Tier One says this isnt in line with its complaint record for this 
matter. Mr N told us he wanted to have his funds returned when my initial two years 
was up in December 2017 and was promised that as soon as funds were available, 
he would be repaid, but that kept getting pushed back and dragged on into 2020. 
These are comments he made about this investment.
The investigators view was that the remedy should be based on the investment 
made in 2018. That may be the investment that causes a loss but I dont think Mr N 
would have invested at all without the advice given to him. So any remedy needs to 
take into account the investment in 2015 and include any gains as well as losses for 
the whole period  as set out in the provisional decision. As this is different from what 
the investigator proposed, I issued a provisional decision to give both parties the 
chance to comment.Tier One has referred to a specific figure for the loss but as Ive said, there needs to 
be a calculation for the whole period.
The benchmark is a way of providing for a calculation of loss. Its not something 
investors can invest in, rather a benchmark that allows a comparison of investment 
performance. The index is a set of calculations that demonstrates performance of 
various asset classes. In using this, Im not saying Mr N would have invested in a 
stock market tracker fund  simply that this is the sort of return he would have got 
with some risk to his money.
For these reasons, and the reasons set out in my provisional decision above, I consider the 
advice given to Mr N was unsuitable. I appreciate Mr N had some investments before he 
came to Tier One for advice. But the note made of his circumstances at the time said he 
didnt have significant investment experience. In any event, the overall level of unregulated 
investments taken together was much higher than the regulators guidelines and higher than 
Tier Ones own guideline. 
The fact that he had other investments exposed Mr N to more risk. And without the advice 
from Tier One I dont think he would have increased his exposure to risk by making the 
investments in 2015 or 2018. 
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim should be to put Mr N as close as 
possible to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given unsuitable 
advice.
With suitable advice I think Mr N would have invested £25,000 differently in April 2015 and 
would not have reinvested this sum in 2018. I dont know exactly where Mr N would have 
invested his money instead but Im satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr N's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
As I understand it, Mr Ns first investment in 2015 was successful and he received interest 
payments. Its the investment in February 2018 which may cause losses. His gains and 
losses from the WA investments all need to be taken into account, as with suitable advice he 
also wouldnt have made these investments or earned any interest from them.
To compensate Mr N fairly, Tier One must:
Compare the final value of Mr N's investment in the project with that of the 
benchmark shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the 
actual value of the investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
Pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
WA 
investmentStill exists 
but illiquid FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexApril 2015 Date of my 
final decision8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainants 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date any asset is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr N agrees to Tier One taking 
ownership of the illiquid assets, if it wishes to.
If it is not possible for Tier One to take ownership, then it may request an undertaking from 
Mr N that he repays to Tier One any amount he may receive from the investment in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution paid out of the investments should be deducted 
from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any 
return in the calculation from that point on.
If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Tier 
One totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value 
instead of deducting periodically.
If any distributions or income were automatically paid out into a portfolio and left uninvested, 
they must be deducted at the end to determine the fair value, and not periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr N wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr N's circumstances and risk attitude.My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Tier One Capital Ltd to pay the amount calculated as set 
out above.
Tier One Capital Ltd should provide details of its calculation to Mr N in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman