DRN-3715579
The complaint
Mr T complains that Lloyds Bank PLC prevented him from making a payment from his bank 
account.
 
What happened
In mid-2022, Mr T attempted to transfer some money to an overseas account via Internet 
banking, but the payment was blocked. Mr T spoke to Lloyds fraud team who completed 
some checks to verify his identity. Lloyds asked Mr T for some information about the 
payment, but he didnt provide this because he felt it was personal. 
Lloyds applied a block to Mr Ts account and asked him to go into branch with some 
photographic identification. Mr T did so the next day, but Lloyds refused to make the 
payment because he wouldnt answer its questions about the beneficiary of the funds. Mr T 
decided to cancel the payment and the block on his account was removed.
Mr T raised a complaint with Lloyds. He was unhappy that Lloyds had asked him personal 
questions and had restricted his access to Internet banking. Lloyds said it had followed its 
security procedures in order to safeguard his account from fraud.
Mr T remained unhappy, so he asked our service to consider his complaint. Our investigator 
looked into his concerns but didnt think Mr Ts complaint should be upheld. She was 
satisfied that Lloyds had acted fairly and in line with the terms and conditions of the account.
 
Mr T disagreed with our investigators view. He felt that Lloyds had broken fiduciary trust by 
not allowing the transaction to proceed after hed provided proof of his identity. He said it 
was a private matter and it isnt Lloyds business where he spends his money. So, his 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint. Ill explain why. 
The relevant regulations require Lloyds to pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
and treat them fairly. Lloyds also had a duty to protect the money in Mr Ts account from 
potential fraud.
The terms and conditions of the account list a number of circumstances where Lloyds can 
refuse to make a payment. This includes when our internal security controls require you to 
provide additional identification or prevent us carrying out the transaction... 
Lloyds says that the payment was flagged for additional security and fraud assessment 
checks. Although Mr T provided proof of identification, Lloyds says it wasnt able to complete 
its internal security checks because Mr T wouldnt provide information about the beneficiary 
of the funds.
I appreciate Mr T feels this is personal information that he shouldnt have to share with 
Lloyds. However, Lloyds has a duty to protect its customers and itself from potential fraud 
and its not this services role to comment on the processes and systems it puts in place to 
do this. I dont think it was unreasonable for Lloyds to have asked Mr T who the payment 
was being sent to and what it was for. 
Lloyds terms and conditions also say it may refuse to make a payment if it reasonably 
believes the account a customer wants to pay is operated as part of an authorised push 
payment scam. Scams where a fraudster tries to trick an account holder into making a 
payment are becoming increasingly common and more sophisticated. Given Mr Ts 
reluctance to share any information about the intended recipient of the funds, I think it was 
reasonable for Lloyds to have refused to make the payment.
I appreciate the situation was frustrating for Mr T, who also experienced the inconvenience 
of having to go into the branch. However, if Mr T was ever to become a victim of potential 
fraud or a scam and Lloyds didnt take steps to prevent this, the consequences could be far 
worse for him. So, while I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr T, Im satisfied that 
Lloyds has acted fairly and in his best interests.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman