DRN-2435306
The complaint
Mrs G has complained about the exchange rate she received on an incoming US Dollar 
transaction to her Santander UK plc account on 7 October 2020.
What happened
Mrs G had an incoming payment into her UK Santander account, in US Dollars. Accordingly, 
this was exchanged into Sterling. The rate applied was 1.3098, but Mrs G feels it should 
have been between 1.2849 to 1.2929. Shes explained shes calculated this caused her a 
shortfall of around £3,300.
Santander responded to Mrs Gs concerns, and explained that its exchange rate on the date 
of transfer was 1.3098, so this was what was applied. 
Mrs G was unhappy with this, and also about how her complaint was handled, including 
asking for a call from a manager on 8 October, but this didnt happen until 12 October.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. She noted that the terms and 
conditions of Mrs Gs account state that payments will be converted to/from pounds at our 
current exchange rate and that this is based on its reference exchange rates for the 
relevant currency. We have different reference rates depending on the
size of the transaction and whether you are buyingor selling currency.
She also noted that it said that customers could phone to find out the rates, visit a branch, or 
- if sending a payment online - the rate will be displayed when the payment is being made.
Our investigator checked Santanders rates on 7 October 2020  the date of the transaction. 
The rate at the time was 1.3098. This is the rate that would have been applied to all US 
dollar payments of that range coming into the account on that day. She acknowledged that 
Mrs G may have been able to find a better rate elsewhere, but Santander was entitled to set 
its own rate. And this was set out in its terms and conditions. So she didnt think Santander 
had done anything wrong.
As regards complaint handling, our investigator explained she couldnt look at this, as its not 
an activity covered by our rules.
Mrs G disagreed, so her complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator. While Mrs G may well have had a better 
exchange rate elsewhere, she chose to make the transfer through Santander. This was not 
at the Bank of England rate  but many (if not most) transfers are not. She proceeded with 
the rate Santander had set, which shed agreed to do when opening her account. This is set 
out in the terms and conditions. She was free to look for a more favourable rate on the 
market, but to my knowledge, didnt do so. In any event, this was the option she chose. I do 
not consider that Santander acted unreasonably. Mrs G made an informed choice, and was 
aware that Santander would apply its own rate  which she was aware (or should have been 
aware, from the terms and conditions) that she could check.
As regards complaint handling, this isnt a regulated activity, as our investigator explained. 
So, what Ive looked at is the complaint itself  not how it was then handled.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2021.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman