DRN-3653568
The complaint
Miss H has complained Virgin Media Mobile Finance Limited (VMMF) is holding her liable for 
a credit agreement she didnt take out. 
What happened
VMMF tells us it received a request for a phone upgrade in August 2020 and it sent a fixed 
sum loan agreement to Miss Hs email for e-signing. The phone cost £1,368. VMMF also tell 
us the handset was delivered to Miss Hs address. And that the bank details provided for the 
direct debit were Miss Hs. 
The day after the order was made, VMMF tell us Miss H contacted it saying shed received 
texts from it regarding a mobile contract she didnt recognise. But it looks like she was at 
work and didnt have time to submit a fraud form. 
VMMF started to take £38 monthly from Miss H for around a year until she tells us she 
received a statement from VMMF saying she owed around £900. Miss H cancelled the direct 
debit and contacted VMMF. She said she hadnt ordered the phone and had not seen the 
email sent to her by VMMF in August 2020. Miss H says she had a work phone she used, 
along with a personal phone shed had since 2017. So she thought her identity might have 
been stolen. Miss H says she remembered receiving a text message from VMMF in 2020 
about phone insurance, but that she managed to cancel it. 
Miss H brought her complaint to our service, but our investigator didnt make any 
recommendations. He didnt think there was enough evidence to say VMMF was being 
unfair in holding Miss H liable for the debt. In order for him to do that he said hed need to 
accept someone was able to obtain enough information to be able to successfully 
impersonate Miss H to order the device, be able to access her email account, know her bank 
details and intercept the delivery. He also thought Miss H was aware of the potential issue 
and could have done more to have followed up on it. So taking all that into account, he 
thought it fair VMMF was holding Miss H liable for the debt.
Miss H didnt agree. She said VMMF hadnt been able to show proof of delivery. And that 
she never received a confirmation email. She says the only email she received was in 
relation to a replacement SIM card, and that she put that SIM in her old phone when she 
received it. 
As things couldnt be resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
VMMF is seeking to recover payment from Miss H under a regulated fixed sum loan 
agreement, and our service is able to consider complaints about these sorts of agreements. 
I should first point out that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory 
(as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the 
wider circumstances.
I have to weigh up the evidence. On the one hand, Ive thought about what Miss H has said. 
She tells us she didnt place the order or receive the phone. Shes explained that she doesnt 
recall seeing any emails with a credit agreement. Theres also evidence she contacted 
VMMF the day after the phone was ordered and explained shed received three text 
messages from VMMF for a mobile contract she didnt recognise. She tells us she did 
receive an alert about phone insurance, but she was able to cancel this. She also 
acknowledges receiving a replacement SIM in 2020 but thought this was simply in relation to 
new terms and conditions. So Miss H says the first she found out about the credit agreement 
was when VMMF sent a statement. 
Miss H further explains that she didnt notice the payment leaving her account as she has 
other products and services with VMMF or its partner businesses. And that she lives in a 
block of flats so someone else could have intercepted the delivery. Further, the phone was 
delivered during the Covid-19 pandemic when delivery agents were less likely to require 
deliveries to be signed for. She also says someone could have stolen her identity and VMMF 
password, hacked her email and impersonated her.  
On the other hand, VMMF tells us it received an application for the phone and that there 
were no concerns with the caller passing security. It says it sent the agreement to Miss Hs 
email for e-signing, and that it received it back. It also wrote to Miss H about the delivery. 
Moreover, it says the phone was delivered to Miss Hs address. And that her correct bank 
details were used on the application. It said it received no follow up from Miss H after she 
spoke to it the day after the order. And that Miss H continued to pay the agreement for a 
year without complaint. 
Miss H says she didnt receive the email with the agreement. But she has also said she 
subsequently discovered an email VMMF referred to. So its not totally clear what was and 
wasnt received. But from what I can see, the agreement, and the dispatch note were sent to 
her correct email address. So, on balance, I think they were likely received. It also looks like 
she contacted VMMF the day after the order querying it. So I think Miss H ought to have 
known at the time of the order something might be wrong. But because Miss H didnt follow 
up on this I think its made it more difficult for VMMF to investigate things because not all the 
information was available. It wasnt until a year later that it was sufficiently put on notice of 
the potential issue.
Its of course possible that someone stole Miss Hs details and ordered the phone without 
her knowledge or authority. Theres not an obvious explanation for how they would have 
been able to pass VMMFs security. And not only would they need to know her personal 
details and banking information, theyd also need to be able to intercept the delivery at her 
address. And in addition to that, they would have needed to access her email account and 
relied on her not spotting the emails from VMMF to enable her to stop the order. All of that is 
possible but, taking it all into account, I can understand why VMMF dont think its the most 
likely thing to have happened. Therefore, while I know itll disappoint Miss H, I dont think 
VMMF is acting unfairly by holding her liable for the agreement. 
So having weighed everything up, and on balance, based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont 
find there are sufficient grounds to direct VMMF to cancel the agreement and stop pursuing 
Miss H.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman