DRN-3924001
The complaint
Mr M complains that Inclusive Finance Limited trading as Creditspring didnt treat him fairly 
when he took out a loan with it.
What happened
Mr M said he wanted to take out a short term loan and found Creditsprings website. He 
applied for credit not realising that this meant hed signed up to a paid membership which 
allowed him to borrow. The membership cost £8 a month and was to last for 12 months. In 
this time Mr M could borrow up to £500 with no additional cost like fees or interest being 
added. 
In August 2022, a few days after taking out the membership Mr M borrowed £250 to be 
repaid over six months. He made his first loan payment of £41.70 in October before paying 
£208.30 later in the month to repay the loan in full. 
Alongside these payments Mr M also paid a membership fee of £8 a month. He paid this in 
August and September, and a final membership fee of £13.46 when he closed his account in 
October. Altogether, Mr M paid £29.46 for his £250 loan. 
After this, Mr M complained to Creditspring in October that he was confused about what hed 
paid. He explained that he had a mental health condition and was being supported by a 
health worker. He asked Creditspring for information about his payments. 
Creditspring responded to Mr Ms complaint and provided information about the membership 
and the payments hed made along with a copy of the credit agreement. It also confirmed 
that the account was closed in October 2022 and that he would receive no further payment 
requests. Mr M was unhappy with this response. He said it was confusing and didnt answer 
his question. 
Mr M asked Creditspring to confirm its full company name and address and it directed him to 
the credit agreement and also provided the information in an email to him. Mr M was 
unhappy with this response also. 
Mr M referred his complaint to us. He asked that in order to put things right for him he would 
like Creditspring to apologise and to put him back into the position he was in before he 
joined it. Mr M would also like Creditspring to offer him a goodwill payment for its poor 
customer service.
I understand that Mr M reopened his account following an email from Creditspring which 
confirmed that the account was closed and that hed lost access to it. He said that he 
needed access to the account in case this Service needed any more information from him to 
investigate his complaint. Mr M emailed Creditspring to say that he was worried it would start 
taking money from him again. He said that he didnt want to pay anything further or take out 
any loans. Creditspring closed his account and sent a notice of termination that day. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ms complaint but didnt recommend that it be upheld. They 
didnt find that Creditspring had made any mistakes in its dealings with Mr M and so there 
was nothing to put right. Mr M didnt agree with this and asked for his complaint to come to 
an ombudsman to decide and its come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also thought about the regulators rules and guidance on responsible lending and 
treating customers fairly which lenders, such as Creditspring, need to abide by. For example, 
Creditspring needed to provide Mr M with clear, fair and correct information about his 
agreement, treat him fairly in its dealings with him and consider his interests. 
I appreciate that this will be disappointing for Mr M but I am not upholding his complaint. Ive 
looked at everything he and Creditspring have said about what happened and Creditspring 
hasnt treated him unfairly or failed to provide him with the information it should have. I am 
sorry to hear that his experience was confusing and upsetting but because I dont think 
Creditspring was at fault here I am not asking it to do anything further. 
Creditspring provided a copy of the credit agreement Mr M signed. It sets out the information 
Id expect to see, for example the charges involved, how the credit works, how it is to be 
repaid, and how to cancel the agreement. 
When Mr M complained to Creditspring he said that he had no idea what hed done and that 
he wanted to find out how much hed paid for this mess hed gotten himself into. Creditspring 
responded with information about the agreement and the payments Mr M had made. When 
Mr M asked about the company details, Creditspring told him where to find this information 
and also provided it in an email to him. 
I have considered whether Creditspring needed to do anything differently here, given what 
Mr M shared about his mental health conditions. Mr M didnt ask Creditspring to 
communicate with him in any particular way and it seems reasonable to me that it replied to 
him via email as this is how hed gotten in touch. Mr M said that he found the level of detail in 
Creditsprings reply confusing, though he also said that he felt fobbed off and found it 
unhelpful when it said that he could find information in the credit agreement and didnt 
answer him directly.
Having thought about everything carefully, Ive concluded that Creditspring reacted to Mr Ms 
information requests quickly and provided him with clear, fair and correct information. I also 
think Creditspring acted quickly to end a second credit agreement that began when Mr M 
reopened his account and then became worried about paying more fees. In summary, I cant 
say that Creditspring treated Mr M unfairly or without considering his interests in this matter. 
So I am not upholding his complaint
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I am not upholding Mr Ms complaint about Inclusive 
Finance Limited trading as Creditspring and dont require it to pay him compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Michelle BoundyOmbudsman