DRN-3339711
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the advice he received from Portal Financial Services LLP
(Portal) to transfer a defined contribution personal pension (PP) he held to a Self-Invested
Personal Pension (SIPP).
Mr B is being represented by a third party, but for ease Ill refer to all representations as
being made by Mr B.
What happened
Mr B says he was introduced to Portal in late 2013, after receiving a cold call. And it advised 
him to transfer a PP he held to a SIPP.
At the time Mr B was aged 54 and married, with one dependent. The fact-find, dated 
22 January 2014, indicated he was employed full time earning £20,000 per year, he lived in 
rented accommodation and had no savings or assets. He had outstanding debt totalling 
around £27,000, which he was repaying via a debt management plan. And that he had 
around £200 disposable income per month. The suitability report notes Mr B had a PP that 
was performing at 8.54% per annum on average, with a transfer value of £26,429. And that 
he had another pension with his current employer, that he was contributing to, that Portal 
wasnt looking into. 
Portal carried out a risk-profiling exercise and determined Mr B had a balanced attitude to
risk (ATR). It wrote to Mr B in January 2014 recommending he transfer his PP into a SIPP. 
And some of the investments it recommended for the transferred funds were:
Lakeview  8.41%
Marbella  7.61%
Real Estate USA  8.41%
Motion Picture  7.61%
Stategic Residential  8.41%
Tambaba  7.61%
The SIPP was established in January 2014 and the value of Mr Bs PP, which had increased 
to £26,550.82, was transferred on 14 February 2014 and £12,000 of it was invested as 
follows:
Real Estate Invest USA - £2,100
Marbella Resort Spa - £1,900
Tambaba Investments - £1,900
Lakeview UK Invest - £2,100
Strategic Residential Developments - £2,100
Motion Picture Global - £1,900
In April 2015, Mr B met with Portal again and the fact-find says this was because he wanted 
to take the maximum tax free cash (TFC) available to do home improvements.
In February 2021, Mr B complained to Portal via his representative that the advice to switch 
his PP was unsuitable. He said it was negligent and unsuitable as he had no investment 
experience and was risk adverse, with a low capacity for loss. He said he was induced to 
switch based on the growth rate Portal told him his pension would achieve. And that it 
recommended high risk non-standard investments, which werent suitable for him. 
In response, Portal said Mr B had made his complaint too late for our service to consider it. 
Unhappy with this, Mr B brought his complaint to us and we decided it had been made in 
time, so we can consider it. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Bs complaint and said she felt his attitude to risk 
was cautious, rather than balanced, and that she didnt think that switching Mr Bs pension to 
invest in high risk funds was appropriate in light of his circumstances. And she said that 
Portal should pay Mr B £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Portal didnt agree. In summary, it said the SIPP was low cost and Mr Bs pension could be 
invested in mainstream funds within it. It said the switch allowed Mr B to take TFC without 
having to commit to taking an annual income, which was important to him to reduce his 
debts as retirement approached. It added that while Mr B used the TFC for home 
improvements, rather than to reduce his debt, it was entitled to rely on what he told it about 
his purpose for wanting TFC as per COBS 9.2.5 in the FCA handbook, which says its 
entitled to rely on the information provided by clients, unless its aware this is manifestly out 
of date, inaccurate or incomplete.  
So the complaints been passed to me for a decision. I let the parties know I was minded to 
uphold Mr Bs complaint, but for different reasons to the investigator, and that Id be 
recommending slightly different redress. Neither responded. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Portal said Mr Bs complaint was brought to our Service too late for us to consider it. I dont 
intend to revisit that, given an ombudsman has already given a decision explaining why hes 
satisfied Mr B brought this complaint in time and that its one I can consider. 
Ive taken account of relevant laws and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards, and what I consider to be relevant industry practice at the relevant time. These 
include the overarching Principles for Businesses (PRIN). Principles 1 (integrity), 2 (skill, 
care and diligence), 6 (customers interests) and 9 (reasonable care) are of particular 
relevance here.
The Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) in the regulators handbook, set out the rules 
regulated businesses have to follow. At the relevant time, COBS 9.2.1R required Portal to 
take reasonable steps to ensure a personal recommendation was suitable for Mr B. It had to 
obtain information as to Mr Bs knowledge and experience (relevant to the specific type of 
designated investment), his financial situation and investment objectives.
COBS 9.2.2R required Portal to gather sufficient information from Mr B to ensure the 
recommendation met his objectives, that he could bear the risks involved and had the 
necessary experience and knowledge to understand the risks involved in the transaction. 
And COBS 2.1.1R required Portal to act, honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client."In 2009 the regulator, the Financial Services Authority (FSA), also published a checklist for 
pension switching. And one of the key issues it thought should be focussed on was whether 
the consumer had been switched to a pension thats more expensive than their existing 
one(s) or a stakeholder pension, without good reason. 
I recognise Mr Bs SIPP wasnt particularly expensive  it had an AMC of 0.5%, which was 
lower than his existing scheme at 1.4%. But, as well as the 5% initial fee charged by Portal, 
there would also be other product or fund charges. Some of these could offset the charges 
of the existing plan. But its clear there would be a cost to switching, which Portal recognised 
in the suitability report when it said:
Overall, this strategy will cost more than your existing arrangement. Whilst the intention is
that this will be more than compensated for by the increased growth of your pension fund
this cannot be guaranteed.
While I think the switch would have been more costly to Mr B overall, I dont currently think 
the advice to do so was unsuitable in light his objective of accessing tax free cash (TFC). 
The fact find notes this was his main objective, to reduce his debt and make home 
improvements. And I can see that after being given the advice in January 2014 Mr B came 
back to Portal in May 2015 to pursue taking TFC, saying he wanted to clear some debt and 
go on holiday. 
Mr B says he used this for essential household items like a fridge, as well as home 
improvements. And, while Portal doesnt seem to have established if he had any other 
means to fund this at the time of the advice, Mr Bs told us he didnt and I can see it went on 
to establish that he didnt in May 2015 due to his disposable income and debts. Mr Bs also 
told us that in 2015 he went on to take TFC early from his pension with his current employer 
to repay his debts, forgoing a significant part of his retirement income to do so, which I think 
demonstrates a genuine desire to access TFC where he could. In light of this, I think Mr Bs 
objective of switching his pension to access TFC was a genuine one. And I dont think it 
would have been possible for him to get this through his current PP at the time, without also 
taking his retirement income.
While Portals recommendation to switch might not have been unsuitable in that case, that 
doesnt mean its advice was suitable overall. And I dont think it was in light of the 
investments it recommended Mr B invest in within his SIPP. Ill explain why. 
Portal said Mr B was a balanced risk investor, but he says he was risk averse and had a low 
capacity for loss. And I think this is supported by many of the answers Mr B gave in the risk 
attitude profiling questionnaire. For example, Mr B said that people who know him would 
describe him as cautious, he wasnt willing to take substantial investment risk to earn 
substantial rewards and he has little experience of investment in stocks, shares and 
property. And, while Mr B had 11 years until his expected retirement age, he was a standard 
retail investor, with no investment experience or savings. I appreciate Mr B had a pension 
with his current employer, but this PP was still a substantial part of his pension provision and 
one of his biggest assets. So I think his capacity for loss in respect of it was low. In light of 
this, I dont think Portals assessment was correct  I think a fairer assessment of Mr Bs 
attitude to risk in the circumstances was cautious.
Yet, based on Portals advice, a significant part of the funds in Mr Bs SIPP was invested in 
UCIS. I think the regulators 2010 UCIS findings are relevant here, when it said that as well 
as these only being eligible for promotion to certain customers (generally sophisticated, high 
net worth investors), for example, even when a customer was deemed eligible for the 
promotion of UCIS, suitable advice involved limiting a clients exposure to these investments to 3% to 5% of their retirement provision. In Mr Bs case, around 45% of his SIPP funds were 
invested in this. I dont think UCIS was suitable for Mr B at all, and certainly not in the 
proportion invested, given theres nothing to indicate he had the requisite knowledge or 
experience to accept or understand the risks associated with these types of investments. 
While I can see Mr B was made aware some of the investments were illiquid at the time of 
the advice, I think he went ahead because he trusted Portals advice. And had it 
recommended he invest in mainstream, regulated funds, which I think would have been 
suitable advice, I think hed have done so for that same reason.
In summary, I think the investments Portal recommended were unsuitable, given these were 
likely to lead to Mr B being exposed to far more risk than appropriate. And I dont think he 
had the capacity for loss that investments like this carry. Instead, I think suitable advice 
would have been for him to invest in regulated mainstream funds. Had Portal given suitable 
advice, I think Mr Bs likely to have invested in that way.
Therefore, I think a fair and reasonable way to compensate Mr B for the unsuitable advice is 
to use a benchmark based on an investment strategy in line with his circumstances and 
attitude to risk.
This matter will also have caused distress and so Portal should pay Mr B £300 in 
compensation.
Putting things right
My aim in awarding fair compensation is to put Mr B back into the position he would likely 
have been in, had it not been for Portals unsuitable advice. I think this would have meant he 
would have invested in regulated mainstream funds. 
Portal should compare the performance of Mr B's investment with the benchmark 
shown below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable.
Portal should add interest as set out below.
 
Portal should pay into Mr B's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount of 
the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
 
If Portal is unable to pay the total amount into Mr B's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced 
to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr B wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
 
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr B's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
 
For example, if Mr B is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr B would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
 
Portal should pay Mr B £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
unsuitable advice, which has led to a loss.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr B how much has been taken off. Portal should give Mr B a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
 
Investment 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end date)Additional 
interest
SIPP Still existsfor half the
investment:
FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Index;
for the other
half: average
rate from fixed
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an asset 
is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case. Portal 
should take ownership of any illiquid assets by paying a commercial value acceptable to the 
pension provider. The amount Portal pays should be included in the actual value before 
compensation is calculated.
If Portal is unable to purchase illiquid assets, their value should be assumed to be nil for the 
purpose of calculating the actual value. Portal may require that Mr B provides an undertaking 
to pay Portal any amount he may receive from the illiquid assets in the future. That 
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension plan. Portal will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Portal should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Portal totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
 
It allows for capital growth with a small risk to Mr Bs capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr Bs risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr B into that position. It does not mean Mr B 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of 
index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Mr B could have obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude.

My final decision
I uphold Mr Bs complaint.
My decision is that Portal Financial Services LLP should pay the amount calculated as set 
out above. Portal Financial Services LLP should provide details of its calculation to Mr B in a 
clear, simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Holly Jackson
Ombudsman