DRN-3596428
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complained that GE Money Consumer Lending Limited (GE Money), unfairly 
turned down their claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Mr and Mrs M bought a timeshare membership from a timeshare supplier in June 2008. The 
total cost of membership was £19,267, which was paid for by way of trading in an existing 
timeshare and taking a loan for the balance with GE Money. Mr and Mrs M also refinanced 
an earlier loan, so in total they borrowed £16,884.13 and the loan was set to run for ten 
years.
In April 2017, Mr and Mrs M (using a professional representative) made a claim against GE 
Money for problems they said they had with the timeshare, claiming compensation in excess 
of £70,000 plus interest. They said the nature of the timeshare had been misrepresented to 
them, so they were able to make a claim against GE Money under s.75 CCA.
GE Money responded to the claim, but said it had not been able to find a loan in its records. 
It assessed the claim based on the information that had been provided, including a draft loan 
agreement between GE Money and Mr and Mrs M. Based on that, GE Money said the claim 
had been brought too late under the provisions set out in the Limitation Act 1980 (LA).
Unhappy with the outcome of GE Moneys investigation into their claim, Mr and Mrs M 
brought a complaint to our service that GE Money had unfairly turned down the claim. In 
addition to the points raised earlier, further issues and concerns were set out.1 In particular, 
it was said:2
The way in which the timeshare supplier set up its business structure meant no 
money actually went to the club that members joined. Similarly, annual maintenance 
fees were kept by the management company and not given to the club. It was 
alleged that the club was a front, did not exist or provide any benefits to members. 
This infrastructure was unfair and this led to an unfair debtor/creditor relationship with 
GE Money under s.140A CCA.
The level of interest charged was excessive and a commission was paid to the 
timeshare supplier by GE Money, so this gave rise to an unfair relationship under 
s.140A CCA.
The terms of the timeshare agreement gave rise to an unfairness in the related credit 
agreement.
1 It was not clear whether these additional issues were referred to GE Money at this stage, or just to 
our service. It also appeared that these additional issues relate to a number of different claims 
brought by Mr and Mrs Ms representative and did not relate solely to their claim, for example, they 
refer to laws and regulations enacted after Mr and Mrs M took out their membership.
2 I have summarised some of the issues I have identified as relevant to Mr and Mrs Ms claim. I have 
not set out every allegation as the additional issues ran to 35 pages, so I summarised them as best I 
can.
The sales representatives did not work for the timeshare provider, rather they were 
self-employed and received a commission, which gave rise to inappropriate 
incentives to sell and an unfair debtor/creditor relationship.
The type of timeshare Mr and Mrs M bought, a points based system, was banned 
for sale in Spain following an EU Directive. Therefore the contract was unlawful. 
Although the contract was governed by English law, the fact that the timeshare was 
sold in Spain cannot be ignored.
A number of other consumers had very similar experiences and this needed to be 
considered when thinking about the outcome to Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Different members were charged different amounts for the same things.
The period of limitation is three years from when Mr and Mrs M first had the 
knowledge required to bring a claim, following s.14A LA.
The timeshare provider and associated companies are frauds and do not exist. GE 
Money support this by providing credit to enable consumers to buy membership of a 
club that provides nothing.
Terms were implied into the contracts by Spanish law, which have been breached.
The timeshare contract breached a number of rules and regulations, that rendered it, 
and therefore the associated credit agreement, unfair.
GE Money responded to our service reiterating its position that any claim brought under s.75 
CCA was done so outside of the periods set out in the LA. It also said that as the loan 
proceeds were not paid directly to the timeshare supplier, the provisions in the CCA Mr and 
Mrs M relied on did not apply to this claim. GE Money did not respond to any claim made 
under s.140A CCA.
One of our investigators considered the s.75 CCA claim and concluded that it had been 
brought too late under the LA. They thought Mr and Mrs M had six years in which to bring a 
claim.
Mr and Mrs Ms representative sent in a substantive response to our investigators view. It 
said that the view had missed the point that the timeshare supplier was not the business that 
supplied Mr and Mrs M the benefits under the contract. It also pointed out what it felt were 
factual inaccuracies in the view. Mr and Mrs Ms representative noted that the view did not 
deal with s.140A CCA nor with all of the legal arguments made in the submissions.
Our investigator responded to the points raised, but did not change her view. She said she 
had focused on the core issues to be decided and here those were whether the claim made 
to GE Money had been made in time. In particular, she noted that no claim had actually 
been made to GE Money under s.140A CCA, so it was not appropriate for our service to 
determine the merits of a claim that had not been made. As the parties had not agreed with 
the view, the investigator said they would pass the complaint to an ombudsman.
Before an ombudsman issued a decision on the complaint, a second investigator considered 
the complaint again. They issued a second view dealing with the claim under s.140A CCA. 
They concluded that the claim made under s.140A CCA was also likely to have been 
brought too late under the time limits set out in the LA. That was because GE Money had no 
trace of the loan account now or when the s.75 CCA claim was first raised and that meant it 
was likely any loan account was closed more than six years before the claim was made.Mr and Mrs Ms representative responded to the second view. It said the view had not 
referred to the provision of the LA that meant the claims were made out of time. It said that 
in a misrepresentation claim, a representation can only become a misrepresentation when 
the false nature of what was said was discovered. Here Mr and Mrs M claimed within three 
years of discovering that, following DISP Rule 2.8.2R (the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) rules that govern complaint handling).
With a claim under s.140A CCA, Mr and Mrs Ms representative argued that s.32 LA applied 
as matters had been concealed from them. In particular, they repeated their allegations 
about the fraudulent nature of the timeshare suppliers business structure. A Spanish 
judgment was referred to that lifted the corporate veil and found one company in the 
corporate structure liable for damages awarded against a different company. Mr and Mrs Ms 
representative invited our service to draw an adverse inference from GE Moneys failure to 
disclose information about this judgment to our service, in effect concealing it from us.
It was also alleged that GE Money was effectively saying that, as it could not find a record of 
Mr and Mrs Ms loan, it was asserting that no such loan existed or was not complying with its 
obligation to disclose relevant information. Mr and Mrs Ms representative provided loan 
statements showing a loan was still running at the time of complaint in 2017.
Finally, a new claim was raised under s.75 CCA as one of the businesses in the timeshare 
suppliers corporate structure was placed in administration. It was argued that this was a 
breach of contract as the holidays available under the timeshare agreement were no longer 
available.
The second investigator responded to the points raised. He explained that the DISP Rules 
are separate to the LA and explained that the claims made under the CCA were legal claims, 
so the LA applied to them. That was different to the timescales set out in the DISP Rules, 
which applied when a consumer brought a complaint to our service. He also noted that the 
loan statements that showed a loan open in 2007 related to a different business, and 
separate loan, to the GE Money loan relevant to this case. It was his view that the GE 
Money loan was likely to have closed before the original claim was made for the reasons set 
out earlier. Finally, he noted that if there was a new claim to be made for a breach of 
contract, that needed to be made to GE Money first.
GE Money responded to say it had nothing further to add, so the complaint was passed to 
me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision as I had come to the same overall conclusion as our 
investigator, but for different reasons. I noted that several claims had been made, some to 
GE Money directly, and some via our service. So I dealt with each in turn.
I also explained that under the rules that govern how I assess complaints, I must take 
account of law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and standards, and codes of 
practice and good industry practice, when I make my decision.
I also explained that I would focus on what I thought was material and relevant to reach a fair 
and reasonable outcome. So although I had read everything that had been supplied to me, I 
may not address every point that had been raised.
The misrepresentation claim under s.75 CCA
Mr and Mrs M said that the timeshare supplier misrepresented the nature of the membership 
to them when they bought it and that they had a claim for misrepresentation against the 
supplier under the Misrepresentation Act 1967 (MA). Under s.75 CCA, GE Money could be jointly liable for the alleged misrepresentations made by the timeshare supplier. But GE 
Money argued that any claim brought by Mr and Mrs M for any alleged misrepresentations 
was made too late. I considered that argument and, having done so, agreed with what GE 
Money said. For the avoidance of doubt, I did not decide whether the limitation period has 
expired as that would be a matter for the courts should a legal claim be litigated. Rather, I 
considered whether GE Money has acted fairly in turning down the claim.
A claim for misrepresentation against the supplier would be brought under s.2(1) MA. It was 
held in Green v Eadie & Ors [2011] EWHC B24 (Ch) [2012] Ch 363 that a claim under s.2(1) 
MA is an action founded on tort for the purposes of the LA; therefore, the limitation period 
expires six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued (s.2 LA).
Here Mr and Mrs M brought a like claim against GE Money under s.75 CCA. The limitation 
period for the corresponding like claim would be the same as the underlying 
misrepresentation claim. As noted at para. 5.145 of Goode: Consumer Credit Law and 
Practice (Issue 68 (April 2022)) the creditor may adopt any defence which would be open to 
the supplier, including that of limitation:
There is no difficulty in treating the debtor's rights under sub-s (1) as a like claim 
against the creditor. Since the creditor's liability mirrors the supplier's it follows that, 
to the extent that the supplier has successfully excluded or limited his liability, the 
creditor may shelter behind that exclusion or limitation. Conversely, the creditor's 
right to repayment is so closely connected with the supply contract, and the debtor's 
statutory rights under sub-s (1), that the debtor may assert a right of set-off in 
diminution or extinguishment of his liability to the creditor, and as a defence in 
proceedings brought by the creditor (with or without a counter-claim). Any attempt to 
exclude the right of set-off will fall foul of CCA 1974, s 173(1) (and would in any case 
fall within [section 13(1)(b) of the Unfair Contract Terms Act 1977])
Therefore, I thought the limitation period for the s.75 CCA claim expired six years from the 
date on which the cause of action accrued.
The date on which a cause of action accrued was the point at which Mr and Mrs M entered 
into the agreement to buy the timeshare. It was at that time that they entered into an 
agreement based, they say, on the misrepresentations of the timeshare supplier and 
suffered a loss. They say, had the misrepresentations not been made, they would not have 
bought the timeshare. And it was on that day that they suffered a loss, as they took out the 
loan agreement with GE Money that they were bound to and would have never taken out but 
for the misrepresentations. It follows, therefore, that the cause of action accrued in June 
2008, so Mr and Mrs M had six years from then to bring a claim. But they did not make a 
claim against GE Money until April 2017, which was outside of the time limits set out in the 
LA. So I thought GE Money acted fairly in turning down the misrepresentation claim.
The claim under s.140A CCA
Under this section a court may make an order under section 140B CCA in connection with a 
credit agreement if it decides that the relationship between the lender and the creditor arising 
out of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a determination but 
this is relevant law and I have taken it into account.
GE Money has not been able to provide evidence of when Mr and Mrs Ms loan ended as it 
said it searched its records for the loan, but it could not find evidence of Mr and Mrs Ms 
borrowing. This was first said in response to the s.75 CCA claim in June 2017. GE Money 
explained to our service that it only keeps records of loans for six years after the loan was 
closed, so that meant Mr and Mrs Ms loan would have closed at least six years before the claim was made. Based on that, I thought it more likely than not that the loan was paid in full 
at least six years before June 2017.
I said that there is no legal requirement for GE Money to keep records indefinitely. I thought 
it had shown that it searched its systems for records of Mr and Mrs Ms loan and could not 
find anything. I had no reason to doubt what I had been told and did not think it was 
asserting that no loan ever existed. Rather, GE Money agreed to assess the s.75 CCA claim 
based on the information (the loan agreement) Mr and Mrs M sent. So I drew no adverse 
inference from GE Moneys inability to locate the loan details.
No claim was made directly to GE Money under s.140A CCA, but it was referred to in the 
skeleton argument sent to our service in October 2017. Our first investigator did not 
consider this claim as it had not been made to GE Money directly, but our second 
investigator gave a view on the claim. Ordinarily our service will only consider complaints 
about claims that have been made to the creditor, so I would need GE Money to have 
considered the s.140A CCA claim before I was able to comment upon it. But in this case GE 
Money said it was happy for me to proceed, so I considered whether it should have accepted 
a claim had it actually been made.
Mr and Mrs Ms representative first made reference to a s.140A CCA claim when it wrote to 
us in October 2017. But as I explained above, I thought the loan account would have closed 
at least six years before June 2017, so over six years from the date a claim was first 
mentioned with our service.
The LA applies to a claim under s.140A CCA too. It was held in Patel v. Patel [2009] EWHC 
3264 (QB) that when considering s.140A CCA, the time for limitation purposes ran from the 
date that the credit agreement ended if it was not still running at the time the claim was 
made. As with an action under s.75 CCA, the limitation period is six years. That is because 
the claim Mr and Mrs M wish to make is for repayment of sums they have paid to the loan, 
which is an action for sums recoverable under statute to which s.9 LA applies. That meant 
Mr and Mrs M would have to bring an action within six years of June 2011 at the latest. As 
they did not do that, I thought they brought their claim too late.
Could limitation be extended?
The LA provides for extensions of the time limits in certain circumstances. Having 
considered the facts of this complaint, I did not think the time limits I set out above could be 
extended under any of the provisions of the LA. I considered several reasons specifically 
raised in more detail.
Mr and Mrs Ms representative said that, under the DISP rules, a consumer can make a 
complaint to a business within six years of the event happening or three years of when a 
consumer realised they had a reason to complain. But the rules the representative referred 
to set out the time limits within which a consumer needs to complain to a business about a 
regulated financial activity. Those rules apply to FCA governed complaint handling, which in 
the current context, was a complaint that GE Money unfairly turned down their claim under 
the CCA. But the reason it decided to turn down the claim was because it did not think it was 
legally liable due to the operation of the LA, so that is why I considered that legislation. So I 
thought DISP 2.8.2R did not extend the time to bring a claim in terms of the LA in the way Mr 
and Mrs M's representative had suggested.
Mr and Mrs Ms representative also said that limitation could be extended by s.14A LA. That 
provision is titled Special time limit for negligence actions where facts relevant to cause of 
action are not known at date of accrual and applied to an action for damages for 
negligence. It provides a second period in which those types of claims can be made. However, in the case of Thomas v Taylor Wimpey Developments [2019] EWHC 1134 (TCC) 
at para [41] the court said:
claims for damages for statutory misrepresentation are not claims for damages for 
negligence, because it is not necessary for the claimant making such a claim to aver 
any negligent act or omission on the part of the defendant, and therefore section 14A 
of the Limitation Act 1980 does not apply to them
I thought that none of Mr and Mrs M claims were for damages for negligence which could 
give rise to a claim to which s.14A LA could apply.
I had been asked to consider s.32 LA, which states that in cases where an action is based 
on the fraud of the defendant or a fact relevant to the right of action has been deliberately 
concealed from the claimant by the defendant, the limitation period only starts to run from 
when a claimant discovers the fraud or concealment (or could have discovered it using 
reasonable diligence).
It had been argued that the timeshare suppliers corporate structure amounts to a fraud as, 
in short, the club that Mr and Mrs M joined did not actually receive the money they paid, nor 
did it provide them any benefits under the timeshare. Having read the lengthy submissions 
made on this point, I failed to see what the alleged fraud actually was  in other words, what 
it was about this structure that was hidden from Mr and Mrs M and meant they have been 
victims of a fraud. So far as I could see, they took out a timeshare agreement and it worked 
in the way intended, i.e. they were able to use it to take holidays. I did not think that just 
because different parts of the timeshare suppliers corporate structure took payment from Mr 
and Mrs M and supplied them the services they paid for, that means there was some sort of 
fraud. Nor did I think that a Spanish judgment saying that one part of the corporate structure 
was liable to pay damages awarded against another part means the timeshare agreement 
was a fraud.
For there to be a cause of action for a fraudulent misrepresentation, and therefore one which 
GE Money could be jointly liable for under s.75 CCA, there would need to be a number of 
things needed to be found. There would need to be a false representation by the fraudster, 
that representation would need to have been made knowing it was false (or being reckless 
as whether it was false), the fraudster would need to intend the claimant acts in reliance of 
the representation and as a result of that, they suffered a loss. Here I could not see any 
evidence that any of those four elements were satisfied, in particular I did not think Mr and 
Mrs M set out what the false statement of fact was that it was alleged the supplier made to 
them.
Mr and Mrs M have made claims under s.75 and s.140A CCA. If facts relevant to those 
causes of action were deliberately concealed from them, the limitation period may be 
extended. However, I did not consider that the concealment alleged by Mr and Mrs Ms 
representative concealed facts which could be viewed as essential elements of those rights 
of action advanced by them. In any event, I did not consider there was sufficient evidence to 
support the assertion that those facts were indeed concealed; therefore, I thought that s.32 
LA did not extend the limitation period.
Is the loan agreement voidable?
Mr and Mrs Ms representative argued that the timeshare agreement was unlawful due to 
Spanish laws that banned the sale of points based timeshares. I thought it may be arguable 
that, if that were the case, both the timeshare and credit agreement could be voidable. This 
would be a factor to consider under a s.140A CCA claim, but for the reasons I had already 
explained, I thought such a claim was brought too late. But it could also be a freestanding claim in its own right, so I considered it separately.
I was asked to consider some Spanish legislation that Mr and Mrs Ms representative said 
meant the timeshare agreement was unlawful. However, I disagreed.
The timeshare agreement was taken out by Mr and Mrs M, who both reside in England, and 
the agreement states that it is governed by English law, not Spanish law. It followed that I did 
not think the Spanish legislation has any direct application on whether the contract is 
voidable under English law. Similarly, I did not think Spanish law implied any terms into the 
agreement.
Mr and Mrs Ms representative had not asked me to consider any specific provision in 
English or European law that might apply to Mr and Mrs Ms timeshare agreement that would 
point to it being illegal or voidable. Having read all of the relevant legislation, rules and 
regulations, I could not see anything that would have the effect Mr and Mrs Ms 
representatives seek. In fact, in the recent House of Commons Library Briefing Paper, 
Timeshares: common problems faced by UK owners it was said that a floating week or 
points based timeshare was a basic timeshare model and this type of contract was not 
described as being a problem in and of itself. Further, Regulation 7 of the Timeshare 
Regulations 2010 defines a timeshare contract as being a contract where a consumer 
acquires the right to use overnight accommodation for more than one period of occupation, 
and accommodation can be within a pool of accommodation  I thought a points based 
timeshare would meet this definition. Based on the evidence I had seen, I did not think either 
the timeshare agreement, nor the related credit agreement, is voidable.
The breach of contract claim
More recently, Mr and Mrs Ms representative indicated that it wanted to raise a breach of 
contract claim as the timeshare provider had gone into administration. This is a new claim 
that has not been considered by GE Money, so I explained that it would need to be made to 
GE Money before I had the power to consider it. But I noted that at present Mr and Mrs M 
had not identified what it was they say they were entitled to under the agreement, that they 
no longer are, due to the administration.
Conclusion
For the reasons set out above, I thought GE Money acted fairly in turning down Mr and 
Mrs Ms claims.
Responses to my provisional decision
I gave both parties four weeks to respond to my provisional decision, so until 14 July 2022. 
Neither party responded by then.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I have not been provided with anything further to consider within the timescales set out, I 
see no reason to depart from the findings in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint against GE Money Consumer Lending Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman