DRN-3835645
The complaint
Miss H complains that Lloyds Bank PLC charged her fees and overdraft interest when it 
ought not to have.
Miss H also says that she is entitled to compensation from Lloyds for distress and 
inconvenience which spanned three decades.
Miss H used to be represented by a friend and I will refer to him as Mr F.
What happened
Miss H had bank accounts with Lloyds. The original ones opened a long time ago  possibly
as far back as 1981. Lloyds records commenced in 2001. And as I have explained later in
this decision, the Financial Ombudsman Service has already determined that we will be 
looking at Miss Hs complaint for the period from 25 November 2015 onwards and not 
before. A separate decision was made by me on this overdraft complaint in August 2022. 
I refer Miss H to it for those details.
Miss H has said that when she had overdrafts on the accounts, then the charges ought not
to have been applied. Our adjudicator has upheld that part of the complaint relating to the
charges and fees on the overdraft since 25 November 2015 and Lloyds has agreed to it. My
up to date understanding is that there have been no charges on the account for the overdraft
since December 2017. And that currently the account is in credit and has the benefit of a
£200 overdraft if needed.
I do not need to elaborate further on this part of the complaint as Lloyds has agreed to
recompense Miss H for the period 25 November 2015 to 1 February 2018 (as set out by our
adjudicator and as agreed by Lloyds). It has agreed to refund her all charges incurred
between those dates.
That part of Miss Hs complaint effectively has been resolved.
Miss H and her former representative expressed views about another aspect of the 
complaint. Miss H said that she was due to be compensated for the years of hardship she 
says she endured and which she said was attributable to Lloyds. 
Our adjudicator didnt feel there was any specific trouble and upset caused directly by Lloyds 
towards Miss H which would warrant consideration of additional compensation. 
Our adjudicator was of the view that she cannot reasonably say that all the financial
difficulties and hardship Miss H has mentioned from November 2015 onwards were solely
and directly attributable to Lloyds actions or omissions.
Miss H disagreed and so it was referred to me for a decision. On 27 January 2023 I decided 
to issue a provisional decision as although my outcome on the unresolved part of the 
complaint was the same as our adjudicators, I covered the points in some detail and 
I wanted to afford both parties the opportunity to respond further.
Both Lloyds and Miss H have replied and have agreed with my provisional decision. 
For ease, my provisional decision is set out in the next part of this decision and is in smaller 
type to differentiate it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What I provisionally decided  and why
What this decision does not cover
Complaints relating to some packaged bank accounts were addressed in August 2022 and
my colleague ombudsman decided at that time that the Financial Ombudsman Service
is unable to consider Miss Hs complaint about the sale of her fee-paying Select,
Platinum and Premier packaged accounts.
So, I will not be dealing with that element relating to the packaged bank account mis-sales or
any of the costs relating to any packaged bank account fees. This complaint relates to the
overdrafts issues.
I made a jurisdiction decision in August 2022 in which I gave reasons why the Financial
Ombudsman was not able to look at the complaint relating to overdraft charges more than
six years before Miss H made her complaint (24 November 2021). So, I will not be
considering anything relating pre-November 2015. I refer Miss H to that previous decision for
the details and reasonings.
I will not be able to address any issues surrounding a third party who is not a party to this
complaint process and by that I mean any issues surrounding what Miss Hs mother (now
deceased) may or may not have experienced with Lloyds. I am sorry to hear that Miss Hs
mother has died. But as she is not a party to the complaint then I am not going to be
addressing any aspects which may have affected her.
And I do not stipulate this to upset Miss H by mentioning her late mother, but because I need
to make it clear what I am not going to be addressing in this decision.
What this decision does not need to cover
Overdraft charges  the merits of that part of the complaint
The merits of the heart of the complaint were that Miss H said that Lloyds ought not to have
charged her the fees she was when in overdraft. Miss H has always maintained that this
should cover the whole of the period she owned the accounts and during which she was in
overdraft.
As I have already said in this decision, I need not look into the merits of that part of the
complaint relating to the charges since November 2015 as Lloyds has agreed to refund all
the charges from 25 November 2015 to 1 February 2018. So that part of the complaint has
been resolved. The redress section of this decision reflects our adjudicators redress and
what Lloyds has agreed to do.Mental capacity
Miss H is representing herself now. Formerly she was represented by Mr F. During
conversations with one of our colleagues at the Financial Ombudsman Service, the
recordings of which I have listened to, Miss H has said that her difficulties experienced with
understanding figures and finances was when she was much younger. I have reviewed
matters since November 2015 and no earlier.
And so, I think that Miss H has answered that point relating to her ability or otherwise to deal
with her financial affairs. Finances can be tricky things to deal with and we all need
assistance on these types of things sometimes. Ive picked up from the recorded calls I have
listened to that Miss H had help from her brother for a while and from Mr F. And so, I wish
Miss H well with managing her financial affairs going forward. But it seems that I no longer
need to make any findings on this part of Miss Hs complaint.
What this decision addresses
A claim has been raised as part of the complaint relating to Miss H having the bank accounts
with Lloyds (formerly TSB). Miss H says things occurred for which she blames Lloyds and is
asking us to consider compensation for them. She says this covered three decades at least.
As I have already explained, I issued an earlier decision on jurisdiction in which I decided
that the investigation into the complaint was only to cover the period from November 2015.
So, the logical extension of that is that any claim for additional compensation can only cover
that same period. And that is the period I looked at before coming to this provisional
decision.
To properly get to the heart of this part of Miss Hs claim, I have heard Mr F quite rightly
explain on one of the recorded calls I have listened to that the ombudsman dealing with the
case will need to know the story behind it all.
And Miss H recently has said that
the previous events that caused and kept me to suffer post 2015 are relevant to be
considered if they are the cause and reason I was in that situation.
I understand that point of view. What Miss H is saying is that I need to know what went on
before November 2015 to properly understand why Miss H thinks that Lloyds owes her
additional compensation after November 2015. Ive reviewed what I have been told and what
I have been sent.
I have listened to all the recorded telephone calls from Lloyds which have been sent to us.
Those include some of the ones that were between Miss H and Lloyds relating to the
management of the account over several years. And I have listened to the original complaint
telephone call made by Mr F on Miss Hs behalf to Lloyds.
And Ive listened to the calls made to and from the Financial Ombudsman Service and
include those between our adjudicators and team managers and Miss H and/or Mr F.
In addition, I have reviewed the Lloyds account notes and both sets of complaints we have
for Miss H here to gain plenty of background information. I have considered the problems
Miss H attributes to the actions or omissions by Lloyds and I have come to conclusions.
My understanding is that Miss H works for a public health organisation which asks a lot of its
employees both in dedication and in time. I know it to be a respected organisation for the
work its employees do. Miss H has done that job for a long time and it sounds like she works
long hours.
Miss H says that she was always in terrible debt which she says was added to by the unfair
charges about which Miss H has complained. As I have said earlier, Lloyds has agreed tothat part of this complaint relating to charges and fees relating to the overdrafts. And the
packaged bank account part I have said I am not dealing with.
Mr F has described:
[Miss Hs] wages every single month for decades right up to late 2017/2018 was
swallowed [sic] whole by her overdraft and charges and PBA fees then the whole
thing started agian [sic] month after month year after year you cant give her back
the years of hardship caused by them but you can redress the financial balance.
Mr F has also summarised Miss Hs complaint as 
..we are complaining about all charges and fines imposed on [Miss H] and her
mother after her Father passed away in 1986 to the present day which Hugely
contributed to a near whole life time of hard ship for [Miss H] and her mother  when
she was alive
I understand from account notes that Miss Hs mother died in 2008.
More recently Miss H has described:
If you look at my account over the period you can consider you will be able to see a
regular and monthly point where I ran out of any income as I had no access to
revenue to survive other than to borrow money usually from neighbours, colleagues
or loan companies in order to survive
I got my clothes from a credit company and was on a pay as you go gas and
electricity meter
I got food from a factory shop
I eventually had to sell my house as I could no longer afford to pay the mortgage and
high interest consolidation loans secured against the property
And Miss H has said:
If you look at the monthly accounts you will see when I had to start borrowing money
every month from neighbours and other people to put electric on my prepaid meter
and have enough food to eat and to have enough fuel to get to work
Miss H says that she thinks that Lloyds could have done a lot more to help her to avoid
getting into that position. She feels that Lloyds caused the cycle of charges and costs and
fees which she did not feel she could get out of. Miss H feels that Lloyds should have picked
up on these issues years before and offered help and advice.
To balance out what I have been told by Miss H, I have noted that recently Lloyds has
explained why it was that it was not alerted to Miss Hs troubles earlier. Lloyds email to us
on 18 November 2022 does offer some explanation which says:
Our reviews into an overdraft would not flag an issue as once an account goes into
credit it would re-set the affordability check.. it going into credit is still the overdraft
being repaid in full.
Given the large monthly credit paying the overdraft, this also avoided any possibility
of the account entering our collections depart which then we would have been able to
offer support.
And our adjudicator has successfully argued in the merits view she sent to Lloyds that it
ought to have done more earlier. Lloyds has agreed to refund all charges and fees relating to
the overdraft part of the complaint and the approach taken by the Financial OmbudsmanService in overdraft complaint cases is that such refunds are sufficient compensation.
Miss H has said that she is in financial difficulty now and I am sorry to hear it. Miss H says
that she has been living on her wages and on her private pension (now all gone) and Miss H
has told us through Mr F that still she is years away from retirement. So it may be that
Miss H is referring to one of her private pensions if Miss H is still working.
Miss H has been upset by a letter from Lloyds in or around May 2022 in which her account
was described as healthy. She objects to that because she says shes been living on her
overdraft for years. Her wages and private pension have been paid into her account which
was absorbed by the overdraft and she blames Lloyds for this. Her pension has now gone,
but Ive no evidence (other than what I have seen in the bank account transactions) of which
pension Miss H is referring to or whether she has more than one.
Having considered it all, I have not seen evidence of Miss Hs money troubles from 2015
being due to Lloyds actions or omissions. And so, I am planning not to uphold this part of
the complaint where Miss H says that additional compensation is due to her. I explain why in
the paragraphs which follow.
Loans  I can see Miss H took loans with Lloyds over the years and they likely will have
been assessed for affordability before being approved in line with the regulations covering
that at the time. Ive no remit in this complaint to look at any claims of irresponsible lending in
relation to loans taken in the past. This or these would constitute a separate complaint
subject and would require fresh investigation. And if Ms H wished to pursue a complaint
about those she would need to direct her concerns to Lloyds or the other loan providers in
the first instance as a separate matter or matters.
Any other loans taken with other lenders will have been subject to the same affordability
assessments and not part of this complaint. So, I have not looked at those.
Cashing in pensions  I have seen several credits into the account over the years and these
cannot be attributed to Lloyds. The decision to obtain payments from a pension would have
been a matter for Miss H and not anything that Lloyds had done or failed to do.
And the other issue surrounding her main pension is succinctly explained in this extract from
Mr Fs email to us dated 28 July 2022:
[Miss H] was also awarded £48000 pound by the Fscs because she lost out on her
pension of over £250,000 after she was misadvised to move her pension because
she trusted them like she did Lloyds
Reference here to FSCS is the Financial Services Compensation Scheme which in some
circumstances can step in and pay compensation. That appears to have been investigated
already. The FSCS has compensated Miss H as I have seen the credit to her bank account
for that sum on 11 January 2019. I am sorry to hear of that upset but its a separate matter
and not one that has, or would have, involved Lloyds.
Selling of the family home  I have no details about this other than I have seen the credit into
the account of what appears to have been the proceeds of the sale  over £38,000 on
2 February 2018. This would have been a decision made by Miss H and/or her family and
not one that can be attributed to any action or lack of action by Lloyds.
And for each of these issues - the loans, the cashing in of any pensions, the problem
surrounding another pension for which Miss H has already received compensation, and the
house sale - I know that Miss Hs case is that Lloyds caused her financial hardship and so
she says that its the reason these other things were done. But I do not accept that line of
argument. I do not consider that Lloyds has caused her to make these other decisions. And
I would not have expected Lloyds to consider it reasonably foreseeable that overdraft
charges and fees would necessarily lead Miss H to make these decisions.Evidence of financial hardship
I have reviewed both bank accounts from around October 2015 onwards until one (ending
*060) closed after being virtually unused for some time. It closed with a debit sum and so
Miss H did owe Lloyds that money she had spent before it closed using the overdraft that
was on that account. The other account ending *460 appeared to have been used more
regularly and Miss Hs salary was regularly paid into that account. I have seen that from
October 2015 the salary was always around £1,500 to £1,800 a month and usually around
£1,670 a month after tax. When it reduces it may have been due to her taking time off to go
on holidays. In any event, often the salary reverts to being around £1,670 or thereabouts.
I have seen several direct debits set up for the usual household bills such as council tax, TV
licence, gas and electricity, insurances with Lloyds and phone bills. Miss H was paying about
£187 a month on car finance. I know that Miss H drives as I heard on one of the telephone
calls that she had a driving licence.
I have seen that Miss H was paying towards at least two debt collector type companies and
that the sums being paid combined were £150 a month.
I have seen that Miss H also withdrew around £500 or £550 cash each month. There were
relatively few other transactions on the statements around that time. Id describe Miss H to
have been spending relatively modestly. The cash withdrawal each month may have been
for several reasons and two reasons may have been that Miss H used the cash to pay for
other bills including food and/or payments to friends if she was making them.
I have seen that at the end of each month in and around 2015/2016 the overdraft was
bouncing on the upper end of the overdraft limit (£1,600). As our adjudicator has persuaded
Lloyds to accept that the pattern of spending and living in her overdraft was one about which
it ought to have taken more care, then Lloyds has accepted that the interest charges ought
to be refunded. That is what Lloyds has agreed to do and so these transaction lists I can see
were part of the reason Lloyds agreed to our adjudicators view about Miss Hs complaint on
the merits of the overdraft charges.
What it does not show me is that Miss Hs financial situation was because of Lloyds actions
or omissions. Miss H feels it is right that I attribute blame to Lloyds. And I do not consider
that to have been the case.
And at the risk of repeating myself I have decided to list a few examples here. And Im doing
this so that Miss H knows that I have considered all the bank account transactions carefully.
I am looking at all these transactions to see if Miss Hs claim for additional compensation
against Lloyds is warranted.
In 2017  a new payment appeared which was for a Lloyds payment of around £127. It may
have been a mortgage or a loan but Ive no details. If it was a new financial transaction that
would have been one with its own application process and its own affordability assessment.
But its not part of this complaint and so it may be the subject of a separate one. Im not
dealing with that.
I see that in 2018 a conveyance took place. Cross referencing this with the account notes
I have it seems that Miss H moved house. And I see that a significant sum of £38,000 was
paid into the account on 2 February 2018 as I have mentioned earlier in this decision.
After that significant credit to the account occurred, I really cannot see how Miss Hs
argument for compensation for financial hardship can succeed. Miss H was then able to pay
off debts, and it looked like she did pay off what may have been a home-credit loan  around
£414. But other payments to the same debt collectors continued. And again, that would have
been a matter of choice as to what Miss H chose to spend the money on.
I see that Miss H purchased outright a car for over £11,000 and that meant that the £187 amonth she had been paying towards car finance ceased.
After that large injection of cash from what appears to have been the sale of the house, then
I note that Miss H, perfectly understandably, spent money on items she wished to spend
them on and her general spending increased. The £500 cash each month continued to be
withdrawn. And a Standing Order to another person commenced on 13 February 2018 for
£125 followed by transfers to the same person. Then the Standing Order increased to £260
at the end of each month and in July 2018 to £300.
I note that Miss Hs salary around that time had reduced to around £1,300 a month but it
does increase later.
By the end of August 2018 Miss Hs salary credited the account when she had about £499
left in the account which was used up over a few days meaning that by 31 August 2018
Miss H had £1,117 in the account. Then a debit of £900 was carried out but its not clear
what that was for. Miss Hs next payday was at the end of September 2018. And so, during
September 2018 Miss H started to use her overdraft again. Lloyds has said no charge was
incurred for this short overdraft period. Her salary in September 2018 reduced to around
£1,183.
The funds in Miss Hs bank account did, inevitably, reduce but Miss H was working still and
her salary continued to credit the account regularly. And again, I cant attribute Miss Hs
spending choices to Lloyds banks actions or omissions.
I know from recorded calls and account notes that unfortunately around that time Miss H
suffered a theft of her handbag abroad and lost a great deal of money. That must have been
very upsetting. And I note that Lloyds did all it could to assist her. But that would have been
a financial loss totally unattributable to Lloyds actions.
I note from other account notes and telephone calls that when Miss H was in distress due to
a personal matter she telephoned Lloyds and it assisted her to restrict access to her
account, and to cancel cards, re-issue cards and generally assist where it could.
Miss Hs salary increased to around £1,488 by the end of November 2018.
Towards the end of December 2018 Miss H received about £19,000 as a credit to the
account from a well-known company but I have not been told what that was  whether it was
an insurance pay-out or a pension drawdown. Whichever it was, these would have been
choices by Miss H and actioned by her.
Wheresoever the £19,000 credit came from, it was another opportunity for Miss H to clear
debts if she had wanted to. These would have been matters for her. And I notice that there
were several other drawdowns over the subsequent years of varying amounts from the same
company.
I have seen that the FSCS compensation (which I mention earlier in this decision) credited
her account in January 2019 and it was for £48,000.
In March 2019 Miss H paid just under £7,000 to a company but I do not know what that was
for. Other large purchases and travel spending appear as transactions on the account.
Miss Hs salary increased to over £1,770 a month by June 2020 and the nature of her work
means that it must have been very stressful and busy for her during the Covid 19 pandemic.
And as I said earlier I am aware that Miss H has worked in an environment highly respected
for the work she was undertaking. In September 2021 Miss Hs salary was just over £2,000.
It reduced again to the more usual figure of around £1,700 each month.
By March 2022, which is when the bank account copies I have cease, the account was
£1,751 in credit and I have seen that Miss H was continuing to earn money from the same
employer as before.In February 2020 I have noted that Lloyds reduced the overdraft limit from £1,600 to £320.
Then in December 2020 from £320 to £200. And this would have been understandable if she
was not using it. And as I have briefly outlined, there were many credits to the account over
and above Miss Hs salary. If not used Lloyds is entitled to reduce an overdraft.
This week Lloyds has confirmed that no overdraft charges have been incurred since
December 2017 and the bank account is in credit and has a £200 overdraft facility.
Miss H seems to have expected that Lloyds and its staff were to care for me
professionally as I have and continue to do for my patients.
Thats a particularly high level of care Miss H was expecting from her bank. I have read the
terms and conditions for the ownership of a bank account with Lloyds and it does not include
individual financial advice.
Within the context of this complaint (overdraft charges), Lloyds has accepted that it ought to
have done more about Miss Hs situation with the overdraft and has agreed to do as our
adjudicator recommended which is to refund all fees and charges since 25 November 2015
to 1 February 2018. Over and above that I do not consider that any further compensation is
warranted.
And careful reading of some of the emails we have received from Miss H and/or her former
representative does indicate that Miss H still does think the banks acted in her best
interest
The redress section below sets out the standard redress for cases of this type for the merits
part of the overdraft complaint for both accounts. Lloyds has agreed to do this already.
How did both parties respond to my provisional decision? 
The reply date for the parties to respond was 10 February 2023 but both Miss H and Lloyds 
have replied promptly. Both have accepted the findings in my provisional decision. 
And Lloyds has confirmed what I outlined at the beginning of this decision that it has already 
agreed to put things right for Miss H in relation to the overdraft charges and fees part of the 
complaint. It is content to refund all interest and charges for the period 25 November 2015 to 
1 February 2018. 
I understand from Lloyds that no overdraft fees or charges have been added to the account 
since December 2017 and so that seems appropriate and in line with our adjudicators 
detailed view.
In the circumstances I see no reason to alter my findings made in my provisional decision 
and the provisional findings set out above are repeated here. 
Miss Hs acceptance of it leads me to be confident that the facts were correctly set out. And 
I note that Miss H is content with there being a resolution of this complaint. 
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the
circumstances of Miss Hs complaint for Lloyds to put things right by:
Reworking both of Miss Hs current account overdraft balances so that all interest, 
fees and charges applied to it after 25 November 2015 are removed.
ANDIf an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Lloyds should contact Miss H to arrange a suitable repayment plan, and 
Miss H is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with Lloyds to reach a 
suitable agreement. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on 
Miss Hs credit file, Lloyds should reflect what would have been recorded had it 
started the process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in November 2015. 
Lloyds can also reduce Miss Hs overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it considers 
it appropriate to do so, as long as doing so wouldnt leave Miss H over their limit.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer being 
an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Miss H along with 8% simple interest* on the overpayments from the date 
they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no outstanding balance 
remains after all adjustments have been made, then Lloyds should remove any 
adverse information from Miss Hs credit file. Lloyds can also reduce Miss Hs 
overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it considers it appropriate to do so.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give
Miss H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I endorse the outcome in relation to the overdraft charges and
fees and Lloyds Bank PLC must do as I have set out above (and which its agreed to do) to
put things right for Miss H for both accounts on the overdrafts from 25 November 2015 to
1 February 2018.
And I do not uphold that part of the complaint relating to additional compensation Miss H 
considered due to her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman