DRN-4346420
The complaint
Mr C complains that IPS Pensions Limited (IPS), trading as James Hay Partnership, caused 
an unnecessary delay to the transfer of his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) to 
another provider. Ill refer to that provider as provider A. 
What happened
Mr C had a SIPP with IPS. It held cash and assets. On 15 November 2022 provider A 
notified IPS that Mr C wanted to transfer his SIPP to it. The transfer would be an in-specie 
transfer of the cash and assets, so the underlying investments in the SIPP would remain the 
same.
Ive gone into a great deal of detail in this background so that I can fairly reflect the steps IPS 
took to progress Mr Cs transfer.
Mr C emailed IPS on 16 November 2022 about the transfer. He said provider A had told him 
that IPS might have a Transfer Out Discharge form that needed to be completed. He asked it 
to urgently send him the forms he needed to complete. 
IPS responded to Mr Cs request on 17 November 2022 with a link to the discharge forms. 
These were completed and returned on 22 November 2022. IPS said it received these on 23 
November 2022. It then told the SIPP investment broker  who Ill refer to as broker S - 
about the transfer on 25 November 2022. And requested a valuation from it, as well as a list 
of all underlying investments. 
Mr C said that provider A confirmed to him on 1 December 2022 that it hadnt received any 
contact from IPS and would contact it. 
On 2 December 2022, Mr C emailed IPS to ask it to advise him about his transfer to provider 
A, given it had told him it had sent all the relevant paperwork to IPS on 22 November 2022. 
On 12 December 2022, provider A chased IPS about the transfer. Mr C said it didnt receive 
a reply. 
On 13 December 2022, IPS emailed broker S to ask it to provide a timescale for when the 
information requested on 25 November 2022 would be received. And on 16 December 2022, 
it emailed provider A about its 12 December 2022 email. It wanted provider A to confirm if Mr 
Cs property was to be transferred, or just his assets. 
On 19 December 2022, provider A wrote to Mr C to tell him about IPSs question about the 
property. It said it couldnt accept property as an investment. And asked him how he wanted 
to proceed.
Mr C told provider A the same day that there was no property within his SIPP, as itd been 
sold a long time ago. Provider A then emailed IPS to tell it that Mr C held no property in his 
SIPP. And to confirm that he wanted to proceed with an in-specie transfer of cash and 
assets, as hed originally requested. It also re-sent the transfer out paperwork it had 
previously sent on 22 November 2022. 
IPS confirmed to Mr C that itd added a clear note to his file which stated that the monies 
held in his Property Cash Account needed to be transferred over. It said this was £5,000. It 
apologised for the confusion caused.
On 21 December 2022, IPS emailed broker S to ask it to provide the information itd 
requested on 25 November 2022. 
On 22 December 2022, provider A asked IPS for a valuation of Mr Cs SIPP. On 4 January 
2023, provider A asked IPS when it could expect to receive the valuation. On 6 January 
2023, IPS emailed provider A to tell it that it was still waiting for broker S to provide the 
valuation. Broker S provided the requested valuation on 14 January 2023. IPS shared this 
with provider A.
On 19 January 2023, IPS sent the valuation to provider A. And asked it to confirm if it could 
accept the listed holdings. Provider A replied the same day to say that it could. It also 
provided details of the re-registration information to be used.
IPS instructed broker S to proceed with the transfer of assets on 25 January 2023. 
On 2 February 2023, Mr C emailed IPS to ask it to urgently reply to provider A about his 
transfer. He said the mutual funds had been transferred. But he was still waiting for the 
shares and cash to be sent. Mr C chased for a response on 6 February 2023. He said IPS 
had now: transferred the monies over, but that a dividend hed been paid, and the 
remainder of his pension cash, still needed to be transferred. 
On 6 February 2023, IPS replied to Mr C. It said itd instructed broker S to begin the in-
specie transfer on 25 January 2023. And that once that had completed to issue it with 
closing confirmation so it could close the account. But it was still waiting for that 
confirmation. Mr C replied the same day to say that broker S needed to transfer his cash 
dividend as soon as possible as he needed to reinvest.
On 7 February 2023, IPS emailed Mr C to tell him itd sent an email to broker S to chase the 
confirmation it needed. And that it couldnt proceed without that confirmation.
Mr C continued to chase IPS, and it continued to reply to his emails the same day, on 8 and 
9 February 2023. It said it still hadnt had the confirmation it needed from broker S, but that it 
would ask its in-specie team to chase. It did so on 9 February 2023.
On 9 February 2023, provider A asked IPS for an update. It replied to say that the funds 
were held with broker S who would contact provider A directly. 
On 11 February 2023, IPS emailed provider A to tell it that broker S held the funds and that 
broker S should be in contact with provider A directly to arrange the transfer.
On 14 February 2023, Mr C emailed IPS to chase his transfer, which he felt was taking too 
long. IPS replied the same day to tell Mr C that broker S was responsible for the further 
required actions. And that Mr C could contact broker S directly for an update.
On 17 February 2023, Mr C complained to IPS about the time it was taking to complete his 
transfer. He also said IPS had taken fees which he didnt think it shouldve taken, as the 
transfer shouldve been finalised weeks before. IPS acknowledged the complaint on 20 
February 2023. On 21 February 2023, provider A emailed IPS to ask it for a response to its 9 February 2023 
email. IPS replied on 23 February 2023. It apologised for the delayed response, noting that it 
was experiencing a high volume of emails at that time. It said it would provide a response as 
soon as possible. IPS called Mr C on 23 February 2023 to provide him with an update. 
On 24 February 2023, Mr C emailed IPS to tell it he was increasingly frustrated by the 
delayed transfer. And the effort it was taking him to chase it. Mr C felt that IPS should be 
doing more to get broker S to complete the remaining actions. He wanted IPS to refund the 
fees itd recently charged him. And to call him to tell him exactly when the transfer would 
complete. IPS called and emailed Mr C the same day. It told him it would fully investigate 
what had happened.
Mr C chased IPS again on 28 February 2023 to see if it could help to speed up the 
remaining part of the transfer. IPS said itd discussed this with Mr C on 24 February 2023, 
when itd said it wasnt appropriate for it to follow up the asset re-registration transfer at this 
stage. It said the in-specie transfer was being progressed between broker S and provider A. 
On 1 March 2023, Mr C emailed IPS. He said if IPS had acted earlier he wouldnt be in the 
situation he was in. He felt provider A had returned all signed paperwork to IPS by 22 
November 2022, after hed got involved to sort out IPSs error about there being property in 
the SIPP. He said that provider A had then received instruction from IPS on 17 January 2023 
that everything was ok.
IPS replied the same day. It felt that there mightve been some misunderstandings. It said 
itd only received the in-specie pension transfer request from provider A on 23 November 
2022. And itd then emailed broker S on 25 November 2022 for information on the SIPP 
assets. But this had only been provided on 14 January 2023. It said it had no control over 
the time broker S took to respond to its requests. So it couldnt fairly be held responsible for 
the delay.
Mr C still felt that as his SIPP was with IPS, it must be its responsibility to chase. 
On 9 March 2023, broker S emailed IPS to tell it that as of 2 March 2023 it was still waiting 
for confirmation on settlement for five funds. It said it was waiting for an update and would 
advise IPS when it had one. 
On 10 March 2023, broker S sent IPS an update. It said one fund was outstanding. And that 
it was waiting to receive confirmation from the fund manager.
On 16 March 2023, IPS emailed broker S to ask for an update on certain holdings. 
On 20 March 2023, broker S replied to IPS. It said that one fund was still outstanding. And 
that although the Stock Transfer Form had been submitted to the fund manager by email, it 
had been rejected and requested by post. It said itd sent this by recorded delivery on 14 
March 2023. 
On 21 March 2023, Mr C emailed IPS to complain further about the delayed transfer. He 
wanted someone at IPS to sort it out. And felt hed lost out on an investment opportunity due 
to the delay. 
On 22 March 2023, IPS sent Mr C the annual review for his SIPP. This showed that the only 
funds left in his account were £2,048.98 in cash and £5,000 in property cash. 
Mr C chased IPS again on 23 March 2023 and on 27 March 2023 for an update on the one 
outstanding fund. On 27 March 2023, provider A emailed Mr C to tell him that all assets had now settled on its 
platform and were able to be traded.
Also on 27 March 2023, IPS emailed Mr C to tell him that one fund still remained to be 
transferred. It explained whatd happened with this fund. Mr C said this was totally inaccurate 
information. He said provider A had confirmed that all funds had settled. And asked IPS to 
urgently advise when the balance of cash would be transferred to provider A. 
On 28 March 2023, IPS emailed Mr C to tell him it was still waiting for broker S to provide it 
with the closing confirmation, which it couldnt proceed without. It said it would chase broker 
S again that day. 
On 31 March 2023, Mr C asked IPS if itd spoken to broker S about the closing statement. 
He wanted it to help him speed up the transfer, which he felt had been going on for too long. 
On 3 April 2023, broker S emailed IPS the closing valuation report and confirmed that the 
transfer was now complete. Mr C emailed IPS the same day to ask it when provider A would 
receive his cash balance. IPS said itd contact him once its transfer team could confirm itd 
received closure confirmation. 
On 4 April 2023 Mr C asked IPS to tell him when his remaining cash would be transferred to 
provider A. IPS sent an internal email to ask its transfer team to finalise the transfer as soon 
as possible. 
On 5 April 2023, IPS issued its final response to the complaint Mr C had raised on 17 
February 2023. It apologised to Mr C because he felt it hadnt met its service levels. But said 
itd found no evidence that itd caused any delays or made any errors. It said it wasnt 
unusual for in-specie transfers to take several weeks.
IPS acknowledged that provider A had made a small query about property in Mr Cs SIPP, 
which itd received on 16 December 2022. But said itd quickly clarified this. And that it 
therefore hadnt caused an unnecessary delay. IPS detailed a timeline for the transfer and 
said itd proceeded promptly with it.
IPS said that after itd sent the instruction to broker S on 25 January 2023 to proceed with 
the asset re-registration, it was no longer directly involved with the transfer. Instead, this 
would be arranged between broker S and provider A. It also said that broker S had itself 
relied on confirmation from Mr Cs underlying investment fund managers to confirm the re-
registration was completed.
Mr C was unhappy with IPSs response to his complaint, which he replied to on 6 April 2023. 
He felt it shouldnt have issued its final response yet as his SIPP hadnt fully transferred. He 
also said he didnt understand why itd taken IPS until 25 January 2023 to send broker S the 
instruction to proceed with the asset re-registration. He felt IPS already had all the 
paperwork from provider A. Mr C felt that if IPS had acted more quickly, his SIPP wouldve 
transferred by early February 2023. 
Mr C was also unhappy because IPS had deducted its annual fee on 13 February 2023. He 
said he shouldnt have been charged £493 as his transfer shouldve been completed before 
the fee had been taken. He asked IPS to refund this fee. 
Mr C said that hed raised a concern in February 2023 about a dividend cash payment hed 
received. He said that broker S had transferred this cash amount to IPS, but it didnt show in 
his pension account. He said he needed this to be declared on the final statement hed 
asked IPS to provide. Mr C said that he still wasnt sure when the final completion of the transfer would take place. 
He also said that itd been impossible to speak with IPSs transfer team during the course of 
his transfer. 
IPS wrote to Mr C on 6 April 2023 to confirm that itd received confirmation from broker S. 
And that it was now looking to move the remaining monies remaining in the property cash 
account into the main trustee cash account so that these could all be paid into Mr Cs new 
scheme in a single payment. It said it hoped to soon be able to provide Mr C with a time for 
when it could make the final payment.
IPS issued a further final response on 11 April 2023. It still didnt think itd caused any delays 
or made any errors which impacted the timeliness of the transfer. It said itd sent its first 
instruction to broker S on 25 November 2022. And that as the property holding query had 
been raised and clarified in parallel with the transfer instruction, it hadnt caused any delays.
IPS said that itd sent the second instruction to broker S on 25 January 2023, after itd 
received the current valuation from broker S and confirmation from provider A that it could 
accept Mr Cs pension investment holdings. And that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to hold 
IPS responsible for the time taken by broker S to provide a current valuation and list of 
assets, and for the asset re-registration itself, which was completed between broker S and 
provider A.
IPS said that section 17.3 of the SIPP Terms and Conditions stated: "No fees or charges 
paid in advance will be refunded and any charges or fees owing will still be payable once 
you have notified us that you wish to close your SIPP..... And acknowledged that although 
Mr C would be unhappy, this was its policy. IPS also said that section 8 of the SIPP Terms 
and Conditions stated that all communication with it must be done in writing. So it didnt 
agree that Mr C shouldve been able to speak to its transfer team. 
IPS also said that regarding the missing dividend cash, Mr C should raise this with broker S. 
It said itd already told Mr C on 8 February 2023 that any dividends paid into his execution-
only dealing account with broker S would be included in his SIPP cash balance transferred 
to provider A.
Mr C replied to IPS on 11 April 2023. He was unhappy with its response to his complaints. 
He felt it should take responsibility for ensuring the transfer was processed in good time. He 
said hed seen no evidence that IPS instructed broker S on 25 November 2022. He also felt 
hed been the one whod sorted out the misunderstanding about the property holding.
Mr C felt that IPS had misunderstood his complaint about the dividend. He said that broker S 
had transferred the cash from the dividend to IPS but it hadnt been credited to his account. 
He wanted his complaint to remain open until hed received the closing statement for his 
SIPP, including the final cash balance. He asked for this statement to be made available to 
him urgently. Mr C chased IPS again for his final statement on 12 April 2023. 
On 14 April 2023, IPS sent the proceeds to provider A alongside final statements.
On 17 April 2023, Mr C emailed IPS to tell it that provider A hadnt received all of his monies. 
And on 20 April 2023 he emailed it again about the outstanding dividend cash he said it was 
still holding. He said IPS had £1,025.20 of his cash. IPS sent an internal email to its transfer 
team to ask it to look into this. 
Mr C forwarded messages hed received from broker S. These showed that itd sent the 
cash from the dividend to IPS. And that it had confirmed on 15 March 2023 that itd received 
the funds, but couldnt allocate them with the payment reference given. Broker S had said that itd replied on 16 March 2023 to confirm that the funds should be allocated to Mr C, 
quoting the reference number again that IPS had asked it to use.
On 26 April 2023, Mr C wrote to IPS. He felt hed made it clear in February 2023 that broker 
S was holding his cash dividend, and that it would need to be transferred. He also felt that 
when hed noted this point again in April 2023 hed been clear about the issue. But that IPS 
had taken no notice. He said he wanted his fees to be refunded. As well as £1,000 
compensation for the time and effort sorting out the transfer had taken him.
Mr C brought his complaint to this service on 26 April 2023.
On 27 April 2023, broker S wrote to Mr C to tell him that IPS had told broker S that itd 
located the cash dividend itd sent. And that it would forward this to provider A as soon as 
possible. 
IPS issued a further final response to Mr C on 27 April 2023. It upheld the complaint about 
the missing cash dividend. It said that itd made an input error which had led to the cash 
payment of £1,025.20 from broker S not being identified properly. And that when Mr C had 
queried the issue, his queries hadnt been clear so itd failed to identify the correct issue. IPS 
said it was very sorry for its error. It said that the £1,025.20 had now been allocated to Mr 
Cs account. It also said that the failure to allocate this money hadnt delayed the pension 
transfer process, as itd been unaware that monies were missing. 
IPS offered Mr C £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience, and for the delay in 
sending the further residual cash amount of £1,025.20 to provider A its error had caused. It 
also said that it would assess if the late transfer of this cash had caused Mr C any financial 
detriment. To this end, it asked Mr C to provide details of the investment hed made with 
provider A with the missing funds once provider A received them the following week. It said 
that if Mr C had incurred a loss because of the delay, it would send any further monies to 
provider A to restore his pension to what it wouldve been.
IPS said that now that itd reconsidered Mr Cs complaint in full, it agreed that it wouldnt be 
fair to charge him for a whole year of administration fee in advance. So itd requested a full 
refund of the £493 administration fee to be sent to provider A. However, IPS said that it 
wasnt its policy to pay remuneration to customers for the time they spend dealing with their 
own complaints. It said that there was no requirement for customers to be actively involved 
with the pension transfer process. And that although Mr C had frequently communicated with 
it, this had no impact on the time taken to complete his pension transfer.
IPS told this service on 28 April 2023 that it had re-opened the complaint on 25 April 2023 
after itd received further evidence. 
Mr C confirmed to this service on 11 May 2023 that he was still waiting for payments for 
£1,025.20 (in respect of his cash dividend) and £493 (in respect of the refund of 
administration fees) to be sent to provider A.
Our investigator didnt think IPS needed to do anything further that itd already offered to do. 
He acknowledged that Mr C had been frustrated by the pace of his transfer. But didnt 
consider that IPS had caused any unreasonable delays. He also felt that although IPS had 
made an error with the cash dividend payment, which itd only discovered after Mr C had 
complained, this hadnt affected the rest of the transfer process. And that IPSs offer of 
redress in respect of this error was fair.  
Mr C didnt agree with our investigator. He felt that some of what the investigator had said in 
his view wasnt correct. And that IPS had acted unreasonably throughout the transfer process.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint came to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold it. But Im not going to ask IPS to take any further steps 
than its already offered to take. Im satisfied that theres no evidence that IPS caused 
unnecessary delays to the transfer. And that in offering to put things right with its error over 
the cash dividend, its taken reasonable steps to put things right. I know my decision will 
disappoint Mr C. Ill explain my reasons for it. 
Before I start, Id like to explain that Ive read and considered every point that Mr C and IPS 
have made. And while I wont comment on each individual point, I have taken everything into 
account in my decision. 
Id also like to say that I agree with our investigator that in-specie transfers are often 
complicated and that its not unusual for them to take a few months to complete due to the 
multiple parties involved. But my decision focuses only on any unnecessary delays IPS 
mayve caused to the transfer, rather than if other involved parties caused delays.
Did IPS delay the transfer?
From the detailed timeline Ive listed above, I note the following:
- Mr C first told IPS he wanted to transfer on 15 November 2022. It sent him a link to 
the forms hed need to complete on 17 November 2022. Mr C completed and 
returned these forms on 22 November 2022.
- IPS received the completed transfer discharge forms on 23 November 2022.
- IPS informed broker S about the transfer two days later. And asked it for information.
- Between 16 December 2022 and 19 December 2022 there was an exchange of 
emails between IPS, provider A and Mr C about whether he wanted to transfer 
property holdings. This was resolved on 19 December 2022.  
- Broker S sent the valuation report that IPS had requested on 25 November 2022, 
and chased on 21 December 2022, on 14 January 2023. IPS sent it to provider A 
immediately. 
- On 19 January 2023, provider A told IPS it could receive all of the holdings. IPS 
instructed broker S to proceed with the transfer six days later, on 25 January 2023.
- Once broker S had completed everything it needed to do on 3 April 2023, IPS 
completed the rest of the work required to conclude the transfer. And sent the 
proceeds and final statements to provider A on 14 April 2023.
IPS said that the main cause of the delay was the time taken for broker S to provide the 
valuation report. And that another thing which slowed the process was the time taken for the 
asset re-registration, which began with IPSs 25 January 2023 instruction to broker S and 
was completed on 3 April 2023.IPS said that as soon as it had confirmation that all the pension holdings had been re-
registered, it proceeded with the final part of the transfer. It said it closed all accounts held 
under the SIPP and sent the cash to provider A. 
Mr C said that theres no evidence that IPS contacted provider A on 25 November 2022. He 
feels that provider A wasnt contacted until 10 December 2022. But I cant fairly agree with 
this. My detailed summary shows IPSs involvement both before and on 25 November 2022.
Between 25 November 2022 and 14 January 2023, IPS was waiting for broker S to provide 
the information itd requested. So it wasnt in a position to do anything more to speed up the 
transfer. It couldnt confirm with provider A whether it could receive all of Mr Cs holdings 
until it knew from broker S what they were. 
Mr C also thinks that IPS didnt reply to the 12 December 2022 email from provider A about 
the transfer. But the evidence shows that it emailed broker S on 13 December 2022 to chase 
the information itd requested on 25 November 2022. And that on 16 December 2022, IPS 
replied directly to provider As 12 December 2022 email. 
Mr C said that it took IPS until 25 January 2023 to send an instruction to broker S to proceed 
with the asset registration. I agree with this point. But I dont consider that this shows it 
wasnt progressing the transfer in a reasonable time. I say this because IPS only received 
confirmation from provider A that it could receive all of Mr Cs holdings on 19 January 2019. 
It then acted within its usual service standards to instruct broker S to proceed.
Regarding the misunderstanding with Mr Cs property holding - which he said had been sold 
more than two years before the transfer - IPS emailed provider A on 16 December 2022 to 
ask it to confirm if Mr Cs property was to be transferred. As provider A couldnt accept 
property as an investment, it wrote to Mr C on 19 December 2022 to ask him how he wanted 
to proceed. Mr C quickly confirmed that there was no property within his SIPP. And IPS told 
him itd added a clear note to his file that the £5,000 held in his Property Cash Account 
needed to be transferred to provider A. It also apologised for the confusion caused.
I can see that all parties were clear on 19 December 2022 that there was no property 
involved in the transfer. So although Mr C feels that this caused a delay to the transfer, I 
cant fairly agree. I say this because Ive seen no evidence that the lack of clarity about 
whether property was involved in the transfer caused any delay. The property issue was 
resolved in a total of three days, only one of which Mr C was involved in. And it was resolved 
during the period that IPS was waiting for the valuation report from broker S. So Im satisfied 
that it didnt delay the transfer process in any way. 
The evidence shows that some confusion was caused by conflicting emails from provider A 
to Mr C on 27 March 2023, and from IPS to Mr C on the same date. Provider A told Mr C 
that all assets had now settled on its platform and were now able to be traded. But IPS told 
him that one fund still remained to be transferred. This was because broker S had confirmed 
this to IPS.
From what Ive seen, theres no evidence that IPS made an error here. I cant be certain why 
provider A sent the email it sent to Mr C on 27 March 2023 to state that all assets had 
settled. But Im satisfied that this didnt agree with what broker S had told IPS at the same 
time.
I note that Mr C also considers that the issue with the missing cash dividend also delayed his 
transfer. Ill consider this part of his complaint in more detail later in my decision. But in this 
part of my decision Ive simply looked at whether the missing cash dividend caused any 
delay to the overall transfer.IPS said that the failure to allocate the cash dividend money to Mr Cs SIPP hadnt delayed 
the pension transfer process, as itd been unaware that monies were missing. And Ive seen 
no evidence that it did cause any delays to the transfer process.
Mr C doesnt agree with IPS here. He feels that as IPS has accepted it made an error with 
his cash dividend, and because the transfer didnt complete till April 2023, it mustve caused 
delays.
Based on all the available evidence, Im satisfied that IPS acted in a timely manner 
throughout the transfer process. Ive found no evidence that it caused any unnecessary 
delays. So I cant fairly hold it responsible for any delays to the transfer.
I next considered IPSs failure to correctly allocate the cash dividend broker S sent to Mr Cs 
account. 
Error with cash dividend
IPS acknowledged that it made an error when it failed to allocate the £1,025.20 cash 
dividend money to Mr Cs account when it was first sent by broker S. 
IPS also said it would carry out a loss assessment to ensure that Mr C didnt lose out 
because of the allocation delay. But IPS needed Mr C to provide investment details so that it 
could carry out the loss assessment. It also said that having considered the whole complaint, 
itd agreed to refund Mr C the £493 administration fee itd taken from his SIPP in February 
2023. 
Mr C told this service on 11 May 2023 that he was still waiting for payments of £1,025.20 
and £493 to be sent to provider A. Ive not been provided with a further update about 
whether the payments have already been made or not. 
Where a business has acknowledged that it has made a mistake, and has made an offer to 
put things right, this service has to consider whether that offer puts the consumer back to the 
position they should otherwise be in but for the error.
Having considered IPSs offer for correcting the error it made with Mr Cs cash dividend 
money, Im satisfied that it will put Mr C back to where he would otherwise have been. So I 
cant reasonably ask it to take any further steps to put things right.
I finally considered whether the £100 IPS has offered Mr C for the distress and 
inconvenience it has caused him was fair and reasonable. 
Distress and inconvenience
IPS offered Mr C £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience, and for the delay in 
sending the further residual cash amount of £1,025.20 to provider A, its error had caused. 
I acknowledge that Mr C would like IPS to give him additional compensation based on the 
time he spent sorting his transfer out. But I agree with IPS that it wasnt necessary for him to 
take the steps he did. And I also note that compensation for distress and inconvenience is 
assessed based on the impact the error had on the consumer, rather than the time it took 
them to sort things out. 
I also appreciate that it mustve been stressful and frustrating waiting for the transfer to 
complete. But, as Ive explained earlier, Ive found no evidence that IPS contributed to the 
transfer delays.So, while I am sorry that Mr C has spent so much of his time trying to speed up his transfer, 
Im satisfied that the £100 compensation IPS has offered him in respect of the cash dividend 
error is fair. 
Putting things right
If it hasnt already done so, I require IPS Pensions Limited to take the following steps to put 
things right:
- Refund Mr C the £493 administration fee to his SIPP with provider A, plus interest at 
8% each year from the date it took the fee to the date of this final decision.
- Transfer the £1,025.20 cash dividend money to Mr Cs SIPP with provider A.
- Carry out the loss assessment it offered to carry out on the £1,025.20 cash dividend 
money. This assessment should compare the assets Mr C would now hold in his 
SIPP with provider A at the date of my final decision if the cash dividend had been 
correctly allocated when broker S first sent it to IPS, with those he actually holds at 
the date of my final decision, after the £1,025.20 reached his SIPP with provider A 
and was invested. If this assessment shows that Mr C has made a loss, IPS should 
pay into Mr Cs SIPP with provider A the value of that loss. 
- Pay Mr C £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience its error has caused 
him.
IPS Pensions Limited is not required to take the steps listed above if it has already 
completed any of them.
The compensation amount should if possible be paid into Mr Cs SIPP with provider A. The 
payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The 
compensation shouldnt be paid into the SIPP with provider A if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the SIPP with provider A isnt possible or has protection or allowance 
implications, it should be paid directly to Mr C as a lump sum after making a notional 
reduction to allow for future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold Mr Cs complaint. I require IPS Pensions Limited to 
take the steps listed in the Putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman