DRN-3369973
The complaint
Mr W complains about Everyday Lending Limited (ELL) and their decision to provide him 
with a loan which he thinks was unaffordable.
What happened
On 20 September 2021, Mr W applied for a loan with ELL. This application was approved, 
and Mr W received a loan of £3,000 with a monthly repayment of £269.98 payable over 24 
months. But Mr W was unable to make his first monthly repayment due in November. Mr W 
made ELL aware he was unemployed and working with a debt management charity to 
arrange his finances before raising a complaint in December.
Mr W thought ELL acted irresponsibly when approving the loan. Mr W didnt think ELL had 
assessed the bank statements provided with his application fairly and that if they had, they 
wouldve realised he was working as an agency worker and so was unable to guarantee he 
had the income to repay the loan. So, he wanted ELL to compensate him in line with our 
services guidelines. 
Mr W didnt think ELL had acted fairly when approving the loan. Mr W thought 
ELL responded and didnt agree. They thought theyd completed proportionate checks 
before approving Mr Ws loan. And they thought the information these checks suggested the 
loan was both affordable and sustainable. So, they didnt agree theyd acted irresponsibly 
and didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr W remained unhappy with this 
response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They thought the checks ELL 
completed were proportionate. But they didnt think the information these checks provided 
had been assessed fairly. Our investigator didnt think the net income ELL used when 
deciding the approve the loan was reasonable, as it didnt take into account the reduced 
income Mr W received in the two months early as shown on Mr Ws bank statements. So, 
they didnt think ELL had enough information to show the loan was sustainable for Mr W 
over a period of 24 months and because of this, they didnt think ELL had acted responsibly.  
So, our investigator thought ELL should reverse all interest and charges applied to the 
account, so all past and future payments Mr W made are used to reduce the loan capital he 
received. And they thought ELL should remove any negative information reported on Mr Ws 
credit file in relation to the loan, with no further negative information to be reported in the 
future.
Initially, Mr W disagreed with this outcome and requested the loan be written off entirely. But 
Mr W changed his mind regarding this, and accepted the recommendation put forward by 
our investigator. And ELL also accepted the investigators recommendation but asked for the 
case to be passed to an Ombudsman to a full and final decision could be issued. As ELL 
requested for a decision to be issued, the complaint has been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for the same reasons as the investigator. Ive 
focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Following our investigators view, ELL have accepted the acted irresponsibly when provided 
Mr W with the loan. So, I dont intend to discuss this further in detail. But I think it would be 
useful for me to clarify my own thoughts. And looking at the bank statements Mr W provided 
as part of his application, I think its clear his income varied significantly and that he received 
income from various sources. So, I think this shouldve alerted ELL to request further 
clarification on Mr Ws employment status, to ensure the loan would be sustainable over the 
entire term of the loan. And I cant see that they did. So, I dont think they assess the 
information they had available to them fairly and because of this, Ive then thought about 
what I think ELL should do to put things right.
Putting things right
When thinking about what ELL should do to put things right, any award or direction I make is 
intended to place Mr W back in the position he wouldve been, had ELL acted fairly in this 
instance.
In this case, I think its reasonable for me to assume that, had ELL asked Mr W for further 
clarification on his employment status, they wouldve realised he was an agency worker and 
that his income had the possibility to fluctuate significantly. And because of this, ELL 
wouldnt have been able to guarantee the monthly repayment was sustainable. So, I dont 
think they wouldve approved Mr Ws application and provided him with the loan. So, I dont 
think its fair for ELL to report any negative information relating to the loan to Mr Ws credit 
file as it should never have been given to be reported on. So, any negative information 
reported relating to this loan should be removed from Mr Ws credit file and no further 
information should be input.
And if the loan hadnt been provided, there wouldve been no loan to accrue interest and 
charges. So, any interest and charges applied to the loan should be removed, so that only 
the capital is left to be repaid and that any payments Mr W has already made is offset 
against the capital balance only.
But I do think the capital should be repaid, as Mr W had received the benefit of the £3,000 
ELL lent to him. Mr W has explained hes working with a debt charity to help him manage his 
outstanding debt. Id expect ELL to act positively and sympathetically towards Mr Ws 
financial situation and work with him to agree an affordable and suitable repayment plan.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr Ws complaint about Everyday Lending Limited 
and direct them to take the following action:
Remove any interest and charges applied to the account, so any payments Mr W has 
made or will pay is used to offset the capital balance of the loan only; and
Remove any negative information reported to Mr Ws credit file regarding the loan 
and report no further information moving forwards.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman