DRN-4481476
The complaint
Mr K, Miss S, Ms S and Miss S (the complainants) complain about Hiscox Insurance
Company Limiteds decision to turn down their commercial insurance claim.
What happened
The complainants hold a commercial property insurance policy with Hiscox. They made a
claim after the floor collapsed in their property. Hiscox turned down the claim, as it said the
damage had been caused by rot, which was excluded under the policy. Unhappy with this,
the complainants brought a complaint to this Service about Hiscoxs decision.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She agreed with Hiscox the
evidence supported that the main cause of damage was rot. As the policy excluded this, she
thought it had been reasonable for Hiscox to turn down the claim.
I issued a provisional decision on 14 November 2023. Heres what I said:
The policy covers damage to the insured property, which is known as an all-risks policy.
Theres no dispute theres damage to the property, so for Hiscox to turn down the claim, it
would need to show that an exclusion applies. The exclusion it has relied upon says that it
will not make any payment for damage caused by rot.
The usual approach of this Service is that if an insured couldnt have been reasonably aware
of damage caused by rot, a fair outcome would be to say the insurer cant rely on the
exclusion. However, this approach is only taken for standard insurance policies which cover
specific insured perils (such as escape of water, fire etc).
We have a slightly different approach when an all-risks policy is held. We say an insured
shouldnt be worse off than someone with a standard perils policy if they were both in the
same situation. In other words, it wouldnt be fair for an insurer to turn down a claim for rot, if
the damage caused by rot was unknown by the insured, and it would have been covered
under a standard perils policy.
Ive read the reports by both surveyors. They were both in agreement that the main cause of
damage was a lack of ventilation in the subfloor void which had led to the timbers becoming
rotten and the floor collapsing. So although Im satisfied the complainants wouldnt have
been aware of the damage happening, a lack of ventilation isnt an insured peril under a
standard perils policy.
The complainants surveyor also thought the dampness in the floor void may have been
exacerbated by any potential leaks from the nearby gully and drain, as well as an unpaved
yard which had water pooling in it. However, although the drain was found to be cracked, the
drainage survey found no evidence of leaking and the water company said there was no
internal flooding to the property. So theres no evidence to support that the rot was caused
by any water leaking from the cracked drain.
Although the complainants maintain the cause of damage is an escape of water from the
courtyard of a neighbouring property, this isnt supported by the evidence from the two
surveyors.
That means the complainants arent any worse off than someone with a standard perils
policy in the same situation, as damage by a lack of ventilation wouldnt be covered. So I find
that it was fair for Hiscox to rely on the rot exclusion and turn down the claim.
I asked both parties if they had any further evidence or comments they wanted to make 
before I made a final decision. 
Hiscox responded but had nothing further to add.
The complainants responded with the following main points:
Their surveyor has carried out another inspection, and theyve provided me with his 
report. 
Theyve provided photos of the neighbouring courtyard and say water escapes from 
this into their propertys subfloor. Theyve also provided a photo of a wet skirting as 
evidence of this.
They said the water companys report found there were no issues with the pipework 
because the pipes had been cleared by that time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The complainants maintain that water is escaping from the neighbouring courtyard into the 
subfloor of their property, and that this is the main cause of the collapsed floor. 
The complainants surveyor revisited the property on 23 November 2023. The surveyor 
made the following points:
The rear wall within the floor void had been exposed, and this showed the whole of 
the wall to be damp. 
The dampness in the wall had transferred to the floor timbers resulting in extensive 
decay and collapse of the floor. 
The water was entering from the soil beneath the rear courtyard and was the 
principal cause of the decay and collapse of the floor. The lack of paving to the 
courtyard would allow a greater volume of water into the soil than would occur if the 
ground were paved with a runoff to a drain. And any leak in the drain serving the 
gully would also increase the amount of water entering the void.
There had been no rainfall for several days, but the surveyor suspected a greater 
level of water entry during heavy and prolonged rainfall. 
The complainants have improved the ventilation to the floor void by clearing the two 
rear vents and providing new vents at the front, but this hadnt been sufficient to dry 
the void or the timbers. The surveyor said unless water was prevented from entering 
at the rear, conditions within the void were unlikely to improve. 
Its not clear why the complainants surveyor changed their mind about the primary cause of 
the damp in the subfloor. In their report of November 2022, they said the primary cause was 
the lack of ventilation to the floor void, and thought the floor had been deteriorating for many 
years because of the lack of ventilation. However, in their report of November 2023, they 
said the principal cause was water entering the soil beneath a neighbouring courtyard. I appreciate a year had passed between the surveyors inspections. And at the second 
inspection, the rear wall within the floor void was still damp, despite the ventilation being 
improved. Though given the level of excessive damp in the timbers and floor void observed 
at the first inspection, it seems unlikely that opening up some small vents alone would be 
enough to dry out the existing damp. 
Nonetheless, I have considered whether the surveyors new findings would change the 
outcome. 
Ive already explained this Services usual approach to these cases in my provisional 
decision, so I wont repeat this in full here. But essentially, given that Im satisfied the 
complainants were unaware of the rot before the floor collapsed, I would likely require 
Hiscox to pay the claim if this would have been covered under a standard perils policy.
The complainants say theres been an escape of water. But under a standard perils policy, 
an escape of water would usually need to come from a fixed heating system or water 
installation in the property. Theres no evidence of that here. 
Standard perils policies often cover accidental damage to underground drains and pipes. I 
noted previously that a nearby drain was found to be cracked, but the available evidence 
doesnt support that this drain was leaking and causing the damage.
Finally, standard perils policies also cover flood. But excessive water in the soil causing the 
wall and skirting to be damp wouldnt be considered a flood, even if I accepted that this was 
the main cause of the dampness rather than lack of ventilation. 
I therefore remain satisfied that this claim wouldnt be covered if the complainants held a 
standard perils policy, and that it was reasonable for Hiscox to turn down the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K, Miss S, 
Ms S and Miss S to accept or reject my decision before 1 January 2024.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman