DRN-3983041
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with how Legal & General Assurance Society Limited has dealt with a claim 
he made under his income protection policy. 
What happened
Mr A took out an income protection policy, through an intermediary, in 2005. 
The policy provided was designed to provide Mr A with a monthly benefit, until the policys 
end date, should he become incapacitated. The monthly benefit, and the premium payable 
for the policy were index-linked. So, both the monthly benefit, and the premium increased 
each year. The policy held a deferred period of 52 weeks. Meaning that any monthly benefit 
would only be paid if Mr A was still incapacitated following that point.
Mr A has explained that from 5 October 2020, he was unwell, and unable to work as a result. 
So, in May 2021 he contacted his insurer to make a claim under the income protection 
policy. 
L&G, the insurer of Mr As policy, reviewed and validated the claim, and accepted it. It told 
Mr A that the monthly benefit he would receive would be £164.41 It said this was calculated 
in line with the policy terms and taking into account any income Mr A was receiving from 
elsewhere. 
Mr A didnt consider this monthly benefit to be correct. He said that L&G were basing his 
monthly benefit on the wrong pre-incapacity salary. And, based on the correct salary, the 
benefit he should be receiving, using L&Gs methodology should be £232.08 a month. 
Further that this, Mr A felt L&G were acting unfairly by taking into account other income he 
had  in the form of an ill-health pension, when calculating his monthly benefit. Mr A said he 
didnt know that the funds coming from his ill-health pension would be taken into account 
when providing him with settlement under the policy. Mr A said the intermediary he had 
purchased the policy through didnt tell him this. And that the yearly policy details he had 
received from L&G hadnt detailed this either.
Mr A said he had anticipated a monthly benefit of £2,376.40 a month. So, to be receiving 
£164.41 was significantly different to this anticipation. 
L&G considered Mr As concerns but didnt change its position on the matter. L&G was 
satisfied it had calculated Mr As monthly benefit correctly, based on the financial information 
provided to it, and in line with the policy terms. L&G said the calculation was clearly outlined 
to Mr A in an email it sent to him, on 4 May 2022.
In terms of the yearly documents sent to Mr A, referencing the increase in benefit and 
premium, based on index-linking, L&G said it wouldnt be expected to detail any deductions 
to the benefit, based on other income the policyholder had, in these documents. And it 
wasnt its responsibility to assess the suitability of the policy for Mr A. It said this was Mr As 
responsibility, or his independent financial advisors responsibility. So, L&G didnt think it had 
done anything wrong here either.
Lastly, L&G acknowledged there had been some delays in the progress of Mr As claim. It 
said it aimed to deal with contact from its policyholders within 10 working days and noted 
there were times it hadnt acted in line with this timeframe. L&G said that most of the delays 
arose before 7 February 2022. And the delays before that point didnt have a substantial 
impact on the claim, as L&G was waiting for medical information for Mr A. But L&G 
recognised the delays had caused distress and inconvenience to Mr A and offered Mr A 
£250 in respect of this.
Mr A remained in disagreement with the settlement amount being provided for his claim and 
remained of the opinion that L&G should have done more to make him aware of the policy 
limitations  as well as carrying out checks to make sure the policy remained suitable for 
him. As Mr A remained dissatisfied, he referred his complaint to this service for an 
independent review. 
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. The 
investigator said they were satisfied L&G used the correct figures for assessing Mr As claim 
and providing him with the monthly benefit amount. 
They also said that L&G didnt sell the policy and so it wouldnt be responsible for checking 
the policy was suitable for Mr A at each renewal. Instead, that would be something for Mr A 
or any independent financial advisor he had to do.
In addition, our investigator also said L&G didnt need to provide the terms around the 
maximum benefit to be received under the policy in the yearly letters sent to Mr A.
Our investigator agreed there were some delays in the progression of Mr As claim and 
considered the £250 compensation to be fair for this.
Mr A didnt agree. He reiterated his previous points about the complaint. As Mr A didnt 
agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied the £250 offered by L&G is a fair and reasonable outcome in 
relation to this complaint. 
I appreciate this is going to be disappointing to Mr A. Its clear he feels strongly about the 
matter, and I appreciate why. But Id like to reassure the parties that I have considered all 
evidence supplied to this service when coming to my decision. Ive explained my reasons for 
this decision below.
Claims decision
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly. So, Ive thought about whether L&G 
acted in line with these requirements, when it agreed to settle £164.41 a month of Mr As 
claim.  To do this, Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of Mr As policy. This explains that Mr A 
will receive a monthly benefit, following the deferred period, during a period of incapacity, 
until end of his incapacity, his death or the fixed end date of the policy. It isnt disputed that 
Mr A was incapacitated from 15 October 2020. And so, the benefit under the policy is due.
The policy explains the monthly benefit payable in any year will be limited to 55% of Mr As 
total yearly earnings up to £50,000, plus 35% of his total yearly earnings over £50,000  less 
any other earnings he receives whilst incapacitated. Other earnings include any pension 
payments. 
So, Ive looked to see whether L&G has acted in line with these policy terms. And I think it 
has. Mr A has said the above calculation should be based on him having a salary of 
£73,681.57. But Ive seen Mr As payslips for July  September 2020, which is the three 
months proceeding his incapacity. This evidences his salary as £71,681.71. So, Im satisfied 
L&G acted fairly in using this figure as the basis for its calculations.
L&G then took into account Mr As income from his pension  which is £33,003.43 a year. 
And arrived at the monthly benefit of £164.41. Having seem this calculation, I can see it is in 
line with the above policy terms. So, I dont think L&G has done anything wrong here.
Mr A has said he wasnt aware that the benefit amount due to him would be reduced by 
other income, and so he doesnt feel L&G should take this into account when settling his 
claim. But L&G has acted in line with the policy terms. So, I dont find it needs to do anything 
differently here. 
Mr A has said the monthly benefit provided to him has been increased from £164.41 to 
£179.21. I havent seen any information as to why this is. But I dont need to. Im satisfied 
that L&Gs calculation of £164.41 was in line with the policy terms. So, any amount above 
this is more than the terms and conditions of the policy, and therefore fair. 
Suitability of the policy
Mr A feels the policy wasnt suitable for him. But L&G didnt sell the policy to Mr A. So, I dont 
hold L&G accountable for anything that happened at the point of sale. 
I have however seen the policy schedule provided to Mr A when the policy was first taken 
out in 2005. And Im satisfied this did explain that other income will be taken into account 
when the benefit is paid. So, Im satisfied that L&G did what it needed to do, to let Mr A know 
of the key policy terms. 
Mr A says that L&G should have checked the policy was suitable for him, in years following 
him taking the policy out. But that isnt for L&G to do  it simply provides the policy. It would 
be for Mr A, or an independent financial advisor if Mr A had one, to review the policy and 
decide whether it still met Mr As needs.
Mr A has said that L&G should have told him about other income being deducted from any 
monthly benefit in the yearly letters sent to him, detailing the new premium and maximum 
monthly benefit. Ive seen a document sent to Mr A in 2006, which his policy was index 
linked, which did explain:
Important, if this increases your benefit above the maximum allowed by your income, then 
this may be more than we can pay out if there is a claim. The maximum protection benefit 
that you can receive is 55% of your pre-incapacity earnings up to £50,000 a year, and 35% 
of your pre-incapacity earnings over £50,000 up to a maximum benefit of £120,000 a year.I think the above is clear in what is taken into account when the monthly benefit is 
calculated. 
I havent seen the letters detailing the new premium and monthly maximum benefit for all of 
the following years. But I dont think this alters the outcome of this element of the case. I 
wouldnt expect L&G to detail the terms around the benefit limit in these letters  as the 
terms hadnt changed from when the policy was taken out. And the terms were provided at 
that point. So, I dont think L&G did anything wrong here. There were reasonable prompts 
during the lifetime of the policy for Mr A to check his cover was still right for him. And it would 
then be for him to speak to any independent financial advisor or speak to L&G if he wanted 
to.
Claim progression 
As above, L&G are required to deal with a claim promptly and fairly. Mr A has raised 
concerns about the time that was taken for L&G to deal with his claim. So, Ive considered 
this element of the complaint.
L&G has accepted there was some delays in the progress of the matter. It said it aimed to 
deal with information relating to claims within 10 days, and it hadnt done that. But it said 
there was also a long delay caused by Mr As GP, when it asked for information from it which 
it wasnt responsible for.
From looking at the contact notes provided to me, I can see there was some unavoidable 
delays  where L&G were waiting for medical information. But I agree there was times that 
L&G could have moved the matter forward more efficiently, as per its summary above. I can 
see how this would have been distressing and inconvenient to Mr A. 
So, Ive thought about whether the £250 compensation L&G offered to Mr A is fair. And I do 
think it is. I say this because I think it fairly recognises the trouble and upset caused to Mr A 
as a result of avoidable delays  such as needing to chase the progress of his claim. So, if 
L&G hasnt paid this already, it should now do so. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that the £250 compensation offered by Legal & 
General Assurance Society Limited is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I require 
Legal and General to pay this to Mr A  if it hasnt done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman