DRN-3842661
The complaint
Mrs R complains about the way Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) handled her claim for 
a refund in respect of a service she purchased using her credit card but did not receive.
What happened
In January 2020 Mrs R bought eight tickets to a show from a supplier Ill call M at a total cost 
of £228. The show was due to take place in May 2020. Mrs R said she selected a group 
ticket option on Ms website to ensure everyone in her party could sit together on the same 
table.
In March 2020 M told Mrs R that all of its events up until 31 May 2020 would be suspended. 
The show ultimately did not go ahead. 
After first spending some time trying to resolve things with M, Mrs R asked Tesco for help 
getting a refund in April 2022. Tesco said it couldnt help as Mrs R had raised the matter too 
late for it to raise a chargeback. It also said she didnt meet the criteria necessary for a claim 
under Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 as the claim did not fit the financial limits. 
Dissatisfied Mrs R referred her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think Mrs Rs complaint should be upheld. She said Tesco handled 
Mrs Rs claim fairly as her purchase was for eight tickets priced individually and each ticket 
cost less the sum required for a valid claim Under Section 75. 
Mrs R did not agree. She said she recalls buying a group ticket on Ms website and clearly 
paid for the tickets with one payment. She wouldnt have thought to question how M handled 
its administrative affairs i.e sending eight individual tickets rather than one single group 
ticket.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on 
the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened 
based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
There are two main ways a bank can help a customer to recover money paid to a supplier 
who hasnt provided what was promised. It can try to recover the money from the supplier 
through a process known as chargeback. Or it can assess whether its customer has a valid 
claim under Section 75.
Chargeback
In certain circumstances the chargeback process provides a way for a bank to ask for a 
payment to be refunded. Where applicable, the bank raises a dispute with the supplier and 
effectively asks for the payment to be returned to the customer. While it is good practice for 
a bank to attempt a chargeback where the right exists and there is some prospect of 
success, the circumstances of a dispute means it wont always be appropriate for the bank 
to raise a one. There are grounds or dispute conditions set by the relevant card scheme and 
if these are not met a chargeback is unlikely to succeed. 
Some of these conditions relate to the time limits within which a chargeback must be raised. 
For what was likely the most relevant rule here  where goods or services were not received 
 a chargeback needed to be raised within 120 days of the date Mrs R last expected to 
receive the service from M. This was likely the date of the show in May 2020.
Mrs R didnt make Tesco aware of her dispute until April 2022. So, if Tesco had raised a 
chargeback its very likely it would have been defended on the basis it had been raised out 
of time. On that basis I dont find Tesco treated Mrs R unfairly by declining to raise a 
chargeback on her behalf. 
Section 75 
Section 75 provides that in certain circumstances the borrower under a credit agreement has 
an equal right to claim against the credit provider if there's either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services.
However, S75 does not apply if the claim relates to a single item to which the supplier has 
attached a cash price not exceeding £100 or more than £30,000. 
I need to think about what this means for Mrs Rs complaint against Tesco. If Tesco had no 
liability to Mrs R under Section 75, its unlikely Id conclude it unreasonably declined to pay a 
refund to her in this case.
Looking at the evidence that is available, the confirmation of purchase email M sent to Mrs R 
simply said that her tickets were attached with no additional detail included about the 
purchase. It offers very little insight into the type of ticket(s) that had been purchased. 
Each of the eight tickets sent to Mrs R said they were a general admission ticket priced at 
£25 - £28.50. 
There were some statements made on each ticket.  Of relevance was the following:
You can find all the details about this event on our website. All tickets are sold according to 
our standard terms and conditions found online.
The terms and conditions or Ms website might have offered some more insight into the 
types of tickets that could be purchased and their standing. However, Mrs R said she doesnt 
have any terms. And the investigator tried to find archived and current versions online but 
was unable to locate them.
 
So, on the face of it, theres little in the documentary evidence that supports a conclusion 
Mrs R purchased one single item priced more than £100. 
I need to also consider Mrs Rs testimony however as she said she booked a single table for 
eight people when she made the booking on Ms website. She has given her best 
recollections of how she navigated Ms website which Ive taken into account.It is entirely possible that Mrs R did purchase a group offering and I note the statements on 
each ticket allude to the availability of this. That doesnt automatically mean however that 
Mrs R bought one single item which cost £228. And, just because Mrs R paid one price 
doesnt mean she bought one single item either. It is of course possible to pay a total single 
price for a number of items in one transaction.
Thinking about the way Mrs R said she ordered the tickets on Ms website, she said M 
offered tables of ten. So, it sounds like Mrs R must have had the ability to tailor the number 
of people on a table seeing as she was able to book a table for a party of eight. And it seems 
that the overall price of the booking adjusted according to the number in the party. The cost 
of the tickets worked out at exactly 8 X £28.50 which support this. 
This kind of individual tailoring, adjustment and pricing structure doesnt typically lend itself 
to the purchase of a single item. 
It appears therefore that Mrs R may well have booked what she thought was a table or some 
kind of group offering. However the way the purchase was structured in this particular case 
(and the lack of any additional clarity in the documentary evidence) leads me think this was 
simply a mechanism to ensure all tickets purchased were seated together, not an offer of 
one single item for purchase at cost of £228.
Looking at everything, Im not persuaded on the balance of probabilities that Mrs R 
purchased one single item priced at £228. I find it more likely the purchase was for eight 
tickets priced individually at £28.50. So, each ticket was under the financial limit required for 
a valid claim under S75. 
Thinking therefore about what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint, I 
dont find that Tesco needs to anything more as it did not treat Mrs R unfairly in the way it 
handled it her claim. I know Mrs R will be disappointed by this and I sympathise that shes 
unable to recover money here for a service she did not receive through no fault of her own. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained above my final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Rs 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman