DRN-3104349
The complaint
Mr P has complained about the overall service he has received from his motor insurance 
provider UK Insurance Limited (UKI) following him making a claim for a non-fault accident 
under his policy.
Mr P has further complained that UKI still have his claim recorded as open even though he 
was not at fault, and that it has not returned his policy excess to him.
 
What happened
Mr P was involved in an accident on 4 March 2021. He reported the accident to his insurer 
UKI who accept it caused unnecessary delays in the progression of Mr Ps claim. UKI also 
accept that the overall level of service, including not updating Mr P, and passing him through 
to different departments to discuss the claim was below the standard he should have 
expected from it.
UKI has provided compensation for its errors several times totalling £275.
UKI has explained that although Mr P has provided evidence to support his version of the 
accident the claim remains open as it has not been able to recover costs from the third party. 
Although it has sent correspondence to the third party several times the third party has had 
difficulty accessing the files and has not yet responded. Therefore, UKI has not yet been 
able to recover the cost of the claim.
Our Investigator considered Mr Ps complaint and thought the compensation it had paid was 
fair given the circumstances, and although the claim was still recorded as open, and Mr Ps 
excess had not been returned, that UKI shouldnt have to do anything further to resolve Mr 
Ps complaint.
Mr P disagreed. He is unhappy about the service he has received since the incident and 
feels UKI should have done more to progress the claim.
As Mr P didnt agree this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am only able to consider Mr Ps complaint up to the date of UKIs final response letter sent 
to him in July 2021. Anything that has happened since this time, that Mr P remains unhappy 
about would have to be raised as a new complaint.
It is clear from the information provided by both Mr P and UKI that the service he has 
received from UKI is below that he should have expected.
Following the accident taking place Mr P attempted to communicate and progress his claim 
with UKI. It appears that Mr P was passed through to several different departments and 
asked non-claim related questions. UKI also failed to update or confirm Mr Ps mobile 
number which caused further problems and delays with his car being repaired.
In addition to the phone calls the damage to Mr Ps car was mixed up with an assessment 
carried out on another vehicle. Fortunately, due to Mr Ps communications this was resolved 
quickly.
Mr P had to take his car to the repairing garage himself and the repairs were carried out.
Looking at the evidence available, provided by Mr P and UKI its clear that there were some 
issues sending Mr Ps video evidence of the accident to UKI and further issues with different 
UKI representatives knowing whether, or not the video evidence had been received. Mr P 
sent the evidence several times in different formats and it was eventually confirmed at the 
end of March 2021 that the evidence had been received and sent to the third-party insurer to 
be reviewed.
I can see that following the video evidence being sent to the third-party insurer it too had 
problems receiving and opening the files. Although UKI did continue to send the files to the 
third party on several occasions and chase for a response. This process brings us to the 
time we received Mr Ps complaint.
While I agree Mr P should have been updated more regularly than he was during the time 
UKI were communicating with the third-party insurer I can see that it was actively trying to 
progress the claim. I am unable to hold UKI responsible for any of the delays caused by the 
third-party insurer taking time to respond.
Having looked at the evidence provided by UKI about the claim it shows the third party has 
denied being involved in an accident. When this happens (even if it is clear to one party who 
was at fault) the claim remains open until liability for the accident is settled. While this is 
frustrating and inconvenient it is considered standard industry practice and I cannot say UKI 
has done anything wrong in keeping the claim in an open status until the liability issue is 
resolved.
The excess applicable to Mr Ps policy is the first part of any claim that he has agreed to take 
financial responsibility for. Therefore, it was reasonable for UKI to request this amount from 
him when he made a claim on his policy. The excess is considered an uninsured amount 
that is often claimed back when a claim is recorded as non-fault, and the insurer recovers 
the cost of the claim from a third-party. But at the time Mr P made his complaint to our 
service his claim was still showing as open. This is because UKI had not yet been able to 
recover the cost.
Mr Ps policy explains when he may need to pay the excess. It states:
We wont charge an excess if: 
Youre in an accident that we believe is not your fault. Sometimes you may have to 
pay the excess while were looking into the claim, but well refund it once its proven youre 
not to blame. 
This again is industry standard and is a reasonable action for UKI to take, so I wont be 
asking UKI to pay Mr Ps excess back to him.
I have considered Mr Ps complaint and while I can see the overall service he received from 
UKI throughout the claims process was below that he should have expected, I think UKI has offered a fair level of compensation. And while it can be frustrating and inconvenient when 
claims take longer than expected I dont think it was unreasonable for UKI to keep hold of Mr 
Ps excess until liability for the accident is resolved. As Ive explained this is standard 
industry practice and its in line with the terms and conditions of the policy he agreed to.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman