DRN-2205660
The complaint
Miss H said that the details of the interest free offer on the Sainsbury's Bank Plc credit card
that she applied for were actively misleading, so she will pay three months of extra interest 
as a result.
What happened
Miss H applied for a Sainsburys credit card, based on the offer of an interest free period for
balance transfers. She said the application materials implied the balance transfer would run
for a number of months, starting from when the transfer was made. It wasnt until she had
been credit searched and her application was completed that she found out the interest free
period runs from when the account is opened, not from when the transfer is done.
Miss H said that Sainsburys should be clear about this in its application materials. And she
said it should also realise that other banks dont do this, so it needed to be clear on this
point. She wanted Sainsburys to pay her £250, which is roughly the amount of additional
interest she says shell need to pay because of the way Sainsburys has structured its offer.
Sainsburys said that the terms of its offer were clear in the terms and conditions of the card,
it started from account opening, not from when the transfer was done. Sainsburys didnt
think it had made a mistake with its offer, but it did appreciate that Miss R had experienced
difficulties trying to register her complaint. So it paid her £50 for that.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She didnt think what
Sainsburys had said was unclear. And what it had done, in starting the interest free period
from account opening, was quite common. If Miss H was unsure, she couldve checked with
Sainsburys before continuing with her application. Or she couldve cancelled during the
cooling off period. Our investigator didnt think that Sainsburys had to pay more than the £50
it had paid for the difficulties Miss H had when trying to complain.
Miss H didnt agree. She said that financial institutions were supposed to be clear, fair and
not misleading. She thought that the product summary shouldve told her that the interest
free period began from account opening. Miss H also said that while other banks might start
the interest free offer from account opening, shed never dealt with a bank that did this. All
her previous cards had started an interest free offer from the date of transfer. And she said
Sainsburys used to do this too.
Miss H said she couldve cancelled, but she was aware that Sainsburys promotional offer
could be withdrawn at any time, so she applied at the earliest possible opportunity to get that
offer. Having secured it, she thought that she could wait to make the actual transfer, but it
turned out that she lost some of the offer period if she did that. And cancelling this card then
applying elsewhere meant she might not get an offer at all. She also said that this could
affect her credit file. She didnt think that £50 compensation took into account the cost of
borrowing over three months, which shed now have to pay.
Sainsburys said it was clear at the start that the interest free period started immediately, that 
was repeated on the credit agreement, and Miss H did have a cooling off period.
This case was then passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed to uphold it in 
part. This is what I said then: 
I think its worth setting out the wording of the product summary here, as this is key to 
this complaint. This is the wording that Sainsburys relies on in this complaint 
0% interest on balance transfers for up to 20 months. We may offer you a 
0% interest period of 16 or 12 months depending on your individual  
circumstances
I dont agree with Miss H that the wording of the summary was clearly misleading. 
There is no representation made here about when the interest free offer starts. I think 
its most likely that Miss H thought the offer would start from when the transfer was 
made, simply because thats what happened with previous cards shed had.
I also dont agree with Sainsburys that its crystal clear from the wording given that 
the offer starts from when the account is opened. As Ive said above, I think that the 
wording is silent on when the offer starts.
Miss H has pointed out that the onus is on Sainsburys to make this clear. I 
appreciate that a short summary of key features of the card cant cover every point. 
But because this offer is mentioned in that summary, I think it wouldve been helpful 
to include such a fundamental point.
But I dont think that it follows that Sainsburys must now pay Miss H the interest she 
says shell have to pay as a result. Thats because I think Miss H was aware of how 
this offer worked before she took it up, and while she was still in time to cancel her 
card under the cooling off period. And its also because we dont know that Miss H 
will have to pay interest on the balance on her card. She may instead choose to open 
a new credit card account elsewhere, with a new balance transfer offer.
I do, though, think that Sainsburys should pay a little more to make up for its 
promotional material not being clear enough to avoid the misunderstanding that 
happened in this case. It has already paid Miss H £50, but I note that was for 
problems in registering her complaint, not for the complaint she makes here. For this  
issue, I think that Sainsburys should pay Miss H £100. I think that provides a fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both Miss H and Sainsburys replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sainsburys said that it didnt think the terms of the account were silent on a key issue. It said 
that it didnt have the actual terms sent to Miss H, but it did have the template, which clearly 
states that any interest free period will start from account opening. So Sainsburys said it had 
been clear enough in its material and wanted me to reconsider. I havent suggested the terms Sainsburys issued were unclear. I said the promotional 
material, which is what Miss H considered before applying for her card, was silent on when 
the interest free period would run from. I also said I appreciated that a short summary of key 
features of the card cant cover every point. But because this offer is mentioned in that 
summary, I think it wouldve been helpful to include such a fundamental point. And Miss H 
has now sent us an example of alternative wording, which doesnt leave room for 
misunderstanding. So I havent changed my mind about this. 
Miss H formed a different view of how the interest free period would operate when she 
applied for the card. It was because I didnt think Sainsburys promotional material was 
sufficiently clear to avoid this misunderstanding, that I suggested a compensation payment.
Miss H said I was right to say that she hadnt known before her application how this interest 
free period would work. And she didnt think she shouldve had to cancel the card in the 
cooling off period, and hope the offer was still there in three months. A hard credit search 
had already been done, and the offer couldve been withdrawn. 
Miss H said that there were only three cards currently offering an interest free balance 
transfer without also charging a fee. Two of those she already has, and one shed just been 
turned down for. So she didnt think she could just apply for a new card, and avoid paying 
interest.
Miss H said she knew it wasnt Sainsbury's Bank fault that shed been turned down for a new 
card elsewhere, but she thought that because the information Sainsburys gave her before 
her application wasnt clear, that meant shed have to either act earlier to clear the card, or 
pay interest for three more months. She thought that we should take account of that in 
deciding on compensation. 
Miss H feels strongly that the appropriate remedy in this case is to take account of the three 
months of interest that she didnt expect to pay when she applied for the card. I dont agree 
with that. Ill explain why not.
I said in my provisional decision that this was both because Miss H was aware of how the 
balance transfer offer worked before she took it up, and while she was still in time to cancel 
her card under the cooling off period. And it was also because we didnt know if Miss H 
would have to pay interest on the balance on her card. Miss H has now told us that she will 
have to pay some interest or fee to move the debt on this card. But Miss H was still aware of 
this, before she moved her debt onto this card.
Im trying to put right the mistake that Sainsburys made. And Sainsburys mistake wasnt 
that it didnt give Miss H the interest free period she was expecting. It is clear from the terms 
of this card that Sainsburys was never intending to do that. 
Its mistake was that it wasnt sufficiently clear about how its offer worked, so that Miss H 
understood this before she applied for the card. That is what Im dealing with here. And I 
dont think that only making the terms clear on the account after Miss H applied, but before 
she transferred her debt, means its fair to say Sainsburys has to give Miss H what she 
thought shed get. I think Sainsburys just has to do something to make up for the 
disappointment, and extra trouble, of not getting what she thought she would get. 
So, even if Miss H did have to pay three months of additional interest that she wasnt initially 
expecting when she took out the card, I would still say Sainsburys didnt have to refund that, 
and a payment of £100 is fair.Finally, Miss H also said that she didnt think shed said that Sainsbury's used to start the 
three months from the point of balance transfer. I apologise if theres been a 
misunderstanding about this. Nothing in my decision turns on this point.
My final decision
My final decision is that Sainsburys Bank Plc must pay Miss H £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 October 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman