DRN-1295333
Complaint
This complaint is about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy on a store 
card, in November 2000. 
The credit facility for the account was provided by a high street bank, but there has been a 
recent change in the company which is responsible for answering these types of complaint. 
The company now responsible is called AXA France IARD. Ill therefore refer mainly to AXA 
France IARD throughout this final decision, for consistency.  
Background
Our adjudicator has assessed this complaint and already provided a view that it shouldnt be 
upheld. Ms R disagreed and so its been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Im afraid Ive decided not to uphold Ms Rs complaint. I appreciate she will 
be disappointed, so Ill explain carefully why this is.
Ms Rs card account was taken out by filling out an application leaflet in the shop. PPI was 
added on to the store card account and Ms R says she doesnt remember being told much 
about it or even agreeing to add the PPI.
I absolutely understand that Ms R honestly and genuinely doesnt remember asking for the 
PPI. I also accept she was quite young at the time. However, these events were 20 years 
ago and weve seen a number of very similar PPI sales with the same retailer from around 
that time. Weve also spoken at length to the companies involved to gain an understanding 
of the processes that were generally used around the early 2000s. We know, for example, 
that consumers were asked to fill out a card account application which was part of a wider 
leaflet-based form. The terms and conditions of the PPI were included in what the applicant 
was given to complete. 
We have the actual form and credit agreement Ms R filled out when she took out her card 
and there was a section on the application leaflet about the PPI. It invited her to either sign 
her name - or leave blank - an option box to have PPI cover. There was an indication that 
there would be a cost involved with this. Ms R signed at this point and therefore agreed to 
the PPI. I also think the PPI (when added) would have shown up on her monthly store card 
account statements.
So I think she consented to the PPI cover and would have eventually seen the charges 
occurring. She would have therefore been able to see she had PPI attached to her card. I 
also think if she hadnt agreed to the PPI she would have wanted to know what the periodic charges were for and would have been able to have had them clarified. I therefore can't say 
she knew nothing about the PPI, because the evidence does tend to point the other way.
This is what we call a non-advised sale. This means AXA France IARD needed only to 
provide enough clear information for Ms R to decide for herself whether she wanted the PPI 
cover. I acknowledge it could have set out the information about the PPI in a better way, but 
overall, I do think Ms R probably had access to enough information to allow her to make an 
informed decision. 
Ms R told us she had some sickness protection already with her job, implying she didnt 
need any PPI. I understand why shes told us this and Ive thought very carefully about the 
benefits Ms R says she enjoyed. But these dont necessarily mean the PPI wasnt of use. 
She was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major exclusions we tended to 
see in some of these policies. The cost of the PPI offered was relatively expensive, but the 
benefits the policy offered gave more protection than most credit cards. For example, if shed 
become unable to work or lost her job, the PPI would have paid off 15% of her outstanding 
store card balance each month until she returned to work or until all the balance was 
returned to zero. These benefits would have been in addition to any other means Ms R had 
in place at the time. 
For me to uphold Ms Rs complaint, Id need to think it was more likely that she wasnt given 
an option or there were other serious flaws in the way the policy was sold. I simply dont 
have that evidence. Instead, I can see Ms R did agree to the policy and had access nearby 
to the information she needed about the rules. 
I recognise it is a difficult time for consumers and Im really sorry to have to give Ms R this 
news. But I cant safely say this policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Rs complaint and I dont require AXA 
France IARD to do anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before15 April 2020.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman