DRN-1607012
 
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy about the fee charged by Cheap Financial Claims Limited (CFC) as he 
thinks the fee is too high.
What happened
In May 2018 Mr D signed a letter of authority (LoA) authorising CFC to act on his behalf to 
pursue PPI claims.
In August 2018 Mr D's claim was successful and CFC charged him their success fee of 33% 
plus VAT. Mr D paid the fee of 33% plus VAT, £6,561.19. But later complained to CFC as he 
said the fee should have only been 20% plus VAT, in line with the fee cap that had been 
introduced.
CFC said the fee cap wasn't introduced until 10 July 2018, after Mr D had agreed to their 
terms and conditions which said their fees were 33% plus VAT.
Mr D wasn't happy with their response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said CFC should have made Mr D aware before he signed the letter of 
authority that a fee cap was about to be introduced. And as they hadn't she said CFC should 
reduce their fee to 20% plus VAT.
CFC didn't agree as the fee cap wasn't introduced until 10 July 2018 and Mr D had the 
opportunity to cancel the agreement before his claim was settled.
CFC has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm upholding this complaint. I'll explain why.
The Financial Guidance and Claims Act 2018 required the Claims Management Regulator 
(CMR) to introduce a fee cap for PPI claims. The fee cap came into force on 10 July 2018. 
From this date, claims management companies couldnt legally charge a success fee of 
more than 20% plus VAT.
But, on 11 May 2018, the CMR issued guidance to all claims management companies. This 
said from the date of this guidance you should inform all new or potential clients of the 
upcoming change to the fees you can charge. And it was after this guidance was issued that Mr D signed the LoA authorising CFC to act 
on his behalf. So, I would have expected CFC to have made Mr D aware that a fee cap 
would come into force on 10 July 2018, so he could decide whether to go ahead or wait until 
the fees were capped. But I haven't seen any evidence CFC informed Mr D of the upcoming 
fee cap.
Ive also not seen anything to show me that Mr D wanted his claim to be progressed as fast 
or as soon as possible. So, I think had he known of the fee cap, its likely he would have 
waited until after this came into force before instructing CFC. He would then only have had 
to pay a fee of 20% plus VAT.
So, I agree with our investigator that applying the fee cap to CFC's fees is fair and 
reasonable. 
Putting things right
I know CFC  think their fee is justified. And I have considered why they think this. But as 
outlined above when Mr D read and signed their terms and conditions which clearly show 
their fee was 33% plus VAT. And how he could cancel the agreement he was unaware of the 
upcoming fee changes. And if he had known this I think he would have waited until July 2018 
before he made his PPI claim.
Mr D has already paid CFC their fee of 33% plus VAT. So, I require CFC to refund the 
difference between the fee he's paid and the 20% plus VAT fee I think he should have paid. 
And in line with our known approach, CFC should pay Mr D simple interest of 8% on this 
amount from the date he paid the 33% plus VAT fee.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And require CFC to reduce their success fee to the cap of 20% plus 
VAT. And refund Mr D the difference between this and what he paid. Plus simple interest at 
8%.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2020.
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman