DRN-4355031
The complaint
Mrs T has complained that Alwyn Insurance Company Limited unfairly declined a claim on 
her pet insurance policy.
What happened
In April 2022 Mrs T took out a pet insurance policy with Alwyn to cover her dog. The policy 
renewed in April 2023.
In May 2023 Mrs T made a claim under the policy for the cost of an operation for a luxating 
patella on the dogs left hind leg. Alwyn declined the claim. It said the policy didnt cover pre-
existing conditions and as the dog had been taken to the vet because of an injury to his left 
hind leg in March 2022 before the policy started, it was treating this as a pre-existing 
condition. 
Mrs T brought a complaint to this service. Our Investigator recommended that the complaint 
be upheld. He thought Alwyn should pay the claim with interest.
As Alwyn didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ts policy says it doesnt cover pre-existing conditions unless You have disclosed the 
condition(s) and We agree cover). 
The policy defines a pre-existing condition as: 
any condition, Illness, Injury or Bilateral Condition which occurred or first showed Clinical 
Signs or symptoms prior to the Policy start date, whether diagnosed or not or existing in any 
form even if the diagnosis changes. This includes if the condition, Illness, Injury or Bilateral 
Condition has the same diagnoses or is caused by, relates to or results from a condition, 
Illness or Injury which occurred prior to the policy start date. 
Mrs T didnt disclose anything relating to her dogs left hind leg.
In this case Mrs T says she took her dog to the vet in March 2022 because she was 
concerned that he was lame and might have had a luxating patella on his left hind leg but the 
vet said the dog was fine. Mrs Ts vet has confirmed that on the visit in March 2022 an 
examination found no signs of lameness. The vet also said the patella was in place and the 
examination of the stifle joint was unremarkable. The dog was seen by the vet on several 
visits between March 2022 and May 2023 with there being no reference to any problems 
with lameness between these dates. It was over a year later before the dog presented with 
signs of patellar luxation.
This service has a long-standing approach when considering complaints regarding pre-
existing conditions. We consider it fair and reasonable for a business to decline a claim on 
the basis of a pre-existing condition only where the consumer had reasonable knowledge of 
something that could at some point give rise to a claim. Where an insurer relies on an 
exclusion, the onus is on them to show its reasonable to apply it.
I think Mrs T took out the policy in April 2022 in good faith and was not reasonably aware of 
an injury to her dogs left hind leg. The evidence from Mrs Ts vet doesnt support a 
conclusion that the condition was present in March 2022. Given this, I am not persuaded it is 
fair and reasonable for Alwyn to rely on the pre-existing exclusion to decline the claim in this 
instance.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Alwyn Insurance 
Company Limited to settle Mrs Ts claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of 
the policy and any policy excess. Simple interest should be added to any settlement at the 
rate of 8% a year, less any tax if properly deductible, calculated from the date of the claim to 
the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman