DRN-1636746
 
The complaint
Mr A, on behalf of himself and the estate of the late Mrs M, complains that Bank of Scotland 
plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment protection insurance ("PPI") policy.
 
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy, taken out with a mortgage in 1990.
Both the mortgage and the PPI policy were in Mr A and Mrs M's joint names. The monthly 
benefit under the policy was split equally between Mr A and Mrs M. If either of them had 
made a successful claim on the policy for accident, sickness or unemployment, it would have 
paid half the full monthly benefit for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint. Mr A disagreed with the adjudicator's opinion, so 
the complaint's been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. We've set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and I've taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
I've decided not to uphold the complaint. I'll explain why.
Mr A's told us that he and Mrs M were specifically told that they needed PPI. I don't 
doubt that Mr A has given us his honest recollection of what was said. But I can't 
fairly rely solely on what he remembers about a discussion that took place so many 
years ago. I've seen a copy of Mr A and Mrs M's signed mortgage application. It 
includes a section on "Mortgage Payments Protector" (PPI), explaining that the 
insurance is for accident, sickness and unemployment, and provides the applicant 
with peace of mind if they are unable to work for certain unforeseeable reasons. 
There's a box to enter the amount of monthly benefit required if the applicant wishes 
to join the scheme. "£350" is written in the box.
 
I've also been provided with a copy of Mr A and Mrs M's separate signed application 
for the PPI.  It itemises the monthly mortgage payment and associated costs. The 
monthly benefit that Mr A and Mrs M chose was significantly less than the total 
monthly payment. And I think it's likely that the choice of the amount of monthly 
benefit followed a discussion between Mr A, Mrs M and Halifax's adviser about their 
needs and how much cover they wished to take. Overall, I'm satisfied that it would have been clear from the mortgage application that 
PPI was an optional, separate product. And I think it's most likely that Mr A and Mrs 
M decided to take it, after discussing their needs with Halifax's adviser, and knowing 
that they had a choice. But I can understand how Mr A may no longer remember this, 
nearly 30 years later.
 
Mr A and Halifax agree that Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr A and Mrs M. This 
means it had a responsibility to check that the cover was suitable for them. But it 
doesn't look as if it was unsuitable, based on what I've seen of their circumstances at 
the time.
 
I acknowledge that Mr A's told us that both he and Mrs M would have been entitled to 
six months' sick pay from their employers at the time. But the policy would have 
helped with their monthly mortgage payments for up to a year per successful claim 
for accident or sickness. That's significantly longer than they'd have been entitled to 
sick pay for. And it would have paid the same benefit if either Mr A or Mrs M had 
made a successful claim for unemployment.  What's more, the PPI would have paid 
out in addition to any payments that Mr A and Mrs M received from their respective 
employers. So they could have used those to meet other day-to-day expenses.
 
Mr A's told us that he and Mrs M had significant savings when they took out the 
mortgage and PPI. But I've borne in mind that they chose to protect those savings, 
rather than taking out a smaller mortgage. And the PPI would have allowed them to 
leave their savings intact. So taking everything into account, I think Mr A and Mrs M 
could have found the PPI useful.
 
I acknowledge that Mr A's commented that Mrs M already had cover. He's suggested 
that the PPI duplicated that cover, so was unnecessary.  But based on the 
documents provided, although Mrs M's existing cover had a similar name to the PPI, 
it was a life assurance policy. That's a different type of insurance. And it wouldn't 
have paid out in the same circumstances as the PPI. So I don't think Mrs M's existing 
cover made the policy unsuitable. 
 
The monthly premium for the PPI was shown on the PPI application form, so I think 
Mr A and Mrs M would have known how much they'd need to pay for it. And since 
they were paying for the policy monthly, they could have cancelled it at any time with 
no further cost if their circumstances changed, or if they decided they no longer 
wanted the cover.
 
It's possible that Halifax didn't point out the main things the policy didn't cover (for 
example, provisions about unusual working arrangements, or existing medical 
conditions). But based on what I've seen of Mr A and Mrs M's circumstances at the 
time, it's unlikely they'd have been affected by any of these.
 Taking everything into account, I'm not satisfied that better information about the PPI 
policy would have put Mr A and Mrs M off taking it out. So I don't think they lost out 
as a result of anything Halifax may have done wrong.
 
I've taken into account all Mr A's comments, including what he's said about the endowment 
mortgage having been mis-sold. He says he was compensated for the mis-sale of the 
endowment mortgage. And he believes it follows that the PPI was also mis-sold, as it was 
sold alongside the endowment mortgage. He says that if he and Mrs M had been offered a 
repayment mortgage, there would have been no need for PPI, as both he and Mrs M already 
had life insurance cover. 
I don't accept this. I should stress that I have only looked into the sale of the PPI. But even if 
it were the case that the endowment mortgage was mis-sold, this wouldn't affect my decision 
as to whether the PPI was mis-sold. As I've explained above, life insurance provides a 
different type of cover from PPI, and would have paid out in different circumstances. I think 
Mr A and Mrs M chose to take the PPI because they wanted the protection that it provided. 
And I can't see any good reason to believe that they would have made a different decision if 
they'd taken a repayment mortgage instead.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A, on behalf of 
himself and the estate of Mrs M, to accept or reject my decision before 17 April 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman