DRN-4381766
The complaint
Mrs N complains that Metro Bank plc trading as RateSetter (Metro) are holding her to the 
terms of a loan agreement which she says she didnt enter into. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In May 2023 Metro issued a loan in Mrs Ns 
name. The loan was for £10,000 with monthly repayments of around £400 over a 30-month 
term. The loan was paid into an account in Mrs Ns name with her bank L. 
On 12 June 2023 Mrs N contacted Metro and reported that shed been the victim of a scam. 
She said she hadnt applied for the loan and had been tricked into sending the funds on to a 
scammer. As a broad summary she said she believed she was doing online work for 
someone she met through social media. And this involved receiving company funds into her 
account and sending them on before she would be paid around a 40% share of what she 
sent on. Mrs N says there was another loan from another lender N also paid into her 
account (and then sent to scammers).
Metro investigated but ultimately held Mrs N to the terms of the loan agreement. However, 
as they accepted shed been the victim of a scam, as a gesture of goodwill they removed the 
fees and interest from the loan. Mrs N complained and referred the matter to our service. 
One of our Investigators didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mrs N 
disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator and for largely the same 
reasons. Mrs Ns testimony is that she had no knowledge that the money paid into her 
account was from loans in her name until she received a letter from N on 6 June 2023. She 
says she believed these were funds relating to her online employment which she sent on as 
directed.  
But there is other, compelling evidence, which doesnt support that being the case. When 
Mrs N began instructing outgoing payments of the loan funds, L intervened and asked her 
questions. There were multiple calls and Mrs N gave broadly the same story which was that 
she was sending the money to her sister (who she lived with) and that it was for home 
improvements. The notes record that L were so concerned that they referred her into branch. 
One of the calls (from the evening of 4 May 2023) is particularly relevant and Ive copied part 
of it below:
L asked Mrs N what the two incoming payments to her account were. These were the loan 
funds from N and Metro.
Mrs N: Yeah, its one from RateSetter [Metro] and one from (inaudible).
L: From where sorry?
Mrs N: [N]
L: But these are coming as a loan from like companies. Because my concern here is
that youve got two loans out and then youre sending a lot of money out the account to
other people. So, Im trying to understand why thats happening, why youve got a loan
coming in and then sending the money out again. Because we do see a lot of customers
that are put under pressure to make payments, you know they might be told that their 
account is under threat, and they need to move money to a safe account. Or they might be 
told to lie to the bank to say its for something else. I had a lady who said she was buying a 
car, and then after we put the payment through, she called back to say she had a call from
someone who was pretending to be the police. But by that time, money had gone out of
the account, and she lost that money. So, I wanted to check, have you had any unusual
calls from anyone?
Mrs N: No, no.
L: Or is anyone putting you under pressure to move the money?
Mrs N: No, no
Mrs N: Im just sending money to my sister because she needs money for her
house renovations.
L: But what are the loans for, why did you take the loans out?
Mrs N: Because I need it because we were doing our garden and she needs
money for her home renovations as well. So, I was just helping her.
I find the contemporaneous recording of this call to be persuasive evidence. I think the 
above exchange evidences that Mrs N knew of the Metro loan into her account on 4 May 
2023 and not later as she now states. This means it is difficult for me to place a lot of weight 
on Mrs Ns testimony as reliable and credible evidence. 
And whilst Mrs N has provided some evidence of her communication with the scammer, she 
hasnt been able to provide all of it due to the nature of the social media platform she used 
(which involves messages that later disappear). And Im more persuaded by the evidence of 
her call with L. If Mrs N didnt know about the Metro loan and hadnt had any involvement in 
it being taken out, its difficult to understand why she told L she had taken the loan. If she 
hadnt, I think its likely she would have reported this at the time or soon after. 
Mrs N also says that on the instructions of the scammer, she cancelled the direct debit in 
relation to the Metro loan from her account with L. This seems to be an unusual step to take 
on a loan she says she didnt know about. 
I appreciate Mrs N now says she was following the instructions of the scammer. But again if 
it was a legitimate job opportunity, its difficult to understand why this would involve not being 
truthful with her bank and a direct debit being set up on her account. Some of the messages 
Mrs N has provided also include someone being introduced to her as the scammers 
insider. This isnt something which makes it sound like a legitimate employment opportunity. 
Taking all the evidence into consideration, I dont think Metro holding Mrs N to the terms of 
the loan agreement is unfair or unreasonable. I think the evidence supports that its more 
likely than not that she had involvement such that this is a fair outcome. I note that Metro 
have agreed to waive interest and charges in relation to the loan. This is to Mrs Ns benefit 
and not something I think is unfair. I also accept that Mrs N is in a difficult financial position. So, whilst Im not upholding this complaint, Id still expect Metro to treat her sympathetically 
and fairly in relation to the outstanding debt. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman