DRN-2662826
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt refunded the premiums they 
paid for a travel insurance policy.
What happened
On 1 March 2020, Mr and Mrs M bought a single trip travel insurance policy through a 
broker, which was underwritten by Great Lakes. Mr and Mrs M policy covered a trip theyd 
planned to take abroad between 31 March and 17 April 2020. The policy cost Mr and Mrs M 
£326.23 for the basic level of single trip insurance cover and included cover for five medical 
conditions. 
As a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, the government of the country Mr and Mrs M were 
travelling to imposed a travel ban on international travellers. Mr and Mrs M got in touch with 
their broker to cancel the policy. They say they tried to call several times but werent able to 
get through until 20 March 2020. They wanted a cash refund of the full premium theyd paid 
for their policy.
Great Lakes didnt offer Mr and Mrs M a cash refund. Ultimately, it offered them a pro-rata 
credit voucher for the portion of unused cover, which could be put towards another policy; 
which would be valid for 36 months and which could be gifted to a third party. Its total pro-
rata voucher offer was £175.93 for the period of unused cover. And it also offered an 
additional credit voucher of £25 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr and Mrs M werent happy with Great Lakes offer and they asked us to look into their 
complaint. They said theyd tried to cancel their policy within the cooling-off period, but they 
hadnt been able to contact Great Lakes. So they considered they were entitled to a full cash 
refund of their premiums.
Our investigator thought Great Lakes offer was fair. She asked Mr and Mrs M if they could 
provide evidence which showed theyd tried to contact Great Lakes before 20 March 2020 
and she asked Great Lakes to search its records. In the absence of this evidence, she felt it 
was fair for Great Lakes to date the cancellation from 20 March 2020. This meant she didnt 
think it was most likely the policy had been cancelled within the cooling-off period.
She set out the details of the relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in the 
circumstances of this case. She also explained that it is a fundamental principle of insurance 
law that if the insurer had started to bear risk  for however short a time  the premium paid 
is not returnable. That means its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums 
relating to the risk it covered during that time. And she explained that Covid-19 didnt make it 
impossible for the contract of insurance to be performed because cover under the policy 
started on 1 March 2020 and the policy covered various risks during that time. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
She thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint 
was for Great Lakes to offer Mr and Mrs M a credit voucher, which would be valid for 36 
months and which took into account the unused cover remaining on the policy. She didnt 
think the terms of the voucher were overly restrictive. So she didnt think Great Lakes 
needed to pay Mr and Mrs M a cash refund of their premium.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed. Ive summarised their response. They said the number theyd tried 
to call was a freephone number, so it wouldnt show from their call records. But they 
maintained that theyd tried to cancel their policy within the cooling-off period. They also felt 
that Great Lakes should pay them a full cash refund of their premium, rather than a voucher, 
as their trip had had to be cancelled for reasons outside of their control. They referred to 
other regulatory bodies and measures theyd taken in relation to Covid-19.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs M, I think Great Lakes offer is fair. 
Ill explain why.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of your 
documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, less 
any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period no premium
will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions. 
Im not upholding this complaint because: 
Although Ive considered what Mr and Mrs M have said about trying to cancel their 
policy within the cooling-off period, I dont think it was unfair for Great Lakes to date 
the cancellation from 20 March 2020. I say that because I can see that Great Lakes 
has thoroughly searched its own records prior to that date and there are no records 
of cancellation requests before 20 March 2020. And Mr and Mrs Ms own call records 
only demonstrate a call being made on that date. I accept Mr and Mrs M may have 
tried to call a free phone number whilst still in the cooling-off period and not been 
able to get through. But I must make my decision based on the available evidence. 
And I also need to bear in mind that if Mr and Mrs M couldnt get through on the 
phone, they couldve contacted Great Lakes or the broker by email or letter before 
the cooling-off period expired to request policy cancellation. And I havent seen any 
evidence to suggest that they did so. This means I think it was fair for Great Lakes to 
calculate the cancellation date from 20 March 2020. 
Therefore, I think the policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period. And so 
there is no requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the 
insurer to offer a refundAs Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that Great Lakes doesnt have 
to pay any refund of a policyholders premium after the cooling-off period has ended. 
In this case, Mr and Mrs Ms cooling-off period ended on 14 March 2020. But the 
policy wasnt cancelled until 20 March 2020. So the cancellation was outside of the 
14-day cooling-off period. While I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ms holiday was cancelled 
for reasons outside of their control; I dont think it would be fair to ask Great Lakes to 
use its discretion and treat the Covid-19 pandemic as exceptional circumstances. I 
think this policy term most likely relates to circumstances which are individual to the 
policyholder  such as bereavement or a change in their own health. This means I 
dont think the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ms contract with Great Lakes 
entitle them to any refund of premiums.  
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-
19. In the circumstances of this case, I think Great Lakes offer to provide Mr and Mrs 
M with a credit voucher for the unused portion of their cover is fair and reasonable. 
Great Lakes wouldve been on-risk for a 48-day period if the policy hadnt been 
cancelled. The voucher represents the remaining, unused 29 days of cover, after the 
policy was cancelled, as Great Lakes was no longer carrying any risk of Mr and Mrs 
M making a claim after that point. Ive checked Great Lakes refund calculation and 
Im satisfied it was correct.
In my view, a voucher is fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances of 
this case. I say that because while I appreciate travel plans are still uncertain, Great 
Lakes credit voucher is valid for 36 months, meaning that its likely Mr and Mrs M will 
be able to put the voucher towards another policy in the future. They also have the 
option to gift it to a third party. So I dont think that the terms of the voucher are overly 
restrictive.
Having considered everything, while I know Mr and Mrs M will be disappointed by my 
decision, Im not telling Great Lakes to pay them a cash refund of their premiums or do 
anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman