DRN-2676885
The complaint
Miss D complained that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss D took out two loans with Loans 2 Go as follows:
Loan Date 
takenDate 
paidLoan 
amountTerm  
(months)Monthly 
repayment
1 03/11/18 01/11/19 £250 18 £56.64
2 31/10/19 Not paid £380 18 £86.85
Miss D brought her complaint to us when she wasnt able to resolve it with Loans 2 Go. 
In summary, Miss D didnt think that Loans 2 Go had lent to her responsibly at a time when 
she was struggling financially and using payday loans. She said she took out loan 2 as a top 
up loan to help her clear the balance on loan 1 but quickly got into payment problems. 
Miss D felt that Loans 2 Go didnt do enough to check affordability. 
  
One of our adjudicators looked at what had happened. 
Our adjudicator thought that Loans 2 Go hadnt done anything wrong when it provided 
loan 1. But he thought that the information Loans 2 Go gathered about Miss Ds financial 
situation, which included a credit report, shouldve prompted Loans 2 Go to do more to 
check her financial situation  and had it done so, it shouldve found out that it was unlikely 
Miss D would be able to sustainably repay this loan. Our adjudicator set out directions 
indicating what Loans 2 Go needed to do to put things right. 
Loans 2 Go disagreed with our adjudicators view. It mainly said that it saw from its credit 
checks that Miss D was up to date with the payments on the majority of accounts and that 
was why it had no reason to conduct any further checks. It also said that Miss Ds credit 
reports were on the whole positive, and the adverse information it saw would normally be 
expected given the type of lending it provided.
Loans 2 Go asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint and so it comes to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our 
website and Ive followed it here. 
There are some general principles I will keep in mind when deciding whether to 
uphold Miss Ds complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can 
sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done.
If proportionate checks were done and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think 
about whether theres any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For 
example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Ive kept all these things in mind and Ive thought carefully about the information Loans 2 Go 
relied on when it decided to lend to Miss D. 
As far as I can see, Miss D hasnt objected to what our adjudicator said with respect to not 
upholding her complaint about loan 1. So I dont think I need to say more about loan 1 
except that Ive reviewed this loan and independently reached the same conclusion as our 
adjudicator. I havent seen enough to say that Loans 2 Go shouldnt have provided this loan.   
But, like our adjudicator, I dont think Loans 2 Go shouldve provided loan 2. Ill explain 
why I say this.
Loans 2 Go asked Miss D about her income and expenses and carried out credit checks -
and it sent this information to us. So Ive been able to see information that Loans 2 Go relied 
on when it agreed to provide this loan to Miss D. 
Loans 2 Go recorded Miss Ds income as £2,750 per month and used an online income 
verification tool which indicated that her minimum monthly take home pay would be at least 
£2,006. 
Loans 2 Go worked out that Miss Ds monthly expenditure, including her rent and other main 
living costs as well her spending on other credit, left her with around £558 each month. It 
allowed a buffer of £60 to cover any fluctuations in her monthly income or spending and 
calculated Miss D shouldve had around £411 still available after making the monthly 
repayment of £85.86 on this loan. 
So Loans 2 Go felt this loan was affordable for Miss D.
But I think that Loans 2 Go could see from its credit check that Miss D was continuing to use 
multiple payday providers and she had just opened a new credit card account and 
straightaway used the full amount of credit up to its limit of £200. She had a mail order 
account that was at its limit. She had defaulted on an account with a communications 
supplier after slipping 3 months into arrears with her payments. So, although the loan mightve appeared affordable to Loans 2 Go, I think all this information 
painted a picture of someone struggling to manage money problems effectively and it 
included clear warning signs that Miss D was experiencing financial difficulty. 
I think Loans 2 Go should have carried out further checks before agreeing to provide loan 2 
to ensure that it had a proper understanding of Miss Ds financial situation. So, Ive looked at 
what I think proportionate checks would likely have shown.
Miss D has provided her bank statements so Ive looked through these to see what Loans 2 
Go was likely to have found out had it done more in-depth checks. To be clear, Im not 
suggesting the lender should have necessarily asked to see Miss Ds bank statements 
Loans 2 Go could decide for itself what it needed to do to meet its obligation as a lender to 
carry out checks that were reasonable and proportionate. But in the absence of other 
evidence, I think the bank statements Miss D has sent me give a reasonable insight into her 
finances at the time. 
And had Loans 2 Go done proportionate checking it would likely have seen that she was 
facing serious problems managing her money. 
I think it would have seen enough to confirm the indications on her credit file that she was 
stuck in a cycle of debt. It wouldve seen that she was struggling to manage her overdraft 
situation  even with payday loans to boost the balance she was frequently unable to keep 
her account in credit. Her council tax payment had been returned unpaid by the bank that 
month. 
If Loans 2 Go had sought a fuller picture of Miss Ds financial situation it wasnt likely to have 
been reassured that the loan would be sustainable for her. I think Loans 2 Go shouldve 
realised that Miss D wasnt managing her money, she had become reliant on expensive 
forms of borrowing, much of her available credit had already been used and she was 
dependent on obtaining new credit in order to fund her day to day costs  and still unable to 
meet all her monthly outgoings. So Loans 2 Go wouldve seen that further borrowing was 
likely to be unsustainable and it shouldnt have provided loan 2.
And I think thats borne out by the fact that Miss D very quickly found herself unable to make 
the payments due on loan 2.
So for all these reasons, Im upholding this complaint.  
I havent seen enough to make me think that Loans 2 Go acted towards Miss D in any other 
way that wasnt fair and reasonable. So Im not awarding any additional redress. 
I've set out below what Loans 2 Go should now do to put things right for Miss D.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Miss D to repay the principal amount that she borrowed 
on loan 2, because she had the benefit of that lending. But she has had to pay interest and 
charges on a loan that shouldnt have been provided to her.
If Loans 2 Go has sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then 
take the following steps. Otherwise, Loans 2 Go should liaise with the new debt owner to 
achieve the results outlined below and do the following:
remove all interest, fees and charges from loan 2 and treat any repayments made by Miss D as though they had been repayments of the principal loan 
amount. 
If, as seems likely, there is still an outstanding balance, Loans 2 Go should try to 
agree an affordable repayment arrangement with Miss D - bearing in mind the 
need to treat her positively and sympathetically in those discussions. 
Or, if this results in Miss D having made overpayments, then those 
overpayments should be refunded with 8% simple interest* calculated on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date 
the complaint is settled and paid to Miss D.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ds credit file in relation to 
loan 2 when it is repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
should give Miss D a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Loans 2 Go Limited to take the steps set out above to put 
things right for Miss D. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 May 2021.  
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman