DRN-2807476
The complaint
Ms J complains that NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua, raised the credit limit on her credit card to 
the point where she can no longer afford the repayments.
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will come as a disappointment to Ms J but having done so I wont be upholding 
this complaint for the following reasons:
When Ms J applied for her credit card in 2019 she told Aqua she was living with her 
parents, employed, with an annual income of £21,000 and another debt of £200. 
Aqua said this type of account is second chance lending and it wouldnt be unusual 
to see applicants with poor credit. It provided its underwriting data which indicated no 
accounts in arrears and no debt management/repayment plans. It said there were 
previous defaults and a public record, but these were 31 and 18 months prior to 
application and so were within its policy. So, I consider the £250 limit to be affordable 
at that time.
The first credit limit increase was in January 2020 to £1,500. During the previous few 
months Ms J kept within her limit and payments were on time and in full. As Ms J 
didnt declare a change in circumstances to Aqua and her account was in good order, 
Im persuaded the increase seems affordable at that time.
From July to October Ms J increased her spending but kept below £820, but still 
made regular payments greater than the minimum amount. 
Aqua raised the credit limit again on 19 October. Ms J had not declared a change in 
living or employment circumstances and again as Ms J kept her account in good 
order Im persuaded the increase seemed affordable at that time. 
Aquas contact records from 19 October show Ms J was offered £2,250 limit but in a 
phone call she asked for £2,000. Ms J brought her complaint to Aqua on 10 
November and said it raised her limit to an unexpected and unnecessarily high limit. 
She hasnt said exactly when she was made redundant, but it seems to be around 
this time. So, Im persuaded Ms J should have made Aqua aware of the change in 
her employment and living circumstances during this time so Aqua could re-evaluate 
the situation.
I notice Ms Js spending increased in November despite her complaint to Aqua. This 
included a single transaction for £588 on 6 November to a retail outlet, four days prior 
to the complaint, and transactions to a total of £123 in retail outlets three to four days 
after the complaint. 
Ms J told us that she gave her parents address when she applied for the credit card 
so Aqua was unaware she was living in rented accommodation. This means her 
disposable income would have been much lower that it will have calculated. 
When looking at affordability Id expect Aqua to make appropriate checks on 
disposable income which would include taking into account any living expenses such 
as rent and utilities. At the time of the credit increases the information Aqua based its 
decisions on included that Ms J was living with her parents, so it wouldnt be fair of 
me to hold Aqua accountable for not knowing she was in rented accommodation with 
the associated bills. 
Ms J was made redundant either after the second increase in credit limit or around 
that time and failed to inform Aqua, so, while I do understand the credit may now be 
unaffordable for Ms J, again I cant hold Aqua responsible for this unforeseen 
circumstance. 
If Ms J is continuing to have financial difficulties, in its final response letter Aqua has invited 
Ms J to contact its customer care team to assist her further. It also listed the contact details 
of various organisations which may be able to assist her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman