DRN-4377526
The complaint
Mr R complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited unfairly declined a claim he 
made under his home insurance policy. Hes also unhappy about the service he received 
from it.
Advantage is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As Advantage has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the 
agents, in my decision, any reference to Advantage includes the actions of the agents.
What happened
In late 2022, Mr R made a claim under his home insurance policy with Advantage after 
discovering an escape of water coming up through his kitchen floor. Advantage instructed a 
leak detection company (S) to investigate where the leak was coming from.
Mr R raised concerns that the visit wasnt scheduled to happen until a few weeks after hed 
made the claim. He was also unhappy about being charged an excess prior to any visit.
The leak detection company wasnt able to find the source of the leak. Advantage arranged 
for another company (C) to attend.
Following this, Advantage declined Mr Rs claim. It said that the damage suffered did not fall 
within the items covered under the terms and conditions of its policy, and that the actual 
cause of loss was because of gradual deterioration. Advantage said there were cracks to the 
gulley that required replacement. 
Mr R raised a complaint with Advantage. He said C hadnt carried out a CCTV survey as 
indicated. He said it had advised the gulley drain needed to be removed for further detailed 
investigation, but it wasnt. There was no evidence to clearly identify that the gulley drain 
was causing the issue.
Advantage arranged for C to visit the property again. C removed and replaced the gulley 
drain and later told Mr R it was charging him for this as private works.
Mr R raised a further complaint with Advantage. He said the water company had found the 
cause of the issue. It was a sewer drain blocked at a neighbours property and nothing to do 
with his kitchen gulleys drain. The gulley drain did not need to be replaced and CCTV could 
have been undertaken without its removal. He said he hadnt been told that Advantages 
contractors would be charging him directly for any services on attendance. 
In response to Mr Rs complaint, Advantage said it was unable to confirm, or otherwise, 
cover for his floor. It offered him £300 for the delays to Mr Rs claim.
Mr R remained unhappy and asked our service to consider the matter. 
Advantage told us it believed it had made the wrong decision when it decided to repudiate 
the claim. It said it would be reaching out to Mr R to confirm it would be covering the claim 
and steps would be taken to progress things. It offered to increase its offer of compensation 
for distress and inconvenience from £300 to £500.
Our investigator thought Advantages offer was fair, but Mr R disagreed. He said he was 
being pursued by C for payment of around £500 and would like written confirmation from 
Advantage that he didnt owe them any money. He was also unhappy with the quality of the 
drain replacement and said he hadnt had any guarantee for the work from C, despite 
requests to Advantage.
Mr R said there was still water damage in the kitchen on floor tiles and unit boards, and 
estimated replacement costs to be a minimum of £1,500.
Mr R said the cost of taking out a policy with another insurer had increased significantly, 
which he believed was as a result of Advantage delaying the finalising and settlement of his 
claim and recording it incorrectly. 
He also queried if the policy excess would be written off by Advantage. And he said he 
estimated a more realistic settlement for compensation was £6,550.
As Mr R disagrees with our investigators outcome, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
Ive considered everything Mr R has told our service, but Ill be keeping my findings to what I 
believe to be the crux of his complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection 
of the informal nature of our service.
Mr R has made us aware of some other concerns since he brought his complaint to us. I 
thought it would be helpful to provide some clarity about the Financial Ombudsman Services 
role and the scope of the complaint that Im deciding. Our role is to resolve disputes between 
complainants and financial businesses, to help both parties move on. It isnt our role to 
handle a claim or to deal with matters as they arise.
To be clear, in this decision I have only considered matters complained of up until the date of 
Advantages final response letter of 26 May 2023.
Advantage has offered to settle Mr Rs claim and pay him £500 compensation for distress 
and inconvenience. So, Ive needed to consider if thats enough to put things right.
Mr R has suggested that compensation in the region of around £6,550 would be more 
appropriate to settle his complaint. However, hes included the amount he thinks is needed 
to settle his claim and has raised some other concerns that go beyond the scope of this 
complaint. 
The policys terms and conditions set out how a successful claim will be settled as follows:
Your insurer may repair, reinstate or replace your damaged property. If your insurer cant 
replace or repair your property they may pay for the loss or damage in cash or in a cash 
alternative (including vouchers and/or store cards)Advantage has agreed to cover Mr Rs claim, but the policy terms allow it to decide how to 
settle it. This means it wont necessarily offer him a cash settlement. 
Mr R has queried if Advantage will be writing off the policy excess for his claim. This isnt 
something it said it would do when it made its offer to settle the complaint. I dont think it 
would be unreasonable for Advantage to apply the excess, in line with the policys terms and 
conditions.
The £500 Advantage has offered to pay Mr R is compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience its caused him.
The relevant industry rules require insurers to handle claims promptly and fairly. It should 
provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress. And it shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
The first leak detection company didnt visit Mr Rs property until almost three weeks after he 
made his claim. Mr R says he contacted Advantage several times during this period. He was 
concerned about being asked to pay the excess and about the leak getting worse. However, 
Advantage doesnt appear to have responded to him.
It seems that neither of the companies Advantage appointed to investigate the leak were 
able to identify the source of it. Mr R says the water ingress stopped after the water 
company resolved the issue of a blocked sewer drain at a neighbours property in early 
March. This was a little over two months after he made the claim.
I think Mr R was caused some unnecessary distress by Advantages decision to decline his 
claim, given that its now says its covered. I understand Mr R was left with a damaged 
kitchen floor and units.
It doesnt look like Advantage clearly explained to Mr R why C was expecting him to pay for 
the replacement drain. This was particularly upsetting, as this doesnt appear to have been 
the source of the problem. Mr R says Advantage would have known this if it had contacted 
the water company as it said it would. 
Overall, I think Advantages communication with Mr R was poor. Mr R had to contact it a 
number of times and he says much of his correspondence was unanswered. Advantage 
doesnt appear to have clearly addressed Mr Rs queries and concerns.
Im satisfied that Mr R has been caused considerable distress, upset and worry over a 
number of months because of Advantages poor handling of his claim. However, the £500 
its offered him for distress and inconvenience is in line with the compensation our service 
would typically award under the circumstances. So, while I know this will be disappointing for 
Mr R, Im not persuaded to increase this.
Putting things right
Advantage should:
Settle Mr Rs claim, in line with the policys terms and conditions and
Pay Mr R £500 for distress and inconvenience.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Rs complaint and direct Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman