DRN-3143478
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs T complain that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In 2000 Mr M and Mrs T took out a mortgage with Lloyds (trading at the time as C&G). 
Lloyds records show that they redeemed the mortgage in late 2001. In this decision Ill refer 
to the business who sold the mortgage and PPI as Lloyds to keep things simple. 
Around the same time as taking out the mortgage, Mr M and Mrs T took out a monthly 
premium PPI policy to protect their mortgage payments. 
The PPI was in Mr Ms name only. It would have paid Mr M and Mrs Ts monthly mortgage 
payments for up to 12 months per successful claim if Mr M had been off sick, or if hed lost 
his job. In addition, it would have paid £3 for every £1,000 of Mr M and Mrs Ts initial 
mortgage balance each month of a successful claim.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. Mr M 
and Mrs T disagreed with the adjudicators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr M and Mrs Ts case.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I need to decide what I thinks most likely 
to have happened, based on the information I have.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr M and Mrs Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
Lloyds no longer has a copy of Mr M and Mrs Ts application forms for the mortgage or 
the PPI. I dont think thats surprising or unreasonable, given how long ago they took out 
the mortgage. But from what we know about the way Lloyds sold PPI for this type of 
mortgage at the time, Im satisfied, on balance, that it would have been clear on the 
mortgage application form that the PPI was optional. And I think its more likely than not 
that Mr M and Mrs T realised at the time that the PPI was optional and that they chose to 
take it. But I can understand how they may no longer remember this, so many years 
later.
Lloyds no longer has a record of how the PPI was sold. Again, I dont find that surprising. 
Bur Mr M and Mrs T have told us that the sale took place during a meeting with Lloyds. 
And for the purposes of this decision, Ive assumed that Lloyds recommended the PPI to 
Mr M and Mrs T. This is to Mr M and Mrs Ts advantage when it comes to my 
consideration of their complaint, because it means that Lloyds had a responsibility to 
check that the PPI was suitable for them. But based on what Ive seen of their 
circumstances at the time, I dont think it was unsuitable.
Mr M and Mrs T have told us that Mr M would have been entitled to between three and 
six months sick pay from his employer at the time. But if hed made a successful claim 
on the PPI, it would have covered their mortgage payments for up to 12 months per 
successful claim. Thats significantly longer than Mr M would have received sick pay for. 
And it would have paid the same benefit if hed been made redundant. Whats more, the 
PPI would have paid out in addition to any payments Mr M received from his employer. 
So he could have used those to meet other day-to-day expenses.
Ive borne in mind that Mr M and Mrs T have told us that Mr M had a life insurance 
policy. But thats a different type of insurance, and wouldnt have covered Mr M in the 
same circumstances as the PPI policy. And having the PPI would have meant that Mr M 
and Mrs T didnt need to use their savings to make their monthly mortgage payments if 
Mr M had been off sick or lost his job.
Taking everything into account, I think the PPI policy would have provided Mr M and Mrs 
T with peace of mind that their mortgage payments would continue to be met if Mr M was 
off sick, or if he lost his job. And I think this would have been important to them, as the 
mortgage was a long-term financial commitment, secured on their property. Whats 
more, as they were paying for the policy monthly, they could have cancelled it at any 
time if their circumstances changed, or if they decided they no longer wanted the cover.
I dont know whether Lloyds told Mr M and Mrs T how much the PPI would cost before 
they agreed to take it out. But the policy was reasonably priced, and Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that Mr M and Mrs T couldnt afford it. So Im not convinced that better 
information about the cost of the PPI would have put Mr M and Mrs T off taking it out.
I acknowledge that its possible Lloyds didnt point out the main things the policy didnt 
cover (for example, existing medical conditions or unusual employment arrangements). 
But from what Mr M and Mrs T have told us about Mr Ms circumstances at the time, its 
unlikely hed have been affected by any of these. So I dont think better information 
would have made a difference to Mr M and Mrs Ts decision about the PPI. On balance, 
I think theyd still have taken it out. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M and Mrs T. But it follows from what Ive said that I dont find 
that the PPI policy was mis-sold. So I cant fairly uphold their complaint.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman