DRN-3429730
The complaint
Mr H complains that Newcastle Building Society (NBS) closed his fixed term accounts one 
day too early, depriving him of interest for the full duration of the term.
What happened
Mr H held two savings accounts with NBS. They were both fixed term, fixed rate accounts 
which matured on 22 February 2021 (the Maturity Date). Interest on the accounts was 
calculated daily. For February 2021, NBS calculated interest up to and including 21 
February. On the Maturity Date, NBS transferred Mr Hs funds into new, fixed term, fixed rate 
accounts. The interest rate on those accounts was lower than the original accounts. Mr H 
began earning interest at the new rate on 22 February 2021. 
Mr H complained to NBS. He said that the funds should have earned interest in the old 
accounts up to and including the Maturity Date, not the day before. He said that NBS had 
closed the accounts before they had reached the end of their fixed term and that his funds 
should have been transferred to the new accounts on 23 February 2021, not on the Maturity 
Date. He said hed lost a days interest at the original rate as a result.
NBS didnt uphold the complaint and said it had calculated the interest correctly. It said that 
Mr Hs original accounts had been closed on the Maturity Date and that his funds had been 
moved to the new accounts on that date. It said that the funds couldnt earn interest in both 
the old and new accounts on the same day. And, as they were moved into the new accounts 
on the Maturity Date, they earned interest in those accounts on that date.
Mr H wasnt happy with NBSs response and brought the complaint to this service. Our 
Investigator didnt think NBS needed to do anything. But Mr H didnt agree, so the complaint 
has been referred to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that the Maturity Date of the original accounts was 22 February 2021. Nor 
is it disputed that Mr H instructed NBS to reinvest the funds into new fixed term, fixed rate 
accounts. The issue is when the funds should have been moved into the new accounts. Mr 
H says this should have happened on the day after the Maturity Date and that the funds 
should have earned a full days interest in the original accounts on the Maturity Date. NBS 
says it acted correctly by calculating interest up to and including 21 February 2021 and 
moving the funds to the new accounts on the Maturity Date. 
Mr H says that NBS is in breach of its terms and conditions. The terms which are relevant 
here are both the Savings General Terms and Conditions and the Product Special 
Conditions of the original accounts. Ive set out the terms which I find to be relevant below, 
together with what I think they mean for Mr Hs complaint.
Clause 6 of the Product Special Conditions says Withdrawals/transfers can be made on up 
to 25% of the invested amount without notice or penalty. Further withdrawals are not 
permitted until maturity (22 February 2021).
So, apart from limited withdrawals during the fixed term, Mr H couldnt take his money out of 
the original accounts until the Maturity Date. I find this to mean that the remaining funds 
could be withdrawn on the Maturity Date itself, as the clause doesnt say that withdrawals 
arent permitted until after maturity. 
Clause 7 of the Product Special Conditions says On maturity the Account will automatically 
transfer to the Newcastles designated Maturity Account. We will write to you at least 21 
days prior to maturity to advise you of the Terms and Conditions of your new Account. Whilst 
we cannot guarantee what the rate on the Maturity Account will be at this time, we can 
confirm that the access terms will be no more onerous and the term will be no more than 
three months longer than this Account.
In line with this clause, NBS did write to Mr H before maturity. It wrote to him about both his 
accounts on 27 January 2021, setting out the options available upon maturity. It provided 
details of its range of savings options and explained what Mr H needed to do if he wanted to 
reinvest his funds. It said that, if Mr H didnt take any action, his accounts would 
automatically transfer into NBSs Maturity Plus Account upon maturity. I find this to be the 
designated Maturity Account referred to in clause 7. The letter enclosed the terms of the 
Maturity Plus Account, as required by clause 7.
So, under clause 7, the default position was that Mr Hs funds would automatically be moved 
to NBSs Maturity Plus Account. This would happen on maturity. As maturity is referred to 
in the Product Special Conditions as 22 February 2021, I find that the default position was 
that NBS would move the funds into the Maturity Plus Account on the Maturity Date.
But that was the default position. NBSs letters of 27 January 2021 confirmed that there were 
other options available to Mr H if he wanted to reinvest the funds. NBS was offering new 
fixed term, fixed rate products with rates which were more favourable than the Maturity Plus 
Account. Mr H chose to reinvest in one of those products and instructed NBS accordingly. 
I think its clear from clause 7 and NBSs letters that Mr Hs funds would be transferred out of 
his original accounts on maturity, which I find means on the Maturity Date. The documents 
dont refer to funds being moved after maturity. Mr H chose to move them into another fixed 
term, fixed rate account rather than the default Maturity Plus Account, but I dont think that 
changed the date the transfer would happen. So I think NBS was acting in line with the terms 
and conditions by transferring Mr Hs funds to the new accounts on the Maturity Date.
Clause 8 of the Product Special Conditions says Following the day of maturity you have 28 
days in which to withdraw funds penalty free, thereafter the Maturity Account Terms & 
conditions will apply.
Mr H says this means that 23 February 2021 was the first day that funds remaining in the 
accounts could be transferred without penalty. He says this clause means the funds couldnt 
be transferred beforehand. As Ive said above, I find that the earlier clauses mean that the 
funds could be withdrawn on the Maturity Date without penalty and indeed that the funds 
would be transferred on the Maturity Date. So I dont find that clause 8 is referring to 
withdrawal of the funds from the original accounts from 23 February 2021, as the funds 
would no longer be in those accounts on that date.
I find that clause 8 means that funds can be withdrawn from the Maturity Plus Account 
without penalty from 23 February 2021. The clause follows on from clause 7 which explained that the funds would automatically be transferred to the Maturity Plus Account on maturity. 
That was the default position under the Product Special Conditions. If Mr H hadnt instructed 
NBS otherwise, his funds would have been transferred to the Maturity Plus Account on the 
Maturity Date. 
He would then have had 28 days in which he could have withdrawn the funds without 
penalty. After that, the terms of the Maturity Plus Account would have applied. The terms of 
the Maturity Plus Account which were provided to Mr H in January 2021 confirm that 
withdrawals could be made from that account penalty free without notice. But, at the time Mr 
H opened the original accounts in 2016, it seems that NBS didnt know what the access and 
withdrawal arrangements of the Maturity Plus Account would be in 2021, hence the third 
sentence of clause 7. 
I find the clauses and letters to be consistent in confirming that Mr Hs funds would be 
transferred from the original accounts on the Maturity Date.
Turning to the interest, clause 9 of the Product Special Conditions says that this will be paid 
on the Maturity Date. Im satisfied that interest was paid on that date. But this clause doesnt 
say that interest has to be calculated to include the Maturity Date.
Section 2 of the Savings General Terms and Conditions says that, for internal transfers 
between NBS accounts, NBS normally adds the funds to the customers account balance 
immediately. This section of the Terms goes on to say that For all transactions, except 
cheques, interest will be paid from the date we receive the transaction.
Mr Hs funds were credited to his new accounts on the Maturity Date. So the transaction was 
received into the new accounts on the Maturity Date. Under the General Terms and 
Conditions, interest was payable from that date. NBS has confirmed that interest was paid 
on Mr Hs funds in the new accounts from the Maturity Date. I find that to be in line with the 
terms and conditions.
As the funds were moved to the new accounts on the Maturity Date and earning interest in 
those accounts from that date, I dont find that they were eligible to earn interest in the 
original accounts on the Maturity Date. So I think NBS was correct in calculating interest on 
the funds in the original accounts up to and including 21 February 2021.
I realise Mr H feels strongly about this complaint and Im sorry to disappoint him. But I dont 
think NBS made any mistakes or acted unfairly here, so Im not going to ask it to do 
anything.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman