DRN-3328191
The complaint
Mrs O complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited unfairly declined a 
claim on her pet insurance policy due to a pre-existing condition and added a back-dated 
exclusion clause to her policy.
What happened
Mrs O said shed purchased a puppy in April 2021 when it was a couple of months old. And 
shed taken out a pet insurance policy a week later. Mrs O said the puppy suffered some 
diarrhoea. But that wasnt unusual with a change of food and separation from its family. 
The day after the policy commenced the puppy vomited. And the vet recommended a 
change of food. A couple of days later the vet prescribed a course of antibiotics. But the 
diarrhoea continued on and off for the remainder of the month. 
Mrs O said there was no way she couldve known there might be any existing problems 
when she took out the policy. And she thinks its unfair Red Sands has declined her claim for 
the cost of the treatment.
Red Sands said the policy documentation sent to Mrs O explained any conditions or 
illnesses that first showed clinical signs or symptoms before the policy started or within the 
first 14 days of the policy were excluded from cover. 
The pets clinical history confirmed the condition claimed for was first noted before the policy 
started. So itd declined the claim within the terms of the policy. And itd placed an exclusion 
on the policy which excluded cover on all claims with respect to the digestive system with 
effect from the policy inception.
Mrs O wasnt satisfied with Red Sands response. So she contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She couldnt be sure exactly when the pets symptoms 
had begun. But the evidence indicated it was before the policy start date. And even if theyd 
begun when the vet had started to treat the puppy that was within the first 14 days of the 
policy start. So she was satisfied Red Sands was entitled to rely on the pre-existing 
exclusion to decline the claim.
Our investigator could see Red Sands had also added a retrospective exclusion to the policy 
excluding all claims for the digestive system from the policy start date. So she looked at the 
online process Mrs O had gone through when she took out the insurance policy. And she 
didnt think Red Sands had asked a clear question about pre-existing conditions. 
So she didnt think Mrs O had made a qualifying misrepresentation under the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). And she recommended that 
Red Sands should remove the exclusion for cover on all claims with respect to the digestive 
system with effect from 13 April 2021.
Red Sands didnt agree with our investigator. It felt Mrs O had been provided with a 
definition of what was considered a pre-existing condition. 
And the terms and conditions gave it the right to apply an exclusion to the policy in respect of 
any clinical signs noted within the first 14 days or prior to the policy starting. So its asked for 
an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mrs O and her pet have experienced. And I can 
appreciate it mustve been very upsetting to discover Red Sands had declined her claim for 
the cost of treatment for her puppy. So Ive looked at whether Red Sands has treated Mrs O 
fairly and in line with the terms and conditions of the pet insurance policy. Or whether it 
needs to do anything more to put things right.
In the product information document, under what is not insured? it states any illness or 
condition which is present or has clinical signs or symptoms before taking the policy out or 
occurs in the first 14 days of the policy.
Similarly under what is not covered the pet insurance policy terms and conditions state any 
claim or costs for or relating to a pre-existing condition(s) or for an accident, injury or illness 
that first showed clinical signs at any time before the commencement date of the policy or 
within 14 days of the commencement date.
Terms such as these arent uncommon in pet insurance policies. Most policies dont provide 
cover for medical conditions thatd already started before the policy was taken out, or within 
a set period at the start of the policy. So I think its clear that any condition that began before 
the policy started, or in the first 14 days of the policy, wouldnt be covered under the pet 
insurance policy.
The medical notes indicate the first clinical signs of diarrhoea took place on 7 April. And the 
pet was first registered with the vet on 10 April, receiving treatment between 14 April and 
early May. As Mrs O took out the policy on 13 April I think its fair to say signs or symptoms 
of a gastrointestinal problem had started either just before the policy started, or as least 
during the first 14 days of the policy cover. It follows that I dont think Red Sands acted 
unfairly in relying on the pre-existing condition clause to decline Mrs Os claim.
Red Sands has also applied a retrospective exclusion to the policy, backdated to the start of 
the pet insurance policy. And there are only limited circumstances where an insurer is able 
to add backdated exclusions to a policy after its started. 
The relevant law in this case is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). Under CIDRA, if theres been a misrepresentation by the consumer, and 
the insurer can show that without the misrepresentation it would only have offered the policy 
on different terms, it may then alter the policy to reflect what wouldve happened if itd been 
given the correct information. 
For this to happen, Id need to be satisfied that Red Sands had asked Mrs O a clear question 
and she had failed to take reasonable care when answering that question. So Ill look at how 
clear, and how specific, Red Sands questions were.
Ive looked at the process Mrs O followed when she applied online for her pet insurance 
policy. Mrs O wouldve been asked a series of questions about her pet and the level of cover 
she required. And I can see there was a section relating to pre-existing conditions that explained the policy 
didnt provide cover for any pre-existing conditions or any illness or condition if symptoms or 
signs were noted, or a diagnosis is made, during the 14-day waiting period at the start of the 
policy. 
Mrs O was asked are you looking to be covered for any pre-existing conditions?. An icon 
provided Red Sands description of a pre-existing condition, including any illness, injury, 
symptom, or sign of a condition before the policy began or noted during the 14-day waiting 
period at the start of the policy.
But theres no request for information about any illness her pet mightve had at the time she 
applied for the policy. And Mrs O answered no to the question about needing cover for pre-
existing conditions. Shed not had to take the puppy to the vet for anything other than routine 
vaccinations at that point. 
For Red Sands to be able to say Mrs O made a misrepresentation, it would need to show it 
had asked a clear question and Mrs O failed to take reasonable care when answering it. 
From the information Ive seen, at the point when Mrs O bought the policy, she wasnt asked 
about her pets medical history. And if she wasnt asked the question, then she couldnt have 
made a misrepresentation. 
On this basis, I agree with our investigator that Red Sands should continue the terms agreed 
when it entered into the contract with Mrs O. In these circumstances, where there wasnt a 
misrepresentation at the point when Mrs O bought her policy, Red Sands isnt able to rely on 
CIDRA remedies. And it shouldnt add a backdated exclusion to the policy after it has 
started.
Putting things right
As Ive explained I think Red Sands acted fairly and within the terms and conditions of the 
pet insurance policy when it declined Mrs Os claim due to a pre-existing condition.
But I dont think the insurer acted fairly in applying a retrospective exclusion clause to the pet 
insurance policy. To put things right Red Sands should remove from the policy the exclusion 
for claims relating to the digestive system, backdated to the policy start date.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint. Red Sands Insurance Company 
(Europe) Limited should remove the retrospective exclusion for claims relating to the 
digestive system from Mrs Os pet insurance policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman