DRN-2275821
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with how Barclays Bank UK PLC handled his claim to get a refund on 
flights he had booked online using his credit card.
What happened
In February 2020 Mr W booked a flight using his credit card and made a payment of £282.27 
towards this. Mr W says he subsequently contacted the flight company, as the dates booked 
were wrong, but was told this couldnt be changed without an additional fee being paid. And 
so, he raised a claim with Barclays in May 2020 to recover the funds.
Barclays wrote to Mr W in June 2020 explaining the delays it was experiencing due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic. It also informed Mr W that he could use our service if he wanted to 
complain about the handling of his claim.
Unhappy with the time Barclays was taking to investigate his claim, Mr W referred his 
complaint to our service in June. Our investigator found that Barclays sent a letter on 
11 June explaining that due to Covid-19, its workforce had been impacted and there were 
delays to its normal service levels. She also found that in July, Barclays managed to make a 
successful chargeback claim, and the transaction had now been refunded. The investigator 
thought the delays caused to Mr W werent unreasonable, given the circumstances, and 
didnt consider any compensation should be paid.
Mr W didnt agree and felt the chargeback took too long. He considered he had met the 
criteria of a section 75 (S75) claim and felt Barclays shouldve instead dealt with his claim 
under S75. Mr W also said he didnt receive the letter of 11 June, and the lack of 
communication and information brought him significant distress.
The complaint has now been referred to me so a final decision can be issued.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In some cases, a bank may be able to request a refund from the supplier through the 
chargeback scheme. This is a way in which payment settlement disputes are resolved 
between card holders and suppliers/merchants. They are dealt with under the relevant card 
scheme rules and in this case Visas. In certain circumstances the process provides a way 
for Barclays to ask for a payment Mr W made to be refunded. Those circumstances include 
where goods or services arent supplied or as described by the company Mr W paid.
There is no obligation for a card issuer to raise a chargeback when a consumer asks for one. 
But I would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists 
and there is some prospect of success.
As Mr Ws claim was successful, and from what he has said, its clear that he doesnt dispute 
the outcome. He does, however, say that Barclays took too long to handle the claim, so, 
thats what my decision will focus on.
In doing so, Ive had to take into account how the last year was an unprecedented and 
unusual time for the banks, dealing with significant numbers of enquires, claims and 
complaints from consumers as the global pandemic unfolded. Many of these claims will have 
brought up issues which were relatively novel, and the banks were having to digest new 
information, rules and guidance at a very unusual time. So, when assessing what if anything 
Barclays needs to do in this case, I need to consider the operational challenges it faced 
during this period.
In Mr Ws case, Barclays received his claim in May but sent him a letter on 11 June 
explaining the delays it was experiencing. In July, Barclays actioned the chargeback request 
for Mr W, and the refund payment was then subsequently made a few weeks later. I dont 
consider the length of time taken overall, to have been an unreasonable amount of time, 
especially taking the lockdown restrictions and the delay to Barclays normal service levels, 
into consideration.
I appreciate Mr W has said he didnt receive the letter of 11 June. However, Barclays has 
provided evidence that it wrote to him in June, at the address it had on file for him. So, I am 
satisfied the letter was sent and that Barclays was trying to keep Mr W updated about the 
delays, to make him aware it may take longer than usual for them to process his claim.
Mr W has also mentioned he is unhappy that Barclays used a chargeback request instead of 
attempting a S75 claim on the credit card payment. However, it is important to note that S75 
claims have different considerations to chargeback, and there arent any definitive 
timescales for how long a S75 claim should take to resolve.
And again, given the impact of Covid-19 across all areas of businesses, I think its unlikely 
that had the conditions of a S75 claim been met, Mr W wouldve received the refunded 
amount any sooner. Barclays wouldve still been required to gather evidence, assess the 
claim and get in contact with Mr W, which wouldve taken some time. So, Im not persuaded 
that Barclays acted unreasonably by not processing a S75 claim, and it ultimately helped 
Mr W get his money back by using chargeback.
Overall, I accept that Mr W wouldve been worried about how long it was taking Barclays to 
consider his claim, during what was already a difficult time. But I dont consider that Barclays 
caused any unnecessary delay in considering Mr Ws claim, given the unprecedented 
circumstances at the time, and I think that it took reasonable steps to keep him updated. And 
so, I wont be asking Barclays to take any further action in respect of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Farhana Akhtar
Ombudsman