DRN-1661088
The complaint
Mr B complains that Legal & General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) turned down his 
income protection claim.
What happened
Mr B is covered under his employers group income protection scheme. The aim of the 
scheme is to pay a monthly benefit in the event the insured becomes unable to work in a 
suited occupation due to accident or illness. The scheme has a waiting period of 26 weeks. 
In January 2019 Mr B stopped work in his customer facing role due to bowel and bladder 
problems. He had an operation, and then found his symptoms worsened and so he didnt 
return to work. He submitted a claim to L&G. After assessing the claim, L&G turned it down 
as it didnt think Mr B met its policy definition of incapacity. Unhappy with this, Mr B brought 
a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought the available 
medical evidence didnt support that Mr B met the policy definition of incapacity, so she 
concluded that it had been reasonable for L&G to turn down the claim. 
Mr B didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has raised some concerns about how his employer described the cover to him before 
he took it out. However, as our investigator has explained, we dont have jurisdiction to 
consider employee/employer disputes. Ive therefore only considered L&Gs decision to turn 
down Mr Bs claim. 
The policy pays benefit in the event of incapacity of a suited occupation. It defines this as:
Means the insured member is incapacitated by an illness or injury so that he is unable to 
undertake all occupations which we consider appropriate to his experience, training or 
education.
For me to require L&G to pay the claim, Mr B would need to show that, because of his 
symptoms, he was unable to carry out an occupation to which he was suited (by way of 
experience, training or education) throughout the 26-week waiting period.
Ive therefore looked at the medical evidence. 
I think the greatest weight ought to be placed on the view of Mr Bs treating colorectal 
surgeon (Dr N) at the time. He is a specialist and was therefore best placed to comment on 
Mr Bs symptoms, and the impact of those symptoms on his ability to work. 
On 15 July 2019 (shortly after the waiting period had ended), Dr N wrote to LG. He 
confirmed that Mr B had struggled since his operation. He described the symptoms that Mr B 
was experiencing, and said his clinical impression was that Mr B had severe irritable bowel 
syndrome (IBS), likely made worse by underlying anxiety. Dr N said that in terms of Mr Bs 
ability to perform daily activities, he didnt think the symptoms would cause him any physical 
limitations per se. However, he acknowledged that they would make life awkward for Mr B at 
work. 
L&G later asked Dr N for an update on some further investigations that he had been 
arranging. L&G said it had been considered that Mr Bs symptoms prevented him from 
carrying out his customer facing role, and asked Dr N Do you consider [Mr B] would also be 
medically contraindicated from a return to other suited work, without customer facing duties 
with reasonable adjustment such as close access to toileting facilities and support?
Dr N responded on 1 October 2019. He confirmed Mr B had undergone a CT scan which 
was unremarkable and didnt show a cause for his symptoms. He also confirmed that Mr B 
was still on the waiting list to have a flexible sigmoidoscopy. Dr N explained that Mr Bs 
diverticular disease was a very common condition, which he didnt expect to be debilitating. 
Dr N again explained that he thought the majority of Mr Bs symptoms were related to IBS. 
He said he thought his symptoms were quite disruptive, but he could see no medical reason 
why [Mr B] could not return to work as [L&G] describe, without customer facing duties and 
with close access to toileting facilities and support.
After L&G declined the claim, Mr B provided some further medical information from his new 
treating consultant. L&G has commented on it, so Ill take it into account. 
Mr B was reviewed by Dr W (consultant gastroenterologist) in November and December 
2019. She said she was in no doubt that his symptoms were functional, with all of them 
extremely debilitating and severe for him. She said she did not underestimate how 
profoundly his symptoms had impacted on his personal, social and professional life. 
However, Dr W didnt comment on Mr Bs ability to work, other than to say that hed been off 
work for a number of months because of his abdominal symptoms. In January 2020 Dr W 
confirmed a recent investigation was in keeping with a new diagnosis.
L&G has accepted that Mr Bs symptoms prevented him from working in his normal 
customer facing role. I would agree with that. The next point to consider is whether he was 
able to work in another occupation to which he was suited. 
Dr N has confirmed that Mr B could return to work, so long as this was without customer 
facing duties and with close access to toileting facilities. Taking into account Mr Bs 
professional qualifications and work history, I think theres likely a range of roles that Mr B 
could do (with adjustments). L&G thought Mr B could do his previous role, as it wasnt 
customer facing. Based on Dr Ns comments, I think that was a reasonable suggestion.
Consequently, I think it was reasonable for L&G to conclude that Mr B could carry out a role 
to which he was suited, and therefore didnt meet the definition of incapacity.
Mr B has also raised concerns about a breach of his privacy rights by L&G under the Data 
Protection Act 1998, and so he may wish to contact the Information Commissioners Office 
(ICO) about this.  My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman