DRN-4247592
The complaint
Mr C complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund money he says he lost to a 
scam.
In making this complaint Mr C is represented by a third-party, but for the ease of reading Ill 
refer to Mr C throughout this decision.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
everything in detail. Instead, I will provide a brief summary and focus on giving the reasons 
for my decision.
In July 2018 Mr C made sent a payment of £25,050 via a payment service provider for the 
purpose of investing £25,000 in an unregulated property scheme (that Ill call W). Mr C 
received two interest payments from the investment but after this the payments stopped, so 
Mr C thought he had been a victim of a scam. 
Mr C complained to NatWest in November 2022. He argued that NatWest had breached its 
duty of care by failing to question the payment and, had it done so, he wouldnt have gone 
ahead, and the loss would have been prevented. 
NatWest said Mr C authorised the payment and therefore there were no concerns at the time 
about the validity of the payment. And it didnt agree to refund the money Mr C had lost. 
Mr C didnt accept this outcome and referred the matter to our service. But our Investigator 
didnt uphold the complaint. While she didnt think the payment stood out as being 
particularly unusual or concerning - when compared to Mr Cs normal account usage, she 
found  on balance, that the payment had been made in branch. So, she thought NatWest 
had missed an opportunity to intervene with the payment and provide Mr C will a scam 
warning. But she added that  even if NatWest had intervened, she didnt think this would 
have prevented Mr C from making the payment based on the information available about W 
at the time. 
Mr C disagreed. He said that NatWest should have intervened when he instructed the 
payment as all high value payments should be flagged irrespective of the general account 
usage. And especially as the payment here was to a new payee. Mr C maintained that had 
NatWest intervened it would have been able to identify several concerning aspects of the 
investment.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
Your text here
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting position in law is that Mr C is responsible for transactions he makes himself. 
Theres no dispute here that Mr C authorised the transaction.
However, taking into account regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, NatWest should, fairly and 
reasonably, have been on the lookout for out of character and unusual transactions, as well 
as other indications that its customer might be at risk of financial harm from fraud.
It would clearly be an onerous requirement for NatWest to question every payment and I 
consider it to be appropriate for a customers previous account activity, among other factors, 
to be taken into account when deciding whether a payment does, or does not, present 
heightened risk.
Mr Cs account statements show a number of high value payments in the year leading to the 
payment in dispute (although, I accept that these payments appear to go to another account 
in Mr Cs name). But the payment in dispute didnt reduce the balance of his account 
significantly (when compared to other payments made from the account) and didnt form part 
of a concerning pattern of payments  both of which might be indicators of fraud.
That said, like the investigator, Im persuaded Mr C made this payment in branch. And given 
this was a large payment I think it would have been good practice for NatWest to have 
discussed the reasons for the payment with Mr C. There is no suggestion that this 
happened. 
But, even if NatWest had asked Mr C about the payment, its difficult to see how any 
intervention would have prevented his loss. After all, it doesnt appear that any significant 
concerns were raised about W until sometime after the payment was made and it entered 
liquidation. Based on what appears to have been known at the time, I cant reasonably 
conclude that NatWest would have recognised the risk that Mr C would lose his money and I 
dont think there was sufficient information in the public domain for NatWest to be particularly 
concerned about W.
I note Mr C has mentioned a discrepancy in the recipient details. I take this to mean that the 
entry on Mr Cs statements doesnt refer to W. But it seems in this case that W used a 
payment service provider to process the transaction. As the payment service provider used 
is a legitimate and regulated Electronic Money Institution, I dont find that NatWest should 
have considered this to be unusual or concerning. 
Mr C suggests that W or intermediaries acting on its behalf played down the risk elements of 
the investment. And that NatWest should have highlighted the risks of investing in products 
that arent regulated. I think, in these circumstances, thats an unrealistic expectation of the 
kind of warning NatWest ought to have given in what would have been a short interaction 
with Mr C in branch - especially as NatWest wasnt providing investment advice. And, set 
against the weight of evidence at the time that W was operating legitimately would, in any 
case, be unlikely to have deterred Mr C from going ahead.
Finally, Ive thought about whether NatWest had the opportunity to recover the funds for               
Mr C. But I think its unlikely any attempts to recover the money would have been successful 
given the time that has elapsed since the payment was made and when the complaint was 
raised with NatWest  particularly, as W went into liquidation in the interim period. So, Im 
not persuaded that NatWest did anything wrong when it didnt attempt to recover the funds.  
Im sorry that Mr C has lost out, but Ive decided that NatWest isnt responsible for his loss.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman