DRN-4215555
The complaint
Mr S complains that a car acquired with finance from MotoNovo Finance Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
In June 2022 Mr S was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement with 
MotoNovo. At the point of supply the car was around 7 years old and had covered around 
48,727 miles.
In November 2022 the car broke down. Mr S took the car to a garage who found that there 
was internal engine damage caused by low oil.
Mr S was unable to get any assistance from his warranty company, so he complained to 
MotoNovo and asked to reject the car.
MotoNovo arranged an independent inspection of the car. The inspection took place in 
January 2023 and found that the engine management light was illuminated, there was blue 
smoke coming from the exhaust and the engine was misfiring. The engineer found no oil or 
coolant leaks but said the fault was due to the car having been driven with low oil. The report 
concluded that the fault would not have been present at the point of supply.
Based on the findings of the report MotoNovo didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr S remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that there wasnt enough evidence to 
conclude that there was a point of supply fault relating to the oil consumption.
Mr S didnt agree. He didnt think it was reasonable to experience engine failure around 5 
months after the point of supply. He said the car was meant to be serviced prior to the point 
of supply but it hadnt been, and hed had to arrange a service in September 2022, which 
was when the issue with the oil level was identified. Mr S said he didnt think that a car of this 
age and mileage should consume large qualities of oil. He said he believed the issue with 
the oil was present at the point of supply. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. The legislation says that the quality of the 
goods includes their general state and condition, as well as things like fitness for purpose, 
freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
Id expect a second hand car  such as that supplied to Mr S  to have a degree of wear and 
tear and to require repairs and maintenance sooner than, say, a brand new car. So, in order 
to uphold this complaint, I would need to be satisfied that the car had an inherent fault which 
was present or developing at the point of supply, as opposed to a fault which occurred due 
to general wear and tear.
Ive reviewed all the available information about the problems Mr S experienced with the car. 
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that there is a fault with the car. I say this because the 
independent inspection report states that the engine management light is illuminated, there 
is blue smoke coming out of the exhaust and the engine is misfiring. Ive also seen a 
diagnostic from a third party garage which states that there is engine damage due to low oil.
Just because theres a fault with the car doesnt mean that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied. I need to determine whether there was a fault with the car at 
the point of supply.
Ive reviewed the independent inspection report. This states that the engine failure was due 
to driving the car with low oil, with further damage caused by continuing to drive the car after 
the initial breakdown. The engineer who inspected the car found no evidence of oil leakage. 
The report stated that the car had covered around 4,141 miles between the point of supply 
and the point at which the low oil issue was identified at the vehicle health check and service 
in September 2022. The report also noted that the car had covered a further 3,823 miles 
following the vehicle health check in September 2022 and the point when the car broke 
down. The independent inspection report concluded that the fault would not have been 
present or developing at the point of supply and that the fault was caused by maintenance 
issues.
Based on what Ive read in the independent inspection report, theres nothing to suggest that 
the car has a fault which is causing it to leak oil or to consume larger qualities of oil than 
normal. The evidence suggests that the fault with the car has been caused by driving the car 
with insufficient oil.
Mr S has said that he believes that the cylinders had a leak which caused the oil to leak or 
caused the engine to burn more fuel than usual. Ive reviewed all of the available 
information, including the vehicle health check, the diagnostic report and the independent 
inspection report, but I havent found anything to suggest that this is the cause of the fault.
I appreciate that the car was serviced and the oil changed in September 2022. However, this 
of itself isnt enough to persuade me that the car had a fault relating to the oil consumption. I 
can see that Mr S covered around 8000 miles in the car over a period of around 6 months, 
which is around 1300 miles per month on average. This is a significant level of mileage and I 
think its reasonable to expect that Mr S should have checked the oil level regularly as part of 
the general maintenance of the car.
Taking all of the available information into account, Im unable to find any evidence which 
suggests that the car had a fault relating to its oil consumption at the point of supply. So I 
cant say that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. For these reasons, I 
wont be asking MotoNovo to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman