DRN-2415696
The complaint
Mr A complains Sainsburys Bank plc (Sainsburys) didnt notify him of the expiry of his 
interest free period on his credit card account. 
What happened
Mr A took out a credit card account with Sainsburys in December 2017 with an interest free 
offer period of 30 months. Mr A says Sainsburys didnt let him know prior to the offer 
expiring and this has meant he has paid more interest on his credit card account then he 
needed to. Mr A says Sainsburys should reimburse him with the extra three months interest 
he says he has incurred as a result of this.
Sainsburys says they provided information by way of monthly statements which clearly 
showed the expiry date of the interest free offer and sent an email confirming the expiry of 
the offer. Sainsburys says Mr A chose not to check his monthly statements and they have 
acted in line with the terms and conditions of the interest free offer.
Mr A wasnt happy with Sainsburys response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the information available but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt Sainsburys had provided Mr A with notification of the interest free offer 
expiry date in his monthly credit card account statements. The investigator says it was Mr 
As decision to stop checking his statements and Sainsburys cant be held responsible for 
this.
Mr A was unhappy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I can understand it would have been frustrating for Mr A to have thought he was still 
benefitting from an interest free credit card offer only to find it had expired. 
When considering this complaint, I have looked at whether Sainsburys needed to have done 
any more, prior to the expiry of Mr As interest free credit card account offer.    
What happened here is Mr A took out a credit card account with Sainsburys in December 
2017 with an interest free offer period of 30 months. Mr A says it was only after he noticed 
his account balance wasnt what he expected did he discover from Sainsburys his interest 
free offer had expired. Mr A says he never received a reminder from Sainsburys leading up 
to the expiry of the offer, which he would expect them to do. Mr A says this has meant he 
has paid three months of interest he hadnt needed to have paid if he had been informed of 
the interest free offer expiry. 
I can understand the point Mr A raises here but from the information I have seen Mr A was 
sent statements in the post prior to them being provided online from May 2019. On those 
statements,  both before and after going paperless, these clearly show the date of the offer 
and the expiry date in June 2020. I have also been provided with evidence from Sainsburys 
that show Mr A had successfully logged on to his online banking at around the time the 
statements went paperless. Sainsburys says they also sent an email advising the 
promotional offer was ending. 
Mr A says he never received the email from Sainsburys, and he doesnt use his online 
banking to check his statements. What I can say is the email address for Mr A held by 
Sainsburys is correct and this has been confirmed by him. Its important to say that even if 
the email notification of the expiry of the offer wasnt received or read by Mr A, Sainsburys 
had already fulfilled their obligation to inform Mr A of the interest free offer expiry when they 
provided these details on the regular monthly credit card account statements. While Mr A 
might disagree, there is no formal requirement for Sainsburys to provide additional 
notification of the expiry of the promotional interest free offer by letter or text. 
Its worth mentioning, the monthly credit card account statements were provided to Mr A 
both prior to going paperless and after. It follows, I cant say Mr A wasnt given reasonable 
notice and details of the promotional interest rate offer and it was his responsibility to have 
read and understood the terms of this promotional offer and checked his monthly credit card 
statements. I cant see Sainsburys can be held responsible for the fact Mr A took the 
decision, for whatever reason, not to look at these credit card account statements, which 
would have shown him the expiry of the promotional interest rate offer.  
While Mr A will be disappointed with my decision I wont be asking anymore of Sainsburys 
here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman