DRN-3286901
The complaint
Miss H has complained about her property insurer, The National Farmers' Union Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited (NFU) in respect of a claim she made to it when water damage 
occurred at her home.
What happened
There was a leak from a shower in an en-suite bathroom at Miss Hs home in early 
August 2019. NFU was contacted, drying equipment was installed and stripping out of the 
property began within ten days of the leak occurring. Miss H wanted to use her own 
contractor for the reinstatement work and an estimate was submitted to NFU. The estimate 
was for £104,730 (inc VAT) and NFU thought the work would cost significantly less (£75,088 
inc VAT). A surveyor was appointed, and later NFU considered appointing a quantity 
surveyor. But, by this time, the 2020 pandemic had occurred and NFU decided to settle the 
claim based on Miss Hs estimate. But it explained it would pay the settlement in stages. 
Miss Hs contractor started work in July 2020 and by March 2021 Miss H reported that the 
work was nearly finished, with NFUs loss adjuster reporting in June 2021 that it was 
completed, with only an issue over some fitted wardrobes needing some further 
consideration.
Miss H felt the claim had been prolonged, that NFUs estimate had always been flawed and, 
that if it had accepted her estimate sooner, then delays caused by the pandemic could have 
been avoided. She also said the house had been uninhabitable since the leak  but NFU 
had refused to pay her so the family could move in to alternative accommodation (although it 
had paid for them to do so during the reinstatement work). 
NFU said it would pay Miss H £100 compensation because there had been a delay between 
November 2019 and December 2019 in making a payment to her for works completed at the 
property. And also it acknowledged that it hadnt responded to her complaint in the 
timeframe it should have done. So it said it would pay £100 compensation for this too. 
Miss H complained to us.
Our investigator felt that as the incident that had led to the claim had occurred in 
August 2019, and the repairs hadnt been completed until 2021, the claim had gone on too 
long. He noted details Miss H had provided about the conditions theyd lived in during that 
time, and he accepted some significant distress and inconvenience had been caused. So he 
said NFU should pay £800 compensation.
Miss H said that wasnt enough  it equated to less than £100 a month. She said the 
compensation amount should be based on what NFU had unfairly saved on the claim  such 
as the alternative accommodation costs. She said compensation had to be substantial so 
that NFU would understand what had gone wrong, otherwise it wouldnt learn from the event. 
NFU said it felt it had generally progressed the claim reasonably. It said some claims do take 
some time and it wasnt responsible for delays caused by Miss Hs contractor. Regarding the 
property it maintained it had been habitable. 
The complaint was passed to me for consideration. I didnt think NFU had caused material 
delays, or failed Miss H in respect of accommodation. So I didnt think it was fair or 
reasonable to require NFU to compensate Miss H, at least not beyond the £100 it had 
offered in respect of a delay in making a payment for work in November 2019.
NFU said it had nothing to add. Save to confirm it hadnt paid the £100 compensation.
Miss H said she was concerned that I had maybe only read NFUs submissions, and that 
they themselves may have been lacking in detail. Miss H noted that correspondence of 
October, November and December 2019 may not have been seen. She said this is crucial to 
her complaint. Miss H said she feels the findings belittled what they went through whilst not 
properly addressing her major points, nor many of her minor ones. She summarised her 
major points of concern as:
They had to remain in an uninhabitable property when an initial offer to rehouse them 
was withdrawn.
The drying out process lasted longer than necessary, with damage being caused 
because they couldnt contact the loss adjuster.
Gaining authorisation for other wok, such as stripping out, was difficult.
Problems with removal of items added to the claim cost.
The loss adjusters schedule bore little resemblance to what was needed, but NFU 
sought to rely on it which caused delays. And when the surveyor set out what was 
needed, he had offered to cost it.
In reply Miss H also made comments against specific parts of the provisional findings Id 
made. Ive considered her comments within my final findings set out below, which include my 
provisional findings in italics. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also carefully considered Miss Hs entire response given in reply to my provisional 
findings. However, I wont mention every point made in reply when setting out my final 
decision. I have read and understood everything and referenced and responded to the key 
aspects material to my decision.
I note the extra detail Miss H has provided about my background in my provisional findings. 
Her comments were aspects I was aware of. But my background is necessarily a summary 
of what happened. It cant detail every aspect, each item damaged or even each instance 
that led to a reported failure by NFU, or upset being caused to Miss H. Im satisfied that my 
provisional background, which Ive used again here, in my final decision, is an accurate 
summary of events which led to, and are at the heart of, this complaint. 
was the home habitable?
I said provisionally:
I think, given the nature of Miss Hs home, which is a large and old property, this was 
always going to be a complex claim likely involving significant sums and which would take a 
while to resolve with a substantial amount of inconvenience being caused to Miss H and her 
family. And I do think the inconvenience which arose here was a natural result of the loss 
which had occurred. For example, living in only part of the property whilst other parts were stripped for drying and repair. And even needing to be aware of, and therefore avoid, minor 
safety hazards that one wouldnt usually have to cope with when living in their property  
such as protruding nails on exposed wooden floorboards. 
I note Miss Hs home is a large property and that the leak, which involved clean water from a 
shower, only affected the main bathroom, some bedrooms and part of the ground floor living 
area. There were still bedrooms available for the family to use, en-suite bathrooms and full 
access to cooking facilities. The electrical installation at the property was checked early on 
and found to be safe. Whilst I see Miss H told NFU that her two (adult) children were 
arguing, as they now had to share bathroom facilities, and that the property would be cold 
over winter, that did not make it uninhabitable. Nor, I think, on this occasion, did the relatively 
minor safety issue of protruding nails. In that respect Miss H said that as protruding nails 
were found they were dealt with, but more kept appearing. I appreciate this was frustrating 
and a worry, but I dont think it was something that a house of adults couldnt cope with, or 
which made the house inherently unsafe for them to occupy. Ive not seen any expert 
opinion which says the house, in the period between the leak and work beginning, was 
uninhabitable. 
I think NFUs decision that the house was habitable until the reinstatement works began was 
reasonable. I dont intend to make NFU pay recompense to Miss H for not having provided 
her and her family with alternative accommodation because I dont think it failed her in this 
respect.
Miss H said she didnt agree. She felt Id misunderstood the magnitude of the leak with half 
the house being affected. She said the safety issues were not minor; a foot went through a 
floorboard and a nail through a foot could have caused septicaemia. She said they had to 
tread carefully and only their diligence prevented them from coming to harm. She further 
explained that most radiators were disconnected, and one of the remaining bedrooms they 
had to use, all of which were only accessible across the dangerous landing, was freezing. 
And an infestation of mice occurred.
Miss H said her insurance premium is based on the size of her home, so she shouldnt be 
penalised by being forced to stay in her damaged home when, for example a family in a 
three bedroom home, with three bedrooms damaged, would be moved into alternative 
accommodation. She didnt pay for insurance to choose to live in conditions like this. Rather 
her premium should allow her to use her whole house. At no stage, Miss H said, did anyone 
suggest getting an independent report done. Shed like to know why NFU changed its mind 
about the property being uninhabitable (she had been asked during an initial call with a loss 
adjuster if they wanted to move out).
It is regrettable that Miss H feels my provisional findings belittled what they went through. 
That was certainly not my intent. I fully appreciate that Miss H suffered inconvenience and 
had concerns about safety, and I certainly dont mean to make light of what they went 
through. But I have been asked to consider, in essence, whether NFUs decision that their 
home was uninhabitable was fair and reasonable. To do that I have to consider what is 
reported to have happened and make a judgement on what I think about the conditions the 
family were living in. 
I can assure Miss H that, in the course of doing that, Ive reviewed the details provided to us 
about the state of her home in the months after the leak. I appreciate it was difficult to live in 
the damaged house and they were living in their home in a way they werent used to. But 
that was a result of the incident having occurred. And insurance isnt put in place to avoid 
damage occurring. And nor do the policies on the market that Im aware of, agree to 
re-house policyholders immediately there is damage which stops them using their home in 
the normal way. Most policies, as does NFUs, require that a property cant be lived in  is uninhabitable  for alternative accommodation to be provided. And whilst I know Miss H 
believes her home was uninhabitable, taking into account this services approach on that 
issue, I dont think it was. 
I understand why Miss H would like to know why NFU changed its mind. But I dont think its 
fair to say that a clear offer was made and later revoked. It isnt unusual when major damage 
is first reported for a pro-active insurer, taking account of its individual policyholders 
situation, to consider providing alternative, sometimes short-term accommodation. And that 
is especially the case where there might be issues such as a lack of power, as there was 
here. So I dont think it was unreasonable for NFU to have had a discussion with Miss H 
about whether she wanted to move out of the property. But it is also not unusual, once the 
overall situation has been fully assessed, for an insurer to reach a firm decision on whether 
alternative accommodation, even before repairs start, is required. Again, I think that is what 
happened here; NFU noted that within about 24 hours the power had been checked and was 
back on, there was some heating and cooking facilities were available, Further, it was 
agreed that the strip-out works would be undertaken by Miss Hs contractor in such a way as 
to ensure the property remained habitable. I dont think NFU made an unreasonable decision 
that the home was habitable and it follows that I dont think Miss H and her family were 
unfairly treated by being left to live in an uninhabitable home.
how did the claim progress (up to February 2020)?
I said provisionally:
Having seen everything that happened, I think the claim generally progressed reasonably. 
As I said above, the nature of this claim meant it was never something that would be 
resolved quickly. As it was there were about three months of drying needed and it was first 
estimated the repairs would take four and a half months. And even NFU thought four months 
for repair was a reasonable period. That gives a very basic period for the claim of seven 
months. So if it had been possible to get all the work estimated and agreed, and all of the 
work done to schedule without any unforeseen delays occurring or further work becoming 
necessary, work would only have completed at the end of February 2020. And it isnt 
unusual for the scope of works needed to change as the claim progresses, and sometimes, 
for example, it isnt possible for reinstatement works to start as soon as the drying work has 
completed. And that, really is at the heart of what happened here.
The property was dried between August and October 2019. Meanwhile, in September, NFU 
agreed for Miss H to appoint a surveyor to give a view on whether additional damage noted 
at the property was likely related to the claim. The surveyor felt it was and NFU agreed for 
the damage to be included in the claim. Then, when an estimate for all work was received 
from Miss Hs chosen contractor, NFU felt it wasnt detailed enough and asked the 
contractor for more information, Miss H felt NFU should have known to ask her surveyor to 
quote in the first place, which would have saved a considerable period of time, rather than 
having expected the detail to come from her contractor. But I dont think thats reasonable. At 
the time the surveyor was agreed it couldnt have been known whether he would identify that 
more damage would be covered under the claim. In addition, it is not usually the role of a 
surveyor to calculate the cost of repairs when there is a contractor in place. That would be 
for the contractor to do and it couldnt have been known that the contractor would put his 
costs forwards in such a basic estimate.
Miss Hs contractor presented a one page estimate which effectively bulleted the work he 
would complete and the cost. But no specific detail of the work was given. For example, he 
detailed oak and engineered flooring - £4,300. But didnt say in which rooms or what 
quantity, or what the price per unit for the flooring was. And the cost for labour was given as 
£48,975  but this wasnt broken down between jobs or even rooms. Given the size of the job, I dont think it was unreasonable for NFU to have expected that more detail would have 
been given in the first instance, or for it to have wanted more once it had seen the estimate. 
And I dont think it should reasonably have foreseen that this problem would arise. Miss Hs 
contractor was then unable to provide further detail due to his workload and it was 
February 2020 before a meeting took place to try and resolve the impasse that had been 
reached. I dont think NFU was responsible for the works not progressing in the four months 
after the property was found to be dry in October 2019.
Miss H feels NFU was responsible for things stalling post October 2019. And that no further 
drying was needed, so its not true to say that issue is at the heart of the matter. She said it 
had always been NFUs design for works to start in December, with the surveyor having 
been appointed in October. Her contractor was then pushed by NFU to provide an estimate, 
although not a detailed one, and held dates open to meet NFUs deadline for starting work. 
But as work at Miss Hs home couldnt start in December, he took on other work. This meant 
he had less time to be able to fulfil NFUs late demand for detail, although he did speak to it 
around Christmas time.
Miss H said the surveyor had to be appointed because the loss adjuster was being unclear 
about what her contractor should quote for. Her contractor had always been happy to give 
further detail on his estimate. And, she said, on 7 November the surveyor offered to provide 
a fully costed schedule, but NFU refused. Miss H said she had never considered that the 
surveyor should cost the work but asked that I explain why I felt it wouldnt have been 
reasonable for NFU to have asked the surveyor, in the first instance, to do so. Miss H said 
that although her contractor had all the details available that backed up his estimate, it had 
been reasonable for him to give the basic details he did because of NFUs refusal to have 
the surveyor provide a fully costed schedule.
I havent seen anything that makes me think strip-out works were delayed or that poor 
contact with the loss adjuster affected the drying regime. The drying contractors report 
certainly doesnt indicate any issues that might give me cause to think problems were 
occurring, and even correspondence Ive seen from this time doesnt indicate Miss H had 
any concerns about the way the claim, drying or work was progressing (although she did 
raise other concerns). I havent seen evidence which makes me think more damage was 
caused here, that could have been avoided by a more careful strip-out (including removal of 
items) and drying regime. Im not persuaded NFU failed Miss H in this respect.  
I can assure Miss H that I have seen correspondence from, as well as detail of what 
occurred during, October  December 2019. I think its fair to say that NFU would have liked 
repairs to start in December 2019, and neither party expected there to be such a prolonged 
stalling of the claim after the property was found to be dry in October 2019. 
I appreciate that Miss H feels the surveyor was only necessary due to NFUs failings and 
that her contractor (who had completed an estimate after the surveyors involvement) had 
always been happy to discuss matters. But I also note NFU agreed to appoint a surveyor on 
the basis of Miss Hs explanation that she and her contractor felt such was needed to 
determine what work was necessary to reinstate the home  she didnt say this was because 
NFUs adjuster had been unclear as to what he felt was needed. And Miss Hs contractors 
estimate  produced following the surveyors report and visit  was far below the standard Id 
expect to see from a contractor looking to carry out work valued at around £100,000. Even 
without a specific request for a detailed cost breakdown, I think most contractors would 
expect a client, whether an individual or an insurer, would likely want to see how a cost, for 
example, of over £48,000 for labour was derived. Whilst an insurer might choose to use a 
surveyor to price work, that isnt the way things are normally done. And Miss Hs contractor 
reportedly had knowledge of the previous condition of the property, having been involved in 
a programme of works there in recent years. And he had been involved in this claim since the immediate aftermath of the incident. So I dont think it was unreasonable for NFU to have 
only used the surveyor to determine what work was needed and then, for it to have expected 
the contractor to complete a reasonably detailed estimate for what that work might cost. 
I know there was contact between NFU and Miss Hs contractor in December 2019 and, at 
this time, the need for the contractor to provide further detail had been discussed. But that 
further detail was only provided during the site meeting in February 2020. I appreciate that 
Miss H has a different view of things, but, having considered all of the evidence, Im satisfied 
that NFU didnt delay matters in the period up to February 2020.
how did the claim progress February 2020 onwards)?
I said provisionally:
In the meeting in February 2020 Miss Hs contractor did provide more detail to NFU. NFU 
took the view that the price it had costed the work at (which was roughly £30,000 less than 
Miss Hs contractors estimated price) would likely need revising. But it still wasnt persuaded 
that Miss Hs contractors estimate was reasonable. Proposals for resolving this were put 
forward and agreed  but then the pandemic arose and all plans were put on hold. I see that 
NFU then made an economic decision to settle the claim based on Miss Hs contractors 
estimate. I see it calculated that on-going costs, along with the likely and foreseeable 
settlement costs, could ultimately exceed the difference it was debating over. I think that was 
fair and reasonable consideration by NFU. The pandemic was unforeseeable and NFU 
reacted to that new factor in a reasonable way when it arose. I think that, but for the 
pandemic, the claim would have progressed with the difference in costs being fully 
investigated. Im not persuaded NFU delayed by raising entirely reasonable concerns over 
the difference in price earlier in the claim.
I know Miss H says that the costs and scope NFU had been working too, and which it had 
set her contractors estimate against, had always been flawed. If that is the case, that is far 
from ideal. But it doesnt mean NFU should always just have accepted her contractors 
estimate without question. NFU being wrong doesnt necessarily mean her contractor must 
be right. NFU was entitled to validate the costs Miss H was claiming. And I think it made 
reasonable attempts to do that. 
Miss H said that during the February meeting it was proposed that a quantity surveyor was 
appointed. And it was around this time that, for NFU, the penny finally dropped. Miss H 
seems to think its unfair for me to say that NFU reacted reasonably in response to the 
on-set of the pandemic, as it still took it two months to make settlement. And it only did that 
once it realised its quote was wrong. Further it never fully addressed the earlier issues it had 
raised regarding costs. And NFU had plenty of opportunity to discuss concerns but didnt, 
rather it just insisted on relying on its flawed quote. Miss H said if NFU hadnt failed to 
prepare proper costings, it wouldnt have believed that her estimate was flawed. And the 
delays would then have been avoided. 
I note a meeting was planned for the end of March, but that couldnt happen. NFU, at that 
time, did want to wait for things to ease and then progress with the quantity surveyor. But 
following some correspondence with Miss H, a review and some guidance by the 
government being issued, in April NFU opted to settle the claim. I dont think its fair to say it 
did this because it had been shown its scope and costs were wrong. Rather it looked at the 
value in dispute and what it might cost to continue calculating what a fair cost would be. 
Having noted the cost of continuing the dispute would likely approach or even exceed the 
disputed amount it took what I view to be a pragmatic decision to end the dispute by paying 
the amount requested. I think that was a fair and reasonable thing for it to have done at that 
time. And I remain of the view it isnt fair to say this is something it should reasonably have 
done earlier in the claim. Miss H, based on her contractors estimate, was asking for a lot of money without providing much detail in support. And because she was wanting to use her 
own contractor it was always up to her to evidence the sums requested were reasonable. 
And NFU was always entitled to investigate the claim in order to validate the sums proposed. 
in summary
I said provisionally:
I know Miss H was disappointed that work didnt start until summer 2020, after initial 
pandemic restrictions lifted somewhat, and that it was then into 2021 before work was 
completed. But NFU wasnt responsible for the contractor. Or any delays caused by the 
pandemic. If it had delayed the claim such that work which should have been started and 
most likely finished before the 2020 pandemic hit, then I might have taken any delays during 
the work into account. But as Ive said above, I havent found NFU caused any delays in 
progressing the claim. So I dont intend to make NFU make any additional compensation 
payment to Miss H.
However, as I said above, NFU has accepted it caused delays of about a month in making a 
payment to Miss H in late 2019. It offered £100 compensation for that. I think thats fair and 
reasonable. As I havent seen that NFU has paid that yet, Ill award it below. I see NFU also 
offered £100 compensation for delaying its complaint response. The rules that govern this 
service dont allow me to comment on, or make awards in respect of, how an insurer handles 
a complaint. So I wont make any finding or award about this aspect, if Miss H hasnt 
received this sum from NFU and wants to, she can contact it directly.  
Miss H said her point wasnt that work only began in summer 2020, rather that it could and 
should have started in December 2019. Which was when NFU had planned for. But instead 
there was an eight or nine month delay. And, if it had started in December 2019, it would 
have been nearly completed by the point of the pandemic in March 2020. Shed like to see 
copies of correspondence from NFU which evidences it did not cause delays. Miss H says 
NFU offered her £100 for other reasons, it wasnt in respect of a delayed payment.
I understand that Miss H thinks work could have started in December 2019. But my view, 
having carefully considered everything that happened as set out in all the testimony from 
both parties, all the formal reports and correspondence, is that NFU wasnt at fault for the 
claim progressing as it did. So theres no one piece or specific set of correspondence that 
shows NFU didnt cause delays. And Ive explained why above, having seen all of that, that 
I dont think NFU caused delays.
Whilst I appreciate Miss H recalls the reason for NFUs offer of £100 compensation 
differently, NFUs letter to her of 1 May 2020 said £100 was offered for a delay in payment. 
Im satisfied that is fair and reasonable in the circumstance, and I note NFU hasnt previously 
paid it. So Ill award it below.
With regret for any upset my final decision cause Miss H, having reviewed what I said 
provisionally, in light of her reply to my findings, my view on her complaint hasnt changed. 
Im satisfied that NFU didnt cause her to live in an uninhabitable home when, instead, the 
family should have been moved out. And nor do I think NFU completed poor work or 
otherwise caused damage and/or delays which materially and negatively affected the claim. 
My final decision
I require The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited to pay Miss H £100 
compensation. I make no other award.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 March 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman