DRN-2939151
The complaint
Mrs N complains about Barclays Bank UK PLC and their failure to cancel a standing order 
from her sterling account to her foreign currency account. 
What happened
Mrs N held a sterling account and a foreign currency account with Barclays. And she had a 
standing order set up to transfer £1,900.00 into her foreign currency account each month. 
But in November 2020, Mrs N wrote to Barclays and asked them to cancel this standing 
order.
Barclays responded in the same month, explaining theyd been unable to action the request 
as they were unable to locate the standing order. Mrs N sent Barclays further requests for 
the standing order to be cancelled in December 2020 and January 2021, as well as trying to 
contact Barclays by phone. But the standing order remained in place, and her sterling 
account was debited in February 2021.
Mrs N says the standing order being debited led to her sterling account moving into her 
overdraft. And her overdraft had financial penalties applied for being used. She was unhappy 
about this, so she raised a complaint. Mrs Ns complaint was raised by her representative. 
For ease of reference, Ive referred to the comments made and actions taken by both Mrs N 
and her representative as Mrs N throughout this decision.
Mrs N was unhappy with Barclays failure to cancel her standing order as she requested. She 
was unhappy that this led to her entering her overdraft, as shed never done so before. And 
she was unhappy that by allowing the standing order to continue, shed lost $112 dollars in 
exchange rates plus the £25 charge when shed taken action to bring her account back out 
of her overdraft. So, she wanted these charges refunded. Mrs N also wanted to be 
compensated for the time and effort both her and her representative had spent trying to 
contact Barclays to resolve the issue, and the inconvenience this caused.
Barclays responded, upholding Mrs Ns complaint. They agreed theyd failed to cancel Mrs 
Ns standing order, as it had been received by the wrong team. And they recognised the 
inconvenience this wouldve caused. So, they credited Mrs Ns account with £50 to 
recognise this inconvenience, plus £80.50 to recognise her financial loss due to the 
exchange rates at the time. They also confirmed the standing order had been cancelled and 
no further payments would be taken. But Mrs N remained unhappy with this response, so 
she referred her complaint to us.
After our service received Mrs Ns complaint, Barclays offered to pay Mrs N a further £100. 
This was broken down as £50 to cover the £25 charge Mrs N incurred, and the costs of any 
post she sent and calls she made. And another £50 to recognise and further compensate 
Mrs N for any distress and inconvenience she was caused.
Our investigator then looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He didnt dispute 
Barclays had made an error by not cancelling the standing order. And he didnt dispute Mrs 
N had been impacted both emotionally and financially due to this. But he thought Barclays 
had compensated Mrs N fairly by covering her financial losses and paying her an additional 
£100 to recognise the distress and inconvenience shed been caused. He explained we were 
unable to consider any impact on Mrs Ns representative, as we can only award 
compensation to the customers whose account is being complained about. So, he didnt 
think Barclays needed to do anything more.
Mrs N didnt agree. She thought shed saved Barclays a substantial amount of money by 
taking steps to ensure her account didnt remain in her overdraft as if she had, Barclays 
wouldve needed to cover the interest that overdraft wouldve accrued. So, she thought she 
should be compensated to acknowledge the savings Barclays had made due to her actions. 
And because of this, she didnt think the compensation Barclays had offered already was 
enough. As Mrs N didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Im aware that our investigator didnt think Barclays needed to do anything more. So, this 
may not seem like the complaint was upheld in Mrs Ns eyes. But we deem a complaint to be 
upheld if we think a business such as Barclays should do something more than the offer they 
made in their final response to a customers complaint. And in this situation, Barclays offered 
to increase the compensation put to Mrs N after we accepted the complaint into our service 
for investigation. So, by agreeing with this increased offer of compensation, our investigator 
was in fact upholding the complaint raised by Mrs N.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has caused Mrs N. Its not in dispute that 
Barclays failed to cancel Mrs Ns standing order from her sterling account to her foreign 
currency account. And its not in dispute that this error resulted in Mrs N being impacted 
financially. Ive seen Mrs N attempted to cancel her standing order with Barclays on several 
occasions, so I can appreciate why shed be left feeling frustrated and upset when the 
standing order was collected in February. I recognise this standing order was set for a 
substantial sum, and this money leaving her sterling account without her consent would no 
doubt have been troubling for Mrs N.
As Barclays dont dispute they made an error, I dont intend to look into this further as Im 
theyve acted unfairly. So, my decision has focused on what Barclays have offered Mrs N to 
put things right and whether I think this is fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
Any direction or award I make is intended to place Mrs N back in the position she wouldve 
been in, had Barclays not made an error. So, if Barclays had acted fairly, Mrs Ns standing 
order wouldve been cancelled in November 2020.
Had the standing order been cancelled in November 2020, Mrs N wouldnt have lost the 
$112 dollars due to the exchange at the times the standing orders were taken. So, I think 
this should be refunded to Mrs N. Ive seen evidence to show Barclays have refunded the 
sterling equivalent of this loss, £80.50, into Mrs Ns sterling account. So, I think Barclays 
have fairly compensated Mrs N for this loss.Ive also seen Mrs N incurred a £25 charge when making payments into her sterling account 
to address the fact it had entered her overdraft. Had the Barclays cancelled Mrs Ns standing 
order in November 2020, Mrs N wouldnt have incurred this charge. So, I think Barclays 
should refund Mrs N this amount. Barclays have offered to do so as part of the additional 
£100 they put forward after we received the complaint. 
And I also recognise Mrs N wouldve incurred postage and call costs when she attempted to 
speak to Barclays cancelling the standing order. Ive seen no evidence to show exactly how 
much this cost Mrs N. But I can Barclays have attributed £25 to cover these costs as part of 
the additional £100 they offered Mrs N. And I think this is a reasonable offer thats likely to 
cover the costs Mrs N incurred.
So, Im satisfied the total offer Barclays have put forward to cover Mrs Ns financial losses is 
a fair one and addresses any charges and expenses Mrs N incurred. So, I dont think they 
need to offer anything more than they already have for this.
Barclays have also offered Mrs N a total £100 to recognise the distress and inconvenience 
shes suffered. And Ive seen £50 has already been credited to Mrs Ns account. Im aware 
Mrs Ns representative has also spent time and effort on Mrs Ns behalf, but Im only able to 
award compensation for the impact Mrs N has suffered directly. So, this is all I have 
considered.
And I am satisfied that, if Barclays had not made the error, Mrs N wouldnt have needed to 
take steps to contact them to cancel the standing order after November 2020. I can 
appreciate how frustrating it wouldve been for Mrs N to see the amount being taken from 
her sterling account each month and the steps she needed to take to ensure this didnt 
impact her finances. And when Mrs Ns sterling account went into its overdraft in February, I 
can appreciate how upsetting that wouldve been. But I think the £100 Barclays have offered 
to recognise this impact is a fair one, and in line with what I wouldve directed had the offer 
not already been made. 
I appreciate Mrs Ns comments about the steps she took to bring her account out of its 
overdraft and the fees it wouldve incurred if she didnt. I recognise that, by doing so, she 
avoided additional charges which wouldve resulted from Barclays error. So, I can 
understand why Mrs B thinks shes saved Barclays from having to pay additional 
compensation and wants to be recognised for this. But Im unable to compensate Mrs N for 
potential losses, only the losses she actually incurred. And while I recognise she couldve 
incurred further charges which wouldve needed to be refunded, she didnt.
As Ive explained, any directions I make are intended to place Mrs N back in the position she 
wouldve been, had the error not occurred. If I were to direct Barclays to pay Mrs N the 
amount she saved them by bringing herself out of her overdraft, I think Id be placing Mrs N 
in a position of betterment. And this isnt something Im able to do. Its also not my role to 
punish Barclays for making a mistake. My role is intended to address the impact the 
complaint has had on Mrs N. And I think the total £100 Barclays have offered does this fairly. 
So, I dont think they need to offer anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mrs Ns complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC 
and direct them to take the following action:
Pay Mrs N a further £100 which is broken down as follows:
o£25 to cover the charge Mrs N incurred;o£25 to cover postage and call costs;
o£50 to recognise the distress and inconvenience Mrs N has been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman