DRN-2662352
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy that Vanquis Bank Limited didnt send him a Notice of Default before 
defaulting his account.
What happened
Mr N had an account with Vanquis. He fell into arrears on the account in 2019 and the 
account was later defaulted by Vanquis.
Mr N wasnt happy about this because hed never received a Notice of Default from Vanquis. 
So, he raised a complaint.
Vanquis looked at this complaint. They noted that they had sent a Notice of Default in 
December 2019. So, they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr N wasnt satisfied with Vanquis response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they were also satisfied that Vanquis 
had sent the Notice of Default when they said they had, so they didnt uphold the complaint 
either.
Mr N remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N isnt disputing that his account with Vanquis had fallen into arrears. Rather his 
complaint is that Vanquis didnt send a Notice of Default to his address before defaulting his 
account.
Vanquis have provided this service with a copy of the Notice of Default that they sent to Mr 
Ns address in December 2019, and I note that this notice was addressed to Mr N at the 
address which Mr N has used to correspond with this service. 
I understand that Mr N has confirmed that he didnt receive the Notice of Default. But that 
doesnt necessarily mean that the letter wasnt sent by Vanquis  only that it wasnt received.
In circumstances such as this, where one party is saying that they took an action  in this 
case, posted a letter  and the other party disputes this, what this service seeks to do is 
make a decision about what is more likely to have happened, on balance, and in 
consideration of all the information and evidence we have available to us.  
On balance, Im satisfied that it is more likely than not that the Notice of Default was sent by 
Vanquis to Mr N in December 2019, and so I wont be upholding this complaint on that basis.
I understand that Mr N might be frustrated with this decision and it is acknowledged that Mr 
N might not have received the Notice of Default. But it must be noted that this service 
wouldnt hold Vanquis accountable for the non-delivery of a sent letter, as the delivery of 
sent post is something over which Vanquis have no control.
Im aware that Mr N has requested proof that the letter was posted by Vanquis. However, it 
isnt a requirement that the Notice of Default must be sent by any form of recorded delivery. 
And given that the letter was sent by standard post there is no proof that can be provided  
nor is there any requirement on Vanquis to provide such proof.
And, given that Mr Ns account was in arrears, its not unreasonable to expect that Mr N 
should have been aware of the potential consequences of continued non-payment toward 
the account, or to have responded to Vanquis other attempts to contact him if he had 
wanted to avoid these potential consequences.
So, its difficult for me to conclude that Vanquis have acted unfairly or unreasonably here, 
and it follows that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking Vanquis to take any further 
action at this time. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr N was wanting, but I hope that he can 
understand, considering everything I have explained above, why I have reached the final 
decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman