DRN-4188491
Complaint
Miss M is unhappy Western Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) provided her with a high-cost 
short-term credit instalment loan. She says the loan was unaffordable and she ended up 
being trapped in a cycle of debt constantly having to borrow from other lenders and her 
partner.
Background
This complaint centres around the provision of a high-cost short-term credit instalment loan
for £500, which Cashfloat provided to Miss M in March 2023. The loan was to be paid in 
three instalments of around £233, but was settled early.
One of our investigators looked at Miss Ms complaint and he didnt think that Cashfloat had 
done anything wrong or treated her unfairly. So he didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. 
Miss M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her case.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including the
key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive referred to this
when considering Miss Ms case.
Having carefully considered everything, Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint. Id like to 
explain the reasons for my decision in a bit more detail.
Cashfloat needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is Cashfloat needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Miss 
M could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Cashfloat provided Miss M with a single loan which was due to be repaid in three monthly
instalments. From what Ive seen, Cashfloat asked Miss M to confirm her monthly
income and expenditure. The information recorded suggests the loan repayments were
comfortably affordable.
Miss M says the information Cashfloat based its decision on didnt accurately reflect
her actual financial position. But I have to think about what Miss M has said in the context of
this being an application for first loan involving a relatively small amount. And, in these
circumstances, I dont think that it would have been proportionate for Cashfloat to
have carried out the degree of verification Miss M has suggested. 
In my view, there wasnt anything immediately obvious in the information that Cashfloat had, 
including Miss Ms existing indebtedness bearing in mind her declared income, which meant 
it shouldve asked Miss M to provide supporting evidence, such as bank statements, before 
providing a first loan for this amount. 
So, while Im sorry to hear that Miss M has had difficulty repaying this loan, I dont think it 
would have been reasonable or proportionate for Cashfloat to have requested the 
information that would have shown why Miss M might have had difficulties repaying despite 
having the disposable income to make the instalments. And bearing in mind the 
circumstances here, I think that Cashfloat was reasonably entitled to rely on the information 
it had been provided with and therefore its decision to lend wasnt unreasonable.
As this is the case, I dont think that Cashfloat did anything wrong when deciding to lend to 
Miss M - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable. 
Finally, Ive seen that Miss M has said that the loan entry should be removed from her credit 
file. However, even if I would have agreed that Miss Ms loan shouldnt have been provided 
to her, I would only have asked Cashfloat to remove any adverse information that it recorded 
in relation to the loan. And, in this instance, no adverse information was recorded as the loan 
was repaid early.
Secondly, while Miss M might have withdrawn from the loan by repaying the funds within 30 
days of notifying Cashfloat that she wished to withdraw from the agreement, this doesnt 
mean that the loan needs to be removed from her credit file. All exercising her rights in this 
way automatically entitles Miss M to is the right to pay interest at the daily rate for the period 
she had the funds. It doesnt necessarily mean that a loan should be removed from her 
credit file. 
As far as Im aware, Cashfloat is reporting that this loan was early settled and bearing in 
mind all of the circumstances, including why Miss M believes the loan shouldnt have been 
provided in the first place, Im satisfied that Cashfloat isnt reporting on this loan unfairly. 
So overall I dont think that Cashfloat treated Miss M unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing her with her loan. And Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint. I appreciate this will 
be very disappointing for Miss M. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision 
and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Jeshen NarayananOmbudsman