DRN-3323950
The complaint
Mr and Ms S complain about the way Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De 
Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. handled a cancellation claim on their travel insurance policy.
As Mr S brought the complaint, for ease, Ill mainly refer to him.
What happened
On 14 January 2020, Mr and Ms S booked flights to a country Ill call A. They were due to 
travel between 21 April and 20 May 2020. They took out an annual travel insurance policy 
through a broker on 14 January 2020, which was underwritten by Mapfre. Cover under the 
policy began on 21 April 2020.
However, on 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a 
pandemic. And on 15 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office 
(FCDO) advised against all but essential travel to A. Mr and Ms S airline subsequently 
grounded its fleet. So Mr and Ms S had no choice but to cancel their trip. They were able to 
recover their accommodation costs, but their flight costs remained outstanding. They made a 
claim on their travel insurance policy.
Initially, Mapfre turned down the claim because it said that the FCDO advice against travel 
had been given before the policy came into force. On appeal from Mr S, Mapfre 
acknowledged it had previously wrongly declined the claim. But it told him that he'd need to 
provide evidence from the airline to show it wasnt prepared to offer a refund and evidence 
from his credit card provider to demonstrate that he hadnt been able to make a successful 
section 75 claim.
Mr S was able to recover his flight cost from his credit card provider. However, he remained 
unhappy with the way Mapfre had handled his claim. He felt that the initial claims handler 
had deliberately tried to put Mr S off making a claim and that Mapfre had employed delaying 
tactics to encourage people to drop their claims.
Mapfre accepted that itd wrongly initially turned down Mr S claim and so it paid him £50 
compensation to reflect its error. Remaining unhappy with Mapfres stance, Mr S asked us to 
look into his complaint. He felt that his policy had effectively been voided and therefore he 
felt he was entitled to a refund of premium.
Our investigator didnt think Mr S complaint should be upheld. While he acknowledged that 
Mapfre had wrongly turned down the claim at first, he felt that broadly a month later, itd 
accepted its mistake and had therefore asked Mr S for information it needed to progress the 
claim. As the policy only covered a policyholders irrecoverable costs, he thought that Mr S 
would always have needed to provide evidence to show that he hadnt received a refund 
from his airline or card provider before Mapfre would be liable to pay the claim. So he 
concluded that Mr S claim had only really been delayed by about a month. He didnt think 
Mapfre had deliberately sought to mislead Mr S. And he explained that Mr S policy hadnt 
been voided; hed still have been covered for other trips he mightve taken during the policy 
year. Overall, he felt the compensation Mapfre had already paid Mr S was fair.
Mr S disagreed and Ive summarised his responses to our investigator. He maintained that 
the original decision to turn down his claim meant his policy had never come into force. At 
the time of the claim, the indication had been that the flights couldnt be refunded. As the 
policy covered cancellation due to changes in FCDO advice, hed understood the claim was 
explicitly covered. He felt that either Mapfres employees were incompetent or had 
deliberately delayed and discouraged claims. Mapfre had only avoided liability because of 
the airline and the credit card companys good graces.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr S, I think Mapfre has treated him fairly and 
Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr S that while Ive summarised the detailed background to this 
complaint and his submissions, Ive carefully considered all hes said and sent us. In making 
my decision though, I havent commented on each and every issue hes raised and nor do 
our rules require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mr S policy and the circumstances of this claim to decide whether Mapfre treated 
Mr S fairly.
The policy terms and conditions
Ive first turned to consider the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mr S 
contract with Mapfre. As Mr S cancelled his trip, I think it was appropriate for Mapfre to 
consider the claim in line with the cancellation section of the policy. This provides cover for a 
policyholders unused travel and accommodation expenses if their trip has to be cancelled 
for one of a specific list of insured events. One of those insured events is cancellation due to 
government restrictions following an epidemic and it provides an example of the FCDO 
advising against travel due to an outbreak of illness. As Mr S trip had been cancelled 
because the FCDO had advised against all but essential travel to A due to a pandemic, I can 
understand why he felt his claim would be covered.
However, the cancellation section also states that Mapfre will only cover cancellation costs 
which a policyholder cannot get back. In other words, it will only cover costs which a 
policyholder isnt able to recover from another party. This term is common to most, if not all, 
travel insurance policies available on the market. And I think Mapfre has made it sufficiently 
clear that it wont pay recoverable cancellation costs.The claims handling
In this case, theres no dispute that Mapfres claims handler initially wrongly told Mr S, on 21 
July 2020, that his claim had been turned down because the policy hadnt started at the point 
the FCDO advised against all but essential travel. I dont doubt how frustrating and upsetting 
this was for Mr S and its unfortunate that Mapfres claims handler made such an error at the 
outset. 
I appreciate Mr S feels that this was a deliberate tactic by Mapfre to try and put him off from 
pursuing a claim. But I havent seen enough persuasive evidence to suggest that this was 
the case. Instead I think its more likely that the claims handler simply made an unfortunate 
mistake when they assessed the claim and wrongly declined it. Im also not persuaded that 
the email the claims handler sent Mr S on 21 July 2020 suggested that Mr S policy was 
void. I say that because the email stated that Mapfre couldnt provide settlement for the 
claim. There was no suggestion that the policy had been ended or that there was no further 
cover for any other trips Mr S mightve had booked during the policy year.
It's also clear that the claims handlers mistake didnt stop Mr S being able to pursue the 
claim further. He was in regular contact with Mapfre to dispute the handling of his claim. And 
on 19 August 2020, Mapfre let Mr S know that it had revisited his claim and that it required 
further information. This was in the form of a cancellation invoice from the airline and an 
explanation as to why it wasnt refunding the flight costs, together with evidence from Mr S' 
credit card provider stating what the outcome of any section 75 claim had been.
Mr S believes this to have been a delaying tactic on Mapfres part. I disagree. As Ive set out 
above, the policy terms make it clear that Mapfre will only cover irrecoverable costs. So even 
if, on the face of things, Mr S claim was caused by an insured event, Mapfre was still 
entitled to be satisfied that he hadnt been able to recover the costs he was claiming for from 
the airline or his credit card provider before settling any claim. Mapfres request wasnt 
unusual and most, if not all, travel insurers will need to be satisfied that a policyholder hasnt 
already been indemnified for the losses theyre claiming before paying a claim. This means 
that I think Mapfre was reasonably entitled to request this information before further 
considering Mr S claim.
Ultimately, Mr S was able to recover his flight costs through his credit card provider, which 
meant there was no further loss for Mapfre to consider or pay. So I wouldnt have expected 
Mapfre to take any more action in regard to the assessment of the claim.
Fair compensation
As Ive set out above, Mr S claim was incorrectly declined on 21 July 2020. Broadly a month 
later, on 19 August 2020, Mapfre let Mr S know what information hed need to provide in 
order for it to progress the claim. I appreciate Mr S continued to correspond with Mapfre 
during this time and it took a further month for Mapfre to categorically confirm that the claim 
had initially been wrongly declined. But I think it gave him the right information to get his 
claim back on track on 19 August 2020 - a month later than it shouldve done. In my view, 
Mapfres compensation payment of £50 to recognise this delay and the upset the initial 
incorrect decline of the claim had caused Mr S is reasonable and appropriate to reflect the 
likely impact I think this mistake had on him.
I appreciate Mr S feels that a full refund of his premium is the appropriate redress here. Im 
afraid I dont agree. Thats because while this particular claim wasnt settled, it isnt clear that 
Mr S cancelled the policy earlier. This means, on the face of things, the policy remained 
active and continued to provide cover for other trips Mr S may have booked during the policy 
year. If Im wrong on this point, its open to Mr S to contact Mapfre directly to request a refund of premium on these grounds. It would be for Mapfre to decide whether any refund of 
premium was due.
Overall, while I acknowledge that Mapfre made an initial mistake in its assessment of the 
claim, I think it put this right around a month later. I think it was entitled under the contract 
terms to request evidence that Mr S costs were irrecoverable and as his section 75 claim 
was successful, there was no further loss for Mapfre to cover. Im satisfied that the 
compensation Mapfre has paid Mr S is fair and Im not telling it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman