DRN-1932556
 
The complaint
AXA France IARD has accepted responsibility for the complaint. So, to keep things simpler, 
Ill just refer to AXA in my decision as the business that sold the PPI.
Mr M says AXA mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened 
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mr M took out with a store card in November 1999. It 
was added to his account when he applied for the card in the store whilst shopping.
Mr M mainly told us he had a medical condition when he took out the policy, and PPI wasnt 
something hed wanted or needed and it wasnt suitable for him.
Our adjudicator felt that wed seen enough information to uphold the complaint. She said the 
policy didn't cover accident and sickness claims if they resulted from a health problem Mr M 
already knew about and Mr M had mentioned having a condition at the time. So if he needed 
to claim for this, he wouldn't have been able to. 
Our adjudicator felt it was important that Mr M had understood this so he could make a 
proper choice about taking out the PPI. But she didn't think that AXA did enough to make 
this policy restriction clear to Mr M - and if it had, then our adjudicator didn't think Mr M 
would've taken the policy out.
AXA disagreed with the adjudicators opinion.  
In summary, it said that Mr M hadnt provided information to show that his medical condition 
was a good enough reason on its own to say the policy wasnt suitable for him.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Based on all the information I've seen and been told, I dont feel I've seen enough 
information to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why I say this.
AXA has given us a copy of Mr Ms completed store card application. Mr M has signed in the 
PPI part of the form, next to where it says Yes, I would like to protect my Account with 
Account CoverPlease debit my Account with the relevant monthly premium until further 
notice. I think its reasonable to expect Mr M wouldve first read through anything he was 
asked to sign. So, although I dont know what mightve been said about the PPI, I think it 
wouldve been clear from the paperwork that it was up to Mr M to say if he wanted to have 
PPI added on. Mr M also signed the completed application at the end of the form. So it seems to me that he 
must have agreed with the information on the form at the time  even if, understandably, he 
has forgotten this now. On balance, I think Mr M was aware the policy was optional and he 
chose to take it out.
AXA shouldve given Mr M enough clear information to decide if the policy was right for him. 
Its possible some information AXA gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. So I need to consider if Mr M wouldve acted differently, and not bought the policy, if 
clearer information had been provided. 
The policy couldve paid out for as long as Mr M was off work sick or if Mr M lost his job 
unexpectedly and was out of work. In the event of a successful claim, the policy couldve 
cleared the card balance if Mr M wasnt able to go back to work. 
Mr M was self-employed and looking at the policy wording, I don't think he would've found it 
any more difficult than an employed person to make a claim for unemployment. So being 
self- employed at the time he took out the PPI isnt a reason for me to uphold his complaint. 
Mr M told us that he didn't have any other means to rely on to pay his card if he wasnt able 
to work. This means that having the policy gave Mr M significantly better cover than he 
wouldve had otherwise. So I think Mr M couldve benefitted from having PPI.
 Mr M wouldnt have been covered for a medical condition he knew about or should have 
known about or for which he received advice, treatment or counselling from any doctor 
during the 12 months before the PPI start date.
Mr M told us his medical condition was diagnosed in June 1999  around 5 months or so 
before he signed up for his store card with PPI. So looking at the policy wording, its likely 
that he probably wouldnt have been covered for absence from work due to his condition.
But Ive seen nothing to suggest that, when he arranged the PPI, Mr M had any reason to 
think that his condition was likely to affect his ability to work. I say this because Ive seen no 
information (despite our adjudicator asking) about any problems his condition had caused 
him before November 1999 and if or how it had affected him day to day. I havent been told if 
hed ever had to take time off work because of his condition before he took out the PPI. 
Santander says that as Mr Ms condition is one that can be managed, sometimes with 
medication if needed, it doesn't believe his condition alone makes the policy unsuitable for 
him as Mr M wouldnt have had any reason to think hed be likely to need to claim on the 
policy as a direct result of his condition. And that as Mr M couldve benefitted from all the 
other policy benefits, the policy wasnt unsuitable for him.
Looking at the information I've got, I havent seen enough to be able to fairly say that Mr M 
wouldve had any reason to expect his condition to lead to him being off work or that he 
would need to make a sickness claim for this reason, when he took out the PPI. 
And Mr M still had the benefit of other cover that the policy offered. He told us that he had no 
other way to pay his store card if he wasnt working. So I think the policy offered him useful 
protection as it wouldve covered absence from work due to accident or any sickness 
unrelated to his condition or if he became unemployed. 
As a result, I dont think its likely that having clearer information about the policys limitations 
and exclusions for an existing medical condition wouldve put Mr M off taking it out. So I cant 
fairly say that hes lost out as a result of paying for the policy. I dont think its likely that AXA gave Mr M clear enough information about the costs of the 
policy. But Mr M chose to take out the policy when he didnt have to  so he seems to have 
wanted it at the time. And Mr M indicated on the application form that he was happy to pay to 
have it. 
Looked at overall, given the benefits PPI offered Mr M, I think it unlikely he wouldve made a 
different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think hed still have 
taken out the policy. 
This means, as things stand, Im not currently planning to tell AXA that it needs to do 
anything to put things right.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr M has confirmed safe receipt of my provisional decision but not otherwise commented in 
detail on what Ive said.
AXA hasnt made any further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
Having done so, after taking carefully into account everything Ive seen and been told, and 
as no further comments have been received in response to my provisional decision that 
change what I think about this case, I still think its fair not to uphold this complaint for the 
reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
I appreciate that this outcome will be disappointing for Mr M but I hope that setting things out 
as I've done helps explain how Ive reached this conclusion.
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman