DRN-3781066
The complaint
Mr S complains about how American International Group UK Limited dealt with a claim he 
made under his household insurance policy following the loss of a watch.
What happened
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 26 October 2022  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained why I thought AIG had acted reasonably and fairly. 
And I outlined the reasons why I wasnt minded to uphold Mr S complaint. I said:
What happened
Mr S held a household insurance policy which was arranged by a broker and provided by 
American International Group UK Limited (AIG). Under the policy, Mr S insured a number of 
high value watches. The item that is the subject of this complaint is a prestigious watch that 
was made by a company that Ill call R. It was insured for just over £10150.
On 22 January 2022, Mr S contacted AIG online to report the loss of his wifes watch. He 
also reported the loss to the police. 
On 24 January, Mr S contacted AIG by telephone to provide further information about the 
circumstances of loss. He said, on the date of loss, his wife had been walking their dogs and 
noticed her watch was no longer on her wrist after returning home. Mr S stated that the 
watch hadnt been found when his wife retraced her route and he thought, given its value, it 
must have been taken.
AIG asked Mr S to complete a lost property report, which he did on 25 January. Within that 
report, Mr S included a description of the watch and confirmed the circumstances of loss. 
AIG also requested documentation to help it validate the claim such as the serial number of 
the watch, warranty card, service documentation or a valuation.
Mr S informed AIG that the watch had been purchased overseas over 20 years ago. He said 
he couldnt provide proof of purchase as this had been lost as a result of moving house 
many times over the years. But he sent AIG photographs that he said showed his wife 
wearing the lost watch. Mr S also provided an invoice from a jeweller, which Ill refer to as 
W within this decision, showing that a watch had been serviced in January 2019 at a cost 
of £735.
AIG acknowledged the information that Mr S had provided but informed him that it couldnt 
validate the claim in the absence of the requested documentation. Mr S wasnt happy and 
complained to AIG. But in its final response, dated 7 April 2022, AIG reiterated that it hadnt 
declined the claim  it just hadnt been able to complete its initial validation because it hadnt 
received the information it needed to investigate the authenticity of the lost watch. So, it 
didnt feel it had treated Mr S unfairly in placing his claim on hold and rejected his complaint. 
Being dissatisfied with AIGs response to his complaint Mr S referred it our service. He 
wanted AIG to settle his outstanding claim. 
Our investigator looked into Mr S complaint and recommended upholding it. They werent 
persuaded AIG should have ceased dealing with Mr S claim in the absence of the 
information it had requested. They thought it should settle the claim and pay £150 for the 
distress and inconvenience Mr S had experienced. Mr S agreed with our investigators view 
of his complaint but AIG didnt and asked for it to be referred to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im departing from what 
our investigator has said. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. I can see Mr S has gone to some 
trouble to provide our service with some very detailed points about his complaint. I want to 
assure him that Ive read everything he's sent us. I hope he will understand if I dont address 
every comment hes made in this decision. I intend to concentrate on what I consider is key 
to the complaint. 
Im sorry to hear about what happened to Mr S and his wife. This claim relates to an item of 
jewellery that holds significant financial and sentimental value. And I can appreciate how 
distressing it must have been when AIG put this claim on hold. So, Ive carefully considered 
what happened and whether AIG made an error it needs to put right.
This was a high value loss claim. As I mentioned in the background to this complaint, a 
watch insured for over £10500 is said to have been lost while Mr S wife was walking her 
dogs outside. AIG has stated that it holds concerns surrounding the circumstances in which 
the watch was lost. But its also said, it cant disprove what its been told. Im therefore 
persuaded, on the available evidence, that AIG accepts that a watch was lost in early 2022.
When an insured item is lost, an insurer needs to validate the claim and be able to calculate 
the value of any loss. The terms of Mr S policy state:
To help us settle your claim we will require you to prove that the loss has happened. Please 
give us all the cooperation we need to investigate your claim including evidence of the value 
of the items involved in a claim as well as any other relevant information and documents we 
may reasonably require.
Here, AIG requested the serial number of the watch in order to prove its authenticity. But Mr 
S says he cant provide this. He says the lost watch was purchased over 20 years ago. Its 
entirely plausible that documentation proving ownership and authenticity of the watch is no 
longer available due to being misplaced or lost in the various house moves Mr S has 
undertaken over the years. However, whilst Im sympathetic about this there are at least 4 
watches made by R within Mr S household. So, I think its reasonable to expect him to 
understand the importance of documentation proving authenticity and ownership.
Mr S told our service that neither his broker nor AIG requested serial numbers for any of the 
high value watches insured under the policy when it was incepted. He appears to question 
the reasonableness of AIGs request for the serial number of the lost watch and believes it 
shouldnt be needed in order to validate the claim. Its clear he feels that the photographs and service invoice from W ought to be sufficient to prove ownership of the watch and its 
authenticity. But Ill explain why I dont agree.
R retains a registry recording the serial number of all watches sold. There is also a separate 
register available whereby the loss of a prestigious watch can be reported and recorded. A 
serial number can used to check the specific model of a watch and obtain information about 
its ownership, authenticity and value, which can increase over time. The serial number is 
also needed to undertake a fraud check, which satisfies an insurer that the same watch 
hasnt been the subject of a claim with other insurers.
Without the serial number AIG cant check Rs registry or any other records that show 
whether a watch is authentic. Overall, Im persuaded its reasonable for AIG to ask a 
policyholder to provide the serial number of a high value watch in circumstances where its 
been lost. I wouldnt expect an insurer to request this information at the time a policy is taken 
out and our service wouldnt expect the terms and conditions to specifically stipulate that a 
serial number would be required if an item that isnt specified under the policy is lost.
AIG also asked Mr S to provide the warranty card. Again, Im satisfied this was a reasonable 
request from AIG because the warranty card would contain information to prove authenticity 
and ownership of the watch. The warranty card would show the serial number and other 
helpful information about the watch to assist AIG in validating the claim. 
Mr S was asked to provide a valuation to AIG. Its likely that a valuation would provide 
sufficient information to help it determine the authenticity of the watch. But Mr S policy with 
AIG only requires him to obtain a valuation from a qualified and accredited valuer where the 
value of an individual item of jewellery exceeds £15000. In this case, the lost watch was 
insured for less than the threshold that triggers the requirement for a valuation. So, I can 
understand why he wouldnt have had a valuation available that he could provide to AIG.
Ive carefully considered the photographs Mr S provided to AIG of his wife wearing the watch 
he says was lost. The watch has a gold coloured bracelet and green face, which seems to 
correlate with the description of the watch recorded by W on the service invoice. But the 
photographs dont prove the authenticity of the watch that Mr S says was lost and Im not 
persuaded the service invoice from W does either in the absence of a serial number.
I can see that AIG took steps to assist Mr S in efforts to progress this claim. It contacted W 
to ask it to confirm the serial number of the watch it serviced. Unfortunately, it couldnt 
provide this information. So, this line of enquiry didnt take AIG any further in validating the 
claim. 
AIG also instructed a valuation company to provide an opinion on the authenticity of the lost 
watch from the available information. Im satisfied this is a company with expertise in this 
field. This company states it cant validate the claim or substantiate that the watch was 
genuine based on the photographs it has been provided with. I dont think this is 
unreasonable.
Given the value of the claim, its entirely reasonable for AIG to want to clarify the authenticity 
of the watch. But in the absence of the serial number Im not persuaded it can do so. 
Insurance companies have a responsibility to investigate claims to prevent fraud. But based 
on the photographs and service invoice alone, AIG doesnt have sufficient information to 
satisfy itself as to the authenticity of the lost watch or have enough to validate the claim.
Because Mr S cant provide the serial number of the watch, AIG cant progress his claim any 
further. It hasnt declined the claim  its simply asked Mr S to substantiate it. Im satisfied it 
was reasonable for AIG to inform Mr S that it couldnt progress his claim any further in the absence of the information requested. I dont think it had any other option in the 
circumstances.
So, for the reasons set out above, my provisional view is that AIG acted fairly in how it dealt 
with Mr S loss claim. Theres no basis for me to say AIG should meet the claim based on 
the information Mr S provided. However, if Mr S is able to provide any additional information 
AIG should, of course, consider this and further investigate the claim.
In my provisional decision, I invited both parties to send any additional evidence or 
comments they wished to make. AIG responded to confirm it accepted my provisional 
decision. However, it stated that there was an inaccuracy that it wished to correct. It said the 
watch wasnt insured for a set value and that any settlement of a single value item would be 
limited to a maximum of £15000.
Mr S said he didnt accept the provisional decision and provided a blurred close up image of 
the watch that is the subject of this claim. I had previously seen a more in-focus version of 
this image. Mr S asked me to infer that the condition of the watch shown on the photograph 
demonstrated that it had to be an authentic watch  produced by R. Had it not been he 
suggested it wouldnt have been in such good condition.
Mr S also shared with me the sacrifices that hed had to make over the years in order to 
purchase the watch for his wife. He told me that hed paid to insure this watch for over 20 
years and had never previously been asked to provide proof of ownership or the serial 
number of the watch. And he added that he had taken out a loan to purchase a replacement 
watch on the expectation that the claim for his wifes lost watch would be settled.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start this final decision with my view of the comments Mr S provided in response to my 
provisional decision. Its clear he is very disappointed with my intention to not uphold this 
complaint and I can understand why given that hed received a view from our investigator 
directing AIG to settle the claim. I also acknowledge the sacrifices hes made over the years 
to be able to afford luxury items for his family. However, I still dont think our investigator 
approached this complaint in the right way for the reasons set out in my provisional decision.
As with any loss claim, the onus is on the policyholder to demonstrate that the loss has 
occurred in circumstances that are covered under the terms and conditions of the policy. In 
this case, its not unreasonable for AIG to ask Mr S to prove that the item lost was authentic 
for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision.
I remain persuaded that the only way AIG could validate the claim and confirm the 
authenticity of the watch was by having the serial number and, as Mr S couldnt provide that 
information, it was unable to progress the claim any further.
As I explained in my provisional decision, I wouldnt expect AIG to have requested proof of 
ownership or the serial number of a watch at the outset of the policy being incepted. This 
information would only be required in the event of loss because this is the point at which a 
policyholder would be expected to demonstrate the authenticity of the item claimed for. This 
explains why Mr S hasnt been asked to provide this information under previous insurance 
policies. Ultimately, I dont think AIG had reason to request the serial number from Mr S 
before the watch was lostI remain satisfied that the photographs and service invoice Mr S provided, both to AIG and 
our service, dont prove the authenticity of the watch. They dont show the serial number and 
this is the information needed by AIG. So, in the absence of the serial number, theres no 
other way that AIG is be able to validate the claim.
Mr S has explained that he took out a loan to finance the cost of a replacement watch on the 
expectation that his claim would be settled. But I havent seen any evidence that suggests 
AIG created a false expectation in Mr S mind that the claim would be settled in his favour. It 
didnt tell him at any stage that it was intending to settle his claim and it didnt instruct him to 
replace the lost watch pending the claim being investigated and resolved. I appreciate that 
Mr S has incurred financial expense in replacing the watch. But I cant hold AIG responsible 
for his decision to take out a loan  that was ultimately his choice.
In the overall circumstances, I still dont think AIG approached or handled this claim unfairly 
and I dont think it acted unreasonably in requesting the serial number. I havent seen any 
new evidence that makes me think it would be safe to direct AIG to settle this claim.
Finally, Im grateful to AIG for its comment in response to my provisional decision. However, 
this inaccuracy doesnt alter the basis for my findings because Im not directing it to settle 
this claim. Had I been upholding this complaint; comments relating to the maximum 
settlement value of the watch would hold more significance.
Id like to thank Mr S and AIG for the comments they provided. But I havent been persuaded 
to depart from the findings set out in my provisional decision. I still dont think this complaint 
should be upheld in line with my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman