DRN-4316433
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) unfairly 
declined their claim. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B bought a travel insurance policy, underwritten by Great Lakes. 
They went abroad and on their return to the UK, they were delayed due to a strike in the 
airport. They made alternative arrangements to return home and made a claim. 
Great Lakes reviewed the claim and declined it. It said there was no cover for their 
circumstances under the policy.
Mr and Mrs B complained and unhappy with Great Lakes response, referred their complaint 
to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think there was any cover for Mr and 
Mrs Bs circumstances. They disagreed and asked for their case to be referred to an 
Ombudsman. So the case was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
I set out my provisional view to both sides on 17 August 2023 in which I said:
Ive reviewed the policy terms and I agree there is no cover for missed departure for 
the same reasons as already explained by the investigator. But I do think there is 
cover under section 11, travel delay. The wording says This section of the Policy 
sets out the coverin the event of Your unavoidable delay in departure of at least 12 
hoursfrom.Your last departure pointas a result ofStrike or Industrial Action.
 
Under what is not covered the policy says: Any claim unless you have written 
confirmation from the carrier or their handling agents detailing the reason for the 
delay, the scheduled departure time and the actual departure time.
 
Mr and Mrs B provided confirmation that the delays were due to strikes and 
provided the scheduled and actual departure time.
They were delayed for at least 12 hours due to a strike.
The policy doesnt specify that the flight must have been delayed. It says Mr 
and Mrs B must have been delayed and they have shown that they were.
So even if Great Lakes intended for this term to only apply if there was a delay 
in the departure of the flight (or other method of transport), that is not made 
clear in the policy term.
If there is doubt about the meaning of a policy term, the interpretation most 
favourable to the consumer should be adopted, in accordance with the 
common law principle of contra proferentem.
So, I intend on upholding this complaint and directing Great Lakes to treat the 
claim as covered under section 11 and pay it, in line with the remaining terms 
and conditions. It should also add 8% simple interest per annum on the benefit 
due, calculated one month from the date the claim was made up to the date of 
payment.
Mr and Mrs B accepted my provisional view but Great Lakes didnt respond. As I havent 
received any further submissions from Great Lakes by the deadline specified, I see no 
reason to depart from my provisional view, which I adopt as my final decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and direct Great Lakes Insurance SE 
to treat the claim as covered under section 11 and pay it, in line with the remaining terms 
and conditions of the policy. It should also add 8% simple interest per annum on the 
payment due, calculated one month from the date the claim was made, up to the date of 
payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman