DRN-1921121
The complaint
Miss A complains about Fairmead Insurance Limiteds proposed settlement of a claim under 
her home insurance policy and about delays in the handling of that claim.
What happened
Miss A has a home insurance policy with Fairmead, which covers buildings and contents 
amongst other things.
Im very sorry to say that in July 2019, Miss As home was burgled. The perpetrators broke in 
through the back door, took keys to the other doors to the house and stole valuables and 
money.
Miss A made a claim to Fairmead to cover the stolen property, valued at just over £20,000, 
replacement of the back door and replacement of the locks on the other doors.
Fairmead appointed loss adjustors, who interviewed Miss A on several occasions. The claim 
isnt yet settled  15 months on from the burglary.
Miss A complained to Fairmead about the delays and poor customer service. And about the 
requests for information from the loss adjustors, which she felt were unnecessary and 
excessive.
Fairmead admitted there had been some delays and poor service on their part  though they 
said the main issue had been the delay in the police responding to requests for their crime 
report. They offered Miss A £50 in compensation. 
They also said that now they had the crime report (which Miss A had obtained by making a 
subject access request to the Police), Miss A needed to provide their loss adjustor with the 
further information requested.
Miss A wasnt happy with this outcome and brought her complaint to us. 
Our investigator looked into it and thought Fairmead could and should have settled the claim 
more quickly. She thought they had sufficient information to assess Miss As losses. She 
said Fairmead should settle the claim in full and give Miss A a total of £200 in compensation 
for her trouble and upset.
Fairmead disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute here that Miss A was burgled, or that her back door was broken down, or 
that the burglars took the keys to the other doors, or that they ransacked the house and took 
the valuables they could find. And theres no dispute that those losses are covered by her 
policy.
It seems Fairmead had some concerns initially about the value of the claim. These appear to 
have revolved around whether the thieves  who CCTV showed had arrived and departed 
on a motorcycle  could carry all the items claimed.
The items claimed were mainly jewellery, clothing, money and handbags. Some luggage 
was also stolen, which may have enabled the thieves to more easily transport the valuables. 
So it seems to me Fairmeads concerns were unfounded. They were, of course, entitled to 
look into those matters and to appoint loss adjustors  and to request information form 
Miss A. 
But it seems in any case that they dropped these concerns at some point and turned their 
attention to valuation of the items which were stolen.
I say this because after wed begun our investigation, Fairmead made an offer to Miss A to 
settle the claim. They offered just under £15,000 (after the excess of £200 was taken into 
account)  compared to Miss As original claim of over £20,000. But they did accept  at that 
point  that the thieves had stolen the items Miss A said theyd stolen.
That offer was made in around May of this year  almost a year after the burglary. I can see 
that some of the delay was caused by the Police being slow to respond to the request for 
their crime report.
However, this was provided by late 2019. And at that point, Fairmead asked Miss A to 
provide proof of ownership and/or purchase of the claimed items. Shed already provided 
this in July 2019  in response to a request from Fairmeads loss adjustor.
Fairmead didnt ask for additional information or evidence, they asked for all of it  again. If 
theyd needed more from Miss A in addition to what shed already provided in July, they 
should have said so  and they should have been specific. And that might have led to the 
claim being settled far more quickly.
The offer Fairmead eventually made to settle the claim is more than £5,000 lower than 
Miss A originally claimed.
This is mainly because Fairmeads loss adjustor valued the claimed items lower than Miss A 
did. They also said Miss A was claiming £310 for replacement of locks, when this figure 
included new locks fitted to internal doors - which werent covered. They assumed the 
internal locks were covered by an invoice from a supplier for £170  and so proposed paying 
only £130 for lock replacement (the maths appears to have gone awry here since £310 
minus £170 equals £140). 
Fairmead appear to be concerned that Miss A may be over-estimating the value of the 
claimed items. One reason for this appears to be that some of the receipts / invoices Miss A 
provided in July 2019  as proof of ownership  dont match the values she later put on the 
items after she was asked to provide that information in December 2019.
As Miss A has pointed out, the policy indemnifies the policyholder. Fairmead cover the cost 
of replacing the items (now), not the cost when they were bought. Miss A has been asked at different times to provide receipts as proof of ownership and then valuations of the cost of 
replacement. 
Prices fluctuate over such a long period of time as the 15 months taken to deal with this 
claim. Items may have been purchased on special offer or with time-limited reductions in 
price  and would now cost more to replace. And so, its not surprising there are some 
differences in the receipted costs and the current replacement costs.
Fairmead sent Miss A a list of the claimed items which they valued differently to her. Its not 
for me to act as a loss adjustor and go through all of these items in detail providing yet 
another valuation  at a different point in time, I might add  in order to arbitrate on the 
sometimes very small differences in the valuations.
Im looking at this whole process more broadly. But what I can say is that Fairmead have 
lowered the valuations on some items to the original receipted price  which is clearly no 
longer available due to price increases and/or the end of special offers.
In some cases, theyve valued the wrong item (for example, a mini size handbag as opposed 
to the small size).
And in some cases, Miss A has provided screenshots form the suppliers websites, showing 
the current price to be as shed suggested  and not the much lower valuations provided by 
the loss adjustor.
As I say, Im not going to work through the claim and add a third stab at valuation of each 
and every item. But I am satisfied that Miss A has provided honest, reliable and accurate 
valuations. And that where a dispute has arisen, shes been able to explain this and to justify 
her valuation  and to point out why the loss adjustors valuation is mistaken.  
Putting things right
So, Im going to instruct Fairmead to settle the claim as originally submitted by Miss A, with 
two very minor exceptions.
First, Miss A claimed for foreign currency stolen from her home. A family member was about 
to go on holiday and had some currency exchanged and ready for departure. Miss As 
original claim included a receipt for the exchange which included a small service charge. I 
dont think Fairmead should cover that service charge. To be clear, they should pay £804.08 
for that part of Miss As claim  the actual value of the currency with no service charge 
added.
Second, Fairmead shouldnt be asked to cover the locks on internal doors, which Miss A 
says she had installed for additional security. Previously there were no internal locks, so 
Fairmead cant be asked to pay replacement costs.
Miss A has clarified that the £310 receipt she provided was for the front and back door locks 
 which are covered. But shes also agreed that the work carried out by the supplier who 
temporarily fixed the back door and fitted the internal locks  should be reduced to £130 as 
suggested by Fairmead (his original receipt was for £170).
Miss A paid for the back door replacement, the replacement locks and a replacement for a 
stolen laptop some time ago  and provided receipts to Fairmead for these costs. She has 
been deprived of that money since she paid those costs, so in line with our usual approach- 
and as our investigator suggested - Fairmead should also pay interest at 8% simple on those 
elements of the settlement of Miss As claim.I also agree with our investigator that Fairmead should pay £200 compensation to Miss A for 
her trouble and upset. 
Shes been inconvenienced by having to submit the same information twice. Shes had the 
worry and stress of not knowing whether or when her claim would be settled. 
And, whilst I accept Fairmead were entitled to look into the claim in detail and to wait for the 
Police report, the long delays in settling the claim could have been significantly reduced if 
theyd acted more speedily when they had the information they needed - and if they hadnt 
requested the same information twice.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Miss As complaint.
Fairmead Insurance Limited must:
settle Miss As original claim in full (except for the service charge on the foreign 
currency exchange and the cost of installing locks on the internal doors);
pay Miss A 8% simple interest on the cost of replacing her back door, replacing the 
locks on the front and back doors and replacing her laptop;
pay Miss A £200 compensation for her trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 November 2020.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman