DRN-2960353
The complaint
Mrs R complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs R, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs R acquired her car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Moneybarn, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. The legislation 
also explains we should consider whether the car has been durable when we think about 
whether it was of satisfactory quality.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mrs R. The car here was 
already about eight years old and had completed about 107,791 miles.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs after six months it is to be assumed 
that the fault wasnt present or developing from the beginning, when Moneybarn were 
responsible for its quality, unless the consumer can demonstrate otherwise.
So, I dont think Moneybarn were unreasonable when they asked Mrs R to source an 
independent inspection. The onus was on Mrs R to support her assertion that Moneybarn 
should take responsibility for the engine failure.
The subsequent desk top inspection that was organised by Moneybarn didnt suggest it was 
likely the engine was faulty when supplied. The independent inspector said that the engine 
had failed because of a fatigue break of the crankshaft. The inspector said this had been a 
sudden occurrence and was not something that was present or developing when the car 
was supplied to Mrs R.
The independent inspector is an expert in these matters, and Im persuaded by his view. I 
think its unlikely Mrs R would have been able to complete an additional 7,000 miles in the 
car if it was experiencing these problems from the start and I note the car was a high 
mileage vehicle when supplied. I think a reasonable person would expect considerable wear 
and tear on a vehicle of this age and mileage and I dont think it would be considered 
unusual to experience engine failure after about 115,000 miles.
I note that Mrs R has explained she had to replace the front brakes after a couple of months. 
I think brakes are items subject to wear and could not, in these circumstances, fairly be 
considered to be Moneybarns responsibility. Im persuaded the brakes and tyres were of 
acceptable quality when the car was supplied as the car passed its MOT around that time 
and the brakes and tyres would have formed part of that inspection.
So, I dont think there is evidence this car was of unacceptable quality when supplied and Im 
not asking Moneybarn to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman