DRN-2397850
The complaint
Mr M complained about a number of loans he took out through a company called Provident 
Personal Credit Limited. Mr M says he was lent to irresponsibly and the loans caused him 
financial problems.
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to Provident throughout this decision.
What happened
We now know that Mr M took out 4 loans from Provident between March 2016 and 
December 2018. Ive enclosed a summary of Mr Ms borrowing with Provident, based on the 
information it provided to us:
Loan Taken Out Repaid Amount Term Repayment
1 31/03/16 27/07/16 £100 23 weeks £6.50
2 23/07/16 14/06/17 £500 52 weeks £17.50
3 17/02/18 05/12/18 £200 26 weeks £12.00
4 04/12/18 11/03/20 £300 52 weeks £10.80
Provident has already offered to settle the complaint about loan number 4 in accordance 
with our normal approach. So, weve already told Mr M that we wont consider this further. 
Our adjudicator said we shouldnt uphold the complaint about the remaining loans 1- 3. Mr M 
disagrees with this and has asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this 
approach when thinking about Mr Ms complaint.
Provident needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr 
M could repay the loans he was given in a sustainable manner. These checks ought to have 
taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amounts being lent, the total 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. However, certain factors might point to the fact that 
Provident should have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer.  These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income)
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Provident told us it carried out certain checks before agreeing to lend to Mr M, including 
assessing his income, expenditure and creditworthiness. It says that based on what was 
said, this information showed that Mr M would be able to make the loan repayments he was 
committing to on all 3 occasions (as Ive said, Im not addressing loan 4). 
Taking into account of what Ive said, above, about the early stages of the lending 
relationship, I think that Providents checks about Mr Ms financial circumstances would have 
probably been at the less detailed end of the spectrum. So, although its possible that more 
thorough financial checks could have exposed Mr Ms financial situation better, there doesnt 
seem to be anything that would have caused Provident to think he was in financial trouble or 
might be unable to pay a loan back at this particular point in time.
Loan number 1, for example, was for a very moderate amount and so relying on Mr Ms self-
declared income was acceptable and proportionate to the situation. And although he did ask 
to borrow £500 after this, the evidence is that hed mainly paid back his first loan in full and 
the repayments for the second loan still seemed well within his ability to pay. Mr M had 
declared his net income (after tax) as around £1,300 per month and he also provided details 
about his expenditure all showing the repayments on the first 2 loans were affordable.
I therefore have no basis on which to uphold his complaints about these two loans.
I note that for loan number 3, there had been by then, a substantial gap in the borrowing. 
Given this  and the repayment history to that point  I think it was acceptable for Provident 
to revert to the third loan as a new lending chain, and base its checking procedures on that 
basis. In short, continuing to rely on what Mr M himself was saying about his overall 
circumstances, was justified and proportionate to the situation. 
I dont doubt Mr M may have been finding his wider finances difficult to deal with. But given 
the profile of his borrowing, I dont think Provident necessarily needed to go into additional 
detail to verify all Mr Ms financial affairs. I think if his borrowing had continued, this could 
well have been something that would have eventually needed to happen.
In short, I think the checks carried out in this case were proportionate and Im afraid there 
isnt enough evidence to uphold the complaint about loans 1 - 3.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. And I dont direct Provident 
Personal Credit Limited to pay Mr M any compensation.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman