DRN-3433917
The complaint
Ms B is unhappy that Sabre Insurance Company Limited mistakenly lapsed her motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
Ms B has explained she had a motor insurance policy with Sabre. This was due to renew on 
10 August 2021, and Ms B thought it had done so. So, she was surprised and shocked when 
in September 2021 she was pulled over by the police.
The police said to Ms B that it appeared she was driving without insurance. Ms B attempted 
to show the police she did have insurance  by showing it her emails, containing her motor 
insurance policy documents. But Ms B said the police phoned her insurer, who said the 
policy had lapsed  and so no cover was in place.
Due to the apparent lack of cover, the police seized her car. Ms B had explained how 
shocking, upsetting and humiliating the situation was for her. She noted she needed to find 
her own way home, now her car had been taken. 
When Ms B got home shes explained she contacted her insurer, who said it had made a 
mistake in allowing her insurance policy to lapse. It said this was an administration error, and 
that it would send a letter of indemnity to her straight away, so this could explain the 
situation, and that it was the insurers mistake  rather than Ms B driving without being 
insured.
Ms B was sent this letter. And its my understanding the police didnt pursue the matter any 
further, after Ms B providing this evidence. But Ms B has said by that point shed already 
incurred costs because of Sabres mistake.
Ms B said she incurred fees in needing to go and collect her car, and get it released from the 
impound. In addition to this, she had needed to call her insurer at a fee, and pay to get 
herself home after her car was confiscated. These costs came to £265.
In additon to this, Ms B said she had groceries in the car when she was stopped by the 
police, and these were no longer safe to eat. So she had to buy additional groceries that 
night. Ms B said this came to £280, and she said she had been purchasing medicine for her 
child at the time, at a cost of £5. Ms B felt Sabre should pay for these costs too.
Sabre looked into the situation and offered to pay Ms B £265 for the travel, call and impound 
costs. It also offered Ms B £300 for the inconvenience caused by its mistake. But, it didnt 
offer to pay from the groceries or medicine. 
Ms B was dissatisfied with this position. So she referred her complaint to this service for an 
independent review. 
Our investigator considered this complaint, and didnt think it should be upheld. She 
acknowledged that Sabre had made the mistake in allowing the policy to lapse. But she felt 
its offer of £265 for costs, and £300 compensation was fair. Our investigator didnt feel it was 
reasonable for Sabre to pay for the medicine  which was needed regardless of Sabres 
actions, or for the food, which the investigator felt Ms B could have taken home with her.
Ms B disagreed. In summary she said:
It took several pieces of correspondence for Sabre to send the indemnity letter, and 
ensure the policy was reinstated on the relevant databases. 
It was reasonable for Sabra to pay her hourly working rate for having to go and get 
her car from where it was impounded. 
The groceries were left in her car because she needed to wait for transport home, the 
police were being difficult in allowing her access to the car, and the car was removed 
before transport home arrived.
Because Ms B disagreed, her complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ive explained why below.
Ms B was pulled over by the police, for having no motor insurance. And Sabre has accepted 
that this was because of a mistake it made. Sabre has said Ms Bs policy should have 
automatically renewed, but it was instead incorrectly allowed to lapse. 
Because Sabre has accepted that it made an error here, and that caused Ms B to be 
stopped by the police, I havent needed to consider whether Sabre did anything wrong. We 
already know it did. 
Instead, Ive needed to consider whether Sabre, when made aware of the issue, acted fairly 
and reasonably in how it put the matter right. So, Ive carefully considered this. And, I do 
think it acted fairly in how it looked to remedy the problem.
When Sabre became aware of the issue, it issued a letter of indemnity to Ms B, for her to 
evidence to the police that the situation was not of her making. And it reinstated Ms Bs 
insurance policy. Im satisfied this was the right thing for it to do, given Ms B should have 
had insurance at this point anyway. Ive looked to see whether the letter of indemnity was 
issued to Ms B quickly  and I can see it was. This was issued to Ms B two days after being 
stopped by the police, and was sent to her recorded delivery to ensure she got this. From 
that point, Ms B was able to evidence having insurance. Given this, I do think Sabre acted 
promptly when becoming aware of the issue.
Sabre has offered to reimburse Ms B for the costs she incurred in getting home after her car 
was seized, as well as for getting to, and collecting her car, from the impound. In addition to 
this, it has offered Ms B the £10 she said it cost her in calling Sabre to remedy the issue. 
Based on the information Ms B gave to the parties this cost £265 in total. Im satisfied it was 
fair and reasonable for Sabre to offer to reimburse these costs. These costs wouldnt have 
been incurred if Sabre hadnt made the mistake of allowing Ms Bs policy to lapse. Sabre has 
told this service it will issue the £265 to Ms B following the decision of this service. So, this is 
what Sabre now need to do.
Im aware Sabre has also offered Ms B £300 compensation for the distress its error caused. 
I agree that compensation should be paid to Ms B for this upset. She has explained she was shocked, distressed and embaressed by the situation  being pulled over in full view, when 
she understood she had insurance in place. I can appreciate how this experience would 
have been troubling, upsetting and inconvenient for Ms B  given the situation and the need 
to remedy it with the police. So, Ive thought about whether £300 is a fair and reasonable 
figure to compensate for this. And I think it is. The reason I say this is because I think that 
figure reasonably recognises the difficult situation Ms B found herself in, and the 
inconvenince in needing to rectify it. So, Im satisfied Sabre should provide this £300 to 
Ms B.
Ms B has noted some additional costs she feels Sabre should pay to her, such as medicine 
her child needed, and groceries she was unable to use. But Im satisfied the mediciation was 
needed anyway, and I dont see any firm evidence that the medication or groceries couldnt 
be taken out of the car and return home with Ms B. So, I dont require Sabre to pay these 
costs.
Ms B has also mentioned that it took her five hours to collect her car, and feels she should 
be reimbursed her working rate for those hours, as well as childcare and carers costs. For 
me to award these, Id have needed to see firm evidence that Ms B lost her earnings as a 
direct result of going to collect her car, and that she incurred childcare and carer costs she 
wouldnt otherwise have had. This service asked Ms B for evidence of her costs. But Ms B 
noted she wasnt able to provide these. Given there isnt sufficient evidence Ms B incurred 
these costs, and did so when she wouldnt have otherwise, I dont require Sabre to pay 
these costs.
Ms B has mentioned the potential impact this situation could have had in her career and 
reputation. But its important to note that this service is only able to consider what actually 
happened, rather than would could potentially happen. The police didnt pursue the matter 
and theres no evidence of Ms Bs career or reputation being impacted by the matter. So this 
point doesnt change the outcome of this complaint. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that Sabre Insurance Company Limited should pay 
Ms B:
£265 for financial losses
£300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience she experienced. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman