DRN-4188187
Complaint
Mr E is unhappy with the way Starling Bank Limited handled things after he told it an 
unauthorised payment had been taken from his account.
Background
In April 2023, Mr E travelled in a taxi booked using an app on his phone. His account was 
debited the cost of that journey - £19.78. On the same day, the same merchant also charged 
him £17.38. Mr E complained to Starling that there mustve been an error and that one of 
these payments hadnt been authorised by him. He argued he had been charged twice for 
the same journey. The merchant eventually paid him a refund of £19.78 on 19 May.
However, Mr E was unhappy with the way Starling had dealt with things. He argues that it 
took too long for him to get his money back and the customer service he received was poor. 
Starling investigated his complaint, but it didnt agree to uphold it. It said that it had made 
reasonable attempts to investigate Mr Es concerns but that he hadnt always responded to 
their requests for information. 
It contacted Mr E to ask for evidence supporting his claim. It wanted a screenshot of the taxi 
app to show what journeys were taken on the relevant date to see if Mr E had indeed been 
charged for one he didnt take. It requested this on 21 April and chased the request up on 26 
April. He eventually contacted Starling on 3 May and was told by an employee of the bank 
that only one payment had been made to that merchant. This wasnt correct, so Mr E 
complained.
On 16 May, an employee of the bank tried to contact Mr E but wasnt successful. A follow up 
call was agreed for 18 May, but Mr E wasnt available for that. Starling had noticed that the 
payment of £17.38 was one that the merchant had attempted to take from Mr Es account 
over 100 times during a period of months prior to this date  so, however this situation arose, 
it wasnt a simple case of Mr E being billed twice for the same journey. As a result, Starling 
wanted to see the journey history from the point when the merchant first attempted to collect 
this payment. It requested this information on 18 May, but no reply was received. On 23 
May, it issued its final response rejecting the complaint.
Mr E was unhappy with the response he received from Starling and so he referred his 
complaint to this service. It was looked at by an Adjudicator who didnt uphold it. Her reasons 
were broadly along the same lines as those of Starling. Mr E wasnt happy with the 
Adjudicators view and so the complaint has been passed to me to consider and come to a 
final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusions as the Adjudicator and for 
broadly the same reasons.
Mr E is unhappy at the length of time it took for Starling to investigate his concerns. But it 
has provided evidence to show that it attempted to contact him within five working days of 
being told of the dispute and multiple subsequent attempts to make contact with him. It did 
so because it wanted evidence from the taxi app to show Mr E hadnt made the journeys 
hed been charged for. This is not an unreasonable request given that Mr E was anticipating 
a full refund on the basis that hed been charged for a service that hadnt been provided to 
him.
As I understand it, Mr E didnt provide Starling with evidence that showed there was no 
journey associated with the disputed transaction. In the end, the merchant paid a refund to 
Mr E. I dont know why it chose to do so, but I dont think I can fairly say that Starling was the 
cause of the delay in Mr E being paid a refund he believed he was entitled to. 
Overall, Ive not seen any evidence, either in terms of the timescales or the interactions 
Starling had with Mr E, to suggest its customer service was poor.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman