DRN-4376498
The complaint
Mr W complains that Nationwide Building Society caused a long delay in the transfer of his 
ISA account to a new provider and that, when he complained, it provided poor service.
He wants Nationwide to transfer his money as instructed and to compensate him for the 
investment opportunities hes missed and for his time and the stress hes been caused.
What happened
Both parties are familiar with the background to this complaint and our investigator has 
already set out what happened. Rather than repeating that detail, I will summarise things 
very briefly and focus instead on the reasons for my decision.
In or around October 2022, Mr W decided to transfer his cash ISA account to a third-party 
provider, who Ill refer to as B. Mr W already had a stocks and shares ISA account with B, 
and he wanted to add the cash held in his Nationwide ISA account so that he could invest it 
in the stock market.
B sent the transfer request to Nationwide on 19 October 2022. Nationwide needed 
confirmation of Mr Ws full name and, once that was received on 24 October, it sent a 
cheque for the balance in Mr Ws cash ISA. 
The cheque was cashed, but it wasnt deposited into any of Bs bank accounts and the 
money wasnt credited to Mr Ws stocks and shares ISA.
When he complained, Nationwide said it had sent cheques to B before and that this was its 
standard procedure. It apologised that on one occasion when Mr W phoned Nationwide, the 
call ended abruptly, which it said was probably due to a technical issue, but that its member 
of staff should have called Mr W back. It said it would arrange for the money to be sent to B 
electronically. But it then realised the cheque had been cashed. It said it was Bs 
responsibility to credit the money to Mr Ws account.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think 
Nationwide had followed Bs instructions and that it shouldnt have sent a cheque. She 
initially recommended that, as well as ensuring the money was re-sent electronically, 
Nationwide should pay interest at 8% simple per annum from 27 October 2022, when the 
money should have credited Mr Ws ISA account with B, to compensate him for the time hed 
been without the money. And she thought it should pay Mr W £350 for the distress and 
inconvenience hed been caused.
Nationwide didnt agree. It said it was Bs responsibility to state that it couldnt accept 
cheques and that it followed its payment instructions.
Mr W said that £350 only compensated him for his time, and not for the stress hed been 
caused. And that he missed out on specific trading opportunities, which he detailed, and for 
which he said he would accept £6,878.
Having reconsidered this, the investigator still recommended that the complaint be upheld. 
She couldnt say with certainty that Mr W would have invested in the way he said if hed 
received the money when he should have. But she thought it would be fair for Nationwide to 
pay him in line with the percentage increase in his existing account over the period.
Mr W agreed.
Nationwide said, in summary, that:
It had followed its correct process in sending a cheque in response to a paper transfer 
request.
The cheque was sent to the address B provided.
On 8 August 2023, after our investigator had sent her final view of the complaint, the transfer 
was completed, and the money was credited to Mr Ws account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwides terms and conditions say that the transfer of money from a cash ISA to a 
stocks and shares ISA with a third party will be completed within 30 days of receiving the 
transfer instruction. This timescale reflects the timescale in HMRCs ISA Manager guidance. 
The transfer in Mr Ws case took around 10 months.
Nationwide says there was an initial delay of a few days because it needed confirmation of 
Mr Ws full name. But that it completed its responsibilities by 24 October 2022 when it sent a 
cheque to B. It says it followed its usual process in sending a cheque and that the onus was 
on B to be prescriptive on how ISA monies should be sent when completing a transfer. I find 
B was prescriptive on how it wanted the money sent and that Nationwide failed to follow its 
instructions. I say this because:
B asked for the money to be wired to its bank account and it provided full details 
including the bank address, SWIFT code, sort code and account number.
Its accompanying email dated 18 October 2022 referred Nationwide to its payment 
instructions and said, Its important to send us a payment advice by replying to this 
email, as otherwise it will lead to major delays in crediting the funds to our mutual 
customer. Ive not seen evidence that Nationwide replied to that email as B instructed.
Nationwide said it followed its usual process in sending a cheque in response to a 
paper request. I find its usual process wasnt correct in the specific circumstances 
here. Thats because B was clear that it required the money to be electronically 
transferred to its account. Nationwide says B didnt tell it that it couldnt accept cheques. 
But that doesnt make a difference  B had requested an electronic transfer.
Nationwide says it sent the cheque to the address provided by B. But the address 
provided by B was clearly the address of its bank, which was provided for the purposes 
of the electronic transfer. I find it was unreasonable for Nationwide to think a cheque sent 
to a bank, rather than B, with Bs name and reference to Mr W would be credited to the 
correct account.
Nationwide told us it had sent cheques to B for other customers without any problems. But its not provided evidence of this, and B told us it doesnt accept cheques and it 
hasnt received them before. I find that, even if B had accepted cheques in the past and 
if it might have been able to accept a cheque on this occasion, sending the cheque to Bs 
bank, rather than B, and without the account details required to apply the payment, was 
always going to cause difficulties. And that Nationwide should reasonably have been 
aware of that.
If Nationwide had sent the money electronically as instructed, its most likely that the money 
would have been credited to Mr Ws account on 27 October 2022. I agree with our 
investigators conclusions about how Mr W should be compensated. I cant say with any 
certainty exactly how Mr W would have invested the money if it had been applied to his 
account on 27 October 2022. But Im persuaded that he had an investment strategy for his 
ISA which, in all likelihood, he would have followed for the cash transferred in from his cash 
ISA. I think the fairest way of putting things right is for Nationwide to find out how Mr Ws 
stocks and shares ISA held with B performed as a percentage during the period 27 October 
2022, when his account should have been credited, to 8 August 2023 when the money was 
received in his account. It should then credit Mr Ws stocks and shares ISA with that 
percentage of the sum it transferred, £29,172.87.
Nationwide did offer to send the money electronically when Mr W complained that the 
cheque hadnt been credited to his account. But the cheque had been cashed so Nationwide 
withdrew that offer. Once the cheque had been cashed, Nationwide didnt really provide any 
assistance to Mr W as it wrongly felt it had fulfilled its responsibilities. It did respond to Bs 
requests for information, but it kept repeating that it had followed its process and that the 
cheque had been cashed. I think Nationwide should have realised that it was responsible for 
the money not being credited to Mr Ws account because it had sent a cheque, when it 
should have electronically transferred the money, and that it had sent that cheque to a bank 
rather than B, with no account number to show where the cheque should be credited.
Nationwide hasnt provided call records or recordings of the phone calls with Mr W. But, from 
the evidence I have seen, its clear Nationwide should have done more to resolve this when 
Mr W complained.
This has caused Mr W a large degree of stress and inconvenience over a lengthy period. 
I think £350 compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. This should be paid 
directly to Mr W, rather than to his stocks and shares ISA.
HMRCs guidance for ISA managers says:
ISA managers must transfer investments and/or cash direct to new ISA managers. If the 
investments and/or cash are transferred to the investor, this will be treated as a withdrawal
The cheque was sent to Bs bank who wasnt the ISA manager. The cheque was cashed, 
and B told us that the account it was credited to wasnt in its name. So there is a danger that 
HMRC will wrongly treat the closure of Mr Ws cash ISA as a withdrawal rather than a 
transfer. Nationwide should write to HMRC to explain its mistake to ensure that the transfer 
is treated as such, and that Mr W is not disadvantaged. It will also need to ensure that the 
compensation for the Mr W not being able to invest the money in October 2022 is treated as 
part of the transfer. It should provide a copy of that letter to Mr W and to B.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Nationwide Building Society should:
1. Calculate the growth of Mr Ws stocks and shares ISA held with B as a percentage from 27 October 2022 to 8 August 2023. It will obviously need to request information from B to 
complete the calculation. It should apply that percentage to £29,172.87 and pay that 
amount into Mr Ws stocks and shares ISA held with B.
2. Pay Mr W £350 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
3. Write to HMRC to explain what has happened to ensure Mr Ws ISA subscription 
allowance isnt impacted, and that the compensation detailed in 1 above is treated as 
part of the transfer. It should provide a copy of its letter to Mr W and to B.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman