DRN-3441537
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complained that data recorded incorrectly by Ocaso SA, Compania de 
Seguros y Reaseguros (Ocaso) unfairly impacted the cost of their home insurance.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H made a claim on their policy when their roof leaked. Ocaso validated the 
damage and decided to decline the claim as the damage wasnt covered by the policy. Mr 
and Mrs H accepted the decision.
When Mr and Mrs Hs subsequent renewal offer was received, the cost was around five 
times higher than the previous year. Mr and Mrs H sought to understand why the cost had 
increased so much. They were informed that the declined claim and cost of validating the 
claim had been recorded against their policy. This resulted in Mr and Mrs H losing their no 
claims bonus of nine years which caused the cost of future insurance cover to increase. 
Ocaso said they couldnt remove this record and confirmed Mr and Mrs H hadnt received a 
financial benefit from the policy.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. She thought Ocaso may have wanted to 
keep their own records of whats happened, however, she thought it was unreasonable that 
Ocaso maintained that this needed to be recorded officially against Mr and Mrs Hs claim 
history. She said the record should be amended to remove the claim history and she said 
Ocaso should provide Mr and Mrs H with written confirmation of the amendment, so Mr and 
Mrs H could get their latest premiums re-calculated and refunded. Ocaso didnt respond, so 
the complaint has been referred to an ombudsman.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 17 March 2022. I said:
The information recorded against Mr and Mrs Hs policy meant the renewal premium offered 
via the broker had increased. The benefit of the accumulated no claims bonus was absent 
from their record. It isnt normal within the industry for a policyholder to lose their no claims 
history when they havent benefitted from a claim. Ive also checked the policy and havent 
found any reference to explain that this scenario was likely to occur. 
I can see Ocaso did write to Mr and Mrs Hs broker to explain the circumstances of what had 
happened. However, Ocaso said it couldnt amend its records and provided no details to the 
broker that the no claims history should be left unaffected. Therefore, the broker had no 
choice but to use the records that were provided by Ocaso. The impact for Mr and Mrs H 
was that the renewal offer provided by the broker was around five times more costly than in 
the previous year. So, I think its clear that Mr and Mrs H have potentially suffered financially 
from these circumstances, as they werent provided a fair renewal offer by Ocaso and likely 
sought alternative insurance elsewhere in the marketplace. Therefore, I intend to uphold this 
complaint.
I can see our investigator asked Ocaso to amend the record, but Ocaso said this wasnt 
possible on its systems. I dont think there is any reason Ocaso would say this if they could 
change the record, so I think its likely that this isnt possible for them to do. However, as I 
said previously, I dont think Ocaso communicated effectively with the broker about 
reinstating the accumulated no claims history.
Ive noted that Ocaso said it isnt signed up to the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) 
which is an industry wide held database of motor, home, personal injury incidents. 
Therefore, I dont think Mr and Mrs H have been penalised by incorrect information being 
held on this database.
I think Mr and Mrs H have been treated unfairly as Ocasos actions meant Mr and Mrs H 
werent offered a fair renewal based on having a significant no claims history. I think other 
customers in a similar position with no claims history could well have benefitted from a lower 
priced insurance offer. Therefore, I dont think they have been treated fairly. Ive considered 
what is reasonable to put Mr and Mrs H in a position where they arent penalised due to 
Ocasos actions.
I intend that Ocaso should provide a letter to Mr and Mrs H setting out clearly the correct no 
claims history they have accumulated up until the end of their policy with it (circa 10 years). 
This will provide Mr and Mrs H with an official record of their no claim history should they 
need it. Mr and Mrs H said they didnt insure their home due to the cost. However, if Mr and 
Mrs H did subsequently insure their home, then I intend that Ocaso should calculate what 
price it wouldve offered Mr and Mrs H a policy for at their 2021/22 renewal based on having 
a 10 year no claims history. If Mr and Mrs H paid more than this with a new insurer for 
2021/22, then Ocaso should refund the difference. Mr and Mrs H should use the letter that 
Ocaso provide and ask their current insurer (or broker) whose providing (arranging) them 
cover for 2022/23, to re-calculate their premium based on this new information. If they are 
unable to persuade their insurer to re-calculate this, then I intend that Ocaso should either 
influence the insurer to do this, or otherwise, compensate Mr and Mrs H for any further 
financial loss.
I think Mr and Mrs H will have experienced some distress and inconvenience as their home 
was left uninsured. If they did end up insuring their home, they would have potentially been 
exposed to a financial shortfall. Therefore, I intend to award £200 compensation for this.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs H accepted my provisional decision and didnt have anything more to add.
Ocaso didnt reply to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint, I require Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y 
Reaseguros to:Provide a letter to Mr and Mrs H setting out clearly the no claims history they have 
accumulated up until the end of their policy with it (circa 10 years).
Calculate what price it wouldve offered Mr and Mrs H a policy for at their 2021/22 
renewal based on having a 10 year no claims history. If Mr and Mrs H paid more than 
this with a new insurer for 2021/22, then Ocaso should refund the difference.
If Mr and Mrs H are unable to persuade their current  insurer to re-calculate their 
premium based on the correct no claims history, Ocaso should either influence the 
insurer to do this, or otherwise, compensate Mr and Mrs H for any further financial 
loss.
Pay Mr and Mrs H £200 compensation  for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 May 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman