DRN-2977661
The complaint
Mr T, as the executor for the late Mrs Ts estate. Complains against Lloyds Bank PLC as it 
wont refund money Mrs T lost when she fell victim to an investment scam.
Ill refer mainly to Mr T throughout, as he is the lead party bringing the complaint and whom 
we have been corresponding with on behalf of the estate.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. But in summary and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as 
follows;
Mrs T had resided in a care home since September 2018. Due to her deteriorating health 
she required 24/7 support and it became clear to Mr T and the rest of Mrs Ts family that she 
would be unable to return to her home. So, to help raise finance, so that Mrs Ts care moving 
forward could be secured, the family sold Mrs Ts property in July 2019. Sadly, Mrs T passed 
away in September 2019.
 
Following the sale of Mrs Ts property and before her sad passing, Mr T has said that he was 
keen to secure a range of investments, with a view that the returns would ensure Mrs Ts 
finances would be such, that they would last for the remainder of her natural life. Mr T has 
said he looked at the bond market, which hes said he has used before and has continued to 
use. Hes said he reviewed comparative sites and following this he received a call from 
somebody, presenting themselves as being from a well-known Investment Firm.
Mr T requested details of the investment be emailed to him so that he could review them. 
Following this Mr T says he spent time discussing and reviewing the opportunity, which was 
to invest in bonds, and all seemed to be plausible. Hes said the paperwork looked correct 
and contact with the firm was highly professional. But unknown to him at the time he was 
dealing with fraudsters, who had cloned a genuine Investment Firm and were using the 
name of a genuine employee.
Mr T has said that he asked a number of questions about the bonds and was advised that it 
was covered by the FSCS and that the principle sum was guaranteed. Alongside this, Mr T 
says he checked the registration of the Investment Firm with the FCA and checked the name 
of the main contact he was given. Mr T added that at one point he located a number for the 
main contact and called them, but was told they were out of the office. When the fraudster, 
posing as the genuine employee, called later in the day Mr T didnt think any more of it. 
Believing everything to be genuine Mr T decided to invest. Hes said that due to the 
significant sum he was investing he wanted to ensure matters were handled properly, so, on 
18 July 2019, Mr T and his wife attended a branch of Lloyds. Mr T went ahead and made an 
international payment for £85,000 to the account details he had been provided. Mr T has 
said that he took documents to the bank and asked if it wanted to see them, he says he 
recalls the branch staff taking a copy, but not looking at the documents and hes said he 
doesnt recall much being discussed at all.
A few weeks later Mr T contacted the IFA who handles his pensions. This was to ask the IFA 
if he could review Mrs Ts options for some remaining cash she had and for some 
investments that she had which were soon to mature. Mr T mentioned the bond to his IFA, 
who told Mr T he had some doubts about it, as he hadnt heard of it. He suggested that Mr T 
check it out and call the Investment Firms security team, on their number, as soon as 
possible. 
Mr T has said he called the Security Team as advised by his IFA and the scam came to light, 
with the genuine Investment Firm informing him that it had been cloned. 
Mr T complained to Lloyds, as he thought it should have checked the payee details at the 
point the payment was made. Lloyds looked into Mr Ts complaint and issued its final 
response on 28 January 2020, not upholding the complaint. In summary it said when Mr T 
raised with it that he had been the victim of a scam it contacted the beneficiary bank (the 
account where the money was sent to) to try and recover the funds, but no funds remained 
for recovery. It said Mr T said he had checked the FCA website, but there was a warning 
about this Investment Firm which was added before the payment was made  so it would 
have expected Mr T to have made extra checks. 
Mr T didnt agree with Lloyds position and so brought his complaint to our service. In its 
submissions to us Lloyds added that it had questioned Mr T, in the branch, around the 
payment and had completed a High Value Checklist (HVC), but said Mr T was adamant that 
the payment be processed. It said it had followed all of its processes correctly during the 
transaction and didnt think a refund was appropriate. 
One of our investigators looked into things and thought Lloyds ought to refund the money 
that had been lost. In summary, our investigator thought the payment being made was 
unusual, compared with how the account was usually run, and would have appeared as 
suspicious. He was persuaded there was enough happening that Lloyds reasonably 
shouldve been concerned and intervened further than its standard high value checklist. It 
was our investigators view that had Lloyds intervened further, it would have prompted Mr T 
to carry out further checks, which would have resulted in the scam being uncovered and the 
money not being lost. 
Lloyds didnt agree with our investigators view. In summary, it said Mr T was an experienced 
investor who had held bonds previously. It added that Mr T had checked the FCA website 
and was confident he had completed all necessary due diligence, but it repeated that the 
FCA showed a warning at the time. It said its branch staffs recollections were that it asked 
several questions about the payment, but Mr T was insistent the payment was genuine and 
wanted it to be processed. It questioned why Mr T had only spoken to his IFA after the 
payment had been made, rather than before. It also noted that it thought the rate of return 
being offered on the bond, of 7.46%, was too good to be true and Mr T had taken a risk.  
Overall, it didnt think there was any reason for its branch staff to suspect this was anything 
but a genuine transaction and it didnt think it had made an error. 
Our investigator considered the points that Lloyds raised, but it didnt change his view. He 
didnt think that because Mr T had invested before he couldnt fall victim to a scam. He also 
said that the FCA warning, that Lloyds had referred to, was applied in November 2019, 
which was after the payment had been made. He re-iterated that he didnt think the HVC 
went far enough in this case and that further probing ought to have taken place and that this 
would have made the difference.
 
Lloyds disagreed with our investigators opinion. In summary, it repeated the arguments it 
had made previously and stated that it thought the Quincecare duty was relevant to this complaint. It said it was sorry Mrs T had been the victim of a scam, but didnt think it should 
be held liable for the transaction, it considered the actions it had taken to be fair and 
reasonable. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has now been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the
time.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations (in this case the 2017 regulations) and the terms and conditions of the 
customers account. That was the case in 2019 and remains so now, and I have taken this 
into account when deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case. In addition:
- Regulated firms like Lloyds are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of [their] customers (Principle 6);
- Banks have a longstanding regulatory duty to take reasonable care to establish and 
maintain effective systems and controls for compliance with applicable requirements 
and standards under the regulatory system and for countering the risk that the firm 
might be used to further financial crime (SYSC 3.2.6R of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) Handbook, which has applied since 2001). 
And over the years, the FSA and its successor the FCA have published a series of papers 
setting out non-exhaustive examples of good and poor practice found when reviewing 
measures taken by banks to counter financial crime:
- The 2012 thematic review paper Banks defences against investment fraud  
Detecting perpetrators and protecting victims (the 2012 paper) sets out such non-
exhaustive examples. And I am satisfied that the findings of this thematic review and 
SYSC 3.2.6R are of relevance to both sending and receiving banks. For example, the 
2012 paper considered banks efforts to counter fraud where both the customer is the 
fraudster and also where the customer is the victim, in light of the regulatory 
obligation to counter the risk that regulated firms might be used to further financial 
crime, including fraud.
- The FSA also explained in the 2012 paper that whilst it focused on investment fraud 
it was of some relevance to other types of fraud as well. Specifically, it said we have a regulatory remit to tackle investment fraud, which has prompted our particular 
interest in this area, although the lessons of this report can be applied to banks 
handling of other types of fraud and criminal conduct affecting their customers.
- Firms are required to comply with legal and regulatory anti-money laundering and 
countering the financing of terrorism requirements. At the material time, those 
requirements included maintaining proportionate and risk-sensitive policies and 
procedures to identify, assess and manage money laundering risk, e.g. through 
customer due-diligence measures and the ongoing monitoring of the business 
relationship (including through the scrutiny of transactions undertaken throughout the 
course of the relationship);
- The law itself also recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes a 
payment in circumstances where it has reasonable grounds (although not necessarily 
proof) for believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate the 
funds of its customer (known as the Quincecare duty). I am mindful, however, that 
the courts have interpreted Quincecare narrowly and the circumstances of this 
complaint are different to that case and I am not suggesting Quincecare applies in 
this case, only to make the point that the broad legal position that a bank is expected 
to process payments that a customer authorises is not absolute and Quincecare (like 
the other matters I have referred to here) is an example of that. 
In addition, as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should in any 
event have taken proactive steps to: 
- Identify and assist vulnerable consumers and consumers in vulnerable 
circumstances, including those at risk of financial exploitation (something also 
recognised by the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers Associations 
February 2016 report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable 
circumstances);
- Look to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or out of 
character transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam.  
- In relation to branch transactions  follow the Banking Protocol when available.
It seems clear from this that standards of due diligence and good industry practice have 
existed for a long time  including at the time of the disputed events in this case. Taking all 
of these things into account, I consider that at the time of the payments, Lloyds should fairly 
and reasonably have:
- monitored accounts  and any payments made or received  in order to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
- maintained systems to look out for unusual and uncharacteristic transactions, or 
other indicators that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things), 
particularly given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer;
- taken additional steps or made additional checks in some circumstances  
irrespective of the payment channel used  before processing a payment; or in some 
cases, to have declined to make a payment altogether in order to help protect 
customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to 
make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
So in this case, I need to decide whether Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mr T, when he made the transfer and when he reported the fraud, or whether it should 
have done more than it did.
Mr T has accepted that he authorised the payment. Because of this, Lloyds had an 
obligation to follow Mr Ts instructions. But there are some situations in which it should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the transfers - as Ive 
explained, I consider that as a matter of good practice Lloyds shouldve been on the lookout 
for unusual and out of character transactions.
Ive first thought about whether I think Lloyds should have intervened. Lloyds has a difficult 
balance to strike in how it configures its systems to detect unusual activity or activity that 
might otherwise indicate a higher than usual risk of fraud. But having reviewed the payment 
Mr T made, Im persuaded that it wasnt typical of how the account was usually run and so, I 
think it ought to have caused Lloyds to be concerned that Mr T might have been at risk of 
financial harm.
Having looked through the bank statements, for the account from which the payment was 
made, I can see the payment Mr T made to the fraudster was considerably higher than any 
previous payment that had been made in the months leading up to the scam. Alongside this, 
it was an international payment to a new payee. I think there was enough going on that 
Lloyds ought to have been concerned. With this, I think it should have taken steps to conduct 
additional checks before processing the payment. The activity on the account was not typical 
of the usual account activity and represented a possibility that Mr T may have been at risk of 
financial harm. 
 
Lloyds has said its branch staff did ask Mr T questions about the payment and has 
evidenced a HVC that was completed at the time, which it says shows the conversations had 
and questions asked. But having looked at the HVC, Ive seen it indicates that Lloyds merely 
asked Mr T where the money was going and what was the purpose, then gave a general 
statement about unrelated scams involving the impersonation of police and bank staff. In my 
judgment, considering Mr T was making an unusual value transfer, internationally to a new 
payee, Im persuaded it should have done more to satisfy itself that he wasnt at risk of 
financial harm.
Lloyds were aware that the purpose of the payment was to invest in bonds. At the time, 
Lloyds should have been well aware of the possibility of legitimate financial businesses 
being impersonated or cloned. And, given that scams of this nature often target people 
seeking fixed-rate bonds, such as this one, Mr Ts mention of investing in such a product 
ought to have prompted further questions. 
Im not persuaded that because Mr T had made investments before that he ought to have 
been more attuned to this type of scam, I dont think he could fairly and reasonably have 
realised that legitimate companies could be cloned in this way. Lloyds has far superior 
knowledge of what scams like this look and feel like. It would have been straightforward for 
Lloyds to talk to Mr T about the prevalence of these types of scam and to what they look and 
feel like. And I think it fairly and reasonably could have informed him of the steps he needed 
to take to protect himself against this kind of fraud. Specifically, that he ought to find the firm 
on the FCA register and contact it through the contact details listed there to confirm the 
existence, or otherwise, of his investment.  
Had Lloyds carried out these actions I dont believe Mr T would have gone ahead with the 
payment. I say that as he had tried to be cautious by researching the company he intended 
to invest with. And so, I believe its fair and reasonable to conclude he would have taken on 
board the significant new information and warnings from a professional banker, particularly 
at the mention of potential scams of a similar nature. I think this is supported by what follows, 
with Mr Ts IFA making the very same suggestion and Mr T acting on the suggestion quickly, 
which ultimately uncovered the scam. I believe that is further reinforced when considering   
Mr Ts personal circumstances, in that he was investing for the ongoing care of his mother 
and so it seems he would have been particularly intent on doing the right thing. 
Overall, having considered everything carefully I dont think Lloyds went far enough with its 
intervention prior to Mr T making the payment. Had it of done, I dont think Mr T would have 
gone ahead with the payment and it follows that the money wouldnt have been lost. 
Ive thought about whether Mr T should bear some responsibility in terms of his actions. 
However, it is clear that up to and including the time of the payment authorisation he was in 
the dark and simply did not appreciate that he may have been at risk. He thought he was 
investing his money through a legitimate company. I am satisfied he was simply the 
unwitting and blameless victims of a clever fraudster. And Lloyds was the professional in 
financial matters.
Putting things right
Ive found that Lloyds ought to have stepped in to question the payment and that, had it done 
so, the scam would have been prevented. As such, Lloyds should now;
- pay the estate of the late Mrs T the money lost, being £85,000 and;
- pay interest on that loss at 8% simple per year, calculated from the date of loss to the 
date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs T 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman