DRN-3139901
The complaint
Mrs S complains that UK Credit Limited irresponsibly provided her with an unaffordable loan.
What happened
  UK Credit provided Mrs S with a loan in May 2017 for £8000. The loan was to be repaid 
over 5 years with a monthly repayment of £279.08. Mrs S requested the purpose of the loan 
to be for debt consolidation. I understand the loan has been repaid.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in October 2021. Both parties have received 
a copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the 
decision below. I said;
Like our investigator, I dont think UK Credit shouldve provided the loan. Ill explain why I 
think this is the case.
UK Credit asked Mrs S some questions about her income and expenditure. UK Credit then 
carried out a credit search. UK Credit says that it relied on the Office of National Statistics 
(ONS) data to decipher how much Mrs S living costs would be. Although it recorded this 
down as £0, this it says is because Mrs S told it she didnt contribute to household expenses. 
So, it used 0% as a percentage of her share of expense, when it worked out her living costs.
UK Credit recorded a figure of £1,663 for Mrs Ss take home pay. It also noted her declared 
share of the rent as £175.  Mrs S told UK Credit that the loan was for debt consolidation  in 
other words, she would be using it to pay other existing debt, which she discussed with UK 
Credit.
Mrs S told UK Credit she was looking to pay off two of her loans, two payday loans, a credit 
card and a partial repayment on two other credit cards. It worked out that after she had done 
this, she would be left with a monthly credit commitment of £262.53. When it added this to 
her declared rent payment of £175 and the new loan repayment of £279.08 it assessed that 
she could comfortably afford it. It assessed that she would have around £940 disposable 
income after everything. 
I've taken into account what UK Credit has said about how it calculated the affordability
of this loan before it agreed to lend to Mrs S. But I dont think UK Credit made a fair
lending decision when it lent to Mrs S based on the information it had gathered. I say this 
because I dont think it acted on information that it gathered. And I think this information 
showed it that more likely than not Mrs S was struggling to manage her finances. 
UK Credit was able to see from its credit checks and from its phone call discussion, that Mrs 
S already had:
around £12,900 owing on nine revolving credit accounts with seven of these either 
being close to or over the agreed credit limit.
two of these credit cards with sizable outstanding balances (£5543 and £3259). Both 
were over their respective limits. 
three loans with a total balance owing of £3,528.
two payday loans declared by her that were not showing on the credit search it 
conducted, that she said came to £300. 
So, it was evident that Mrs S owed more than £16,000 to existing creditors, which I think
was a lot for Mrs S, bearing in mind her salary and what she had told UK Credit about her 
circumstances. It was also out of sorts with what she had told it about her expenditure. She 
told UK Credit she didnt pay anything towards the household expenses and paid only £175 
for her share of the accommodation costs. This led to UK Credit assessing that she had 
around £940 disposable income after her loan repayment was taken off. In short, the 
information UK Credit had gathered on the credit search and phone call with Mrs S didnt 
add up with what it had recorded down and used to assess her disposable income and 
whether to lend to her. 
I've carefully listened to the call recording when UK Credit ran through its affordability
checks with Mrs S and discussed the information on its credit checks. In doing so, I dont 
think UK Credit thought carefully enough or acted upon the information that was presented 
to it. In particular, it recorded down that Mrs Ss living expenses were £0. This is because 
she told it that she didnt contribute anything to costs associated with living in her house. 
Recording down living expenses of £0 does not to me seem like a realistic assessment of 
her costs and I cant see or hear in the recording that it asked any questions about this.
In addition, not a lot was asked by UK Credit about the credit card accounts and loans. The 
sheer number of them ought to have raised concerns with it as well as their purpose, 
especially in relation to what it worked out Mrs Ss disposable income to be each month. Mrs 
S also mentioned that she had taken out two payday loans recently and these had not been 
recorded down in the credit file. When asked about these she said she had passed the 
money on to her daughter. I agree with our investigator, when she concluded that more 
questions could have been asked about this and also about specifically the payday loans.  
I think UK Credit should have considered more carefully why someone with the amount of
disposable income its checks suggested Mrs S had and very little expenditure aside from 
credit commitments, would have needed to make use of expensive credit the way it could 
see Mrs S was doing  this being at that time 2 payday loans, 9 credit cards and 3 loans. I 
think the information provided through the credit search and from Mrs S should have raised 
concerns with UK Credit about the true extent of her finances and whether she was really in 
a position to repay the loan in a sustainable way. I think it pointed instead to her having 
problems managing her finances, and that she needed to obtain further credit in order to 
meet her commitments.
I think the loan was unfairly given to Mrs S by UK Credit and even if Mrs S had used UK 
Credits loan to repay existing debt as discussed, this would only have taken £8000 off her 
overall indebtedness shown on credit report which totalled around £16,000.
I think the scale of Mrs Ss debts, compared to the value of the loan, would suggest that she 
would remain under a large amount of unsecured debt regardless. The new monthly 
repayments for this loan didnt represent that much of a real cash monthly saving for Mrs S 
either. She would also have to pay for this credit over a much longer term than she would 
have expected to repay her existing credit commitments for.I dont think, based on what UK Credit had in front of it and what it was told, I can fairly say 
that UK Credit saw enough to reasonably be satisfied that Mrs S was going to be able to 
make the repayments for this loan in a sustainable way  and so it shouldnt have provided 
it. So, I dont think UK Credit should have agreed to give this loan to Mrs S.
As Mrs S has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on a loan
that he shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that she has lost out as a result of
what UK Credit did wrong. So, I think UK Credit needs to put things right. I havent seen 
enough to make me think that UK Credit acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs S some 
other way. So, Im not proposing to award any additional redress over and above what I've 
set out below.
I appreciate the time and trouble UK Credit has taken to engage with our investigator and
provide its detailed responses to this complaint. But for all the reasons I have explained
above, I think it is fair and reasonable for UK Credit to take the following steps to put
things right.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. Mrs S responded and said she agreed with the findings in the 
provisional decision. UK Credit responded and said it had no further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Both parties have not made any further points. So, as neither party has anything further to 
add, I dont see any reason to depart from my findings within my provisional decision. With 
that being the case, UK Credit now needs to put things right. 
 
Putting things right
 In line with this Services approach, Mrs S shouldnt repay more than the capital amount she
borrowed when she took out the loan. But she has had to pay interest and charges on a loan
that shouldnt have been provided to her  which isnt fair or reasonable. With this in mind,
UK Credit should:
 add up the total amount of money Mrs S received as a result of being given the
loan (not including anything already refunded). The payments Mrs S made should
be deducted from this amount
 if this results in Mrs S having paid more than she received, then any overpayments
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the
overpayments were made until the date of settlement)
 if any capital balance remains outstanding, then UK Credit should attempt to
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mrs S bearing in mind the need to
treat her positively and sympathetically in those discussions
 remove any adverse information placed on Mrs Ss credit file regarding the loan
when it is paid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires UK Credit to take off tax from this interest. UK Credit
must give Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax it takes off if she asks for one.
 
My final decision  My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ss complaint and direct UK Credit Limited to put 
things right as described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman