DRN-2135416
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him several packaged 
bank accounts (PBAs) between 1999 and 2006. 
.
Mr S paid monthly fees for the packaged accounts and received several potential benefits in 
return. He thinks that Barclays should refund him all the fees he paid, plus interest.
What happened
Mr S has been a customer of Barclays for quite a long time. Barclays has sent us a summary 
of his account history from its records, which it says is as follows:
in 1997, he opened a fee-free account, 
in 1999, Barclays sold him a PBA called an Additions account, for which it charged 
him a monthly fee, and which replaced his fee-free account,
 
in 2003, Mr S went back to a fee-free account, 
in 2004, Barclays sold Mr S another Additions account which again replaced his fee-
free account and for which it again charged a monthly fee,
in 2006, Barclays sold Mr S another PBA, called an Additions Plus account which 
had a higher monthly fee than his Additions account, which it replaced,
in 2010, Mr S went back to a fee-free account. 
I believe that Barclays records about this are probably reliable, and I have taken this 
account history to be accurate. 
When Mr S complained directly to Barclays, it agreed with him that it had mis-sold him the 
first Additions account in 1999. I understand that it has paid him fair compensation for this, 
and we have not considered that part of Mr Ss complaint any further. So, our investigation, 
and this decision, only concern the way Barclays sold the second Additions account in 2004 
and the Additions Plus account in 2006. 
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr Ss complaint and didnt think that 
Barclays had mis-sold him either the Additions or the Additions Plus accounts. The 
adjudicator didnt recommend that Barclays should give him any money back. 
Mr S didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review his 
case. So, it has come to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about Mr Ss complaint. Ive
looked into everything that Mr S and Barclays have told us or sent us about the case, and 
Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Mr S has made similar points of complaint about each of the PBAs, but as there was a 
significant period of time between the two sales, I have considered each as a different event. 
However, I would also like to make a few general comments which applied to both 
occasions.
In 2004 and 2006, Barclays, along with other banks, was allowed to sell PBAs in two ways. It 
could do so without giving personal advice on an information-only (or non-advised) basis; or 
as an advised (or recommended) sale. In both situations, as well as giving Mr S a choice, I 
would have expected Barclays to tell him about the accounts costs and benefits clearly; and 
in an advised sale I would also have expected it to check if he needed the benefits which the 
accounts could provide. 
On our questionnaire, Mr S told us that he cant remember if Barclays sold him the accounts 
through one of its branches, over the phone or in some other way. And nor can he recall if it 
gave him personal advice. Given that the events we are talking about happened well over a 
decade ago, I dont find the surprising. 
Similarly, Barclays no longer has any detailed records about the way it sold the Additions 
account to Mr S, but has told us that it sold the Additions Plus account to him during a 
meeting at one of its branches. Its also told us that it didnt usually give customers advice 
about PBAs but sold them on an information-only basis. 
I havent seen anything to make me think Barclays changed its usual practice for Mr S. So, I 
have considered his complaint as two non-advised sales, with the second taking place 
during a meeting at one of Barclays branches.
As there is little information about exactly what happened in 2004 or 2006, when I cant tell 
for sure what happened, I have used the evidence that is available to work out what is most 
likely to have taken place. 
The Additions account (2004)
.
By the time Barclays sold this Additions account to Mr S, he had already held both 
fee-paying and fee-free accounts, so it seems very likely that Barclays had let him 
know about his choices. And I doubt that it did anything to make him think that he had 
to change account and start paying fees again. I think its more likely that Barclays told 
Mr S about the Additions account, and he chose to buy it. 
In 2004, amongst other things, the potential benefits of the Additions account included 
use of a car breakdown service, insurance for some types of legal expenses, and use 
of a Will-writing service. Barclays also charged customers with Additions accounts 
less interest on overdrafts than it usually applied to customers with fee-free accounts. 
I think its highly likely that Barclays told Mr S about these benefits. After all, it was 
trying to sell the Additions account and it was in its own interests to tell Mr S what he 
could gain by buying it. I understand that Mr S drove a car and Barclays has told us that he overdrew his 
account quite frequently. So, it seems that he may have been interested in at least two 
of the main benefits of the account. 
I also think its very likely that Barclays told Mr S about the cost of the account. The 
monthly fees would appear on his bank statements, and I dont think Barclays would 
have tried to hide them from him, or implied that the benefits were free. 
Mr S has told us that he already had access to some of the benefits the Additions 
account offered, such as use of a car breakdown service, from other sources. This 
may well have been the case, but as I dont think Barclays advised Mr S to buy the 
Additions account, this was something for him to consider for himself.
I dont think that Barclays mis-sold the Additions account to Mr S.
The Additions Plus account (2006)
For the same reasons that I mentioned for the Additions account, I think that Barclays 
probably gave Mr S a choice about the Additions Plus account. 
In 2006, the Additions Plus account provided many of the same potential benefits as 
the Additions account, but also offered worldwide travel insurance. The extra fee was 
usually £3 per month. 
Mr S has told us that he travelled from time-to-time, so he may have been attracted to 
this insurance. It seems likely to me that Barclays told Mr S about this further benefit 
and its cost during the meeting and that he chose to buy the account.
I understand that Mr S has never had to make a claim on the travel insurance, but this 
doesnt mean Barclays mis-sold him the account. I dont think it did. 
I understand that in recent years, Mr S has exceeded the overdraft limit on his account and 
that Barclays has charged him as a result. Hes pointed out that if he had never paid any 
fees for the PBA, he may have been able to stay within his limit, particularly as he has said 
that he hasnt used the account very much. I accept its possible that this may have 
happened, but many other things may have happened differently over the years to influence 
the account balance. Moreover, as I dont think that Barclays mis-sold the PBAs to Mr S, I 
dont think its reasonable to link his recent overdraft on the fee-free account with the 
monthly fees for the PBAs in earlier years.
Mr S has also complained that despite there being little money going in and out of his 
account, Barclays never contacted him to see if the account was still suitable for him. I 
understand that these comments relate mainly to his fee-free account rather than to the 
PBAs. I accept that Barclays may not have done this. However, for the reasons I have 
already described, Im satisfied that Barclays had told Mr S about the choices available to 
him, and I dont think it was under any obligation to do anything further. 
In recent correspondence with us, Mr S has also said that he remembers Barclays telling 
him that buying the Additions and Additions Plus accounts was the only way he could gain a 
bigger overdraft limit. He has also questioned why Barclays didnt offer him a loan or a 
credit card instead. 
Barclays has told us that the type of account Mr S held would not have affected the limit on 
any overdraft it arranged for him. It has said that it assesses a customers application for an 
overdraft according to .. overall affordability and credit rating. I accept this to be true, and I doubt that it would have told Mr S the opposite. However, I think its quite likely that 
Barclays told Mr S that he could pay less interest with an Additions or Additions Plus account 
than with a fee-free account; but as this was true, it wouldnt have been mis-selling.
I also accept that Mr S may now consider that a loan or a credit card may have suited his 
needs more closely than either PBA. However, this would also have been something for him 
to consider for himself in 2004 and 2006. 
Finally, Mr S has mentioned that in recent years he has experienced some financial 
difficulties. Im sorry to hear about these difficulties. I dont know a great deal about their 
extent or how much they relate to his current dealings with Barclays. But I would expect 
Barclays to treat Mr S fairly and reasonably if he asks it for help with them. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mr Ss complaint about Barclays
Bank UK PLC. I am not going to tell it to give him any money back. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2020. 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman