DRN-3687258
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) has treated
them unfairly when providing information about the price of their insurance policies.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D insured their buildings and contents separately with Lloyds from 2013 until 
2020 when the separate policies were cancelled. When the two policies were cancelled in 
2020, the combined cost of the insurance was £489.89.
During the years the policies had been in place with Lloyds, Mr and Mrs D had questioned 
the price on a number of occasions. In response to this, Lloyds had been able to give a 
discount on the renewal quote in 2014 and 2019.
In 2020, Mr and Mrs D shopped around and found a number of alternative policies which 
provided similar insurance for much less than theyd been paying. This included a policy 
through the same Lloyds brand as their previous insurance. This offered to insurer their 
buildings and contents under one policy for £196.18. Mr and Mrs D complained to Lloyds 
and questioned whether theyd been treated fairly. They felt Lloyds should have explained 
there was a cheaper alternative policy when they spoke with it on the phone previously to 
question the price of their insurance. As this wasnt done, they believe theyve paid more for 
their insurance than they should have.
Our investigator looked at Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. She didnt think Lloyds had done 
anything wrong in 2014 when Mr and Mrs D called to discuss their renewal. At this point, the 
alternative policy they later found wasnt available, so Lloyds couldnt have done more than it 
did on the call.
However, she felt Lloyds should have done more in 2019. She felt Lloyds had an obligation 
to treat its customers fairly. When Mr and Mrs D called to discuss their policy, she felt they 
should have been provided with information about the alternative policy that could have been 
cheaper. When this wasnt provided, it wasnt taking account of their interests and treating 
them fairly.
She couldnt know exactly what price might have been offered to Mr and Mrs D if the 
alternative policy was discussed and offered in 2019. But as Mr and Mrs D were able to get 
their insurance for considerably less in 2020, she felt it was likely theyd have been offered a 
similar price in 2019. To put things right, she asked that Lloyds refund the difference in price 
between what they paid in 2019 against the 2020 premium.
Lloyds disagreed with our investigator. It said that there was no regulatory requirement to 
provide information about other policies. When Mrs D called to discuss the renewal in 2019 
the telephone agent did what he needed to meet her needs  he ran through both policies to 
see if the price could be reduced. They said Mrs D did not ask about the other policy and its 
staff didnt need to offer to discuss other policies if they were meeting the customers needs. 
They said Mrs D was happy with the discounts she obtained when the policy was renewed 
and so it didnt need to do anything else.
Lloyds also explained that there was no way to know what the cost of the insurance would 
have been if offered in 2019. It detailed how it prices its policies. The detail behind this is 
commercially sensitive and cannot be shared. But it was able to demonstrate the maximum 
amount it might charge for the alternative policy. This was considerably higher than the 
alternative policy price Mr and Mrs D achieved in 2020 and higher than what they paid in 
2019. So in the absence of anything to show they could have got the policy for less in 2019, 
it didnt agree that Mr and Mrs D lost out when the alternative policy wasnt discussed.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 24 August 2022 and said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not planning on upholding this complaint. I know this will be disappointing for Mr and 
Mrs D, but Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
The role of this service when looking at pricing complaints isnt to decide what the price 
should have been. This is a commercial decision taken by each insurer with a vast number 
of factors being considered by it when determining the price it offers. But we can make sure 
when pricing insurance, that insurers treat customers fairly and that no customer is treated 
differently. If we think something has gone wrong and this hasnt happened, we can 
recommend what we think is needed to put right the unfairness.
Mr and Mrs D have engaged with Lloyds on the price of their policy at a number of different 
points. So I think its fair to say they knew they could speak to it if they were unhappy with 
the price. When they did this, they expected to be treated fairly. In 2014 Lloyds had no 
alternative policy available so I agree with our investigator that Lloyds did nothing wrong 
when this wasnt discussed.
Lloyds has argued that there was no regulatory obligation on it to provide Mr and Mrs D with 
information about the alternative policy when this was available and they called in 2019 to 
discuss their renewal. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) regulates financial services. It 
sets out the principles it expects businesses to work towards and this includes principle 6.
Customers interest which says the following:
A firm must pay due regard to the interest of its customers and treat them fairly
The Insurance Code of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) also sets out an expectation on firms 
to ensure that information should be provided which is clear, fair and not misleading.
The question is, did Lloyds pay due regard to Mr and Mrs Ds interest and treat them fairly 
when Mrs D spoke about the insurance renewal in 2019. And did it provide clear, fair and not 
misleading information with this. If it didnt, did Mr and Mrs D loose out as a result.
Lloyds argues that it met the needs of Mrs D when she called to discuss the renewal. In 
short, she was looking to see if the price could be reduced, it was able to offer a discount 
and she left the call happy. However, I agree with our investigator that it would be 
reasonable to expect Lloyds to have done more in this call. Mrs D left the call happy as she 
believed she was getting the best price from Lloyds it could possibly offer.
I dont think its fair to expect that Mrs D should have asked specifically whether Lloyds had 
an alternative policy. There will always be an imbalance of knowledge with businesses and 
consumers. As principle six sets out, Lloyds should pay due regard to Mr and Mrs Ds 
interest. Mrs D was clearly driven to contact Lloyds because of the cost of her insurance and she wanted to reduce this. Lloyds was aware it had a policy that could have reduced the cost 
of her insurance but didnt offer to discuss this. As a result I think it failed to treat Mr and Mrs 
D fairly when Mrs D called in to discuss the renewal.
So although Mrs D did indicate she was happy with the discount offered, this was based on 
the belief that shed been offered the best price. She wasnt provided any information about 
the alternative policy, even to consider taking a quote for this and I think Mr and Mrs D may 
have lost out as a result.
As I said previously, this services role isnt to say what the price of insurance should be. This 
is for the insurer to set out as it provides the cover. Our investigator felt it was reasonable to 
assume that Mr and Mrs D would have likely obtained cover for the same or similar price in 
2019 as they did in 2020. And based on this, she asked that it refund the difference between 
what they actually paid and this cost.
Lloyds said this couldnt be confirmed as the price that would have been offered. A range of 
factors impact a quote and it wouldnt be possible to know now what this would have been. 
In support of this it has provided us with information which it feels demonstrates that Mr and 
Mrs D would not have been guaranteed to pay less for their insurance for 2019, even if the 
alternative policy was discussed.
I cant share the specific details of this information as it is business sensitive to Lloyds. But 
its provided information which shows the maximum price point it would expect to apply to 
the alternative policy for Mr and Mrs D. This is based on it applying the same set parameters 
to them as it would to all customers that hold insurance with it. This shows that the 
alternative policy price at this point was higher than what they paid in 2019. What it 
demonstrates is that it wasnt guaranteed that Mr and Mrs D would have been able to obtain 
a cheaper policy in 2019 if the call agent offered to provide a quote for the alternative policy.
So while I understand why our investigator made the assumption they did about the price of 
the alternative policy, I dont think it can be said to be guaranteed. And bearing in mind it 
isnt the role of this service to set the price, I need to take account of the information 
provided by Lloyds. Im not satisfied that Mr and Mrs D would have got a price similar to that 
of the 2020 quote if theyd been provided one in 2019.
Overall, although I think Lloyds could have done more to make sure it was treating Mr and 
Mrs D fairly when they engaged on the price of their policy, I cant say theyve lost out as a 
result.
Lloyds responded to say it didnt have anything further to add. Mr and Mrs D responded to 
say they didnt agree and still felt they were not given enough information to make an 
informed choice. But they had nothing further to add beyond this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and based on there being no new information provided, I see no reason to 
depart from the provisional decision Ive set out above.
I accept that Mr and Mrs D could have been provided with more information when they 
called to discuss their policy renewal in 2019. But Im not persuaded they definitely lost out as a result. And in the absence of this, I dont think Lloyds needs to do anything else in 
relation to their complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out in the provisional decision included within the background of this 
decision, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman