DRN-3171330
The complaint
Mrs D has complained that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) has 
unfairly declined her claim. 
What happened
Mrs D has an income protection policy, underwritten by L&G. This would pay Mrs D a benefit 
if she was unable to work due to an illness or injury following a deferred (waiting) period of 
26 weeks. 
Towards the end of 2019, Mrs D became absent from work due to a problem with her foot. 
She was referred for surgery which was due to take place in March 2020. But due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic, this was cancelled and rescheduled for a later date.
Mrs D made a claim in 2020. The deferred period ended in June 2020. This means benefit 
would have become payable at the end of the deferred period if Mrs D met the policy terms 
and conditions and specifically, the definition of incapacity. 
L&G reviewed the claim but declined it in November 2020. It said the medical evidence didnt 
show that Mrs D met the definition of incapacity. 
Mrs D complained and unhappy with L&Gs response, referred her complaint to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think L&G had unfairly declined the 
claim.
Mrs D disagreed and in summary, has made the following comments:
She doesnt sit down all day long and has a lot of running around to do and her 
manager can confirm this.
She had a year off work as her surgery was cancelled twice due to the pandemic  
had her surgery gone ahead as planned, she never would have had to claim as it 
would have been done before the six-month period. 
And so the case has been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
Firstly, I would like to clarify that this decision relates solely to L&Gs decision to decline the 
claim. I understand there are concerns about a potential misrepresentation that L&G are 
looking into  but that is separate to this complaint and does not form part of my decision.
The relevant rules and industry guidance say an insurer should handle claims promptly and 
fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy defines incapacity as follows:
If you are in gainful employment or gainful self-employment at the time of incapacity 
we will consider you to be incapacitated once we have assessed your claim as set 
out in section 8.2 and are satisfied that you have no capacity for working in your own 
occupation, on any basis as a direct result of your injury or illness.
In income protection insurance claims, the onus is on the claimant to prove they meet the 
definition of incapacity, through medical evidence. 
Mrs D was signed off due to problems with her foot throughout the deferred period and 
beyond until she returned to work towards the end of 2020. But on its own, that isnt enough 
to satisfy the policy terms which say Mrs D would have to have no capacity for working in her 
occupation on any basis as a result of her foot problem.
Ive seen L&G asked Mrs Ds GP for information about her condition and how this affected 
her on a daily basis, but he wasnt able to confirm how her condition affected her. The 
medical evidence does suggest that Mrs D will have to be non-weight bearing following her 
operation. But there isnt any evidence commenting on her need to non-weight bear 
beforehand or any other restrictions or advice which would affect her ability to work.
L&G also asked Mrs Ds employer for information about her duties and how much walking, 
sitting, standing and lifting she would have to do amongst other things. The employer replied 
to outline the main duties which included answering the telephone, using a computer, 
photocopying, filing and walking on level ground frequently. It also confirmed it would 
consider a rehabilitation programme and gradual return to work and that it was awaiting 
occupational health reports. 
L&G didnt think Mrs D was incapacitated as there wasnt any medical evidence which 
suggested that Mrs D couldnt stand or walk at all. I dont think Mrs D has satisfied the 
definition of incapacity  and hasnt demonstrated that she couldnt work, on any basis. So I 
dont think L&G unfairly declined the claim.
Mrs D says her employer can confirm she has to run around all day. And I can appreciate 
that Mrs D may have had an active role. But there is no persuasive medical evidence which 
demonstrates that standing or walking wasnt recommended or possible. I understand Mrs D 
says that it was painful for her to walk and stand. But the medical evidence doesnt show 
that she couldnt work in her role at all as a result of having to stand or walk. Potentially, with 
adjustments, Mrs D could have worked in her role whilst she was waiting for her operation. 
And so there is insufficient medical evidence to suggest that Mrs D was incapacitated as a 
result of her foot problem. 
Mrs D says she wouldnt have had to claim had her operation not been cancelled. I accept 
this but I cant hold L&G responsible for the cancellation of Mrs Ds operation. Having reviewed the claim, L&G did think it took too long to reach a decision and for this, it 
offered Mrs D £400 compensation for the delays in the resulting impact on Mrs D which I 
consider is fair and reasonable. 
Overall, I think L&G has provided reasonable compensation for its delay but I dont think I 
can fairly ask it to accept the claim. And so I wont be asking it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman