DRN-3788811
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as N, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do enough to 
prevent N losing out financially as a result of an authorised push payment fraud.
What happened
The background to the complaint is well known to both parties and so, I wont repeat it at 
length here. 
Briefly, as I understand it, N which is based abroad placed an order with a UK supplier in 
early 2021. The supplier confirmed the order and sent an invoice for about £5,500 via an 
email. The amount was payable to an account with Bank A in the UK. 
Two hours later N received another email, purportedly from their supplier, stating that they 
were unable to receive payments into the account mentioned in the previous email. The 
email asked N not to make the payment until they received further instruction from the 
supplier. 
The next day N received another email, this time requesting that the payment be made to an 
account with HSBC. Following this N attempted to make a payment to this account, but it 
was rejected by their bank on the basis that the beneficiary was listed as an individual and 
not as a company. 
N queried this with their supplier (via email) and were told that the beneficiarys account was 
in the companys name not in a personal name. But later they emailed to say that they gave 
incorrect account information.  The email explained that it was a euro account, but they 
would prefer the funds to be sent to their GBP account. The email provided N with a different 
account details  also with HSBC. N made the payment to this account and this time it went 
through. 
After about two weeks N emailed their supplier asking for an update on their order and this 
was when the scam came to light. Their (genuine) supplier confirmed that they never 
received the payment.
N reported what had happened to their bank and later complained to HSBC. They said that 
HSBC allowed a payment  which was meant for a company - be paid into a personal 
account. The bank said it wasnt its responsibility to check that the account names matched 
and said that they did all they could, on being advised of the scam.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and concluded that it could not be upheld. 
They said, in summary:
When the beneficiarys account was opened, there wasnt anything suspicious that could 
have alerted HSBC to the fact that the account would later be used for fraudulent 
purposes.
The incoming payment from N and the payments following it were in line with the normal 
account activity.
By the time N notified HSBC of the scam, unfortunately the funds were transferred out of 
the account and hence there wasnt much the bank could have done at that point.
N did not agree. They reiterated that HSBC should have checked the name of the intended 
payee against the beneficiarys name and had it done so the scam could have been foiled. 
They also believe that the bank did not take sufficient action against the beneficiary once it 
was notified of the scam.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The bank has provided relevant information to our service to allow us to investigate this. I am 
limited as to how much information I can share because it relates to a third-party account. 
But Id like to assure that Ive carefully reviewed everything before reaching my decision.
Having reviewed the submissions, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator 
essentially for the same reasons. 
I am sorry to hear that N has been an innocent victim of a callous scam. From their 
perspective I can see why they feel that HSBC should reimburse them for their loss. 
However, an account found to have received funds which were made as a result of
authorised push payment fraud doesnt automatically entitle the payer (victim) to a refund
nor does it indisputably mean that the recipient bank failed reasonably to prevent the loss.
In this instance, I havent seen anything to suggest that HSBC could reasonably
have foreseen - when the account was opened - that it would later be used to receive
fraudulent credit.
I also consider that the payment N made into the account and the transactions following it 
were broadly in line with the account activity. As such, I dont think HSBC ought reasonably 
to have had concerns, for it to have intervened when the transactions happened. So again, I 
cant fairly conclude that HSBC missed an opportunity here to prevent Ns loss.
And finally, upon notification of the scam, a receiving bank is expected to take action
immediately to prevent any further loss of funds. In this instance, by the time HSBC were
notified of the scam their customer had already removed Ns money from their account. So, 
there wasnt much HSBC could have done to prevent Ns loss. However, as I understand it, 
the bank has since closed the beneficiarys account.
The director of N strongly feels that HSBC ought to have checked the name of the recipient
against the intended payee name and had it done so the fraud would have come to light.
However, as explained by the investigator, whilst the payment instruction included the name 
of the intended payee, the unique identifier was IBAN. So, the payment would be received 
into the account so long as the IBAN was correct, which was the case here. 
I am sorry to have to disappoint N.  But I can only make an award against a bank if that bank 
has done something wrong which has led to a loss to the complainant. In this case, from what Ive seen there hasnt been a failing by HSBC which has resulted in Ns loss. And as 
such I cant fairly or reasonably ask the bank to refund Ns loss.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman