DRN-1789981
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K are unhappy about the information esure Insurance Limited (esure) gave them 
when they renewed their home insurance including pest cover. Mr and Mrs K are joint policy 
holders but, for ease, I will refer only to Mr K throughout my decision. 
What happened
Mr K asked esure to add pest cover to his home insurance. During his call he asked whether 
damage caused by pests would also be covered. esure told him that damage would be 
covered under his home insurance.
Mr K made a claim for a rat infestation and esure accepted the claim. However, esure 
declined his claim for damage to his roof and attic caused by the rats. He complained to 
esure because in the policy renewal call itd told him the damage would be covered.
esure listened to the call and upheld his complaint. It acknowledged that it had told him the 
damage would be covered and offered £50 by way of apology. Mr K didnt think the offer was 
sufficient because he had paid a lot of money to have the damage repaired. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. As both parties agreed that incorrect information was 
given at renewal, our investigator looked at whether the amount of compensation esure 
offered was fair. She felt that it was reasonable for Mr K to rely on the information given to 
him during the renewal call and for him to think he had adequate cover. However, as the 
damage was not covered by the policy, our investigator didnt think it was right to ask esure 
to provide cover. This is because it wouldnt have been covered in any event. But, she did 
think it was fair to ask esure to pay an additional £150 for the trouble and upset caused. 
esure didnt agree because it thought the compensation was excessive for the shortfall 
identified. It went on to say that Mr K had made it aware during the renewal call that after 
shopping around he wasnt able to find home insurance which would cover damage caused 
by pests. Therefore, esure didnt think he had lost out as a result of its error.
Mr K remained dissatisfied with the amount proposed, but reluctantly accepted the outcome.
The complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise neither party will be satisfied with my decision, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain why.The fact that esure gave incorrect information at renewal is not in dispute. So, it remains for 
me to decide whether esure made a fair offer of compensation in recognition of its error. I 
dont think it did.
Mr K specifically asked esure whether pest damage would be covered under his policy and it 
was reasonable for him to rely on its response as an accurate representation of the cover. 
However, the policy didnt cover pest damage, despite esure saying it did, and its 
understandable that Mr K was upset and frustrated about that. So Ive thought about what 
mightve happened if esure gave the correct information and it seems to me that there are 
two main options  that Mr K wouldve still renewed his home insurance with esure or that he 
wouldve taken out home insurance with another provider.
If Mr K had still renewed his policy with esure, the damage wouldnt have been covered. His 
policy specifically excludes damage caused by pests. So the outcome wouldve been the 
same and Mr K wouldve had to pay to fix the damage but with no expectation that esure 
would cover the cost.
If Mr K had taken out a policy with another home insurer, its unlikely he wouldve found one 
which offered the cover he was looking for. This is because its a typical exclusion in home 
insurance. So the outcome wouldve been the same and Mr K wouldve had to pay to fix the 
damage.
So, as Mr K wouldnt have been covered for the damage in either option, I dont think esure 
should pay towards the repair costs.
Looking now at the amount of compensation, neither party thinks its appropriate. Mr K would 
like more and esure thinks its excessive for the mistake it made. As Ive already explained, if 
esure had given correct information the damage wouldnt have been covered anyway. But 
its likely the incorrect information influenced his decision to renew with esure. It also led him 
to believe his home was covered for damage and likely meant he didnt think about whether 
he needed to look for specialist cover. That said, if the cover for damage caused by pests 
was of particular importance, Id have expected the details to be looked at on receipt of the 
documentation. 
So, in recognition of the incorrect reassurance that esure gave Mr K, I think £150 
compensation in addition to the £50 already offered is fair and reasonable by way of 
apology. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that the complaint is upheld. esure 
Insurance Limited should pay Mr and Mrs K £150 in addition to the £50 already offered by 
way of an apology for giving incorrect policy information. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 June 2020.
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman