DRN-4224234
The complaint
Ms B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wont refund the money she lost in 
a romance scam. 
What happened
Ms B is represented in this case but for ease Ill mainly refer to Ms B throughout this 
decision. 
Ms B says that in September 2021 she was approached on a social networking site by 
someone Ill refer to in this decision as A. A told Ms B that he was a pilot who worked for a 
known airline and was based abroad. 
After a few weeks of building a relationship A suggested they meet in person. He said that a 
vacation fee would need to be paid and Ms B received emails from the airline A said he 
worked for in respect of the emergency vacation leave. Ms B transferred £1,500 to cover this 
fee on 20 September 2021.
After this Ms B was told that As partner who was supposed to replace him while he visited 
Ms B was on leave, so she needed to pay for a replacement. Ms B made a payment to cover 
this from an account with a different bank. 
A then told Ms B that he had sent her a gift which contained money and jewellery, but shed 
need to pay a fast lane shipping fee for the parcel to be delivered. Initially Ms B was advised 
of a shipping fee of £1,000 but later A said an additional £300 was needed for security. Ms B 
transferred £1,300 to cover both costs. She says she was sent pictures of the gifts she was 
due to receive. 
On 5 October 2021 Ms B was told that when the parcel was scanned a customs officer 
identified that it contained watches, mugs and money and that she needed to pay a £5,000 
customs fee to avoid further harassment and possible arrest. Ms B made the payment in 
instalments to the same individual shed sent the shipping and security fees to.
I have listed below all the payments Ms B made.
Date Amount Recipient Payment reason
20/09/21 £1,500 1 Emergency vacation fee paid to 
pilot
04/10/21 £1,300 2 £1,000 shipping fee and £300 
security fee
07/10/21 £700 2 Customs charges
07/10/21 £1,300 2 Customs charges
11/10/21 £1,000 2 Customs charges
13/10/21 £1,400 2 Customs charges
14/10/21 £600 2 Customs charges
Total £7,800
Ms B became concerned when the package didnt arrive, and she was asked for further 
funds. A also didnt visit and told Ms B this was because he didnt have all the relevant 
paperwork. Ms B reported the scam to Barclays on 25 October 2021.
Ms Bs representative said she was vulnerable under the CRM Code as English isnt her first 
language and she didnt receive any warnings when the payments were made. 
Barclays considered Ms Bs complaint. Initially it refunded 50% of all but the first payment 
but later agreed to refund 50% of all payments (plus £300 compensation for not paying a 
share of the first payment initially). It said Ms B didnt complete research, due diligence or 
show any caution before making the payments and so should not receive a full refund under 
the CRM Code. In reaching this decision Barclays took into account the following:
- Ms B had never met the scammer and only talked to him for a short period of time 
when the subject of money came up.
- The evidence isnt very convincing with what Barclays said were obviously fake email 
addresses used. 
- The promises made by the scammer were too good to be true.
Barclays said that Ms B later found others whod been scammed by the same person so had 
she completed some checks before making the payments the scam would have been 
uncovered. It also noted that it spoke to Ms B when the first payment was made but didnt do 
a good enough job. Barclays didnt think Ms B was vulnerable under the CRM Code. 
Ms B was unhappy with Barclays response and brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that Barclays do anything 
more. She said Barclays acted reasonably in applying the reasonable basis for belief 
exception so the 50% refund it had already paid was fair. The investigator highlighted certain 
points, like the fact that Ms B was asked to pay for emergency leave for someone else and 
to pay police for a bribe were so unusual they ought to have caused Ms B concern.
Ms B didnt agree with the investigators findings and asked for a final decision. She said:
- After a recent difficult breakup she was ready to throw herself into a relationship and 
was not in a position to identify signs of a scam.
- She trusted A and didnt realise she wouldnt be asked to pay for emergency leave. 
Because she worked for the same employer before and after she moved to the UK, 
she wasnt aware of usual leave processes. 
- She had no experience of fraud.
- She did question the fraudster, but he was able to provide plausible explanations. 
- She was in financial difficulty, had debts to pay off and borrowed money from friends 
to pay the customs charges. 
- She should have been provided with effective warnings under the CRM Code. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether 
Barclays should have reimbursed Ms B under the provisions of the CRM Code and whether 
it ought to have done more to protect her from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. Im really sorry to hear that Ms B has lost money in a cruel scam. Theres no dispute that she 
was tricked into making the payments. But this isnt enough for her to receive a refund of the 
money under the CRM Code. 
The CRM Code says that a customer who was vulnerable when they made an Authorised 
Push Payment (APP) scam payment should receive a full refund of that payment, 
regardless of any exceptions set out in it. The CRM Code states that: 
A Customer is vulnerable to APP scams if it would not be reasonable to expect that 
Customer to have protected themselves, at the time of becoming victim of an APP scam, 
against that particular APP scam, to the extent of the impact they suffered. 
Ms B has said that English isnt her first language, she was experiencing financial difficulties 
and been through the breakup of a relationship. Ive thought about what shes said in the 
context of the CRM Code, and Im not persuaded that she couldnt reasonably be expected 
to have protected herself from the scam because of those vulnerabilities or that they affected 
her decision-making capacity. Ms B established that she was the victim of a scam by 
searching the scammers name. She found that other people had been scammed by the 
same person. I consider Ms B could have taken this step sooner and protected herself from 
this scam. 
Ive gone on to consider other provisions of the CRM Code, which requires firms to 
reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this, in all but a limited 
number of circumstances. Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a 
customer if it can establish that: 
The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate.
The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by 
failing to take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning.
Taking into account all the circumstances of this case, I think the concerns Barclays has 
raised about the legitimacy of the transactions Ms B made are enough to support its position 
that it may rely on an exception to reimbursement in the CRM Code. I dont think she had a 
reasonable basis for believing the person she transacted with was legitimate and will explain 
why. I should also say that its the combination of these factors that lead me to reach this 
conclusion. 
Ms B says that due to the distressing nature of the fraud she has deleted all messages she 
exchanged with A. So, Ive had to place greater emphasis on what Ms B told Barclays when 
she reported the scam and what she has told this service. 
I have set out below why I dont consider Ms B had a reasonable basis for believing A was 
legitimate:
- Ms B had only messaged A for a short period and never met him before he started to 
ask for money. So she placed a lot of trust in someone she didnt know. Ms B told 
Barclays she didnt speak to A, as he said he was busy with work when she tried to 
call. 
- The initial request to pay an emergency vacation fee isnt plausible and becomes 
even less so when I consider that Ms B was asked to pay an individual she had 
never met and who wasnt A. Miss B was told she was paying another pilot and not 
As employer, which also ought to have raised alarm bells. I dont consider the 
explanation A provided  that he wasnt allowed to use his own funds because the 
company provided everything - at all plausible. In fact, this explanation leads to 
questions around why a fee was payable if As company paid for everything. Whilst I accept Ms B may have had limited knowledge of the process for applying for leave, I 
consider these factors were so unusual Ms B ought reasonably to have completed 
some checks. 
- The emails Ms B received werent very convincing and came from an email address 
that did not look legitimate. The fake airline emails started with the name of the airline 
followed by a number and then .protonmail.com. They didnt include a logo and 
werent written professionally. For example, one email said, You can email us any 
time if you wanna find out more information. Im not persuaded a large, well-known 
airline would communicate in this way. The fake shipping company address ends in 
the same way (.protonmail.com) and the emails are littered with errors (laundry.it 
instead of laundering for example) which I think are concerning and ought reasonably 
to led Ms B to question the legitimacy of them. 
- There is reference in the emails Ms B has provided to payment by cryptocurrency. I 
dont believe this is what happened, but the suggestion that payment could be made 
to an airline, shipping company or customs by cryptocurrency is so unusual it ought 
to have been a red flag that something wasnt right and led to checks being made. 
- The sender of a parcel pays any delivery costs so I cant see why Ms B was asked to 
pay these costs or why she agreed to do so. 
- Ms B wasnt shown any invoices for the payments she was asked to make, and I 
cant see that she asked for any evidence of the payment requests. 
- The payee for the shipping fee and customs fees was the same person, which 
doesnt make sense. And Ms B was paying an individual and not a company in both 
cases. I think this ought reasonably to have caused her concern. 
- In respect of the customs fees, Ms B was told that if she didnt make the payment 
she would be in trouble and may even be arrested. Ms B was told the customs 
officers knew her address and would send police to arrest her if the payment wasnt 
made. The story is implausible and concerning. 
- Ms B says she saw pictures of some items A said he was sending her. But there was 
nothing to say A owned these items. 
Taking all these points into account, Im satisfied Barclays acted reasonably in relying on an 
exception to reimbursement under the CRM Code. 
In terms of whether Barclays met its own standards, the CRM Code says that the bank is 
required to provide an effective warning where it identifies an APP scam risk. In this case 
though, Barclays has already refunded 50% of the payments Ms B made. This is what Id 
ask Barclays to pay if it hadnt met the standards required of it by the CRM Code. So I dont 
consider Barclays needs to do anything more. 
Finally, Ive considered whether Barclays did enough to recover Ms As funds. Ive seen 
evidence which shows that Barclays contacted the bank that received the first payment 
promptly as Id expect, but no funds remained. 
Barclays has admitted it didnt contact the other receiving bank as soon as it should have. 
So Ive looked at whether this had any impact on the recovery of Ms Bs funds. This service 
has evidence from the financial business all the remaining payments were sent to which 
confirms that all funds were removed on the day they were received. This means that even if 
Barclays had acted more promptly it wouldnt have been able to recover any funds because 
by the time the scam was reported all funds had already left the account. Scammers often 
remove funds quickly, and this is what happened here. 
Overall, whilst Im sorry to hear of Ms Bs loss, I cant reasonably ask Barclays to do 
anything more. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman