DRN-3045883
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected his claim against it under
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to his purchase of some solar panels.
What happened
Mr A bought solar panels for his home in September 2018. The purchase was funded by a
loan from Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the
installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading
Mr A into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
Mr As complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the benefits of
the panels were mis-represented to Mr A, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future
performance. Ikano didnt respond, so the case was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
I wrote a provisional decision which read as follows.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I am currently not minded to uphold this
complaint. That is because the contract for the sale of the solar panels sets out the cost and
the estimated benefit of the panels very clearly, and the benefits did not begin to approach
the cost.
Immediately above the signature box, in the middle, it says in bold capital letters Estimated
total 1st year benefit, and next to that on the right are two alternative figures, of which the
higher is £242.46. I think this figure is conspicuous; it is not buried in some fine print. To the
left it says that the finance amount is £7,375, payable over ten years. This document was
signed by Mr A immediately below those figures, and so I think that the installers salesman
did enough to bring this information to his attention.
The interest on the loan does not appear on this document, and so I think that Mr A could be
forgiven for overlooking it. However, one tenth of the amount borrowed would clearly come
to £737.50 each year. That is about three times the stated benefit figure for the first year.
Again, I think this is clear.
For these reasons, I am not persuaded that the installer misled Mr A about the benefits and
cost of the panels. It was clear that the panels would not be self-funding during the term of
the loan.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr As representatives did not agree with my provisional decision. They argued that I should 
still uphold this complaint, for two reasons.
Firstly, Mr A had relied on the verbal assurances of the salesman that the panels would be 
self-funding. Although these assurances had deviated from the content of the documents 
which were provided to Mr A at the time of the sale, the Financial Ombudsman Service has 
accepted in many other cases that consumers were still entitled to rely on the verbal 
assurances given, and this case should be no different.
Secondly, Mr As complaint had been upheld by the adjudicator, who had said that Ikano 
should have provided Mr A with a comparison of the monthly loan repayments and the 
income and savings generated by the panels. The case had only been referred to an 
ombudsman because Ikano did not respond. It would be unfair for the outcome to change to 
Mr As detriment merely because of Ikanos failure to engage with our process at a late 
stage.
My findings
It is true that this service has upheld many complaints about the misrepresentation of solar 
panels, but those are generally cases where the sales documentation was less clear than it 
was in this case. Our starting point is that consumers are entitled to rely on the verbal 
assurances of salesmen, unless the papers clearly compare the cost of the panels and their 
estimated benefits on the same page. Many suppliers did not show this information clearly 
enough in their sales documentation, usually putting the cost and benefit figures in different 
documents and leaving it to their customers to piece the information together themselves. 
But in this case the supplier (Solar Style Solutions Ltd, trading as Solar Style UK) presented 
the information clearly, with the cost and benefit figures side-by-side, as I have described 
above. I dont think it matters whether monthly or annual figures are used, provided that the 
figures are presented in a way that enables them to be easily compared. The result is that 
this complaint has had a different outcome to the majority.
I appreciate the argument Mr As representatives have made about procedural unfairness. 
Unfortunately, an adjudicators opinion is only binding if both parties agree, so in a case 
where the respondent does not respond, there is no alternative but to refer the case to an 
ombudsman who can issue a decision which does not depend on the respondents 
acceptance. This is not just a rubber-stamping exercise or a review of the adjudicators 
findings, but a de novo re-consideration of the case from scratch, and sometimes that can 
result in a different opinion about the complaint. Im afraid that cannot be helped.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022. But if he does not reply, then we will presume 
that he rejects it. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman