DRN-1734687
The complaint
Miss P is unhappy with how One Insurance Limited dealt with a claim made by a third party 
against her motor insurance policy. She says One Insurance failed to properly investigate 
the incident, settled the matter without her agreement and poorly communicated with her. 
Miss P explains her motor insurance premium has now increased as a result of whats 
happened. 
The claim was handled by One Insurances claims handlers, but for the purposes of this 
decision I will only refer to One Insurance. 
What happened
In August 2018 Miss P was notified by One Insurance that a claim had been made against 
her motor insurance policy. Miss P says this is the first she heard about the claim and she 
emailed One Insurance asking for details of what this was about and for any relevant 
documentation. 
Unfortunately, some of Miss Ps emails around this time appear to have been sent to the no 
reply email address used by One Insurance. With no response, it appears Miss P called in 
on 29 August 2018 to find out what was happening and at this time told them her wing mirror 
had been clipped  but there was no damage to her car. 
The third party insurer said their insureds version of what happened was that Miss P had 
been proceeding on the third partys side of the road, and when the road narrowed the third 
partys vehicle was pushed onto a path with damage occurring to the wing mirror and alloy 
wheels. 
Following receipt of this information One Insurance made several attempts to obtain Miss Ps 
version of events. 
Miss P emailed One Insurance on 19 September 2018 describing what had happened. She 
said that she had already gone through the narrowest part of the road where only one car 
could fit, she was as far across as she could be where the road widened and the car coming 
in the opposite direction was going too fast and failed to take into account the narrow road to 
slow down and allow both cars to pass. Miss P said there is no such thing as their side of 
the road at the location. 
From the submissions I can see One Insurance then tried a number of times to obtain a 
completed claim form from Miss P. One Insurance suggested to Miss P that they had tried 
several times to contact her, but Miss P disagreed. And Miss P didnt feel she needed to 
provide the claim form or anything further as she was not making a claim and had already 
told One Insurance what had happened. Its clear that communications between Miss P and 
One Insurance were not easy at this time. 
On 30 October 2018 the third party insurer let One Insurance know they were still waiting on 
information from the third party. One Insurance explained liability was still being reviewed by 
them. And there was some suggestion the matter may end up as split liability. One 
Insurance asked Miss P again for the claim form on 13 November 2018. 
On 22 November 2018 One Insurances claims notes suggest the third partys claim form is 
received and records that the third party insurer is offering 50/50 liability due to limited 
evidence and there being no markings on the road about who has right of way.
 
On 24 November 2018 One Insurance let Miss P know they had resent submissions to the 
third party and were awaiting their response about liability. It doesnt seem One Insurance let 
Miss P know about the third partys 50/50 offer, but they did ask Miss P again to complete 
the claim form to assist them. 
On 10 December 2018 One Insurances notes say the third partys claim form had been 
received, but not scanned to the file. And Miss P was chased again for a claim form. She 
was asked for this again on 13 December 2018 via another email. The notes continue on 14 
December 2018 to say Miss P has said if shes contacted again for a claim form shell raise 
a complaint. 
It is on 31 December 2018 that One Insurance decided to submit a 50/50 offer. One 
Insurance notes there is no evidence to prove either version of events. The 50/50 offer is 
accepted by the third party insurer. On 3 January 2019 One Insurance let Miss P know what 
was agreed and confirmed the claim would appear as a fault claim on relevant databases, 
but would reflect the claim as settled 50/50 (accepted on a without prejudice basis). 
Following this Miss P raised her complaint. 
Our investigator looked into things for Miss P and concluded One Insurance had been 
reasonable in how theyd reached the decision about the claim. However, our investigator 
felt One Insurances claims handling had been poor and said they should pay Miss P £50 to 
recognise this. 
Miss P didnt wish to pursue things further and was happy to settle for £50 in order to resolve 
the matter. However, One Insurance didnt accept they had done anything wrong and didnt 
agree to pay the £50. So the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. That is, in the circumstances, I dont think how One Insurance reached a decision 
to settle the complaint in question on the basis of 50/50 split liability was unreasonable. But 
overall I do think One Insurance could have better handled some parts of the claim. 
I am mindful of all the submissions Miss P has made in respect of who should prove their 
version of events. So I must first make clear that it is not for this service to decide which 
party is liable for the incident. That would be better suited to a court. I can only look at 
whether the way in which One Insurance has handled the claim and reached their decision 
has been fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. 
 
The policy terms explain that if theres any involvement in an accident, that the policyholder 
should let the insurer know as soon as possible. I understand there was no damage to Miss 
Ps car and Im very aware Miss P has maintained throughout that she was not making a 
claim against the policy. I can therefore see why she didnt immediately contact the insurer 
given she wasnt aware of the third partys intention to claim until she was contacted by One 
Insurance. But I am mindful that Miss P accepts there was contact between the two cars and that an incident occurred, so it would have been prudent for her to have contacted One 
Insurance. 
One Insurance settled the claim on a 50/50 basis as there was not enough evidence to 
support one partys version of events more than the other. 
The policy terms set out that One Insurance is able to have total control to conduct, defend 
and settle any claim. It therefore wasnt unreasonable for One Insurance to agree the claim 
on a 50/50 basis without needing to notify Miss P of their decision  although it would have 
been good practice for them to keep Miss P informed. 
Ive also noted One Insurance chose not to seek legal advice in this case given the costs 
involved were less than £1,000. I dont think this was an unreasonable decision to make in 
the circumstances. 
Miss P says One Insurance didnt complete a proper investigation. Amongst other things 
shes said they were looking at the wrong road when considering the incident, they hadnt 
taken into account the speed of the other car and the claimed damage to the third party 
vehicle didnt seem to corroborate what she had been told. 
Ive therefore looked at what happened when One Insurance investigated the claim. 
One Insurance told us they dont have a copy of the third partys claim form - which seems to 
contradict the notes Ive referred to above that the form had been received and was waiting 
to be added to their system. One Insurance also confirmed to our service the exact location 
of the incident, which doesnt appear to match Miss Ps description of where the incident 
happened. It also seems One Insurance may have made the decision without some of the 
information about the damage to the third partys car being made available. And having 
looked through the file it seems the damage to the third partys vehicle seems inconsistent 
with what Miss P had been told by One Insurance. One Insurance also has no record of a 
call with Miss P on 24 August 2018 which Miss P is confident took place. 
When asked, One Insurance told us that as Miss Ps version of what happened matched the 
third partys they didnt dig much deeper into what had happened. But taking all of the above 
into account I dont think that was fair. I think clearing up any confusion would have helped 
reassure Miss P in terms of how One Insurance was looking at the claim. 
That said, its difficult to say the decision to decide liability on a 50/50 basis was 
unreasonable in the circumstances. Its accepted there was an incident on a narrow road 
without any witnesses or other footage to show exactly what happened - neither party 
disputes there was contact between the two vehicles. There was therefore always likely to 
have been a split given both sides appear to have blamed each other. I would add that 
however a split was then agreed or how much the claim was for, the claim would still be 
recorded in the same way on the relevant databases. 
Throughout the claim its clear Miss P was frustrated with One Insurances communications. 
The request to fill out a claim form particularly bothered Miss P. While I understand Miss Ps 
frustrations in filling out a form when she wasnt claiming any damage, the form is there to 
help One Insurances assessment of what happened. And the form included an option to tick 
a box if the policyholder didnt wish to claim for damage to their own vehicle. I dont think it 
was unreasonable for One Insurance to ask for this, or for Miss P to have engaged with this 
request. But Im also mindful Miss P had given a detailed account of what happened on 19 
September 2018 by email and it seems early on during a phone call. Miss P had also 
confirmed several times in her communications with One Insurance that she was not making 
a claim for any damage. 
I think at times One Insurance could have handled things better for Miss P so that she would 
have had greater confidence in what they were doing on her behalf. Keeping her informed 
about the decision to settle 50/50 would have been good customer service. And I think this 
would have removed some of the stress this matter caused Miss P. So I think they should 
pay Miss P £50 as our investigator has suggested. But I think One Insurance acted 
reasonably in how they chose to settle the claim. Miss P should note that the claim has been 
settled without prejudice so she can still explore going to court if she wishes.
Putting things right
One Insurance Limited should pay Miss P £50. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold Miss Ps complaint in part and One Insurance Limited 
should pay Miss P £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman