DRN-1841179
The complaint
Mr W complains that, in 2007, Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a package bank account 
(PBA).
What happened
Mr W opened a Silver account with Lloyds in 2007. The account cost £7.95 each month, 
and came with certain benefits, including European travel insurance, AA vehicle breakdown 
cover, mobile phone insurance and Sentinel card protection.
Mr W said no one at Lloyds checked the PBA was suitable for him; that he was not properly 
informed about the details of the PBA, including its costs; and he was told fee-free bank 
accounts were no longer available in the UK.
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and said they thought the complaint shouldnt 
be upheld. Mr W didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive 
kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr W says he was lied to by a bank clerk, who told him fee-free banking was no longer 
available in the UK. I acknowledge what he is saying, but it wouldnt be fair for me to 
conclude this happened as he remembers it, unless there was reasonable supporting 
evidence of it. Where someone has said another person or organisation has done something 
wrong, fairness requires there to be evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be 
fair to make someone prove they didnt do something wrong, especially when it was several 
years ago. And this was about 13 years ago, and its quite likely that memories, about 
exactly what happened, have faded.
So, I dont have strong evidence to say the PBA was mis-sold in this way. 
Lloyds recommended the PBA to Mr W, so it had to make sure it fitted his circumstances. I 
think it did, in that it had features that would have been potentially useful. It offered mobile 
phone protection, and Mr W has said he did have a mobile phone. And it had European 
travel insurance, and Mr W says he travelled in Europe; and it doesnt look like the main 
restrictions in the policy would have applied to him. So these features, by themselves, would 
have made a recommendation appropriate. And, although Mr W says he didnt have a car in 
2007, the AA breakdown insurance could still potentially have been useful, as you could use 
it even if you were just a passenger in someone elses car. 
Mr W says he wasnt given enough information about the PBA, including not being told he 
had to register to get his phone covered. I cant be sure what information was given, 
although Ive seen a copy of Lloyds Welcome Pack that was in use at the time. And this 
does suggest that Lloyds gave good information, at least soon after the sale. And I dont 
have strong supporting evidence that it didnt supply similar information at the time of the 
sale. 
Overall, I dont think the PBA was mis-sold.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman