DRN-1724020
The complaint
Miss A has complained that Santander UK Plc wont send her debit card to her because of 
where she lives. Shes also unhappy that it took the bank so long to tell her they wouldnt 
send the card. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint on 18 March 2020. The background to 
the complaint is set out more fully in that provisional decision and summarised below.
Miss A held a current and savings account at Santander which she opened when she was a 
student in the UK. She moved back to her country of residence in 2017. Miss As debit card 
was due to expire in June 2019. She emailed Santander on 7 April 2019  she wanted to 
arrange how her new debit card would reach her given her credit card hadnt.
Over the next three months, Miss A repeatedly contacted Santander, by email and by post, 
to try to make sure shed receive her debit card. She also subscribed for a PO Box at her 
place of work so that Santander could send her new card there. After three months, 
Santander told Miss A that they wouldnt send her card to a PO Box. When she complained 
about this, Santander said they couldnt send a debit card to her country of residence at all.
Miss A was unhappy with Santanders reply and brought her complaint to us. She said she 
had money in her current and savings account which she couldnt use without a card. She is 
unhappy that Santander wont send her card to a PO Box and that they took three months to 
tell her they wouldnt send it to her country of residence at all. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint and didnt uphold it. Miss A wasnt happy with our 
investigators view and wanted an ombudsman to look at it. 
When Santander were informed the case was being passed to an ombudsman, they sent 
some additional information  they said Miss A was no longer eligible for her student account 
and should have closed her account when she left the UK in 2017 in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. They also said they first became aware that Miss A was no longer 
living in the UK on 7 April 2019.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After considering all the evidence I issued a provisional decision on 18 March 2020. In my 
provisional decision, I said as follows:
I agree with our investigator that Santander has done nothing wrong in deciding not to send 
cards to Miss As country of residence. The business is allowed to set and follow its own 
policies and procedures as long as they are not unfair or unreasonable. Santanders policy 
of not sending cards to Miss As country of residence is there to protect the business and its 
customers from the risk of fraud and financial crime so I dont think the policy is unfair or unreasonable. But I think there is a further issue here, which is how long it took Santander to 
tell Miss A it wouldnt send her a card. 
I can see Miss A has gone to a lot of effort to try to get her debit card sent to her she 
contacted Santander over two months before her old debit card was due to expire. She did 
this because she thought the post to her home wasnt very reliable and wanted to make sure 
the debit card reached her. It seems she used the debit card regularly for purchases. 
Its clear Miss A was trying to find a solution - she emailed Santander to ask whether they 
could send it to a postbox number at her workplace. She says she did this before setting up 
the PO Box. The banks response was to direct her to a change of address form. I can 
understand why Miss A thought this meant they would be able to send the card to her PO 
Box address and went ahead and set up the PO Box.    
Im not sure why Santander sent Miss A a letter to tell her a PO Box wasnt allowed  all their 
correspondence before that had been by email and Miss A had told Santander she wasnt 
sure about the post to her home address overseas. Miss A didnt get the letter and I can 
imagine she was very frustrated when she got an email over a month later telling her that a 
PO Box wasnt allowed. It seems the bank was still trying to sort out her address issues 
during early July when there was some confusion about residential and correspondence 
addresses. They only told her on 18 July that they wouldnt send cards to Miss As country of 
residence  after she had complained to Santander.
I think it was clear to Santander from the start that Miss A was asking for her card to be sent 
to her country of residence. So I think Santander should have been clear in their reply to 
Miss As email on 7 April 2019 that they couldnt send it there. Instead, she spent three 
months and a lot of effort trying to sort out a new card, even subscribing for a PO Box that 
she wouldnt have got if the bank had been clear. On top of that, when her existing card 
expired in June she could no longer access her money in the way she used to and without 
incurring fees. I think Santander should pay £100 to Miss A to compensate her for the upset 
and effort (including subscribing for a PO Box) that could have easily been avoided.
In making this decision I have also considered Santanders statement that Miss A should 
have closed her account when she finished her studies and left the UK in 2017. I can see 
this is in line with Santanders terms and conditions. But the problems Miss A experienced 
were not in her ability to use her account  instead they were due to the fact that Santander 
wasnt giving her the right information. The fact that the account should have been closed 
doesnt change that  so it doesnt impact my proposed award.
So, subject to any further representations from Miss A or Santander, my provisional decision 
was that I was minded to uphold the complaint. 
In response to my provisional decision, Santander said they were willing to settle the case in 
line with my suggestion. They also said they would need to continue with closing Miss As 
account.
In Miss As response, she said shes surprised Santander are now raising an issue about her 
having a student bank account. She said she had asked Santander to transfer all her money 
to an overseas account just before she left the UK but that they werent able to do it at the 
time. She says she tried to go to two separate branches to sort this out but they said it might 
take weeks  which she didnt have. So, she said she withdrew half the money at the time 
and took it with her in cash. She said the branch staff assured her at the time that her 
account would remain active and everything would be fine, even though she would be 
outside the UK. Miss A said her whole experience with Santander has been difficult.Putting things right
In my provisional decision, I suggested that Santander should pay £100 to Miss A to 
compensate her for the upset caused by the lack of clarity in their correspondence. I also 
suggested that Santander UK Plc should assist Miss A with closing her accounts and 
transferring her money.
I note Miss As comments  I can see shes frustrated with Santander. But I think she is 
willing to close her account as long as she will be able to access her money.
So my final decision is unchanged from my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that Santander UK Plc should pay £100 
to Miss A to compensate her for the upset caused by the lack of clarity in their 
correspondence. I also suggest that Santander UK Plc should assist Miss A with closing her 
accounts and transferring her money.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Clare King
Ombudsman