DRN-3561296
The complaint
Mr T complains that Sainsbury's Bank Plc rejected his claim under section 75 Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in respect of a timeshare purchase.
What happened
In February 2018 Mr T and his wife purchased a timeshare while on holiday. A deposit was 
paid with Mrs Ts credit card and the remaining balance of £6,473.47 was paid by Mr T with 
his Sainsburys credit card.
Shortly afterwards Mr T says they were unhappy with the purchase and he contacted 
Sainsburys. He listed a number of concerns and said that they had been pressurised into 
making the purchase and had been misled. It wrote to him in May 2018 asking for further 
information. The bank made a chargeback but this was rejected by the merchant. It told the 
bank that Mr T was made aware he was buying a timeshare product and that the 
cancellation period was five days. It said the contract explained that no accommodation 
could be booked until 2019. 
Sainsburys Bank has told this service that it wrote to Mr T on 9 August 2018 with its 
decision to decline the claim. When Mr T first made his claim Sainsburys credited his 
account with the disputed sum. However, it didnt recredit it when the claim was declined. Mr 
T closed his credit card around October 2018, but the bank notified him in August 2019 that 
he had to pay the disputed sum. 
Mr T complained and Sainsburys offered him £150 compensation for its handling of the 
matter, but it did not consider the claim could be upheld. Mr T brought his complaint to this 
service where it was considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be 
upheld. However, he considered the compensation should be increased to £300. He 
believed that the delay in notifying Mr T of the recrediting of the account caused significant 
distress.  
Mr T didnt agree and said that Sainsburys should have questioned the large purchase. He 
said they had been duped by the timeshare seller.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are three issues I must consider, the chargeback, the section 75 claim and the 
handling of the re-crediting of Mr Ts account. 
It may assist if a begin by explaining very briefly how chargebacks work. Chargeback is a 
process that is provided by the Card Scheme - in this case MasterCard. It allows customers 
to ask for a transaction to be reversed if there's a problem with the goods or services they've 
paid for. There's no automatic right to a chargeback.  Nor is chargeback a guaranteed 
method of getting a refund. MasterCard checks the nature of the problem against the 
possible chargeback reasons to see whether the claim will be successful. If the bank feels 
that a claim won't be successful, they don't have to raise a chargeback.
The bank raised a chargeback, but this was rejected and I do not consider it could have 
done anything more to persuade the merchants bank to agree to it. It was not in Sainsburys 
power to require the merchants bank to refund the money. 
A second option was a refund under section 75 CCA. This offers protection to customers 
who use certain types of credit to make purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 
the consumer has an equal right to claim against the provider of the credit or the retailer 
providing the goods or services, if there has been a misrepresentation or breach of contract 
on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
The is no dispute that the chain is intact and so I have to consider if there has been a breach 
of contract or misrepresentation. 
A misrepresentation is when a false statement of fact has been made and that false 
statement of fact induced a consumer to purchase the goods or services. In order to find a 
misrepresentation has occurred, there must be proof that a false statement of fact has been 
made and it needs to be decided that that false statement induced the consumer to enter 
into the agreement.
I have read Mr Ts testimony about the events which led to him making the purchase. It is 
quite possible that high pressure tactics were used, but I have to be clear that there was 
misrepresentation or a breach of contract. Mr T made his claim in 2018 and at that time the 
agreement he signed stated that no accommodation could be booked until 2019 so I fear he 
may have been a little premature in making his claim on those grounds.
As regards the other issues he has said caused him to make the claim I do not have 
sufficient evidence to allow me to require the bank to make a substantial payment to him. 
The product may not be suitable for him and he may well have been presented with a rosy 
and glowing perspective by the sales representative, but that does not of itself amount to 
misrepresentation. I am not aware of any documentary material which shows there was 
either misrepresentation or breach of contract. 
I note that Mr T thinks Sainsburys should have done something at the time he made the 
purchase, but it was not obliged to so and the onus is on customers to ensure they wish to 
make the payment. Once it is made the bank cannot simply stop it.
However, I agree with out investigator that the bank didnt handle the re-crediting of the 
account as well as it could. It delayed doing so and gave Mr T an expectation that he would 
not have to pay. That will have caused him distress and inconvenience and I consider 
compensation of £300 is merited.
Putting things right
The bank should increase the compensation to £300.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, but only to the extent that I direct 
Sainsbury's Bank Plc to pay £300 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman