DRN-4052355
The complaint
Mrs R complains about the interest rate on her loan with Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as 
Virgin Money.
What happened
In 2022, Mrs R decided to take out a loan. She already banked with Virgin Money and says 
the rate it was offering on its website at the time was reasonably competitive at 2.9%. She 
was happy with the proposed monthly repayment at this rate. So, she decided to apply for 
the loan.
The only way of applying was online and Mrs R had lots of problems with the process. She 
had to start several new applications and make repeated calls to Virgin Money, spending 
long periods of time on the phone. She says that, eventually, Virgin Money explained that 
there was a technical problem with its system which meant it wouldnt accept her address 
due to the type of property she lived in. Mrs R told the agent that she was about to move to a 
new address and says she was told to use that address on the application. She did so and 
the application proceeded to the next stage. 
Mrs R says that Virgin Money then contacted her and told her that, because she had used 
her new address, the interest rate had increased and the monthly repayments would be 
almost £200 more than she was expecting. She says Virgin Money told her that, according 
to its system, she had moved three times in one year. Mrs R says she had moved once in 
the last twelve months, having been at her previous address for many years. She explained 
the situation to Virgin Moneys agent but was told there was nothing they could do.
Mrs R was very distressed by the increased interest rate. She went ahead with the loan but 
felt she had no choice by that stage as she needed the money quickly. She says she has 
been penalised for using her new address, even though Virgin Money told her to do so. Her 
personal circumstances at the time were very stressful, and she says the application process 
added to that. She says it took much longer than it should have done because of the 
problems with Virgin Moneys system. She made a complaint. 
When Virgin Money responded, it said that there had been various technical problems with 
its loan application system, which had stopped customers progressing past the stage of 
uploading documents. It acknowledged that Mrs R had called multiple times to try and 
resolve this issue. And that shed spent longer than necessary on the phone because of a 
busy period with its telephone service. It agreed this was frustrating. Virgin Money accepted 
that the service hadnt been good enough and apologised. It said the interest rate couldnt be 
changed. But it made a goodwill gesture to acknowledge the distress this caused Mrs R.
Virgin Money paid Mrs R £200 in total as an apology for the poor experience she had. It says 
£150 of this was for distress and inconvenience and £50 was the goodwill gesture in respect 
of the interest rate.
Mrs R wasnt happy with Virgin Moneys response and brought the complaint to this service. 
She says Virgin Money told her to use her new address because of the problems with its 
system, but this led to her paying a much higher rate of interest. She says shes struggling to 
make the monthly payments and cant afford to heat her house as a result. She would like 
Virgin Money to change the interest rate to 2.9% and refund the interest she has paid over 
and above this rate. 
Our Investigator didnt think Virgin Money had acted unfairly in relation to the interest rate. 
And they thought it had done enough to put things right in relation to the service issues. But 
Mrs R didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked carefully at all the information provided by the parties and listened to Mrs Rs 
calls with Virgin Money. Mrs R feels strongly about the complaint and I sympathise with her 
situation. But Im afraid Im not going to uphold the complaint because I dont think Virgin 
Money did anything wrong in relation to the interest rate. Ill explain why.
Im satisfied that the rate of 2.9% (which Mrs R was shown before she applied for the loan) 
was a representative rate. I think Virgin Money made this clear. Its website says that the 
rates shown are representative and confirms that all loans are subject to status. It says that 
the interest rate it offers customers is based on their loan requirements and individual 
circumstances. And it sets out the minimum and maximum rate which Virgin Money offers. I 
find that this information is clearly displayed on the website and Mrs R confirmed on one of 
the calls that she was aware of it. 
So, when Mrs R applied for the loan, there was no guarantee that she would be offered it at 
the representative rate. She says that the higher rates are for people who have bad credit, 
which she doesnt. But there are numerous factors which can affect a businesss lending 
decision, not just their credit rating. Its for Virgin Money to decide who it lends to and on 
what basis. Here, Im satisfied that the rate it offered Mrs R was within the range stated on 
its website. I havent seen anything which makes me think it acted unfairly or unreasonably 
in relation to the rate it offered Mrs R.
But Mrs R says that the reason she was offered the higher rate was because shed used her 
new address on the application. She says thats unfair because Virgin Money told her to use 
that address, due to the problems with its system. Having listened to the calls, Im satisfied 
that there was a problem with Virgin Moneys system which meant it didnt accept the 
address Mrs R was living in at the time. 
When the agent told her this, Mrs R suggested using the new address and explained she 
would be moving there soon. But the agent said they would have to use the address where 
Mrs R was currently living and suggested that she try progressing the application on that 
basis. Mrs R entered the address information and attempted to progress the application 
while still on the phone to the agent. But the system wouldnt let her continue and said she 
had to give Virgin Money a call to add or change the information. 
The agent said they would need to do the application for Mrs R over the phone. They said 
they would need to send an authentication code to her in the post, which would take a 
couple of working days, and then Mrs R would have to call back with the code. Mrs R didnt 
want to do that as she needed the money straight away and didnt want to wait. The agent 
said in that case the only thing they could do was change Mrs Rs address on the system to 
her new address. Mrs R asked if she would be able to carry on with the application online if they did that and they agent said yes. Mrs R said she was happy to change her address to 
the new one, so that is what happened and the application proceeded on that basis.
So, I find that the application could have proceeded using Mrs Rs old address, but it needed 
to be done over the phone with an agent, once Mrs R had received an authorisation code. 
Mrs R didnt want to wait for the code, so she decided to use her new address and continue 
with the application online. I can understand why Mrs R didnt want to wait for the code, 
given the problems shed already had and the time shed already spent on the application. 
But the urgency of the situation was to do with her personal circumstances and wasnt Virgin 
Moneys fault. Mrs R had already suggested using her new address, so the agent offered 
this as a solution when Mrs R said she couldnt wait and needed the money now. I think it 
was reasonable for the agent to offer this in the circumstances.
But Mrs R says this led to a higher interest rate on the loan. Virgin Money says the interest 
rate offered to customers is based on the information they provide and their application is 
scored on the basis of that information. It says that, as Mrs R used her new address, the 
loan was assessed and offered on that basis. I think its reasonable that the application was 
assessed on the basis of the address used. That may have played a part in the outcome of 
the application. But I cant conclude that it was the cause of the higher interest rate.
When Virgin Money called Mrs R about the rate, the agent said it could be because she had 
recently moved address. They said the system looks at how many addresses the customer 
has lived at in the last five years. But they said they werent certain this was the reason as 
the rate can be affected by many different things. The agent gave the following examples of 
factors which can affect the interest rate: how long someone has lived at their address, 
whether theyre a homeowner, their employment status, their income and outgoings, how 
much theyre borrowing over what term and the amount being borrowed compared to their 
annual income. They commented that the amount Mrs R was borrowing was close to her 
annual income. Virgin Money has also confirmed since that the amount Mrs R wanted to 
borrow was above the standard maximum amount and that she had a limited borrowing 
history. I think there couldve been several factors which led to Virgin Money offering a rate 
that was higher than the representative rate. I know Mrs R feels strongly about this but, from 
the evidence available to me, I cant conclude that the address is what caused this.
Mrs R accepted the loan at the rate offered. She says that, by the time the application was 
complete, she was in a desperate situation and felt she had no choice but to accept. Its 
clear that she wasnt happy with the offer and she told the agent this. They said she could 
see if another bank would offer her a better rate. But Mrs R said that would take too long and 
shed already been waiting for weeks. I understand that Mrs R felt she didnt have the option 
of starting a new application elsewhere. But I dont think thats Virgin Moneys fault. It was 
Mrs Rs circumstances which meant she needed the money urgently. She had been having 
problems with the application for around two weeks. That was due to problems with Virgin 
Moneys system. But I think its fair to say that, during that time, she could have applied to 
another provider and may have received a loan offer more quickly. But, even if her Virgin 
Money application had progressed more quickly and there hadnt been problems with the 
address, I cant safely conclude that the rate offered would have been different.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs R, but I dont think Virgin Money acted unfairly or unreasonably. It 
says it cant amend the interest rate, but it made a goodwill gesture to acknowledge the 
distress this caused Mrs R. It also paid some compensation for her poor experience during 
the application process. I think thats reasonable, so Im not going to ask it to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman