DRN-3897669
The complaint
Ms K complains that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) recorded a default on her credit file 
despite her maintaining repayments under an agreed payment plan.
Ms K is assisted in bringing her complaint by a relative. For simplicity, Ill refer to all 
comments as having been made by Ms K.   
What happened
In or around June 2017, Ms K applied to Ikano for a loan of £14,000. Ikano assessed her 
application and agreed to provide the loan with monthly repayments of £346.55 over a term 
of 48 months.
Ms K maintained her repayments until around April 2020 when she contacted Ikano. She 
said her income had been adversely impacted by the effects of the global pandemic. Ikano 
agreed to defer Ms Ks loan repayments for May, June and July 2020. Ikano agreed a further 
payment deferral for the months of August, September and October 2020. 
Ikano wrote to Ms K in October 2020 to remind her that the deferral was due to end and 
normal repayments would resume in November 2020. Ms K was concerned as her financial 
situation hadnt yet improved. So, she contacted Ikano and asked if theyd agree to reduce 
her monthly repayments to £100. Ikano agreed to Ms Ks request and confirmed this in a 
letter to her.
Ms K paid the reduced repayments each month as agreed. But in March 2021, she received 
a letter from Ikano informing her a default had been recorded on her credit file. Ms K didnt 
think this was right. Shed kept to their new agreement and never missed a payment. Ms K 
decided to call Ikano but wasnt able to get a satisfactory explanation. So, she raised a 
complaint with them. She said shed repay the loan in full if Ikano removed the default theyd 
recorded.
Ikano responded to Ms Ks complaint in a letter in June 2021. They said theyd issued a 
non-demanding default meaning she wouldnt have to immediately repay the arrears. They 
said theyd agreed a long-term plan and she wouldnt incur any fees or credit adverse other 
than the defaultdetailedin the letter. Ikano said their letter confirming the plan had said 
a default would be issued once the agreement falls three payments behind its schedule. 
They didnt agree theyd done anything wrong. 
Unhappy with Ikanos response, Ms K referred her complaint to this service. While our 
investigator considered Ms Ks complaint, Ikano accepted they hadnt necessarily followed 
the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Tailored Support Guidance (TSG) and shouldve 
contacted Ms K before the end of December 2020. Ikano offered compensation of £50 to 
reflect this but didnt think their mistake had a material impact upon what happened.
Our investigator didnt think Ikano had acted unfairly. They thought Ikano had complied with 
the requirements of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA Act) by writing to Ms K in 
advance of issuing a default notice and recorded that on her credit file. Our investigator also 
thought Ikanos offer of £50 fairly reflected their failure to contact Ms K in December 2020 as 
part of the FCAs TSG.
Ms K didnt agree with our investigators findings. So, her complaint has been passed to me 
to consider further. In doing so, I reached a different outcome to that of our investigator. 
Because of that, I issued a provisional decision on 22 November 2022  giving both Ms K 
and Ikano the opportunity to respond to my findings below, before I reached a final decision.
Ms K has pointed out that she maintained all her contractual repayments up until 
April 2020 when she requested a payment deferral. The information available 
confirms this is the case. So, up to that point, there were no arrears and Ikano had no 
reason to issue a default on her loan.
The payment deferrals agreed by Ikano in April and July 2020 were provided under 
the FCAs guidance issued to lenders in April 2020. The FCAs guidance explained 
what they expected from businesses during the exceptional circumstances arising 
out of the global pandemic. 
The FCA asked businesses to consider payment deferrals of up to three months 
under regulated credit agreements where consumers were already experiencing or 
reasonably expected to experience temporary payment difficulties as a result of the 
pandemic. Further guidance was issued by the FCA in July 2020 extending these 
measures where consumers were still struggling due to the global pandemic. 
Businesses were advised to freeze or reduce their payments for a further three 
months. The FCA also said that firms should ensure that there is no negative impact 
on the consumers credit file because of the payment deferrals. Ikano appear to 
have met all of the FCAs guidance here.
In September 2020, the FCA announced that the support scheme would change from 
the end of October 2020. From then, firms could continue to support customers in 
difficulty. But it was down to their discretion and customers circumstances. Reporting 
to credit reference agencies was reintroduced for people that had already had the 
maximum payment deferrals.
In Ms Ks case, once the payment deferrals had ended, she asked Ikano to consider 
a reduced payment plan offering £100 each month, which Ikano accepted. The FCA 
issued their TSG to business from October 2020 and updated it in November 2020. It 
said, Where a borrower offers an amount without being prompted, then this can be 
accepted without an Income and Expenditure assessment, but the firm should check 
this is still suitable after 60 days. Ikano have agreed they didnt do that here and 
have offered compensation of £50 to reflect their failure.
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) published Principles for the Reporting 
of Arrears, arrangements and Defaults (PRAAD) at credit reference agencies in 
2014. Principal 3 says, Should a temporary reduction in the payment amount be 
jointly agreed between you and your lender, this arrangement will be recorded at the 
CRAsDepending on the period and amount of the arrangement, arrears may 
continue to be reportedIt is important that you are made aware, when such an 
arrangement is made and maintained, that it will show on your credit file and that 
whilst arrears may accrue and increase a default will not be recorded.
Principle 4 says, If an arrangement is agreed a default would not normally be 
registered unless the terms of that arrangement are broken.
In responding to Ms Ks complaint, Ikano said, The notice of default isa non-
demanding default where you arent required to pay arrears in full by a certain date 
to avoid your account being sold to a specialist debt purchaser, you are instead on a 
Long-Term Plan which means your balance is frozen and you can pay as agreed 
until it is settled. During this plan, you wont incur and fees or credit adverse other 
than the default that was detailed in the letter you received.
Ive considered the letter Ikano sent to Ms K in November 2020 confirming the 
payment plan. It said, After 3 missed contractual payments, we will issue a Notice of 
Default. Ms K believed Ikanos agreement to reduce her repayments was a formal agreement and therefore contractual. I dont think Ikanos letter was sufficiently clear 
in explaining the implications of the payment plan agreed. Ms K interpreted Ikanos 
letter as meaning a Notice of Default would only be issued if she missed three of the 
new payments. And I can see why Ms K might think that.
Ive also listened to a recording of Ms Ks call to Ikano in October 2020 when the 
arrangement was agreed. Ikano said it would be recorded on Ms Ks credit file with 
the start date and repayment amount. They also said, Once the balance is cleared, it 
will show as a satisfied default.
I realise this is Ikanos process, and it isnt the role of this service to ask them to alter 
their policies and procedures or impose improvements on the level of service offered 
to their customers. These aspects fall firmly within the remit of the regulator  in this 
case, the FCA. But it is our role to examine and decide whether Ikano have been fair 
and reasonable in the manner in which those policies and procedures are applied in 
the individual circumstances of Ms Ks experience with them.
Ms K asked if she could reduce her repayments - Ikano agreed with little, if any, 
question. So, I think Ms K could reasonably believe that provided she maintained 
those repayments, a default notice wouldnt be issued or recorded on her credit file. 
This is supported by PRAAD which also suggests a default wouldnt ordinarily be 
recorded in these circumstances. 
Ms K has suggested that had she known a default would be recorded, family 
members would have assisted her in repaying the amount owed in full so as to avoid 
the default. Unfortunately, this is no longer an option for her. Furthermore, due to the 
dispute about the default, Ms K stopped making repayments in April 2021. While I 
appreciate why Ms K did that here, I dont agree that a dispute about the default 
gives cause to stop making the repayments. The default may be in dispute, but the 
debt isnt.
In summary, I dont think Ikano have acted fairly here. I dont think it was made 
sufficiently clear to Ms K that the repayment plan agreed would result in a default. 
And I also think this appears to contradict PRAAD. So, I intend to reflect this in my 
decision.
Putting things right
Ive thought carefully about what I think Ikano should do here. Ordinarily, I would ask 
them to remove the default and reinstate the agreed repayment plan, ensuring Ms 
Ks circumstances are regularly reviewed under the FCAs TSG. But as Ms K hasnt 
made any repayments since April 2021, this in itself could give cause for a default. 
Im also mindful that if the existing default is removed, any subsequent default would 
remain on Ms Ks credit file for six years from that point. If the existing default is 
removed, Ms K should understand that a subsequent failure to meet agreed 
repayments may lead to a new default being recorded from that point.
I think two options should be offered to Ms K. Either:
Ms K brings all payments shes missed under the repayment plan up to date 
at which point Ikano removes the default from her credit file. Ms K to then 
continue making payments under the repayment plan subject to reviews 
under the FCAs TSG; or
Ikano to arrange a new sustainably affordable repayment plan with Ms K 
subject to reviews under the FCAs TSG. Ikano to remove the default from 
Ms Ks credit file once the debt had been repaid in full, assuming no further 
default events.I also appreciate that Ms Ks experience will have undoubtedly caused her much 
distress and inconvenience. So, I intend to ask Ikano to pay compensation of £150 in 
addition to the £50 theyve already offered  i.e. a total of £200.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision, Ikano proposed a different resolution. They offered to 
recall Ms Ks account from the debt management company theyd since sold it to. They 
would then write off any remaining balance and remove the default from her credit file. They 
also undertook to report the account as settled from the date Ms K accepts the offer and my 
decision and also remove any adverse data reported on her credit file from March 2021 
onwards.
Ikanos revised offer was put to Ms K to consider. In response, Ms K accepted Ikanos offer 
to resolve her complaint. But she wanted Ikano to also remove any adverse information 
reported on her credit file prior to March 2021.
Ikanos offer appears substantially better than Id originally proposed. And, I believe, more 
than Ms K had originally asked for. For that reason, I believe this is a fair outcome to Ms Ks 
complaint. 
Accepting her comments about any adverse information reported prior to March 2021, I dont 
propose to ask Ikano to remove anything else recorded. The arrangement agreed was for 
less than the originally contracted repayment.  As I said in my provisional decision, PRAAD 
is clear when such an arrangement is made and maintained, that it will show on your credit 
file and that whilst arrears may accrue and increase a default will not be recorded.
For this reason, I dont believe it would be either fair or reasonable to insist Ikano remove 
any previous arrears resulting from the reduced payment plan.
As I believe Ikanos offer is fair here, I will uphold Ms Ks complaint and reflect their offer in 
my final decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Ms Ks complaint.
In line with their offer, I require Ikano Bank AB (publ) to:
recall Ms Ks account from the debt management company that purchased it; and
write off any remaining balance owed on the account; and
remove the default recorded on Ms Ks credit file; and
report the account as settled; and
remove any other adverse data reported on Ms Ks credit file from March 2021 
onwards.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman