DRN-2877477
The complaint
Miss B complains about how Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited handled a claim under 
her home insurance policy for an escape of water. 
Any reference to Admiral includes its agents.
  
What happened
Miss B took out a home insurance policy with Admiral. In August 2020, Miss B had an 
escape of water in her home, so she made a claim under her policy. Admiral accepted the 
claim at the end of August 2020 and agreed to carry out the repairs.
Around ten days after the claim was accepted, Miss B was moved into alternative 
accommodation. Shortly after this, Admiral began the drying process of the property which it 
said took around two weeks. As I understand it, a loss adjuster attended the property in 
October 2020 and the remedial works began in mid-November 2020.
Shortly after the works began, Admiral says it discovered further damage which delayed 
matters. Admiral also says it required access to a neighbouring property to continue the 
works, and this wasnt obtained until the end of November 2020.
Miss B was unhappy with how long matters were taking and that she hadnt been given a 
completion date for the works. She was also unhappy that she often had to ask for updates, 
and that Admiral didnt proactively tell her what was happening with the claim. 
As I understand it, there was also an issue with the alternative accommodation provided for 
Miss B. Initially, it wasnt provided until around ten days after Miss B logged the claim. There 
was also confusion about whether Miss B had washing facilities at her property, which led to 
her being told that the alternative accommodation would be cancelled. 
Whilst the matter was rectified before a cancellation happened, Miss B was unhappy that the 
issue occurred, given that shed made it clear at the outset that there were no washing 
facilities at her property. So, Miss B complained to Admiral.
Admiral reviewed matters and pointed out that there were some unforeseen works needed, 
as well as the required access to the neighbouring property, which contributed to the overall 
delays. But it agreed that matters had taken longer than necessary. It also acknowledged 
that Miss B had to often call for updates. And, it agreed that she shouldve been provided 
with alternative accommodation when the claim was first accepted.
Admiral offered Miss B a total of £350 compensation for the errors made, made up of £50 for 
a delay in responding to the complaint, £100 to recognise the time Miss B shouldve been in 
alternative accommodation, and £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Miss B 
didnt think this reflected the stress and anxiety the matter caused her. She was also still 
uncertain about when the works were due to end. So, she brought her complaint to our 
service.
One of our investigators reviewed matters and didnt think the compensation offered by 
Admiral was enough in the circumstances. He thought an additional £400 was a fair amount 
in light of the impact on Miss B.
Miss B didnt dispute our investigators findings, but Admiral did. It reiterated that some of the 
delays were caused by unforeseen works and didnt think the increase in compensation was 
warranted.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has come to me to decide. I reviewed the 
case and issued a provisional decision where I said I was intending to direct Admiral to pay 
Miss B an additional £200 compensation, making a total of £550. Admiral accepted my 
recommendation. Miss B responded to the provisional decision with some further points. She 
said the initial alternative accommodation provided was a bed and breakfast hotel with no 
laundry or cooking facilities. She said she had to go back to her property to cook, or spend 
more money buying food from the hotel. 
Miss B also said following the works to the property  which have since been completed  
she hasnt heard from Admiral, nor has she received any paperwork with an overview of the 
works. She said she tried to get this information on the phone but had the call terminated by 
one of Admirals advisers.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I havent changed the opinion I expressed in my provisional decision. Ive 
explained my reasoning below. But before I do so, I want to say that I have taken on board 
all of the additional comments Miss B raised in response to the provisional decision. 
Since Miss Bs complaint was brought to this service, matters have progressed in respect of 
the repairs to her property. And, as I understand it, Miss B was back in the property by 
January 2021, with the repairs to the property being completed in February 2021. The key 
element to this complaint, therefore, is what compensation Admiral should pay Miss B to 
reflect the distress and inconvenience it agreed it caused her during its handling of the claim.
Its not in dispute that there were delays in the handling of Miss Bs claim. Unfortunately, the 
nature of escape of water claims means that there is usually some degree of inconvenience 
caused, given that repairs can take several months to complete. Additionally, Admiral has 
said some of the delays were caused by circumstances outside of its control, such as the 
requirement to dry the property which it says took around two weeks. Admiral also found 
further damage during the works which needed attending to and it explained that there was a 
requirement to gain access through a neighbouring property, which wasnt obtained for some 
time. 
With this in mind, Im persuaded that some of the delays over the whole claim period werent 
Admirals fault. However, even considering this, Admiral itself has still acknowledged that 
there were between four and six weeks of delays and has apologised for these. I therefore 
need to consider the impact that these avoidable delays wouldve had on Miss B.
These delays meant that Miss B was out of her home for longer than was necessary. She 
has outlined the impact this had on her in detail, explaining that she had been working 
full-time whilst being out of her property. She said the matter caused her considerable 
anxiety and she has had trouble sleeping as a result. I was sorry to hear about how the matter affected Miss B. I can understand why these delays wouldve caused her distress, in 
addition to what is already a stressful situation, given the nature of the claim.
I understand there were several other customer service issues during Admirals handling of 
the claim. Amongst other things, Miss B often had to call to find out what was happening, 
because she hadnt been kept updated. Miss B also details times where she was promised 
contact from Admiral which didnt happen, and that correspondence she had sent was left 
unanswered. 
There were issues with the alternative accommodation, including that it took around ten days 
for this to be provided in the first instance. Additionally, it was almost cancelled which I can 
imagine wouldve caused further distress. I appreciate Admiral has awarded £10 per day to 
cover any additional costs Miss B incurred for the time she was without alternative 
accommodation. But I also need to take into account the stress this wouldve caused her, 
particularly as she says she was working full-time whilst living with no washing facilities.
Miss B has also explained that the initial accommodation provided was a bed and breakfast 
hotel for just over two weeks, which had no cooking or laundry facilities. She says she had to 
either go back to her property to cook, which was an inconvenience, or spend more money 
buying food from the hotel in the evenings. I think this wouldve added to the overall cost and 
the inconvenience caused to Miss B.
Overall, I think Admiral couldve handled things better. And, I dont think the combined total 
of £350 compensation is enough to reflect the impact of the matter on Miss B. However, I 
dont think the £750 compensation recommended by our investigator is quite right either, 
given that some of the delays were, in my opinion, outside of Admirals control.
I still think Admiral should pay Miss B a total of £550 compensation. Ive thought about what 
Miss B said in response to my provisional decision. But I still think that a total compensation 
figure is appropriate taking into account the overall impact on her as a result of what 
happened. And, Admiral should deduct any amount it has already paid Miss B in 
compensation from this overall figure. I understand Miss B will be disappointed that this is 
lower than what our investigator recommended, and Admiral may think this is more than 
should be offered. But this is the amount I think is fair in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Miss B has described further issues with Admiral following the completion of the works. 
However, this isnt something Im able to comment on because Admiral hasnt had the 
chance to investigate these complaint points first. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint, and direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to pay 
Miss B the £350 it initially offered, if it hasnt already done so, and an additional £200 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman