DRN-3595229
The complaint
Miss S complains that Bamboo Limited defaulted her loan account while she was on a 
payment plan.
What happened
Miss S took out a loan with Bamboo in January 2020. She made the initial payment in March 
2020 but then struggled to meet the following repayments due to COVID. She contacted 
Bamboo and explained her situation and over the following 6 months, received the full 
payment deferral allowance as set out by the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Following the payment deferrals, Miss S was still unable to meet her contractual monthly 
payments. She set up a reduced payment plan, but could not initially maintain it  so was 
sent a default notice by Bamboo. The plan was reinstated but despite this, the account 
eventually defaulted in July 2021 and was passed to a third party in September. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and agreed there was some confusion around the 
setting up of the repayment plan of £30 per month. But ultimately they felt that Bamboo had 
tried to be supportive to Miss S and had given her the full 6-month deferral period relating to 
COVID, and after that point set up a payment arrangement of £30 per month that was 
regularly reviewed. As Miss S was unable to return to her contractual payments, Bamboo 
eventually made the choice to default the account which they felt was reasonable. 
Miss S disagreed with this and said that she was not informed of the default that had been 
applied or that the loan was being passed to a third party. And she felt Bamboo had not 
helped her as other creditors had when she was facing financial difficulties. 
As an informal agreement could not be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Bamboo was correct to apply the default. Ill explain why in more 
detail.
Shortly after the inception of the loan, Miss S contacted Bamboo and explained that due to 
the pandemic, she was unable to meet her contractual monthly payments. As a result, 
Bamboo granted her a total of six months in payment deferrals. This meant that Miss S did 
not have to make any payments to her loan account during that time and this would not be 
reported on her credit file. However, interest and charges would continue to accrue on the 
account and the monthly payments that had been missed would need to be repaid within the 
original timeframe of the loan. Im satisfied that Miss S was eligible for the payment deferrals 
and that Bamboo applied them as I would have expected. And looking at Miss S credit file, I 
can see the missed payments were not reported. 
After that point, Miss S continued to be affected by the pandemic and was unable to meet 
her monthly contractual payments. I can see that following the payment deferral, Bamboo 
attempted to call Miss S on a number of occasions but could not get in touch with her. And 
they reported the missed payments on her credit file as I would expect. 
Miss S contacted Bamboo in January and explained she was struggling financially and 
offered to pay £30 per month towards the loan. Bamboo accepted this arrangement for three 
months. On balance, I think this was the right approach at that time. Miss S was struggling 
and by accepting a reduced payment plan for a set period of time, I think Bamboo were 
treating Miss S with forbearance and due consideration. I dont have a copy of the call 
recording, but I can see from the notes of the call that the default process was explained to 
Miss S as well as the impact this could have on her credit file. 
However, Miss S did not make the initial £30 payment in January 2021 and also missed the 
second payment in February. I dont have the correspondence confirming the details of the 
payment arrangement set up in January, but Miss S has provided an e-mail from Bamboo 
that was sent to her on 30 April 2021 which set out the details of a later payment 
arrangement that she had. I think its likely the arrangement in January 2021 had the same 
details and Bamboo has confirmed this. This states that if Miss S is unable to maintain the 
reduced arrangement and the plan isnt put back on track within 30 days, it will be cancelled 
and the normal arrears process will continue. And that if the arrears are outstanding for more 
than 180 days after the plan ends, a default will be registered and the account will be 
transferred to a third party debt collection agency. And from what I can see, this is what 
occurred on Miss S account. And this is what Bamboo confirmed in their final response 
letter. 
Bamboo sent Miss S a notice of default to her current address in February 2021, after she 
had failed to maintain the payment arrangement. Considering that the payment arrangement 
had not been maintained, I think this was a reasonable next step. As the arrears were not 
cleared, the account defaulted 180 days later, in July 2021. Miss S has complained that 
Bamboo continued to mark missed payments on her credit file even when she was paying 
the reduced £30 payment. But I think Bamboo made it clear in their April e-mail confirming 
the later arrangement that the reduced payment did not replace the contractual payment and 
that this would be reflected on her credit file. And I think its reasonable that they did so as 
Miss S was not paying the full contractual payment each month, so this information should 
be accessible to other possible creditors. 
I do think there was a miscommunication in March when Miss S called Bamboo to set up a 
new arrangement to pay. I dont have a copy of the call recording, so I cant know exactly 
what was said. But based on the notes I dont think it was clearly set out Miss S account 
would default if the arrears werent cleared due to the cancelled payment arrangement in 
January. And I note that the letter sent to Miss S in April confirming the new payment 
arrangement said the account would not default while payments were maintained. However, 
it didnt clearly set out that due to the previous cancelled payment arrangement in January, 
the account was due to default if the arrears were not cleared.
With this in mind, I do think Bamboo could have been clearer with Miss S that the account 
was due to default if the arrears were not cleared. So Ive considered what affect this has 
had on Miss S circumstances. 
In her communications with Bamboo, Miss S made it clear that her situation had not 
changed since the 6-month payment deferral and she continued to be unable to meet her contractual payments. And that the reduced payment arrangement was also placing a strain 
on her finances. Considering this, I think its unlikely that Miss S would have been able to 
clear the arrears before the end of July in order to avoid the account being defaulted. So I 
think that even if Bamboo had been clearer in its communication with Miss S, the account 
still would have defaulted at the same time.  
Because of this, I dont think Bamboo needs to remove the default or bring the loan account 
back in house from the third-party. 
Miss S says Bamboo has not helped her like her other creditors have. Shes mentioned that 
her credit card provider accepted reduced monthly payments which didnt affect her credit 
file. But Its important to note that a credit card and a loan are two different products with 
different contractual payments. And from what Ive seen, Bamboo has done everything I 
would have expected it to in order to support Miss S in the circumstances. And so for the 
reasons set out above, I think they applied the default correctly. 
Ive also considered Miss S comments that she was not informed by Bamboo that the 
default had been applied or that her loan had been passed to a third party. Bamboo has said 
that it provided the notice of default, and that this was sufficient notice a default would be 
applied if the arrears were not cleared. And on balance, I agree that the notice of default is 
enough in the circumstances to notify Miss S a default would be applied if the stated arrears 
were not repaid. I can see that Bamboo did also try to contact Miss S on a number of 
occasions during the run up to the default being applied, but was not able to reach her. This 
was via text, e-mail and telephone. So, while Bamboo could have also sent a letter, I think 
they did provide sufficient notice a default would be applied if steps werent taken to pay the 
arrears and that it was reasonable for them to pass the debt to a third party when they could 
not get in touch with Miss S.      
My final decision
I do not uphold Miss S complaint against Bamboo Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman