DRN-4147229
The complaint
Ms C complains that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) provided her with poor 
customer service when she tried to reset a forgotten password.
What happened
Ms C says she forgot her password which resulted in her being unable to access her NS&I 
account for almost two months. She says that during this time she phoned NS&I six times, 
wrote four times to their offices, completed two online forms and four paper forms. She says 
that some of the forms she was sent by NS&I were identical in nature, asking for the same 
information. In addition to this she was told on the phone on more than one occasion that 
she couldnt be verified, which gave her concern that she would be unable to access her 
savings. Ms C made a complaint to NS&I.
NS&I upheld Ms Cs complaint. They said they were disappointed to learn about her 
experience when trying to reset her password and the lack of clarity given when she called 
their helpline. They said in recognition of the stress and inconvenience they would send a 
payment of £100 to her current account. Ms C brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Ms Cs complaint. He said that NS&I were in the middle of 
the process of resetting her password, but during the call on 14 September 2022, the agent 
restarted the whole password reset process again causing a delay in Ms C being able to 
access her account online and this resulted in her having to repeat the process. But he said 
NS&I were correct in following their security process, when the address on file differed from 
the one provided over the phone from Ms C. But he thought the £100 compensation was fair 
for what happened. 
Ms C asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. During my investigations into Ms 
Cs complaint, NS&I offered Ms C an extra £30 compensation to resolve her complaint due 
to them not having an incorrect date of birth for Ms C, which they previously said they had. 
Ms C rejected the compensation. She said she wanted me to complete my investigations as 
the incorrect date of birth was an additional error, which she wasnt informed of, and this 
could be the root of the initial problem. She said that NS&I had lost her documents and they 
were not processed in accordance with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). 
She doesnt believe that £30 covers the time she spent in communication with NS&I over the 
two month period, the mishandling of her personal data and the anxiety involved in losing 
her savings. She also complained about missing and new Premium Bond numbers.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to explain to Ms C that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how to run 
their security processes or procedures such as when they should ask for a witness 
signature, or what forms they require to be completed to satisfy themselves that they are 
communicating with their genuine customer. It would be the role of the regulator  the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), who have the power to instruct NS&I to make changes to 
their policies and procedures, if necessary. 
Ms C has mentioned that NS&I lost her documents and therefore they were not processed in 
accordance with GDPR. She has also mentioned missing and new Premium Bond numbers. 
But as these issues were not complained about originally with NS&I, then Im unable to 
consider these new points. Ms C would need to make a separate complaint to NS&I directly 
about these issues if she wishes to do so.  
Ive considered the timeline of what happened here. But in doing so I need to be fair to both 
sides. There are occasions which Ill set out below where either Ms C or NS&I were 
responsible for delays. And there was also a crossover of post leading to confusion.
The Key features and customer agreement of the Premium Bonds, which both NS&I and Ms 
C would be bound by states You must tell us whenever you change your name, address, 
phone number, email address, or nominated account. You can update most of these details 
online or by contacting us using the details at the end of this agreement. But it does not 
appear that Ms C notified NS&I of her current address since they had a different address on 
their system. NS&I have confirmed to our service that had Ms C notified them of her change 
of address prior to 11 August 2022, then they would have been able to complete the process 
of resetting her password over the phone on this call. But they were unable to do this on this 
call (despite what Ms C says about what the complaint handler told her) as before starting 
this process they would complete basic user checks with the Ms C (including matching the 
address on file). So that is why they were unable to do so here.
Ive listened to the call which Ms C had with NS&I on 11 August 2022 when Ms C first makes 
NS&I aware that she forgot her password. She tells the call handler that she may have a 
different address before basic security details have been completed. And she cant provide 
the address that they have on file for her. So she was unable to complete the basic security 
here. Ms C tells NS&I that she will be going on holiday the following week, so if they send 
her anything she wouldnt be able to send it back for two weeks. Its possible the call handler 
could have done more to assist Ms C on this call. She could have explained that in certain 
circumstances they may need a witness signature form. NS&I say this doesnt need to be 
advised on a phone call as they would send a follow up to a form once they had made 
checks. But I do think explaining this process to Ms C could have managed her expectations 
better here. 
Ms C rang NS&I on 12 August 2022, but they were unable to verify her. As NS&I had 
mentioned on the call the day before, their back office staff would need to update the details, 
and it appears that this hadnt happened by the time Ms C rang them. But Im not persuaded 
that Ms C needed to call them here, when the call handler on 11 August had set out their 
process and informed her that they may be sending post out to her which she would need to 
complete and send back. 
There were also times were there was a crossover with the post. An example of this is when 
NS&I asked Ms C for a witness signature in a letter dated 12 August 2022. But NS&I say 
they received post from Ms C dated the day before this (11 August) which included a copy of 
her passport and her new and old address. NS&I say they didnt receive this until 16 August 
2022. So this is why they sent out another letter to her dated 17 August 2022, to request the 
witness signature again. So this explains why she was sent two letters about the witness 
signature. But I can understand Ms Cs point of view that it could appear NS&I had ignored 
post she sent them, even though Im not persuaded this was what happened here. 
NS&I received the witness signature on 7 September 2022, updated Ms Cs address and they sent the temporary password on 9 September 2022. Ive listened to a call Ms C had 
with NS&I on 14 September 2022. Listening to the call, it does not appear that Ms C had 
received the first temporary password yet. She tells the call handler she needs a temporary 
password (but not because she had received one which didnt work). And the call handler 
says she needs a password reset. He was unable to generate security questions for Ms C 
and he said he would send a form to her. But the call handler did not check the notes on her 
account, and he didnt realise that there was a temporary password on the way to Ms C 
already. So the actions that the call handler took on this call suspended the temporary 
password. And this is why the temporary password didnt work when she next received one.
NS&I were at fault for delaying matters on 15 September 2022. When they processed an 
online form that Ms C submitted online, they told her that they needed her date of birth and 
she needed to fill in a form. NS&I told our service this was because Ms C entered an 
incorrect date of birth on the form. So I asked NS&I to provide the evidence of the wrong 
date of birth being submitted. This is when NS&I realised they had made a mistake as they 
had her correct date of birth on the online form Ms C submitted. But because of this error, 
this delayed a new temporary password being sent out for Ms C and she was 
inconvenienced by having to fill in a form which was not required. This added a week onto 
the delays which was avoidable here. NS&I sent Ms C a temporary password on 22 
September 2022, and she received it on 25 September. Due to the previous problems Ms C 
had, she didnt try and use it until 3 October when she spoke to the complaint handler.
So although the issues lasted from 11 August-3 October 2022, I cant fairly say NS&I were 
solely responsible for this process lasting two months. The initial root of the problem was not 
because of an incorrect date of birth. It was because Ms C had not previously changed her 
address as she was required to do so, therefore this would always have taken time to 
resolve this issue first before the temporary password could be sent out. There would be 
other delays which were also outside of NS&Is control, such as if Ms C went on holiday 
during this timeframe which she told the first call handler she was going to. And Ms C didnt 
try the temporary password which she received on 25 September 2022, until 3 October 
2022. There would also be slight delays in the time it would take post to be sent out, 
received, sent back, and actioned. 
Ms C has commented on the time which she spent communicating with NS&I. Although I 
appreciate that Ms C was being very proactive in order to rectify the issue, unfortunately this 
unintentionally went against her on occasion. There were times where she did not need to 
take some of the actions that she did, for example ringing NS&I on 12 August when she had 
only just sent the forms the day before and had been told they would be sending post to her. 
Or if she had not received her temporary password by 14 September 2022, there was no 
need to make the calls she made on this date, which appears to have contributed to the 
temporary password which was in the post being suspended. 
But theres no doubt that NS&I have contributed to the delays also. In what shouldve been a 
smooth process - even if information including different forms are to be required by post, Im 
persuaded that they didnt manage Ms Cs expectations as well as they could have done 
from the first call. Their call handler did not check to see if there was a temporary password 
that had recently been sent to Ms C which meant his actions on the call suspended the 
temporary password on the way out to Ms C. And they also told her incorrect information 
about the date of birth which delayed the process by an extra week and inconvenienced Ms 
C by having to fill in a form which she didnt need to complete.
Ive considered what Ms C has said about the anxiety involved in losing her savings. But 
while Ms C feared she would lose her savings, Im not persuaded that she was in any 
danger at any point in time of this happening. On the call on 11 August, she was reassured 
by the call handler she was on their system and the call handler told her not to worry. On the call on 14 September, the call handler confirmed to her that her details were correct and up 
to date. So just because she was unable to see her savings online, this does not mean she 
would lose them.
So Ive considered what would be a fair outcome for this complaint. NS&I have offered a 
total of £130 compensation for their part in what happened. Ms C feels this isnt enough 
based on the time she spent communicating with NS&I. But compensation is a discretionary 
remedy that we sometimes award if we feel that a business has acted wrongfully and 
therefore caused distress and inconvenience to their customer over and above that which 
naturally flows from the event. When we recommend compensation, it is often modest and 
within our established guidelines. The total compensation of £130 is in line with what I would 
have awarded Ms C if NS&I did not uphold her complaint. So I intend to ask NS&I to pay Ms 
C £130 for distress and inconvenience, minus anything they have already paid her. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. NS&I accepted the provisional decision. Ms C did not accept the provisional 
decision. She made a number of points. In summary she said she was concerned that there 
was no honest admission in her call with the complaint handler regarding an error of her 
incorrect date of birth on her NS&I record as this was undoubtedly the root cause of their 
customer service being unable to identify her identity. She said this error was omitted by 
NS&I in their investigations as they insinuated the cause of the problem was through a 
change of address and resetting her password. She said NS&I had a legal duty to ensure 
her data is safe, accurate and handled in a way that ensures appropriate security. Ms C said 
she wants the focus to be on the improvement of NS&I customer services and in preference 
to financial compensation, she would like genuine evidence and assurance that regulatory 
measures are put in place, so this experience does not reoccur with other NS&I customers. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must be clear to Ms C about the scope of this service. Our service acts as an informal 
dispute resolution service for complaints about financial businesses. We look at the 
circumstances of individual complaints and, on a case by case basis, taking into account 
relevant industry guidance for example, make findings about whether a financial business 
has failed their customer. Where we find it has, we make awards designed to make the 
business put things right with the complainant customer. Our awards are not designed to 
punish a business or to make it change the way it acts in order to protect other customers in 
the future. That is the role of the regulator. So because of this, I wont be asking NS&I to 
undertake customer services training and to provide evidence of this to Ms C.
Ive considered what Ms C has said about the root cause being an incorrect date of birth 
held on NS&Is records for her. But I explained the root cause in my provisional decision: 
The initial root of the problem was not because of an incorrect date of birth. It was because 
Ms C had not previously changed her address as she was required to do so, therefore this 
would always have taken time to resolve this issue first before the temporary password could 
be sent out.
There is no evidence that NS&I held an incorrect date of birth for Ms C. NS&I provided me 
the forms Ms C completed and the passport and birth certificate she sent in. They also sent 
the online form that Ms C completed, and these all showed the same date of birth  her 
correct date of birth. They had previously told us there was an incorrect date of birth on an 
online form Ms C had submitted to them  not a incorrect date of birth on their system. So 
Im not persuaded that her date of birth was incorrect at any time or that they didnt follow the relevant rules for data protection regarding her date of birth. Instead there was a human 
error made by the NS&I employee who checked the details of the online form Ms C 
submitted to them. The form was processed on 15 September 2022  long after the call on 
11 August 2022. 
I explained in my provisional decision that NS&I told our service this was because Ms C 
entered an incorrect date of birth on the form. So I asked NS&I to provide the evidence of 
the wrong date of birth being submitted. This is when NS&I realised they had made a 
mistake as they had her correct date of birth on the online form Ms C submitted. But 
because of this error, this delayed a new temporary password being sent out for Ms C and 
she was inconvenienced by having to fill in a form which was not required. This added a 
week onto the delays which was avoidable here.
NS&I hadnt realised they made a human error. That is why this wasnt discussed as part of 
their investigations or on the call Ms C had with the complaint handler on 3 October 2022. 
The error only came to light when I asked them for evidence that Ms C had submitted an 
incorrect date of birth on the online form. This is when they realised she hadnt provided 
them with an incorrect date of birth on the online form, and this is when they admitted to the 
error and offered her extra compensation. 
So Im satisfied she was unable to be verified by the call handlers because of the issue with 
the incorrect address as demonstrated on the 11 August 2022 call as opposed to her date of 
birth being an issue. Ms C tells the call handler her date of birth of this call and the call 
handler says brilliant, thank you, she then goes on to say with us not having your current 
address on file, erm, you know, I wouldnt (inaudible) out by post. She then explains how Ms 
C can fill in the relevant forms online. So Im satisfied the initial issue was not to do with her 
date of birth and it was because of the incorrect address.
In summary, Ms Cs response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision. I know Ms C will be disappointed, but I hope 
she understands my reasons. 
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to uphold this complaint in part. I said I intend to ask 
National Savings and Investments to pay Ms C a total of £130 compensation (minus 
anything they have already paid her) for distress and inconvenience. Im still satisfied this is 
a fair outcome for the reasons given previously.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. National Savings and Investments should pay Ms C a total of 
£130 compensation (minus anything they have already paid her) for distress and 
inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman