DRN-2354060
The complaint
Mr M complains that the vehicle supplied to him through a hire agreement financed by Lex 
AutoLease Ltd was not of satisfactory quality. And that Lex AutoLease Ltd has applied unfair 
charges at the termination of the lease period. He wants the charges removed.
What happened
Mr M tells us that he acquired the vehicle on a hire agreement in 2015. He explains that the 
vehicle broke down in May 2019 having covered around 43,000 miles. He says that when he 
took the vehicle to be repaired, he was told the manufacturers warranty wouldnt be 
honoured as the vehicle hadnt been serviced in accordance with the requirements. He 
states that the service reminder light didnt illuminate and hed overlooked that the service 
was required. He said that hed received a reminder in relation to a previous service which 
he said had been carried out at 18,500 miles. Mr M states that he didnt use the vehicle 
since the end of May 2019. And that hes now been sent an invoice for more than £5,000 in 
charges.
Lex told us that in December 2015 Mr M had entered into a hire agreement (without 
maintenance) for a period of 48 months. It said that service reminder calls were a courtesy 
and it remained the consumers responsibility to ensure the vehicle was maintained within 
the manufacturers guidelines. It said the charges had been applied in line with the terms 
and conditions of the agreement. And were in respect of unpaid monthly instalments, 
refurbishment costs and excess hire costs. Lex advised us that the vehicle has since been 
sold at an auction price that was more than £4,300 less than the anticipated price due to the 
vehicle having to be sold as a non-runner.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 8 October 2020. I said that I didnt intend 
to uphold the complaint. I found that whether or not the service reminder light illuminated 
didnt provide a reasonable excuse for the vehicle not being maintained. And I thought the 
charges applied by Lex were fair and reasonable and in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the agreement.
Since then both parties have replied. Lex indicated it accepted my provisional decision. Mr M 
repeated his view that the service light hadnt illuminated. And that hed been told it would 
cost over £1,000 just to have the vehicle inspected after it broke down. As well as the costs 
of the necessary repairs.
I thank both parties for their replies. As Ive not been provided with any new information, Im 
not minded to change my provisional decision which is substantially repeated in my final 
decision set out below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mr M has found himself in this unfortunate situation of having had the vehicle 
breakdown and be faced with a large bill of costs when it was discovered the warranty was 
no longer valid.
Mr Ms hire agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and our service is able to 
consider complaints relating to it. Lex supplied the vehicle so its responsible for complaints 
about the quality of the vehicle.
I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account. Relevant law here includes the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). The CRA states that in order to conform to contract 
goods must be of satisfactory quality when supplied. Satisfactory quality is defined as being 
what a reasonable person would consider to be satisfactory. And this would include aspects 
relating to durability.
Where information is incomplete, unclear or contradictory - as some of it is here - I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
I think its fair to characterise Mr Ms complaint as amounting to a claim that as the service 
indicator light didnt illuminate, and as he wasnt sent a reminder, he shouldnt be liable for 
the costs of the repairs after the vehicle broke down. He feels this isnt fair and that the 
vehicle was mis-sold or not of satisfactory quality.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Our investigator set out the relevant terms of the agreement with regard to servicing 
obligations in her view letter of 5 August 2020. I shant repeat it here as the parties have 
seen it. But summarised, it placed the obligation on Mr M to ensure the vehicle was 
maintained in accordance with the manufacturers recommendations and warranty 
regulations. Its not in dispute that the vehicle shouldve been serviced no later than between 
38,500 and 40,000 miles. And that it hadnt been serviced in this period.
Whether or not the service indicator light illuminates, does not, in my opinion, offer a 
reasonable excuse for a consumer not being aware of the maintenance requirements. The 
terms of the hire agreement made it clear it was for Mr M to ensure the vehicle was serviced 
in accordance with the relevant requirements.
As the vehicle was over three years old and had covered around 43,000 miles when it broke 
down it would be for Mr M to show that it hadnt been of satisfactory quality when supplied. 
Its not clear if the vehicle broke down due to the lack of servicing or from an unrelated 
cause. Ive been provided with no information which specifically identifies the reason for the 
breakdown. But its improbable the vehicle wouldve been able to attain this mileage with any 
serious fault. And Im satisfied that the vehicle was of satisfactory quality when supplied.
After the vehicle had been initially recovered following the breakdown, Mr M cancelled his 
direct debit monthly payments. And it seems the vehicle remained at the recovery garage 
until it was repossessed by Lex. During this time the agreement expired.Lex has invoiced Mr M for the remaining monthly payments due on the agreement as well as 
excess charges as the hire period was exceeded prior to it receiving the vehicle back. The 
terms of the agreement required payments be made for its whole duration. I see no reason 
why Lex shouldnt be entitled to collect these sums. Mr M hasnt shown the vehicle wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when supplied and Ive seen no information which would suggest to me 
he was entitled to stop payments.
The agreement stipulated that it was for Mr M to return the vehicle to Lex by the termination 
date and in good condition. The relevant sections are 17 and 19 of the agreement. Mr M 
didnt comply with either condition.
So far as the refurbishment costs are concerned, Ive viewed the inspection report which 
was carried out by a company Ill refer to as B. Charges were applied for a missing service 
history, a missing key which was not with the vehicle when it was repossessed, cleaning the 
vehicle and a replacement engine. Ive already confirmed that the vehicle hadnt been 
serviced. I understand the spare key had remained with Mr M. Ive no reason to doubt Bs 
description that the vehicle required cleaning and its not in dispute that it was a non-runner 
with an apparently serious engine problem.
Clause 19 (d) of the agreement states:
The cost of repairs or replacement where the vehicle is not returned in good condition and 
complete shall be borne by you.
Ive further considered the cost which Lex has applied in respect of the replacement engine. 
As Ive not been provided with definite information about the cause of the breakdown its not 
clear if repairs alone wouldve been sufficient to return the vehicle to running order. The cost 
of stripping down the vehicle simply to diagnose the specific fault was put at over £1,000. 
The probability is that the repairs wouldve approached if not surpassed the cost of a 
replacement part. Particularly as the engine wouldve had to be rebuilt once the repairs had 
been carried out.
In practice the cost of a replacement engine will depend upon a number of factors including 
whether its new, used or reconditioned. As theres such a wide price range, Ive taken into 
consideration other information to determine if the charge was applied fairly.
Lex has confirmed its supplier quoted a price of £4,200 for a reconditioned unit. Its applied a 
standard deduction to ensure it doesnt overcharge. And its invoiced Mr M for £3,840. Its 
also provided information which shows the anticipated price the vehicle fetched at auction 
was more than £4,300 lower than indicated by a recognised industry guide. I think in those 
circumstances the charge applied reasonably reflects the loss of value for the vehicle.
In summary, I dont think Lex has done anything wrong here. Mr M didnt comply with the 
requirement to keep the vehicle serviced in accordance with manufacturer and warranty 
requirements. As a result, when the vehicle broke down, I think its fair and reasonable that 
Lex should require him to cover the costs of repairs or the lost value of the vehicle. 
Mr M failed to make the remaining monthly contractual payments after the breakdown. And 
didnt arrange for the vehicle to be returned in accordance with the agreement. I find that its 
also fair and reasonable for Lex to recover these charges. In view of my findings, I shant be 
asking Lex to waive or reduce the charges. And Im not upholding this complaint.
Im aware that Mr M has explained that hes currently in financial difficulties. I would expect 
Lex AutoLease to act fairly in trying to make arrangements to recover the outstanding debt.
My final decisionFor the reasons given above my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman