DRN-1740925
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J say Santander UK Plc (trading at the time as National & Provincial Building 
Society) mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J took out a PPI policy in 1987 to protect their existing mortgage repayments. 
Neither party can confirm how or where the sale took place. The policy was in Mr Js sole 
name. They paid a monthly amount for the policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs J disagreed so the complaint was 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where there is a dispute about what 
happened and the evidence is incomplete, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most likely given the available evidence 
and what we know about how Santander sold PPI at the time.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed 
it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint. Ill explain why.
Santander had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs J that the PPI was optional, and they had to 
agree to take it out. Mr and Mrs J say they didnt know they had PPI and have no 
recollection of the sale. They point to their mortgage quote from 1984 which shows they 
didnt select it. 
I cant know what was said at the time of the sale, there are no notes or records available, 
and Santander doesn't have copies of any paperwork from the PPI sale. But that's not 
surprising or unreasonable given how long ago it was. It's not easy in cases like this where 
the information is limited. I have to decide what I think is most likely. 
Santander says that Mr and Mrs J would have been given full information on the policy 
before taking it out, and they would have been given a policy summary leaflet with an 
application form to complete if they wanted to apply. Mr and Mrs J took out PPI two years 
after their mortgage started. As they say, their 1984 quote shows they didnt select it at the 
start. This suggests to me they would have known it was optional. And it seems decided to 
take it out later in 1987. Santander says an application form would have to have been 
completed and signed for PPI to be added to their account. 
I have thought carefully about their comments but I also have to take into account that the 
sale was over 30 years ago and how this might affect what they now remember. Overall, I think it's likely Santander made clear the PPI was optional and Mr and Mrs J agreed to take 
it out for Mr J.  I do understand they might not recall this given how long ago it was. 
I think Santander recommended the PPI for Mr J to Mr and Mrs J so it had to make sure it 
was right for him. I know Mr J feels strongly he didnt need it but based on his circumstances 
at the time I dont think it was unsuitable. I say this because:
- He was eligible for the cover. And it seems there wasnt anything in the PPI that 
would make it difficult for him to claim  for example, the type of employment contract 
he had when the PPI was sold or any pre-existing medical conditions. So he wouldnt 
have been affected by the main exclusions or limitations in the policy.
- Mr J says he was entitled to 12 months full pay and then half pay for a period of time 
if he was sick. But the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to his work benefits for at least 
12 months and based on what Ive read and been told, more likely for up to 24 months 
for each successful accident and sickness claim. Its not clear from the information 
Santander has provided whether the policy included unemployment cover. But 
whether or not it did, I would still think it was right for Mr J. Hes told us he was entitled 
to a generous redundancy package but the PPI would have paid out in addition to this, 
and probably for up to 24 months. This would have allowed Mr J to protect any lump 
sum redundancy payment giving increased financial stability at an already difficult time 
when he wasnt working. 
Mr J also said he had company shares worth £9,000 but thats not suitable alternative 
protection. The value of shares changes and money may therefore not be available 
when needed. Given the serious consequences of defaulting on a debt secured 
against their home, I think the policy would have been useful to Mr and Mrs J if Mr J 
was sick or lost his job.
- Ive seen nothing to suggest the policy was unaffordable at the time of the sale.
 
Santander also had to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading at the time 
of the sale. Its possible it didnt give all the details it should have. However, for the same 
reasons I find the policy was suitable, I dont think better information wouldve changed their 
decision. I say this as Mr J doesnt appear to have been affected by any of main exclusions 
or limitations, and the PPI was competitively priced and apparently affordable. 
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs J paid on their policy  and whether 
Santander treated them unfairly. 
Santander has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Js policy was less than half of 
what they paid for each premium. Weve looked at how Santander has been working this out 
and based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Js commission was less 
than half the cost of the policy. As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell them about 
the commission  so I dont think Santander treated them unfairly. This means it doesnt 
need to pay Mr and Mrs J back any of the commission they paid for the PPI. 
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs J lost out because of any problems with the sale.
My final decision
For the reason set out above I am not upholding this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 June 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman