DRN-3350393
The complaint
Ms W complains that the charges Countrywide Assured Plc (Countrywide) has applied to the 
pension plans she holds with it are absurdly high.
Ms W is represented in this matter by her financial adviser.
What happened
Ms W has three pension plans with Countrywide. All three plans are paid up. The plans are 
invested in a managed pension fund which has an annual management charge (AMC) of 
1.39% per year. In addition, an administration charge is applied to the plan that was set up to 
accept regular contributions. The administration charge, of 5% per year, is applied to the 
capital units purchased with the regular contributions made in the first two years after the 
plan was set up.
I understand that in July 2015 Countrywide wrote to Ms Ws financial adviser confirming the 
charges on each plan. 
In May 2017, it appears that Ms Ws financial adviser queried the transfer penalty set out in 
Ms Ws latest pension statement and asked for a copy of the policy terms and conditions. 
Countrywide replied to Ms Ws adviser later that month enclosing a copy of the policy terms 
and conditions and explaining that the early exit charge had been reduced to 1% of the fund 
value and that the charge would only be applied to the plan set up to accept regular 
contributions.
In July 2020 Ms Ws adviser contacted Countrywide again. He said Ms W was rather 
appalled to see the charges on her annual statement. He said that having reviewed Ms Ws 
annual statements he felt the pension charges were high in comparison with other 
Assurers. The adviser also asked what steps Countrywide had taken to improve the 
performance of its managed pension fund.
Countrywide did not uphold the complaint. It said that the charges applied to Ms Ws pension 
plans were in-line with the policy terms and conditions. It noted it had sent Ms Ws adviser 
details of the charges that applied in May 2017.
It also explained that its managed pension fund is a unit-linked investment fund and the 
value of the fund would fluctuate depending on investment performance.
Ms W was not satisfied with Countrywides response and her adviser referred her complaint 
to this service.
Having considered the points Ms Ws adviser had made our investigator said he didnt think 
Countrywide had acted incorrectly in this matter.
He noted that when the plans were set up in the early 1990s Ms W was given information 
about the charging structure. In particular he noted that the information set out that in 
addition to the AMC, capital units were allocated for regular contributions and the annual 
administration charge on these capital units was equivalent to 5% of the units purchased for 
the first two years' of the contributions (and on any increases in the contributions for the first 
two years after the increase). 
In view of this he said he was satisfied that the charge attached to the capital units had been 
disclosed when Ms W took out the regular contribution plan. 
In relation to the AMC of 1.39% on the managed pension fund Ms W was invested in, he 
noted that this charge was higher than that charged by other providers, but he said Ms W 
could have moved her pension pots to another provider if she felt the charge was too high. 
Given Ms Ws concern about the performance of the fund she was invested in he said this 
was an option she might wish to consider. 
He also noted that it appeared from the information available that Ms Ws adviser had looked 
into transferring Ms Ws pension pots in 2017, but for whatever reason a transfer did not go 
ahead at that time.
With regard to the performance of the managed pension fund Ms W was invested in, he 
explained that the performance of the fund could go up or down. If the fund was not 
performing to Ms Ws satisfaction, he noted that alternative funds were available, as was the 
option to consider switching to a different provider.
Ms W did not accept our investigators view. Her adviser responded to say that having 
carried out some calculations on the AMC that had been applied (as set out in the May 2020 
statement) it appeared that the AMC was over 1.5%, not 1.39%. Ms Ws adviser also noted 
that administration charges of around £200 per year had been applied to the regular 
premium plan (as per the May 2020 statement).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think Countrywide has acted incorrectly in this matter. Ill explain why.
Annual management charge (AMC)
The AMC is an implicit charge and is reflected in the pricing of the units Ms W holds, rather 
than being paid for by a deduction of units. 
Ms Ws adviser says that, based on his calculations, it appears that the AMC charged was 
higher than the 1.39% charge the business said it had applied. However, it appears that the 
calculation carried out by Ms Ws adviser used the fund value as at the statement date, 
rather than an average value of each plan throughout the year. The unit price of the pension 
managed fund decreased over the year to the May 2020 statement and it appears the 
advisers calculation did not allow for this. 
I note that Countrywide has provided some calculations showing that across all three plans 
the AMC applied (as per the May 2020 statement) was around 1.38%. Our investigator 
passed these calculations to Ms Ws representative. As no further queries were raised in 
connection with the calculation of the AMC, I do not intend to consider this aspect of Ms Ws 
complaint any further.
Administration Charge:The administration charge is only applied to the plan Ms W set up to accept regular 
contributions.
Based on the calculations provided by Countrywide it appears that an administration charge 
of £201.56 was deducted over the 12-month period set out in the May 2020 statement. 
As Countrywide has explained, this is equivalent to slightly less than 5% of the capital units 
that were on the policy at the start of the statement year. As the deductions were made on a 
monthly basis, the actual amount deducted depended on the unit price at the time of the 
deduction.
Ms Ws adviser says that our investigator did not consider the administration charge when 
he considered this complaint. Having reviewed the letter our investigator issued setting out 
his view on this complaint, I note that he did consider the charge applied to the capital units 
on the plan Ms W took out to accept regular contributions. 
I am also mindful that the information given to Ms W when she took out this plan in 1991 set 
out, under the heading Account Charges:
We deduct each year until the planned retirement age stated at the outset an annual charge 
of 5% of units allocated to your account in respect of:
i) The first two years regular contributions, and
ii) The first two years of any increase in regular contributions in an account year over 
and above the highest total of regular contributions made in any previous account 
year, and
iii) Any distributions of units allocated in respect of i) and ii) above.
And I note that when Ms Ws adviser queried the charges being applied to Ms Ws plans in 
2017, Countrywide sent him a copy of this information. It also explained in the covering letter 
that in relation to the regular contribution plan:
The charge is applied to any contributions paid in the first two years of the policy. These 
contributions purchased chargeable units known as capital units. A charge of 5% per 
annum is deducted from the capital units on a reducing balance basis until the selected 
retirement date of 19/06/2022. 
In view of this I cannot reasonably find that the administration charge was not disclosed to 
Ms W and her adviser. 
I accept that this charge and the AMC are higher than the charges that are applied on most 
newer pension plans, but I dont think Countrywide has acted incorrectly in applying the 
charges that were disclosed when Ms W took out these plans.
If Ms W was unhappy with the charges that were being applied to her pension plans it is not 
clear to me why she didnt transfer her pension pots to a lower cost pension provider. I am 
satisfied that Ms W had sufficient information about the charges that were being applied to 
make an informed decision about whether she wanted to retain these pension plans. 
I note that Ms Ws adviser has now raised a new complaint with Countrywide in relation to 
whether any administration charges should have been applied to Ms Ws regular premium 
pension plan. I have not considered this new issue as part of this complaint.My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman