DRN-4479353
The complaint
Mr M has complained TSB Bank plc has discriminated against him as a disabled customer.
Background
Mr M is deaf and is legally blind with limited sight. In late December 2022 he attempted to
transfer some money, via the TSB banking app on his phone, from his bank account to a
new savings account he had opened with another financial institution Ill call C. As the
amount of money Mr M wanted to transfer was higher than normal for his account, it was
temporarily blocked by TSB in order for it to run the necessary fraud checks and ensure it
was a genuine request.
In order to complete the security checks, Mr M had to phone TSB and speak to a
representative in real time. When this happened Mr M was away from his own home, where
he has additional software on his computer that allows him to complete text-calls via a third-
party operator service. Without this equipment its not possible for Mr M to engage in
telephone conversations independently.
When Mr M attempted the first transfer from his TSB account to his new account with C, he
was in his partners home and so didnt have access to his computer. However, he was 
happy for his partner to assist him with the call. So, he was able to phone TSB to have the 
fraud checks removed and complete the first transfer.
During this call Mr M indicated that he was planning on completing more transfers later that
day and over the coming days. He was warned the same fraud checks may stop the planned
transactions from being completed online and that he might have to phone back. But the
representative did promise to leave detailed notes on Mr Ms account so any follow up
checks could be competed faster. Mr M confirmed he understood this and thanked the bank
representative for their help.
Later that day, having left his partners home and gone to a friends house, Mr M attempted
to make a second transfer via the app on his phone. Unfortunately, this was also blocked,
and Mr M was unable to complete this transfer, or the others he had intended to make over
the coming days, until he returned to his own home three days later.
Mr M has said that the processes TSB have in place to remove fraud markers are
discriminatory under the Equality Act 2010. He says this because the only way he was able
to contact TSB to have the checks removed was over the phone. He believes TSB has failed
in its duty to provide reasonable adjustments to ensure all customers are able to access its
services. He says if he was able bodied hed have been able to make the calls with ease and
wouldve been able to complete all his transfers on time. However, because hes deaf and
effectively blind he wasnt able to complete the transfers when he wanted to. The account
with C has a higher interest rate on it and so Mr M believes TSB should compensate him for
the three days of interest he lost on the funds he was unable to transfer until he returned to
his own home.
TSB responded to Mr Ms complaint stating that its both reasonable and necessary for it to
have fraud and scam checks in place in order to protect its customers and itself. It has said
that while it appreciates the checks can cause frustration they are necessary to ensure
customers accounts are safe. It didnt respond to Mr Ms allegations of discrimination in its
response.
Unhappy with TSBs response Mr M brought his complaint to our service. I issued a
provisional decision on Mr Ms complaint on 16 October 2023. I said I was intending on
upholding Mr Ms complaint as I didnt think TSB had done enough to ensure he could
reasonably access its services. I explained that I was going to ask the bank to pay Mr M
£250 for the issues hed experienced when trying to complete the bank transfers.
TSB accepted my findings, but Mr M didnt. In essence he wanted to know why I hadnt
addressed his concerns about the customer service hed received as it was part of his
original complaint. He also thought I should be able to make a direct finding on whether or
not hed been discriminated against.
As neither party has raised any concerns around the majority of the findings set out in the
provisional decision I will repeat them here and address Mr Ms concerns around the
customer service aspect and how Ive addressed his allegation of discrimination.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has queried why I didnt make a direct finding on whether or not he was discriminated
against as per the standards set out in the Equality Act 2010. As I explained in the
provisional decision, this service is an alternative to the courts, and while our decisions can
be legally binding, we dont have the same authority as the courts do. Only a court of law
can decide whether or not a piece of legislation has been breached. Thats because a piece
of legislation can only be interpreted by a court of law and only a judge can decide whether
or not an act, such as the Equality Act, has been breached. It is a fundamental matter of law.
As an alternative to the courts, I dont have the necessary legal authority to make such a
finding.
However, I did consider the provisions and purpose of the Equality Act, as well as other
relevant pieces of legislation and regulations, when deciding Mr Ms complaint. And I did find
that the business had failed to ensure he could access its services in a fair and reasonable
way when compared to other customers who dont have the same disabilities as he does.
And I found the business shouldve done more to support him as a disabled customer and
upheld his complaint on that basis. So, while I cant make a direct finding saying TSB
discriminated Mr M under the definitions set out in the Equality Act, I do think it shouldve
done more to support Mr M and that its treatment of him was unreasonable.
Mr M has also asked that I consider the customer service he received from TSB as separate
complaint point and has queried why I didnt address it in the provisional decision. He has
said that his complaint was not only about the problems he had when he tried to completethe transactions but the standard of customer care and delays in receiving a response to his
complaint when he logged it in January of this year. Id like to apologise to Mr M for not
addressing that within the provisional decision, this was because the crux of the complaint
was around whether or not hed been treated reasonably and fairly by the business. I upheld
the complaint on the basis that the bank shouldve done more to support him as a disabled
customer, which does address the bulk of the issues Mr M experienced but not the delay in
receiving a final response letter from TSB. I will address that in this decision but before doing
so will repeat some of the findings from the provisional decision to clarify the problems Mr M
experienced.
Mr M accepts why the fraud checks are necessary and doesnt dispute that theres a
requirement on TSB to ensure, as much as it can, that the transactions on its customers
accounts are genuine and fully authorised. So, I wont repeat the explanations already
provided by TSB as to why it was necessary for it to check the transfers between Mr Ms
account with it and the account with C were genuine. Instead, Ill focus on what happened
once the check on the first transfer had been completed and whether there was more that
shouldve been done to enable Mr M to complete the later transfers within the intended time
frame.
TSB has provided us with recordings of the calls Mr M made in late December 2022 and
early January this year. Because Mr M requires the operator service to make phone calls the
bank representatives he speaks to are immediately aware of his disabilities and that theres
a third party facilitating the call. I would like to assure Mr M Ive listened to these calls in full.
In the first call the TSB representative explains why the initial transfer was blocked. They ask 
Mr M a series of security questions, as well as questions about the intended purpose of the 
transfer, and the nature of the account with C. Mr M answers all of the questions in full and 
eventually the bank representative agrees to remove the checks and completes Mr Ms 
transfer.
During the call Mr M indicates that he intends on completing two more larger transfers that
day, until he reaches the daily transfer limit on his TSB account. The bank representative
explains that while they have added detailed notes to Mr Ms account clarifying the purpose
of the transfers they cant guarantee that later attempts wont be blocked in the same way.
They explain that if that happens it will be necessary for Mr M to call the bank again and go
through the same checks a second time. Mr M thanks the representative for making him
aware of the situation and is confirms he's happy that notes will be added to his account.
Later that day Mr M attempts to transfer a second large sum of money from his TSB account
to his account with C and its blocked. However, by this time Mr M had left his partners
home and was with a friend. As he didnt want to involve his friend in his private financial
matters he was unable to complete the final two transfers planned for that day.
The following day Mr M attempted to make another transfer and this one was also blocked.
As Mr M hadnt yet returned home he was unable to call the bank and have the transfer
completed.
Two days later Mr M returned to him home and was able to call the bank to request the
checks be removed.Having listened to the call between Mr M and the bank representative it is clear how
frustrated Mr M has become by the process in place. The representative has to take Mr M
through lengthy and detailed security questions a second time, despite confirming they have
seen the notes left on Mr Ms account from the call a few days earlier. Mr M becomes
increasingly frustrated by the volume of information he has to repeat in order to complete the
transfer. He clearly states to the representative that he feels TSB have discriminated against
him because the only way to remove the fraud check is to call the bank. And thats not
something thats easy for him to do. So, he feels the bank has failed in its duties under the
Equality Act 2010 to provide reasonable adjustments for consumers who are unable to, or
cant easily, contact the bank via phone. He then asks to speak to a manager as he wants to
raise a complaint.
The bank representative explains that its not possible to speak to a manager but that they
can start the complaint for Mr M and arrange for a manager to call him back. Mr M becomes
extremely annoyed by this suggestion as, given the bank representative is on the phone with
a third-party service operator, it shouldve been apparent Mr M wouldnt be able to answer a
direct call from a manager. The third party operator asks the TSB representative directly if a 
call could be arranged for a fixed time via its service but is told this isnt an option either. 
At this stage Mr M explains he wants the entire amount he had intended to transfer
incrementally over three days (due to the daily transfer limits) transferred in one lump sum.
The bank representative explains theyre not able to do that and says that theyll try to find a
manager to speak to. However, Mr M is unable to stay on the phone and the call ends.
I dont think TSB was wrong to put safeguarding measures in place or that the transfers Mr
M wanted to complete had to be verified directly before TSB released the funds. And I know
Mr M doesnt dispute this either. So, while I can empathise with why he found the volume of
questions asked and the nature of the questions excessive, I dont think it was unreasonable
for TSB to want to ensure the transfers were legitimate.
That said, TSB also has to ensure that the processes it puts in place around such checks
are accessible to all its customers and not just the majority of them.
Given the nature and sophistication of a lot of online fraud and scams that can take place I
understand why TSB asks to speak to its customers rather than communicate via email or
text. And Mr M has explained that it wouldve been just as difficult for him to communicate
with TSB in email or text format while he was away from home. So, I dont think Mr M was
going to be able to complete the transfers without having to communicate with TSB in some
manner when the checks were applied.
Its unfortunate that after the first transfer was completed the later attempts were also
blocked. TSB has indicated the fact that Mr M had moved location between the first and
second transfer and so the IP address the request was coming from had changed, along
with the increase in the amount requested, may have caused the fraud trigger to be added
again. Either way although I understand why Mr M felt the second call shouldve been
unnecessary I cant say that its unreasonable for TSB to check these sorts of transfers when
theyre flagged.
So, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint on the basis that the later checks were unnecessary
or excessive as I dont think they were. However, I do think that TSB has failed to have
adequate processes in place to support deaf and visually impaired consumers. Or, if it does
have processes in place, its staff were unaware of them and unable to use them to enable
Mr M to complete the transactions as planned or speak to a manager when requested.When Mr M rang TSB after returning to his home and said he wanted to speak to a manager
and to complete the transactions in a single lump sum so he could avail of the higher interest
rate with C in the manner in which he had planned. He was told the only process in place
was for the manager to call him back and that call had to be to his home number and no
other. Mr M has since clarified it wouldnt have been possible to accept a call via the relay-
text service either, but this wasnt properly discussed at the time. 
It is extremely foreseeable that a bank like TSB will have customers who are unable to
accept incoming direct calls for a plethora of reasons. That the representative seemed at a
loss to be able to suggest any other alternative method for a manager to contact Mr M is
worrying. 
Therefore, having listened to the calls between Mr M and TSB I think there was more the
bank could have and shouldve done once he said he wanted to speak to a manager. As Im
unable to make a finding under the Equality Act I cant say that TSB discriminated against Mr
M. But I do think its failed to ensure its processes are assessable to all customers, including
those who are deaf and or blind. By telling Mr M the only way it was possible for him to
speak to a manager was via a direct call back, TSB failed to treat Mr M fairly. And for that I
think it should pay him £250 compensation for the upset caused.
Mr M has also said that following the problems he experienced on the final call he logged a
formal complaint with TSB on the 4 January 2023 but didnt receive a response until 1 March
2023, despite the response being dated 6 January 2023. When his complaint was
considered by our investigator she didnt think the timeline for receiving the response was
unreasonable as the relevant rules set out by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)
provide businesses with up to eight weeks to respond to complaints made by consumers. As
Mr M received his response eight weeks to the day it was made it fell within those
timeframes and so didnt breach the expected standards.
Overall, I agree with our investigator here. I would need to have found that Mr Ms response
was unreasonably delayed by TSB in order for me to uphold on this point. While I agree that
its strange the letter was dated on the 6 January but not received by Mr M for another 7
weeks or so, ultimately Mr M did receive an answer and it was within the timeframes set out
by the FCA. So, I cant say the business failed to adhere to the standards required of it in
relation to that part of Mr Ms complaint, or that the delay on Mr M receiving a copy of the
letter was down to a failing on the part of TSB.
Mr M has understandably raised his concerns that the response he received by the business
didnt actually address the main element of his complaint, i.e., whether or not he was
discriminated against, but instead focused on whether or not the checks that had been put in
place were reasonable. I agree that the letter from TSB didnt address anything to do with
the problems Mr M had faced when trying to complete what shouldve been a relatively
straight forward transaction. I think this was down to the complaint handler framing the
complaint incorrectly and I understand why they thought Mr M was primarily upset by the fact
that he couldnt complete the transactions when he wanted to and not why that was the case
or what that meant for him as a disabled consumer.
However, I dont think this was a deliberate attempt by TSB to avoid addressing all of the
concerns raised by Mr M. Instead, I think it was down to human error on the part of the
person who set up the complaint for him. I hope this decision has addressed those issues
now and that Mr M feels like his concerns have now been considered.
Putting things right
TSB Bank plc should pay Mr M £250 compensation in recognition of the distress causedwhen it failed to make reasonable adjustments for him and properly address his complaint in
full.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold Mr Ms complaint against TSB Bank plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2023.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman