DRN-3830170
The complaint
Miss D complains about AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limiteds handling of a claim 
made on her motor insurance policy. She wants it to reimburse the repair bill she paid and 
complete repairs to her car. 
What happened
Miss Ds car was damaged in an incident and AA tried to recover it. In doing this, Miss D 
said it caused damage underneath the car and to the door sills. Miss D said AA told her that 
it would repair the cars ignition as this had been damaged in the accident. But it later said 
the dealers garage had said this was unrelated, even though it hadnt yet assessed the car. 
AAs independent assessor later said a full diagnostic report would be needed to decide this. 
Miss D was unhappy that this hadnt been repaired and that there was still cosmetic damage 
to the car. AA paid Miss D £400 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. It also 
offered her a cash settlement for the repairs. But Miss D said this wouldnt cover the repairs 
costs. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought AA had 
taken the car to the dealers garage and was responsible for the repair costs incurred. So he 
thought it should reimburse Miss D this cost. He thought the evidence showed that AA had 
damaged the underneath of the car and its sills. He thought it hadnt justified not repairing 
the ignition fault. And he thought it hadnt repaired the body work. 
So he thought it should either carry out these further repairs or pay Miss D a cash sum to 
have them made, with interest. But he thought its compensation for Miss Ds trouble and 
upset was fair and reasonable. 
AA replied that the repair work Miss D had had done included work to the ignition that wasnt 
accident-related. AA asked for an Ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to me 
for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss D said her car was hit by another car rolling back into hers. Miss D made a claim, but 
AA had trouble finding a repairer to carry out the repairs. Four months later, I can see from 
its file that it told Miss D to take her car to the dealers garage for the bodywork repair, but 
the garage wasnt able to carry this out. Miss D then found that the cars electrics werent 
working. There were faults with the ignition, and later the handbrake and locks. 
AA declined to cover the electrical faults in Miss Ds car under her claim. It said these were 
excluded from cover as stated on page 14 of the policy booklet:
What is not covered
(d) Mechanical, electrical, electronic or computer fault, failure, malfunction or breakdown.
So Ive looked to see what happened and whether or not AA has justified its decision that the 
electrical faults werent accident-related and so not pay for their repair. 
AA instructed an independent engineer to look at the required repairs. AA said he found that 
the electrical faults were unrelated to the accident. But I dont agree. I can see that he 
estimated the repairs needed for the front of Miss Ds car in March 2022 and said, 
The owner stated that the incident happened in December, and that a fault for not starting 
has occurred since February, this I understand has been diagnosed by [the dealers garage] 
as an ignition fault, it is my opinion that this is not related however a full diagnostic and 
report from [the dealers garage] would be required to confirm not incident related.
But I cant see that this was carried out although AAs notes state that it twice instructed the 
car to be taken to the dealers garage for diagnosis. It took a further two months for this to be 
arranged, but I can see that Miss D was kept mobile during this time. 
AA then told Miss D that the garage had said the fault wasnt accident-related. But I think this 
was an error because at that stage the garage hadnt been able to get into the car to carry 
out the diagnosis. 
When Miss D then complained, AA agreed that there had been poor communication, delays 
and poor service. It paid Miss D £400 compensation for this, which I think was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances and in keeping with our published guidance for the impact 
these errors had. 
But Miss D said she was then left without a courtesy car for three weeks until she had the 
electrics repaired at the cost of £1,120.32, including £400 for the garage to gain access to 
her car. AA said it was for Miss D to pay for these repairs as they were unrelated to the 
accident. But, as Ive said above, I dont think AA established this as Ive seen no evidence 
that the garage carried out the required diagnostic following the independent assessors 
advice. 
I can see from its file that AA repeatedly told Miss D that it would take car to the dealers 
garage for repairs. It didnt tell her that this would exclude the electrics. And AA didnt warn 
Miss D that she would be liable for the cost of repairs. So Miss D was left with an 
undriveable car and had no choice but to pay for the repairs herself. But Im satisfied AA is 
responsible for the repairs to the electrics and I think it should reimburse Miss D for this cost, 
with interest from the date of payment. 
Miss D also complained that AAs recovery agents had damaged the underneath of her car 
and the door sills whilst trying to gain entry to the car. From AAs file, it accepted that it had 
most likely caused this damage. So AA said it would arrange a further assessment by the 
independent engineer of the repairs needed in order to pay Miss D a cash sum instead of 
carrying out these repairs.
This report was received and then reviewed three months later. Miss D had said there was 
damage to two door sills. But the engineer noted damage to only one door sill and estimated 
the repair cost as £844.30. But I cant see sufficient detail in his report to explain how he had 
identified the damage AA was responsible for and why he discounted the damage to the 
other door. And I cant see that he examined the underneath of the car to check for the 
damage Miss D alleged had been caused by AA. 
So I cant say that AA has justified its decision to pay for repairs to just one door sill. And I 
think it should put this right by carrying out the repairs or paying Miss D sufficient for all the 
repair work to be done, following an assessment at a garage.
The front of the car has yet to be repaired. AA said it had forgotten about this when it 
decided that the electrical faults were unrelated to the claim. It then took Miss Ds courtesy 
car back and she was without transport for three weeks until she paid for her car to be 
repaired. The independent engineer assessed the cost of this repair to the bumper to be 
£1,153.51. And I think AA should pay Miss D this amount or else carry out the repairs, and 
also pay Miss D £210 for three weeks loss of use of her car. AA has lately agreed to do this. I can understand that Miss D feels frustrated that her car still hasnt been fully repaired a 
year after the incident. AA paid her £400 compensation for the impact of its delays, its level 
of service and miscommunication up until August 2022. AA then offered cash in lieu of the 
outstanding bodywork repairs. Miss D didnt then accept this offer as her other complaint 
points hadnt been addressed. 
So I think its fair and reasonable for AA to add interest to the cash payments if it decides to 
pay these rather than repair Miss Ds car. I think interest should be added to the payments 
from the date it wrongly decided not to repair her car, 1 June 2022, until the date of 
settlement. 
Putting things right
I require AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
1. Reimburse Miss D for the £1,120.32 repair bill and add interest to this amount at the rate 
of 8% simple per annum from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
2. Either repair the damage to the underneath of the car and both car sills, following a 
garages assessment, or pay Miss D a cash settlement to cover this cost in full. If the 
payment is in cash, interest should be added to this amount at the rate of 8% simple per 
annum from 1 June 2022 until the date of settlement.
3. Either repair the accident-related damage to the body work or pay Miss D a cash 
settlement to carry out this repair in full. If the payment is in cash, interest should be 
added to this amount at the rate of 8% simple per annum from 1 June 2022 until the date 
of settlement.
4. Pay Miss D £210 compensation for the loss of use of her car for three weeks. 
If AA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Miss D how much its taken off. It should also give Miss D a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AA 
Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman