DRN-3330543
The complaint
Ms H, Ms P, Mr P and Mr P complain AXA Insurance UK Plc have unfairly declined their 
Landlord Insurance claim relating to a loss of rent.
All references to AXA also include its agents.
Ms H, Ms P, Mr P and Mr P are being represented in their complaint by B. So I will refer to 
them below. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In summary, the loss of rent section in the policy says it will pay a claim when a 
private residence cannot be lived in due to loss or damage
The policy defines a private residence as:
A self-contained private dwelling house, maisonette or flat within a block of flats or 
complex as shown in your policy schedule but not including car ports, garages and 
outbuildings.
AXA have declined the claim for loss of rent as the residence itself remained 
habitable
The policy clearly sets out what is covered under loss of rent. And its definition of a 
private residence, is also clear. The damage relating to this claim relates to the 
garage, not the main property, and this is clearly defined as separate.
So having considered the information available Im satisfied AXA has acted fairly in 
declining the claim.
B has pointed to other parts of the policy wording which they feel is contradictory in 
nature but having reviewed this Im not persuaded by this. Its not uncommon for 
sections of insurance policies to contain different definitions it relies on. And in this 
case the loss of rent section (the section relating to the claim in question) and the 
relevant definitions associated with it are clearly set out
So for these reasons I do not uphold this complaint
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms H, Ms P, Mr P and Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H, Ms P, Mr P 
and Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman