DRN-1511955
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Santander UK Plc (trading as Abbey National) mis-sold them a regular 
monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy when they took out a mortgage.
What happened
In June 2000 Mr and Mrs M purchased a PPI policy when they took out a mortgage. The PPI 
included cover for unemployment only  there was no accident and sickness cover. The 
policy only covered Mr M and it cost around £25.00 each month and wouldve provided a 
monthly benefit of £565 for up to 12 months following a successful claim. The policy was 
cancelled in 2005 when the mortgage was redeemed.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint.  Mr and Mrs M disagreed, so the complaint 
comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account when deciding Mr and 
Mrs M case.
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
The mortgage and the PPI were taken out almost 20 years ago and the mortgage was 
redeemed a few years later  so its unsurprising neither party has been able to provide 
much detailed information about the actual sale. And in these situations, I have to look at 
what I think is more likely to have happened.
I dont doubt that Mr and Mrs M have given their honest recollections of the sale, but I have 
to accept that after all this time memories can and do fade. And I just dont have any 
evidence whatsoever to suggest that they were pressured into taking the policy or that the 
policy wasnt optional  that Mr and Mrs M didnt have a choice in taking it out. Ive seen a 
copy of their mortgage application form and noted that PPI was presented as optional  
there were equally prominent boxes on it to take or decline PPI. And on their mortgage 
application paperwork, the yes box was ticked.
Furthermore, I note that they only took unemployment cover  they made a choice not to 
take accident and sickness cover and they also chose to insure Mr M only  so this indicates 
to me that they had a discussion with the bank about their PPI needs, and they made 
choices about PPI before choosing to buy the policy.
So, with the very limited information I do have and from what I know about Santander PPI 
sales around this time, Im satisfied the policy was optional and that Mr and Mrs M chose to 
purchase it.Santander recommended the PPI, so it had to take adequate steps to make sure it was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs M. I dont know what the adviser said to Mr and Mrs M about PPI or 
whether Santander did take adequate steps. But I dont need to make a decision about this. 
Because even if Santander didnt take adequate steps, I think the PPI was suitable for them 
for the following reasons:
 
Mr M met the PPIs requirements  he was eligible for it. And Ive set out the PPIs 
costs and main benefits above.
 
Mr M was working at the time and he says he had some occupational benefits from 
his employer if he was off work sick. But this policy didnt provide sickness and 
accident cover  it provided unemployment cover and was intended to remove the 
additional pressure of maintaining mortgage repayments, at what would likely be a 
difficult time if Mr M were to lose his job.
 
The mortgage was over a number of years and the PPI wouldve paid the monthly 
mortgage costs for up to 12 months for each successful claim  and on top of any 
other cover they may have had. So I dont think any existing cover or savings that Mr 
and Mrs M may have had wouldve made the PPI unsuitable.
 
Nothing Mr and Mrs M told us suggested they needed to keep their costs down. And 
there wasnt anything in the PPI that would make it difficult for Mr M to claim. For 
example, he was employed so he wouldnt have been  affected by things in it about 
unusual work.
 
I cant see that the cost of the policy was clearly communicated to Mr and Mrs M before they 
agreed to purchase it. I dont know they were told it would cost £24.35 each month until after 
the mortgage had started. For this reason Ive considered whether clearer information about 
the cost wouldve affected their decision to purchase the policy. But they had chosen to take 
out the policy, knowing they would have to pay something for it. The policy was competitively 
priced and apparently affordable. So, I think it unlikely they wouldve made a different 
decision if better information about the cost had been provided.
So taking everything into account, I think the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs M.
Santander needed to properly explain the PPIs costs, benefits, exclusions and limitations. It 
hasnt told us anything that shows what was actually said to Mr and Mrs M about this. So I 
cant say its likely Santander did give Mr and Mrs M everything they needed to know before 
deciding to take PPI.
But did Mr and Mrs M lose out as a result - would they have taken the PPI if Santander had 
properly told them about it?
Ive explained why I think the PPI was suitable. Given their circumstances at the time I think 
Mr and Mrs M wouldve thought the PPI gave important cover to protect the repayments on 
their home and that its costs and benefits were competitive and gave peace of mind. So I 
dont think Mr and Mrs M lost out because I think they wouldve taken the PPI if theyd been 
given enough proper information about it. And as this was a regular monthly premium policy, if Mr and Mrs M decided that the cost was unaffordable, or that they no longer wanted the 
policy, they couldve cancelled it without penalty.
Mr and Mrs M also complained about the level of commission Santander received when it 
sold them the PPI policy. So Ive considered this very carefully.
Mr and Mrs Ms credit agreement (mortgage) concluded in March 2005 when they redeemed 
their mortgage. That means the unfair relationship provisions set out at s140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin about s140A of the Act and the 
rules and guidance made by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) about the handling of 
complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in the light of the Plevin judgment, arent 
applicable. So, Santander doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs M paid 
for the PPI they had with that mortgage.
This is because the Plevin judgement (1) only applies to agreements that are taken out on or 
after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then which were still running on 6 April 
2008. And although Mr and Mrs M took out their agreement with Santander before 6 April 
2007, their mortgage wasnt still running on 6 April 2008  theyd redeemed it in March 2005.
(1) Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 May 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman