DRN-3682244
The complaint
Mrs S has had an overdraft with Barclays Bank UK Plc for many years. 
Mrs S complains that Barclays entered into an agreement with her due to her financial 
circumstances, which was that the bank would continue to refund the overdraft charges, 
providing that Mrs S continued to reduce the overdraft balance and clear it by the end of the 
year. (December 2022). 
Mrs S complains that Barclays have not kept to that agreement. 
What happened
This complaint is linked in part to an earlier complaint about Mrs S overdraft on her Barclays 
account. That was resolved in early November 2021 and Mrs S received a refund of over 
£3,434 which was credited to the account with the overdraft on 6 December 2021. 
Mrs S raised this complaint in March 2022 as she has said that Barclays agreed to continue 
refunding her bank charges until the end of the year  December 2022. She received a 
refund of charges in November 2021, December 2021 and in January 2021 following phone 
calls made to Barclays. Copies of those call recordings on 9 December 2021 and 
11 January 2022 have been sent to us. We did not receive the November 2021 call. 
Barclays issued its final response letter (FRL) in March 2022 in which it explained why it did 
not uphold her complaint. The writer of the FRL said to Mrs S she 
had looked at all interactions the bank has had with your customer record during 
this period, I am unable to agree that the arrangement you describe has ever been 
put in place.
Mrs S referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service with a complaint form. 
One of our adjudicators considered the earlier (first) complaint resolution correspondence, 
more recent correspondence, the recorded calls sent to us by Barclays plus other account 
notes sent to us from Barclays and its submissions on its own internal investigation into the 
complaint. All of which I have reviewed.
Our adjudicators view was clear  there was no agreement in place and she did not uphold 
the complaint. 
Our adjudicator wrote:
I can confirm that Barclays did not mention that they would refund or freeze your 
overdraft fees until your balance was paid off.
The refunds which Barclays processed for you in November 2021, December 2021 
and January 2022 were processed in error and should not have been refunded to 
you. You have therefore benefitted from these refunds without a formal agreement 
being in place. These refunds were processed following the calls you made to 
Barclays where you mentioned that your complaint is still ongoing with our service 
when in fact your complaint had actually been resolved at that time.
Mrs S responded to reiterate that she was told her interest would be frozen until 
December 2022 and the charges refunded . She said that we were incorrect. 
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In relation to Mrs S first complaint about the overdraft charges that was resolved following a 
written offer from Barclays which she accepted by email on 1 and 2 November 2021. Mrs S 
will have copies of that correspondence and the emails which followed. 
I have reviewed that November 2021 correspondence with us. Mrs S raised the future 
account handling situation twice in emails on 1 and 2 November 2021 with the adjudicator 
dealing with that complaint. In those emails in which she accepted the Barclays refund offer 
of £3,434, she said: 
would it be possible for Barclays to freeze any continuous overdraft charges, until 
I can clear this debt, And Is it possible to ask Barclays if they are willing to freeze 
my overdraft fees, until I can clear the debt,
Both times our adjudicator made it clear that this was not part of the resolution agreement 
and that anything relating to future handling of interest would have to be addressed to 
Barclays. 
The day Mrs S had received the £3,434 into her account (6 December 2021) she wrote to us 
to tell us she had received it. This shows me that Mrs S was aware all had been resolved. 
There was no contact between Mrs S and the Ombudsman Service after 6 December 2022 
as there was no ongoing complaint with the Ombudsman Service and Mrs S knew this. 
Mrs S referred this fresh complaint to us on 10 May 2022. 
A couple of days later, on 9 December 2021, Mrs S called Barclays. I have listened to a 
recording of that call between Mrs S and a Barclays representative in which she said that 
she had an ongoing case with the ombudsmana refund has been made but there are 
still niggles that need to be ironed out with the ombudsman. 
The result was that Mrs S received a refund for the upcoming pre-notified charges of 
£127.05 and it shows in the bank account transaction list I have been provided with by 
Barclays as two credits of £27.05 and £100 on 15 December 2021. 
I can see the same pattern had occurred in November 2021 as well  two credits of £14.39 
and £100 to make a total of the interest debited of £114.39 on 15 November 2021. Although 
I do not have a recording of a call between Barclays and Mrs S in November 2021, the 
resolution for the overdraft complaint was agreed to and communicated to Barclays as 
having been agreed on 2 November 2021.  
On 11 January 2022 Mrs S called Barclays again and I have listened to the call. The call was 
over two sets of recordings lasting 28 mins and 23 mins of which the first 9 minutes related 
to her overdraft charges with Barclays. The rest of the conversation was unrelated to any banking issues. 
This time, in January 2022, Mrs S told the Barclays representative that the agreement 
was with the Ombudsman that until the balance can go to zero you would kindly refund the 
charges . The pre-notified charges of £72.51 due to be debited a few days later were 
refunded and they show as a credit on her bank transaction lists on 11 January 2022. 
Both statements and explanations given to the Barclays representatives in both recorded 
calls were incorrect and I think that Mrs S knew that they were wrong. And I think its likely 
that the November 2021 conversation between Mrs S and Barclays was founded on wrong 
information as well as the complaint had been resolved on 2 November 2021. But I have not 
heard that call. 
Mrs S has repaid her overdraft now and is saying that the charges from February 2022 
onwards ought to be refunded to her. Mrs S in her complaint form has listed the dates and 
amounts up to June 2022. 
Having determined that there was no agreement with the Ombudsman Service about the 
future interest, then I can also say that Ive seen no other evidence from either party to 
demonstrate to me that any agreement was made with Barclays about this future handling of 
the overdraft interest and charges. Barclays in its FRL, and in its submissions to us, has 
made it clear it has no record of it. Of the recorded calls I have been sent and listened to 
there was no mention of there being an agreement about this with Barclays. 
This complaint related to Barclays having been alleged to have done something wrong. 
I dont consider it has. I do not uphold Mrs S complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs S complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman