DRN-2868374
The complaint
Miss R complains that her broker as the appointed representative of Quilter Financial 
Services Ltd didnt advise her properly about porting her mortgage when she took out a new 
mortgage product and didnt assist her to port her mortgage.
What happened
Miss R had a mortgage with a lender since 2010. In 2015, she took out a mortgage product 
which was portable but was subject to an early repayment charge (ERC).  Miss R sold her 
property later in 2015. Miss R was reluctant to sell but felt confident that she had a £50,000 
mortgage that she could port. Miss R says she spoke to her adviser at Quilter about porting 
her mortgage to a new property but was told this couldnt be done. Miss R says that she 
understood that the mortgage could be transferred over, not that she would have to apply for 
a new mortgage and that this might fail because of affordability. Miss R sold her property 
and has since been renting.
Quilter say that there is no record of Miss R speaking to an adviser in 2015 and only became 
aware that Miss R sold her property in 2017 when it made contact with her as the mortgage 
product would have come to an end.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as he felt that Quilter 
had done nothing wrong. Miss R disagreed saying that the investigator hadnt understood 
her complaint. The adviser confirmed with Miss Rs lender that it had refunded to her the 
ERC. Miss R asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I understand it Miss R believed that she could transfer the mortgage on her house if she 
bought another property. Miss R was disappointed to learn through her broker that it was the 
mortgage product that was transferable and if she wanted to buy another property that she 
would have to meet the lenders affordability test for that property. That isnt unusual and I 
cannot fairly criticise the information provided by Quilter. Miss R has provided some 
information referring to portability but the information Ive looked at about that comes from 
the lender not from Quilter. 
Ive noted that the suitability recommendation for the mortgage transfer in 2015 from the 
Quilter adviser didnt refer to portability but did highlight that Miss R might have difficulties 
getting a mortgage elsewhere. It says that her current lender were the only lender out of 
those sourcing above who fit on affordability and willing to lend based on your current 
financial commitments. The absence of reference to porting in the suitability document 
suggests that this may not have been discussed with Miss R as presumably her intention 
was to remain in the property at that time. So, if portability wasnt discussed its unlikely that 
Quilter misled Miss R to believe that she could simply transfer the mortgage to another 
property. 
Miss R also says that the adviser didnt assist her to port her mortgage by not putting her 
case forward to Halifax. The Quilter adviser doesnt recall a discussion about that. But Miss 
R recalls such a discussion as the adviser was arranging a joint mortgage between Miss R 
and a relative as the adviser told Miss R that she couldnt port the mortgage because of 
affordability. Although Miss R believes that it could have been possible, Ive no evidence to 
support Miss Rs view that she would have passed the affordability assessment. Miss R 
seems particularly annoyed that the adviser didnt press her lender on that point. Again, I 
dont know why that was as the adviser cant recall the discussion. It does seem to me that 
the decision whether to lend was up to the lender and if Miss R felt strongly at that point that 
the lender was unfairly refusing to allow her to port that she could have brought the matter 
directly to the attention of the lender. 
Miss R has been unable to buy another property with a suitable mortgage. That is 
unfortunate but the reason for that has to do with affordability rules of lenders not with 
Quilter. I note that Miss R had to pay an early repayment charge (ERC) but that this has 
since been refunded by the lender, so she doesnt appear to have suffered a loss by being 
unable to port her mortgage product.  In any case for the reasons set out above I cant fairly 
uphold this complaint.  
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman