DRN-2890994
The complaint
Mr Q complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc recorded two separate claims against his home
insurance policy for a leak to an underground pipe. He also complains that he was charged a
different policy excess for each claim.
What happened
Mr Q made a claim to AXA in August 2018 for damage to a drainage pipe. AXA accepted the
claim and appointed one of its specialist drainage contractors. It was discovered that tree
root ingress in the front garden had caused damage to the existing clay drain and that the
loading from the offending tree had caused a complete collapse of the inspection chamber
located on the front lawn. A rainwater goods pipe to the front righthand side of the house
was also blocked and identified to have collapsed. 
The drain on the front lawn was excavated, the damaged pipe removed, a replacement pipe
fitted and the site backfilled and re-turfed. Whilst removing some concrete around the
damaged drain the incoming water main was also damaged to which an isolated repair was
carried out. Prior to commencing the works, the contractor had collected a £500 policy
excess from Mr Q.
Mr Q then began to notice his water bills were higher than usual. He contacted his water
company which investigated and discovered that one of the newly replaced (water main)
pipes was damaged. Mr Q contacted AXA again and it sent out a different contractor to
investigate. The contractor collected a £350 excess from Mr Q and carried out the necessary
remedial works.
AXA recorded the second incident as a second claim. Mr Q complained to AXA. He said that
hed clearly been overcharged by £150 for the first policy excess. And he said that the
second claim should never have been treated as such because one of the second
contractors workmen had told him that the damage to the mains pipe was the result of the
negligence of the first contractor. Mr Q said he should never have been charged a second
excess.
AXA told Mr Q that it couldnt consider the second incident as a continuation of the first claim
because there was no firm evidence that the first contractor had been negligent. AXA said it
had sent an instruction to its recoveries team to try and recover his excess and losses from
the first contractor. AXA told Mr Q that the chances of a successful recovery were slim.
AXAs recovery team advised that it had reviewed the second contractors report and it
confirmed the 2019 damage had been caused accidentally. The recovery team said it could
find no evidence of any negligence by the first contractor and whilst it accepted it was a
coincidence that the two areas of damage were located in the same place, it couldnt base a
recovery on a coincidence.
AXA reviewed the second contractors report again and noted that at no point did it state that
the leak was due to the poor workmanship of the first contractor. It said itd spoken to the
second contractor that said that a brick or stone when the first contractor was backfilling had
likely caused the damage; AXA said this was accidental. AXA told Mr Q that, unfortunately
there was insufficient evidence of negligence by the first contractor to allow it to pursue it
further.
Mr Q didnt accept AXAs view. He said that the very fact his water bills increased after the
first contractor left the site was clear evidence of poor workmanship. He said he should not
have been required to pay a second excess to remedy poor workmanship from the first
claim.
Mr Q then brought his complaint to this service. As part of her investigation, our investigator
contacted the second contractor to ask it whether it could add anything else to its report. It
told her that it was unable to categorically state that a stone had pierced the pipe as part of
the reinstatement backfill from the first repair. Consequently, it said it could only conclude
that that the cause of damage to the pipe in 2019 was accidental.
Our investigator issued her findings and said there was no evidence which showed the work
from the first repair had been carried out negligently by the first contractor. So, our
investigator said she was satisfied that AXA had recorded both claims correctly. Our
investigator also said shed checked the issue of the two different excesses with AXA and it
had been able to show that the first claim was recorded as an escape of water claim for
which the policy excess was £500, and the second had been recorded as an accidental
damage claim for which the correct policy excess was £350. So our investigator didnt
recommend that the complaint was upheld.
Mr Q disagreed with our investigators findings. He said the second incident cant have been
the result of accidental damage because the pipe was located underground and nothing
could have been capable of damaging it accidentally. Mr Q said the only way the pipe
couldve been damaged is by being laid incorrectly or a negligent backfill. Mr Q said that
AXA shouldve had the first contractor return to site to remedy its defective workmanship but
when it didnt do so it shouldve chased the first contractor for the costs of instructing the
second. Mr Q did say he accepted what our investigator had said about the policy excesses.
Our investigator asked AXA why itd recorded the second claim as accidental damage if it
could fairly and reasonably be said that damage was caused by the failed first repair. AXA
replied to say that whilst the damage could be said to have been caused by a stone piercing
the pipework, its contractor had been unable to categorically state whether it had done so as
a result of the reinstatement following the first repair.
Having considered what both parties had said in response to her view, our investigator said
shed not been persuaded to change her mind.
The complaint was passed to me and I issued a provisional decision earlier this month 
recommending that the complaint was upheld. I made the following provisional findings:  
the second claim
I can appreciate why Mr Q believes the second claim should be a continuation of the first
claim and that he shouldnt have to pay a second excess or have a second claim logged
against his policy. Mr Q is of the view that the second incidence of damage was the result of
poor workmanship, or negligence, by the contractor who carried out the repair under the first
claim because his water bills increased (indicating a leak) and because the two areas of
damage were located in the same place.
Its my role to look at whether AXA has treated Mr Q fairly and reasonably in the way it dealt
with his second claim and, having taken all the circumstances into account, I dont think it
has. Ill explain why.Theres not a lot of evidence available to me about the exact nature of the first claim from
August 2018. There is a report that the first contractor appears to have produced on AXAs
behalf to assist it in responding to this complaint. That report is dated April 2021 and it
contains some photographs of the damaged drain, the exposed water mains pipe and the
repairs undertaken. It seems to me from that report that there were two areas of damage in
the 2018 claim. The first was to a drainage pipe underneath the front lawn caused by tree
root ingress which had also collapsed an inspection chamber. The second area of damage
was to the rain water goods drain to the right elevation at the front of the house. This drain
was also blocked and collapsed.
The mains water pipe also appears to run to the front of the house, near to the exposed and
damaged drains and inspection chamber. It seems that in the process of exposing and
repairing the two drains the incoming water main was damaged and an isolated repair was
necessary. From the photographs it appears a new section of pipe with a green sleeve or
coating was fitted using a connector at each end to securely fix it to the existing pipe.
The report from the contractor on the second claim in September 2019 confirms that there
was leak on the mains supply pipe. It doesnt seem to be in dispute that the second leak was
located on the same stretch of the water main supply pipe that had to be repaired alongside
the damaged drain a year before.
Mr Q has reported that his water bills increased following the first repair. That indicates there
was a leak. AXAs second contractor has said it was likely that the pipe was damaged by a
stone during the backfill. It thinks this was an accident so it recommended the claim was
considered under the accidental damage peril.
Given the location of the second leak and the fact Mr Qs water bills increased its
reasonable to think that the mains supply pipe was damaged when the hole was backfilled
after the first repair. And whilst the second contractor couldnt categorically say a stone
pierced the pipe during backfill on the first repair, it has said it thinks this is whats likely to
have happened. Put differently, on the balance of probabilities, given the location of the leak
and the immediate increase in the water bills, the mains supply pipe was likely damaged
during the backfill on the first repair.
I dont think that the first contractor did that deliberately or intentionally. It is, as AXA itself
has said, quite unfortunate. But there are ways of ensuring backfills are done so they dont
damage pipes and drains newly installed and something, however unfortunate, happened
here to pierce the mains supply pipe. That the pipe was pierced as a result of the
workmanship of the first contractor is not the fault of Mr Q. But for the way the hole was
backfilled the second claim would not have arisen.
Unfortunately for AXA the first repair failed. It has said that it was correct to set up a second
claim (rather than consider the damage Mr Q reported as a failed repair from the first claim)
because it didnt initially know what the cause was. But, having appointed a loss adjuster to
investigate and collected the policy excess, it shouldnt have continued on this basis once it
knew that the damage was located on the recently repaired water main pipe. I dont think
AXA gave enough weight to the fact Mr Qs water bills had gone up after the first repair
(thereby indicating a leak) or to the fact the leak was in exactly the same location. I think
AXA shouldve returned the second excess to Mr Q and removed the second claim from his
records.
AXA has said theres nothing in the second contractors report to indicate the damage was
caused by poor workmanship during the first repair. But the second contractor did tell our
investigator that it recorded the damage as accidental because it couldnt be categoricallysure that a stone pierced the pipe as part of the first contractors reinstatement. And it told
AXA that it though the damage to the pipe was an accident which is why it recorded it as
accidental damage. I dont necessarily think that was an inaccurate comment for the
contractor to have made; it thought the pipe had been accidentally pierced during the
backfilling process. But it follows that, even if accidentally pierced, it had to have been done
by the first contractor. That the second contractor couldnt categorically (by which its
reasonable to assume it means definitively) say what had happened doesnt absolve AXA
from the need to assess what, on the balance of probabilities, most likely happened (and
indeed the contractor said it was likely a stone had pierced the pipe on backfill).
It follows, for the reasons Ive given, that I dont think AXA has treated Mr Q fairly or
reasonably by treating the second incident as a second claim. I think it shouldve treated it
as a failed repair from the first claim.
the first claim
Further it seems to me that the first claim was incorrectly dealt with by AXA as an escape of
water claim. Ive reviewed the policy terms and conditions and escape of water claims relate
to indoor leaks. There is a separate peril under the buildings cover for damage caused by
tree roots. The first claim would appear to fall under this peril.
increased water usage
Mr Q has said he faced increased water bills following the first repair. Providing he is able to
evidence this (by producing the necessary water bills to AXA) I think AXA should pay him for
the water he used above and beyond his normal annual usage from the date the first repair
was completed to the date the second repair was completed. Thats because the leak wasnt
Mr Qs fault and he wouldnt have had to pay as much to his water company if the repair to
the mains pipe hadnt failed.
the policy excesses
As I think AXA should never have recorded the second claim as such, it follows that it
shouldve returned Mr Qs £350 excess to him. I think it needs to do so now with interest at
this services usual rate.
I can see that Mr Qs policy years run from 26 August to 25 August. The first claim was
reported by Mr Q in early to mid-August 2018. This means it fell within the 2017/2018 policy
year. AXA has provided us with a screen shot of its system that shows the buildings excess
for the 2017/2018 policy year was indeed £500 for buildings claims so Im satisfied that the
correct excess was charged to Mr Q in August 2018.
compensation
All insurance claims come with a certain degree of distress and inconvenience; thats to be
expected. But where an insurer, through its words or deeds, makes an already stressful
situation worse, this service can require it to pay compensation to the policyholder. I think
that AXA has put Mr Q to some avoidable trouble by the way it treated the second incident
he reported as a second claim for which I think it should pay him compensation of £150.
Mr Q replied and said he was grateful for my provisional decision. He also said the water 
company had reimbursed him already for his excess water bills so he had no claim to make 
against AXA for those. Mr Q also said that, whilst he didnt wish to appear ungrateful, he 
didnt think Id recommended AXA pay enough compensation given the trouble and distress 
itd put him through in the last 2 years. He also said such a sum was insignificant for such a large company like AXA and wouldnt cause it to revaluate and reassess the way it treats its 
customers. 
Mr Q said too that AXAs decision to record two expensive claims against his record meant 
he was unable to obtain insurance elsewhere so he had no choice but to remain with AXA. 
He said AXA had charged him double the premium last year compared to the previous policy 
year. So, he said, he wanted me to think again about the compensation award and asked 
that I add to it the premium increase  of £338.08  hed had to pay because of the claims. 
AXA replied to say it accepted my provisional decision. 
The complaint was returned to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given what Mr Q has said in response to my provisional decision about his water bills, I no 
longer require AXA to reimburse him for any excess water costs he paid above and beyond 
what he typically used as result of the leak to his mains supply pipe. 
Whilst Ive noted Mr Qs comments about the amount of compensation he should fairly be 
awarded, theyve not persuaded me to change my view from what I set out in my provisional 
decision. This service is not the industry regulator. That means we are not here to fine or 
punish businesses or investigate their business practices  thats the role of the Financial 
Conduct Authority. We are here to look at individual consumer complaints. So when making 
an award of compensation we look at what effect the business actions have had on the 
individual consumer concerned. We dont make punitive awards but rather we have regard 
to our general approach to compensation awards taking all the circumstances of a complaint 
into account. 
And having done so for Mr Q, I remain of the view that requiring AXA to pay him 
compensation of £150 is fair and reasonable for the trouble and upset it caused him. In 
considering how much to fairly award Mr Q Ive had regard to this services approach to such 
awards and Im satisfied that this amount is in line with awards we have made in complaints 
with similar circumstances. 
And whilst I note Mr Qs comments about the increase in the premium he found he had to 
pay, thats not something I can take into account when considering what compensation to 
award him; thats because I cant see that hes yet raised that issue with AXA. Should Mr Q 
remain unhappy about what he was charged by AXA for his home insurance following the 
claim(s) he made, then he should approach it in the first instance to raise a complaint. AXA 
has to be given the opportunity to first investigate Mr Qs concerns before they can be 
referred to this service to consider. 
Putting things right
For the reasons I gave provisionally, and those raised since and addressed by me above, 
Im satisfied that this is a complaint that should be upheld. As I think that AXA has unfairly 
recorded the September 2019 incident as a second claim when it shouldve dealt with it as 
a failed repair from the first claim, I think it should remove all record of the second claim from 
both its internal, and any external, claims databases.
AXA should also amend its internal, and any external, claims databases to reflect the correctcategorisation of the first claim.
AXA should return the second excess of £350 it collected from Mr Q, together with interest at
this services usual rate of 8% simple per year, from the date it collected the excess to the
date it refunds it.
Finally, for the reasons Ive given above, I think that AXA should pay compensation of £150
to Mr Q for the trouble and upset its handling of the second claim has caused him.
If AXA Insurance UK Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr Q how much its taken off. It should also give
Mr Q a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to take the 
steps Ive set out above under the putting things right section.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman