DRN-1209691
The complaint
 Mrs D is unhappy with the way Santander UK Plc handled her chargeback request.
What happened
In September 2019 Mrs D booked a return flight with a flight operator which cost her around 
£420. Before she was able to use the flights, the flight operator ceased trading. As Mrs D 
bought the flights using her debit card - linked to her Santander bank account - she 
contacted Santander and made a chargeback request.
On 24 September 2019 Santander promptly sent her a disclaimer to complete, sign and 
return. The covering letter also asked her to provide all relevant documents to support her 
chargeback request. It provided a pre-paid envelope for her to use.
Mrs D signed the disclaimer and answered the questions on the form, which included 
providing details of the booking reference and flight details. Santander received this on 
4 October 2019 and wrote to Mrs D five days later, on 9 October 2019, saying it needed 
more information from her - namely the detailed booking confirmation for the flights shed 
bought. 
Mrs D signed an updated disclaimer on 17 October 2019 and sent this back to Santander 
along with the documents it had requested. And on 25 October 2019 Santander notified 
Mrs D that it would now investigate the claim with the retailer and her account would be 
credited an amount equivalent to the costs of the flights. 
Mrs D is unhappy that Santander didnt make clear which documents it required from her 
when writing to her on 24 September 2019. Shes also unhappy that she was required to 
send hard copies of the detailed booking confirmation, and she wasnt able to send the 
documents to Santander by email.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ds complaint; he didnt think Santander had done 
anything wrong. Mrs D disagreed so her complaint has now been passed to me to look at 
everything afresh and make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not going to 
uphold it. I know Mrs D will be very unhappy with my decision but hopefully shell understand 
my reasons for doing so when I explain why.
Im satisfied Santanders letter dated 24 September 2019 clearly notified Mrs D that she 
should send copies of all relevant documents in support of her chargeback request. Although 
it didnt expressly say that this should include the actual booking confirmation for her flights, 
given the questions that were on the disclaimer which she signed, Im satisfied that it was 
reasonably apparent that a document confirming full details of the booking (as opposed to just the booking reference) was an important and relevant supporting document in this case. 
It showed when the flights had been purchased, the dates of intended travel and that Mrs D 
had paid for the flights. The disclaimer also states that Mrs D should include documents 
such as an order form or invoice to support her charge back request. 
Chargeback claims are processed by the card issuer and Santander is required to follow 
certain processes when providing information to the card issuer when raising a charge back 
request on behalf of customers. Santanders process requires the signed disclaimer and 
supporting documents to be sent back to them by post. 
Mrs D says she had surgery on her feet on 10 October 2019, she wasnt mobile and as 
such, she wasnt able to leave her home to post the necessary information to Santander. 
She also says she didnt have a printer. Ive listened to the calls she had with Santander 
around 17 October 2019 when she explained this to them, and shes very clearly angered by 
the situation. However, she does confirm that she has support from other people. So, in this 
particular case, I dont think Santander has acted unreasonably by having asked Mrs D to 
provide hard copies of supporting documents by post  and it looks like Santander received 
the documents back from her soon after.
When making this finding, Ive taken into account all of Mrs Ds other comments including 
what she says about her partners chargeback request  which hed raised with a different 
bank  being dealt far quicker than her request. However, its not uncommon for different 
banks to have different processes and Ive looked at the individual circumstances of this 
complaint to see whether Santander has done anything wrong. And for the reasons above, I 
dont think its acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mrs D to accept or reject my decision before 19 February 2020.
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman