DRN-3920740
The complaint
Mrs B says Origen Financial Services Limited (OFS) was responsible for failing to execute 
the advice it gave her to transfer her pension provisions into a Self-invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP), purchase a fixed term annuity and invest residual funds according to her 
risk attitude. She says this caused her financial detriment, stress and inconvenience.
What happened
Broadly, the background to Mrs Bs complaint is not a matter of dispute between the parties.
Mrs B requested advice about her defined benefit (DB) and defined contribution (DC) 
pensions. OFS gathered information about her circumstances, objectives and appetite for 
risk in January 2021.
Mrs B was said to be looking to move and require an injection of cash to purchase a new 
home. Her current property was valued at £220,000 and was unencumbered. She was 
looking to purchase a property valued at £400,000. In addition to the purchase price she 
anticipated associated legal/moving costs of £30,000.
Mrs B was also recorded as requiring a pension income of £1,000 per month from around 
September 2021. She says OFS knew that she wanted this income as soon as possible. 
From her residual funds she wanted a combination of capital growth and income with the 
aim of returns beating inflation.
OFS issued a suitability report to Mrs B with its recommendations dated 20 April 2021. 
Amongst other matters it said:
I have recommended that you transfer and take benefits now from the [DB scheme] for the 
following reasons:
-I believe that your objectives would be better met if you transfer your benefits 
from [your DB] scheme to a Flexi-access drawdown policy [with Aegon] and take 
a fixed term annuity [with Legal & General] for 11 years and 10 months to provide 
£12,000 income to age 67.
-You are planning to take the maximum tax free cash in order to assist with your 
house move and also require £12,000 income per annum, by transferring you can 
meet both of these objectives.
-A Flexi-access drawdown allows you the flexibility to draw as much, or as little, 
income as you need from your pension. You have full flexibility on this; you could 
draw the entire fund as a lump sum (with 75% subject to income tax) or could 
take no income at all.
-A level Fixed Term annuity will provide you with £12,000 per annum for 11 years 
and 10 months enabling your income requirements to be met [142 payments].
-You are not concerned about inflationary increases, so a level annuity has been 
recommended at a purchase cost of £130,847.07
-You are a moderately cautious risk investor and having a money purchase 
pension fund you are familiar with the rises and falls in the value of assets over 
time. You also confirmed that to meet your objectives you are happy to accept 
that the transferred funds will fluctuate in value in line with your chosen 
underlying investments.
-the tax free cash of £64,522.27 offered by the scheme, however by transferring 
this defined benefit pension and the attached Afterwork account the tax free cash 
is increased to £171,423.97, which is £106,901.70 higher; this will assist with 
your house purchase whereas if you took the scheme benefits you would have to 
deplete your savings considerably.
-By taking the income now from the scheme you will receive £9,678.34 per 
annum, this is lower than the £1,000 per month you require, by taking a fixed 
term annuity you will receive £12,000 to state pension age, at which point any 
shortfall can be met from the flexibility in the pension...
Mrs B accepted OFSs recommendations, and on 21 June 2021 her pension funds were 
transferred to her new provider Aegon. Unfortunately there were problems implementing 
what OFS had recommended and on 14 September 2021 it informed her it was unable to set 
up the fixed annuity product with Legal & General (L&G). On 5 October 2021 it wrote to her 
with an addendum to its original suitability report explaining:
I am unable to complete our original advice due to the entire pension being crystallised at 
Aegon and you were unable to return the tax free cash to unwind the process as you have 
committed to buying a caravan with the majority of the cash in October.
I have therefore sourced an alternative provider [LV] who will provide the fixed term annuity 
and SIPP as per my original recommendations, however with a new provider and with a 
slight difference in funds.
You have confirmed that there have been no changes to your circumstances or objectives 
since the previous report was produced.
OFSs revised recommendations gave rise to a number of consequential impacts. The cost 
of the fixed annuity product changed. The number of payments to be made under the 
contract was reduced. In addition, one of the four funds it had originally recommended for 
the investment of her residual funds wasnt available through the new provider and so an 
alternative was recommended. And the fees to be paid by Mrs B also changed.
Mrs B accepted OFSs revised recommendations. But she wanted assurances that this 
wouldnt place her in a worse position than had it been able to implement what she originally 
agreed to.
On 21 October 2021 Aegon confirmed Mrs Bs pension funds had been disinvested and it 
sent these to LV on 2 November 2021. These were re-invested by LV on 15 November 
2021. On 17 December 2021 Mrs B received her first monthly income payment of £1,000 for 
her LV annuity.
Mrs B raised a complaint with OFS about what had happened. It responded to her in 
October 2021, acknowledging how things had gone wrong, it said:
It is clear from my review that in order to establish the required advice a comprehensive 
initial research process was undertaken by Origens Paraplanning department. However, 
unfortunately during this process an individual error was made in the assumption that L&G 
would allow the purchase of their fixed term annuity following the full crystallisation of your 
pension funds.Unfortunately following the initial transfer of your pensions it was identified that L&G would 
only allow this type of fix term annuity to be purchased from uncrystallised pension funds. As 
stated above L&Gs position on the annuity purchase was not adequately checked prior to its 
inclusion in the initial advice provided to you.
OFS apologised. It agreed to pay her the difference between the cost of the original annuity 
product and what was actually purchased. And it offered to pay her £6,000 to cover what it 
said was the period of delay in having the regular income in place, to which it added interest.
Mrs B considered OFSs offer derisory and she brought her case to this Service.
An Investigator considered Mrs Bs complaint and upheld it. She thought that although 
OFSs offer was reasonable in most respects, it needed to do more to address her concerns 
about the effect of having to move her funds from Aegon to LV. She also considered it 
should make a payment to recognise the trouble and upset it had caused her.
The Investigator noted OFSs argument that because Mrs Bs annuity product hadnt been 
arranged on time, the funds to purchase this remained within her SIPP earning returns. It 
hadnt taken this into account, but this should now be considered in the overall loss 
calculations. In effect allowing it to offset any investment gain against the underpayment of 
her annuity. The Investigator agreed this would be fair.
Mrs B wanted to see all the calculations set out before agreeing to a settlement. OFS said 
that agreeing the redress principles and methodology were what mattered and the 
calculations would flow from that.
As both parties couldnt agree with the Investigators view, Mrs Bs complaint was passed to 
me to review afresh. I issued my provisional decision in January 2023. Im grateful to both 
parties for their further submissions, which Ive taken into account in arriving at this final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mrs Bs complaint. 
Both parties are agreed about the background to her case and OFS has accepted it got 
things wrong. What matters now is ensuring fair redress.
Putting things right
Mrs B needs to be returned to the position shed have been in now, or as close as 
reasonably possible, had it not been for OFSs failings.The effect on Mrs B of OFS not being able to implement its recommendations meant that 
there was a delay in her receiving her regular pension payment of £1,000. The provider of 
her annuity product had to be changed  and this meant the price of the contract and term 
altered. In addition she had to move to a different SIPP provider, which entailed a different 
fee structure and a change of investment funds.
A change in the annuity type product
There were a number of ambiguities in the information provided by OFS about both the initial 
L&G annuity type product and the LV replacement recommended. It has now provided me 
with further evidence about these. In particular, the start and end dates for the respective 
products; the number of instalments provided for by each contract; and the actual cost of 
each product.
Confusion here has arisen for a number of reasons. For example, the figures quoted in 
OFSs final response letter to Mrs B were incorrect. More substantively, her situation was 
necessarily dynamic. For example, the suitability report OFS delivered on 20 April 2021 said 
the cost of the L&G annuity would be £130,847. It said the contract would run for 11 years 
and 10 months. What it failed to explain to her was that these details were not fixed, they 
were based on a quote from 4 April 2021. 
Reasonably, L&Gs offer was subject to change depending on the timing of when the deal 
was done (or in this case could reasonably have been so, had things gone according to the 
original plan). Mrs Bs funds were transferred and available from 21 June 2021, so the 
equivalent quote Ive seen from L&G dated 7 July is a reasonable comparator to use with the 
LV policy which was actually bought.
So, the cost of the L&G annuity type product at the relevant date was £128,430. The 
effective cost of the LV equivalent was £129,681 (this includes the cost of a quasi annuity 
payment for November 2021, which Ill return to later). So, on a pure cost basis the new 
arrangement was more expensive.
Origen Financial Services Limited needs to compensate Mrs B for the price difference 
between the cost of the relevant L&G contract available and the effective cost of the 
replacement contract with LV. To this sum, OFS must add 8% simple annual interest, from 
the date when the contract was purchased until the date of my decision.
According to the suitability report from April 2021, Mrs Bs target start date for the annuity 
payments was September 2021. The actual start date was November 2021 -so a delay of 
two months. But her pension funds were transferred and available from June 2021, so OFS 
appears to have assumed this shouldve been the start date for the annuity  hence its 
original offer of 6 months backdated income. This fits with Mrs Bs recollection that she 
wanted the annuity to start as soon as possible.
But, as Ive established, we need to work from the relevant L&G contract quote based on 
what wouldve been available at the date Mrs Bs funds were available after transfer. This 
was due to run for 139 months (11 years and 7 months). The purpose of the annuity was to 
cover an income gap until she received the state pension when she turned 67. At the time of 
the transfer of her funds she was 55 years and 5 months old. The annuity was level 
meaning that it wasnt adjusted for inflation. This meant the contract provided for payments 
over the term of £139,000.
The LV contract began in November 2021, with the first quasi payment being made. It was 
also due to run until Mrs B reached 67, with a final monthly payment due in March 2033. That would yield 135 payments, or £135,000  an underpayment against the relevant 
comparable L&G contract of £4,000.
Origen Financial Services Limited needs to compensate Mrs B for any loss of income from 
the annuity contract when comparing what she signed up for initially with L&G, from the 
relevant date, compared to the effective replacement contract with LV. To this sum, OFS 
must add 8% simple annual interest, from the date when the income instalments shouldve 
been paid to her until the date of my decision.
A change in the SIPP provider
The change of SIPP provider from Aegon to LV came with changes to the fees structure. In 
particular it seems the latter required that OFSs ongoing advice fees be applied to the 
annuity product as well as the funds under investment. That had not been the position with 
the L&G proposal. I think its fair to say its attempts to explain the position were vague. 
Indeed in its initial final response letter to Mrs B it didnt acknowledge an issue here. And its 
follow-up letter dated 25 October 2021 wasnt clear.
Origen Financial Services Limited did provide the Investigator with a more fulsome 
breakdown, which she shared with Mrs B in the following terms:
Origen have confirmed that due to the discounts provided by LV, both the platform and 
investment charges are lower than those that would have been implemented by Aegon. 
Theyve explained there is a reduction in charges of approximately £597 per year. Theyve 
provided the calculations which show that Mrs B isnt paying any more charges now shes 
transferred to LV:
Original advice  Aegon/Legal & General
Both parts of [occupational DB and DC] pensions - £685,695.86
Standard Life Group Stakeholders pension - £15,290.87
Total fund value = £700,986.73
Transfer to:
Aegon Flexi-access drawdown via a SIPP = £700,986.73
Purchase L&G fixed term annuity = £130,874.07 (from SIPP value)
Tax free cash to be taken = £175,246.68 (maximum 25%)
Potential advice fee payment of £10,000
Remaining SIPP value = £384,465.98
It was agreed with the client a 0.5% on going advice fee which based on the SIPP value only 
which would be £394,465.98 x 0.5% = £1,972.33.
In addition an aggregated total recurring charge of 1.34% on the SIPP fund value would be 
£394,465.98 x 1.34% = £5,285.84
Therefore total charges = £7,258.17
Addendum advice  LV
Both parts of [occupational DB and DC] - £686,869.96
Standard Life Group Stakeholders Pension - £15,819.72
Total = £702,689.68
Transfer to:LV Flexi-access Drawdown via a SIPP = £702,689.68
Purchase LV fixed term annuity to provide £12k PA income - £131,034.54.
Tax free paid = £175,673.16 (maximum 25%)  Additional £426.48 paid.
Advice fee payment - £10,000
Remaining SIPP value and Fixed term annuity of £385,981.98 +£131,034.54 = £517,016.52
As LV take an Adviser charge on the whole fund including the annuity we have reduced the 
adviser charge to 0.37% which based on the SIPP/Annuity value would be 
£517,016.52 x 0.37% = £1,912.96
In addition an aggregated total recurring charge of 1.23% only on the SIPP fund value would 
be £385,981.98 x 1.23% = £4,747.57
Therefore total charges = £6,660.52
It seems clear therefore that the arrangements put in place by OFS with LV will result in 
lower ongoing charges. No further comments have been received about this element of Mrs 
Bs complaint, so there is no further action required here.
A change in the investment funds
The change in SIPP provider from Aegon to LV impacted on the funds available to Mrs B to 
invest her residual pension funds. Three of the four funds OFS had originally recommended 
were available through the new platform, but one wasnt and an alternative was 
recommended, which was consistent with her risk appetite.
Mrs B has questioned whether the original fund selected performed better than the 
replacement fund. Id simply note that the funds appear to have been similar in terms of 
exposure to risk given her moderately cautious outlook. And I dont think the change 
impacted on the overall balance of her portfolio.
That said, I do think theres merit in her argument that she was out of the market while her 
funds were dis-invested with Aegon and then transferred to LV. And that this had been a 
consequence of OFSs failings. She shouldnt be penalised for any investment loss.
I also accept OFSs argument that had the transaction proceeded as it shouldve, the funds 
invested through her Aegon SIPP wouldve been reduced. Thats because the funds to 
purchase the annuity type product wouldve been paid over. Because of the delay in 
effecting that arrangement, her SIPP produced investment returns on that element of her 
funds.
So, Origen Financial Services Limited needs to find the notional value of Mrs Bs SIPP, 
excluding the actual cost of the annuity type product from 21 June when funds were 
available for its purchase, assuming the residual money remained invested in the four funds 
it originally recommended, from when the funds were invested by Aegon, and then assume 
for the three funds which were still available via LV thered been no need to dis-invest and 
then reinvest. And for the fourth fund assume a same day switch on 21 October 2021 into 
the newly recommended fund. This will be value A.
OFS should then compare this with the value of Mrs Bs current SIPP (making any 
necessary adjustments for withdrawals or additional contributions on the dates which these 
occurred). It can also make the adjustment Ive mentioned concerning the timing of the 
purchase of her annuity and any returns to that sum. The adjusted, as appropriate, like for 
like comparison will be value B.If value A exceeds value B, Mrs B has suffered a loss which OFS needs to make good. 
Conversely, if value B exceeds value A there hasnt been a loss on this element of the 
transaction.
The November 2021 payment to Mrs B from her SIPP
Since her complaint has been with this Service, Mrs B has raised a concern that she 
received a payment of £1,000 on 17 November 2021 which she understands was made via 
a withdrawal from her residual SIPP funds, reducing what was available for investment.
The Investigator thought as this was a new complaint point she would need to raise the 
matter first with OFS. I suggested as the issue was relevant to Mrs Bs complaint, to reduce 
costs for OFS and to cut down on inconvenience for Mrs B, we dealt with this matter now.
Origen Financial Services Limited has now confirmed Mrs Bs understanding that £1,000 
was held over from her investment funds. It says the LV contract couldnt be implemented 
until December 2021, and it was acutely aware shed already gone without promised income 
payments for some months. So £1,000 was held to enable a quasi annuity payment for 
November 2021.
Im satisfied that the effect of this has been taken into account in the redress Ive provided 
for under the previous section changes in the annuity type product. Thats because the 
£1,000 outlay has been added to the actual cost of the LV contract to enable a like for like 
comparison.
Distress and inconvenience
When Im considering a complaint like Mrs Bs, I think about whether its fair to award 
compensation where failings have occurred, separate from pure financial loss. This isnt 
intended to fine or punish a business  which is the job of the regulator. But when 
somethings gone wrong, recognition of the emotional and practical impact can make a real 
difference.
Were all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives  and in our dealings with other 
people, businesses and organisations. When thinking about compensation, I need to decide 
that the impact of Origen Financial Services Limiteds actions was greater than just a minor 
inconvenience or upset. Its clear to me that this was the case here.
Mrs B was looking to put her retirement arrangements in place. OFSs failings meant she 
experienced uncertainty and inconvenience over a period of several months. Ive also found 
when communicating with Mrs B about putting things right, it wasnt as clear and fulsome as 
it shouldve been. 
Origen Financial Services Limited needs to pay Mrs B £300 in recognition of the things its 
got wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Mrs Bs complaint. As such, I require 
Origen Financial Services Limited to put things right in the way Ive outlined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023. 
Kevin WilliamsonOmbudsman