DRN-3567918
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Barclaycard (Barclaycard) defaulted and closed her account.
What happened
Mrs B had a Barclaycard. In February 2020, the limit was £12,750 and the statement 
balance was £5,710. Minimum contractual monthly payments were around £130-£140. In 
March 2020, Mrs B asked for a payment holiday due to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Barclaycard agreed to this for two months  to 31 May 2020. No payments were therefore 
made by Mrs B in April 2020 and May 2020. Mrs Bs statement dated 16 June 2020 
required a minimum payment of £157.29 by 15 July 2020 and this wasnt paid; the 
statement dated 16 July 2020 requited a payment of £321.97 by 17 August 2020 and this 
wasnt paid by that date. The statement dated 18 August 2020 asked for a payment of 
£482.51 by 15 September 2020  and this amount was paid on 1 September 2020.
Barclaycard sent a Notice of Default on 11 July 2020 and on 21 September 2020, wrote to 
Mrs B to say a default had been registered. Mrs Bs account was closed and passed to a 
debt collection agency.
Mrs B complained. She said she thought she had a three-month payment holiday. She said 
she then missed a payment and called Barclaycard who offered a one month breathing 
space. And in September 2020, she paid off the arrears by when she was asked to. She 
said she was devastated to receive a letter of default on 21 September 2020  when the 
arrears had been fully paid. Her account was defaulted  after years of never missing a 
payment. And then  the debt was transferred to a debt collection agency and her card 
account was closed, which she said was unfair.
In their final response, Barclaycard said theyd sent letters in July 2020 and September 2020 
to say Mrs Bs account was in arrears and that the account was then defaulted and closed in 
line with their policy. The default had been reported to the credit reference agencies -they 
had to record accurate information. They apologised that Mrs B couldnt get through to 
speak to them on several occasions  and for that, offered compensation of £25.
Mrs B brought her complaint to us. Our investigator asked questions of Barclaycard, who 
investigated Mrs Bs complaint again. They concluded that the default wasnt fairly applied 
and agreed to remove it; but said the closure of the account should remain in place as it 
had been closed in line with policy. They said that on 17 July 2020, Mrs B had completed 
an income and expenditure process on the phone, and this showed that expenditure was 
more than income  therefore theyd offer her a zero offer plan  whereby they agree to a 
60 day hold on the account, by which time the arrears should be paid off. If, in that time, 
this wasnt done  then a default was to be registered. Barclaycard said they closed the 
account because of the negative income and expenditure position that Mrs B showed when 
she called them. This was in line with their policy. Barclaycard agreed to remove the 
default and offered to pay compensation of £150. But said that the closure of Mrs Bs 
account should remain in place  if Mrs B wanted to have an active account again, she 
could apply in six months time.
In the light of this new information, our investigator said that Mrs Bs complaint should be 
upheld, the default removed, and compensation of £150 paid  in addition to Barclaycards 
original offer of £25. Mrs Bs account should remain closed, but statements generated and 
payments towards the debt made by Mrs B.
Mrs B asked if her account could be reopened with a card  so she could use it. It didnt 
seem fair that after Barclaycard had made mistakes that she had to beg for a card again.
She asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
Mrs B applied for a payment holiday under the pandemic support scheme. In April 2020, 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) announced guidance to lenders in response to the 
effects on customers of the COVID-19 pandemic. All lenders, including Barclaycard, had to 
put in place payment holidays on many credit agreements, including credit cards  to help 
customers who were affected. Customers could ask for a total of two payment holidays 
each of three months  whereby payments could be suspended. Missed payments would 
not be reported to credit reference agencies, although interest would still be debited to the 
accounts. This support was provided by firms up to the end of October 2020.
Mrs B says she thought she was given a three-month payment holiday  which would have 
meant she didnt have to make any payments in April 2020, May 2020, or June 2020. But  
Barclaycard say that she as given a two-month payment holiday up to 31 May 2020  and 
thats what I can see was marked in their records. And, consistent with this, Mrs Bs 
statements dated 20 April 2020 and 19 May 2020  said that no payments needed to be 
made. But the statement dated 16 June 2020 asked for a minimum payment of £157.29 by 
17 July 2020  which Mrs B didnt make.
We asked Barclaycard for the letters, texts or any other communications that were sent to 
Mrs B when the payment holiday was set up  and when it was about to end. 
Unfortunately, Barclaycard couldnt show us if anything was sent to Mrs B. And  the 
internal customer notes Ive seen also dont say anything about the payment holiday and its 
terms. Neither could Barclaycard evidence any calls about it. So, on that basis  Im 
persuaded to accept Mrs Bs version of events - that she asked for a three-month payment 
holiday  and thought that was what had been agreed. Therefore, she wouldve thought 
she didnt need to make a payment in respect of the June 2020 statement. Although on the 
other hand, the statement did say that a payment was needed. So  there was at least 
some confusion here.
I can see she didnt make the payment due by 15 July 2020  but then called Barclaycard 
on 17 July 2020 and completed an income and expenditure form on the phone. 
Barclaycard say this showed that expenditure was more than income  and therefore 
placed her on a 60 day zero offer plan  which they told us that arrears had to be repaid 
within 60 days, and if they werent then the account would be defaulted. Ive looked at the 
notes of that call  and they say that Mrs B couldnt afford the repayments. But in a later 
call, in September 2020, the notes then record that there was confusion on the prior July 
2020 call - as Mrs B was on maternity leave and was to return to work in September 2020. 
And I reviewed the notes of the call on 17 July 2020  and there arent any figures noted 
down about Mrs Bs income and expenditure. So  its not clear to me on what basis 
Barclaycard made their zero offer decision. We asked them for any letters sent to Mrs B 
about the zero offer and its terms - and there arent any. Neither is there a recording of 
the call on 17 July 2020. So, its not clear that the terms of the zero offer were explained 
to Mrs B, or understood.On 17 July 2020, Barclaycard sent Mrs B a Notice of Default. This said she needed to 
bring her account up to date by 19 September 2020 by paying the minimum payments. 
Otherwise, a default would be registered. The letter says that Mrs Bs account and card 
was cancelled.
I then looked at Mrs Bs statements. That dated 16 June 2020 showed a payment of 
£157.29 was needed by 15 July 2020  this wasnt paid  but it may have been that Mrs B 
thought she was on a three-month payment holiday at that time. The statement dated 16 
July 2020  asked for a payment of £321.97 by 17 August 2020  which also wasnt paid  
as Mrs B was then on the zero-offer plan. The statement dated 18 August 2020 asked for 
payment of £482.51 by 15 September 2020  that is, two months arrears for June 2020 
and July 2020, plus the August 2020 payment. Mrs B paid this amount on 1 September 
2020, so clearing the arrears, and within the due date. And  this was paid within the 60-
day zero offer period  which expired 17 September 2020. And  she had settled the 
Notice of Default dated 17 July 2020. And so  she met Barclaycards contractual payment 
requirements on her account.
It was therefore unfortunate that Barclaycard then sent Mrs B a letter of default on 21 
September 2020  saying that the balance of £6,975 was due, a default had been 
registered and Mrs Bs cards had been cancelled and statements stopped. The letter said 
the debt may be passed to a debt collection agency. Given that Mrs B had made the 
payment on 1 September 2020  I can imagine how upsetting and stressful it must have 
been to receive this letter.
And so  the letter of default should not have been sent, nor the default registered. 
Barclaycard have recognised that and in discussion with us, agreed to remove it  and 
offered compensation of £150.
Turning to the cancellation of Mrs Bs account. Barclaycard say that because Mrs B said in 
her call  that she was struggling and had less income than expenditure, they cancelled her 
account  and so she couldnt use her card and could only make payments to it. Mrs B says 
thats unreasonable. And here, I think it comes down again to communications. In the call 
notes, theres no clear indication that this was explained to Mrs B. And theres confusion 
over whether she was receiving income or not. The call isnt available to listen to. And while 
the default notice dated 17 July 2020 does say you wont be able to use any cards on your 
account as theyre permanently cancelled  Mrs B did repay the arrears within the required 
timescale of the notice  and so it seems to me that it would be reasonable for Barclaycard 
to positively consider reissuing the card again. 
That said, we cant tell Barclaycard to do that  as it is down to their lending decision. And  
Mrs Bs circumstances will no doubt have changed over time, so I cant say what her salary, 
etc is now. But Im asking Barclaycard to consider Mrs Bs circumstances positively and 
review whether they can agree to her request  in the light of what happened in 2020. I note 
that it is now over 18 months since Mrs Bs complaint to Barclaycard  and they said theyd 
review her application after six months. So, Id ask Barclaycard to contact her again, invite 
Mrs B to apply and review her request. If a new card account is agreed with a suitable limit, 
the debt should be taken back from the debt collection agency and a normal customer 
relationship re-established.
Turning to the other remedies. Barclaycard must remove the default from Mrs Bs credit 
file. On the matter of compensation  I think this should be increased. Mrs B will have 
found it difficult to get credit since the default. And, to receive the default letter  when she 
had paid what was needed  must have been stressful and upsetting. Furthermore  
Barclaycards final response didnt deal with her complaint particularly well, as it simply 
said that her account had been dealt with within their policy. It would have been reasonable for Barclaycard to have dealt with these matters in November 2020  after Mrs 
B complained but didnt. And so  I think that compensation should be increased to £250, 
to include the £25 that Barclaycard previously offered. This should be paid to either Mrs 
Bs bank account, or to her card account debt  and she should advise us of her 
preference when she responds to this provisional decision.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Mrs B said she didnt have an up to date balance as she hasnt been sent any statements  
and asked for one to be sent. Barclaycard agreed to remove the default from Mrs Bs credit 
file and pay the increased amount of compensation but said they couldnt re-open Mrs Bs 
account and give her a new card. But they would arrange to generate statements again, 
begin to charge interest and arrange a repayment programme with Mrs B. Barclaycard 
confirmed that the debt hasnt been sold to a debt collection agency, but passed to one to 
manage repayments.
I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Barclaycard have argued, which I consider is reasonable. And it also 
means that Mrs B will get statements again - and be able to properly agree a way forward 
with Barclaycard to repay the balance she owes  which she has said she is happy to do. 
But Mrs B should understand that this will also mean that interest will start to be charged 
again. The only thing she wont have is an active credit card from Barclaycard to use  but I 
assume that after the default has been removed (this can take up to three months to be 
deleted from her credit file)  then she can apply for  a card from another lender. 
Barclaycard told us that Mrs Bs balance on 1 July 2022 was £6772.20.
 
And so  I have slightly adjusted the remedies to reflect these points.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard must:
Pay compensation of £250 for stress and inconvenience. This to include the offer of
£25 previously made. In responding to this decision, Mrs B should advise how she 
would like this paid  to her bank account or in reduction of the Barclaycard debt.
Remove the default from Mrs Bs credit file.Reinstate the account to generate monthly statements and start to apply interest 
again.
Agree a mutually acceptable repayment programme with Mrs B.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman