DRN-1790766
 
The complaint
Miss H complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) declined her pet 
insurance claim. My references to LV include its agents.
What happened
Miss H has pet insurance for her dog which gives lifetime cover subject to the policy limits so 
long as the policy is in force. The insurer is LV. Miss H made a claim for her dogs 
dental/gingival lump on gum procedure.
LV declined the claim. The policy said dental treatment must be carried out within three 
months of the vets recommendation. LV said Miss Hs dogs vet notes showed the vet 
recommended a scale and polish in July 2017. The procedure wasnt carried out until 
September 2018, outside the three months period, so LV said there was no cover for the 
claim.
Miss H complained to us, represented by her father. She said when her dog had his annual 
check in 2017 the vet said her dog had a bit of plaque on his teeth but he needed to lose 
weight before he had a scale and polish otherwise having general anaesthetic could be 
dangerous. A year later she noticed her dog was dropping his food when eating so she took 
him back to the vet. Miss H said her vet had written to LV in support of her claim but it still 
wouldnt pay.
Our investigator thought LV had fairly declined the claim.
Miss H disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision.
My provisional decision
I made a provisional decision that I was intending to uphold the complaint. I said:
I have to decide whether LV fairly and reasonably declined the claim and I dont think it did. 
Im intending to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy covers:
dental treatment, including treatment for tooth or gum disease. Your pet must have had 
either a dental or an annual check-up within the previous 12 months and all routine and 
preventative treatment (including de-scaling and polishing teeth) has been done within 3 
months of your vets recommendation.
Miss Hs dogs vet notes of 10 July 2017 say still a little overweight. Tartar grade 2, rec 
scale and polish. So I understand why LV took 10 July 2017 as the date the vet made the 
recommendation for the dental.However, Miss H told LV that the dental wasnt done sooner because the vet said her dog 
was too overweight to undergo the general anaesthetic. I can see from LVs file that in 2019 
it spoke to the vet practice who said they couldnt confirm that was the case as it was over 
two years ago. LVs note of the conversation with the vet practice says the vet believed any 
advice about postponing the procedure would be in the notes.
Miss Hs vet did write to LV but that letter just said her dogs scale and polish procedure in 
September 2018 was medically necessary. The vet practice didnt confirm to LV that the 
dental was postponed in July 2017 because Miss Hs dog first needed to lose weight.
However, Ive had a look through the vet notes and later vet notes do support what Miss H 
says about the vet advising her dog needed to lose weight before he could safely have the 
procedure.
The vet notes of 5 July 2018 say Needs a dental. Do an estimate.- Overweight. Adv to 
reduce weight before doing the dental.
The dogs weight on 3 August 2018 is noted as being 29.3 kg, about the same as it was 
around the time of the July 2017 appointment (on 2 June 2017 his weight was noted as 
29kg).
The vet notes of 19 September 2018 say the dog was seen as he was dropping his food and 
Adv needs dental but not urgent - his teeth shouldn't cause issues with eating. Cont with 
diet a little longer as he is doing well with weight loss.
Looking at the overall evidence, the July 2017 vet notes say Miss Hs dog is still overweight. 
The July 2018 and September 2018 vet notes are evidence that the vet practise did advise 
Miss H her dog needed to lose weight before he had the dental procedure. As the dog was 
about the same weight in July 2017 and July 2018 I think its more likely than not that Miss H 
was told by the vet in July 2017 that her dog needed to lose weight before he had the dental 
procedure.
In the circumstances I dont think its fair and reasonable for LV to say the procedure had to 
be done within 3 months of July 2017 to be covered. Miss H acted reasonably in following 
the vet advice for her dog to lose weight before he underwent the procedure.
LV must pay the claim subject to the policy limit and excesses detailed under the policy. If 
Miss H has already paid the vet fees claimed for LV must add interest as Ive detailed 
below.
Responses to my provisional decision
Both LV and Miss H accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accept my provisional decision Ive no reason to change my mind. For the 
reasons Ive given in my provisional findings I uphold this complaint. 
Putting things rightLV must pay the claim subject to the policy limit and excesses detailed under the policy. If 
Miss H has already paid the vet fees claimed for LV must add interest as Ive detailed below.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to pay the claim subject to the policy 
limit and excesses detailed under the policy. If Miss H has already paid the vet fees claimed 
for Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited must add interest* at 8% a year simple 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
*If Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue 
& Customs to take off income tax from that interest it should tell Miss H how much its taken 
off. It should also give Miss H a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 June 2020.
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman