DRN-2859647
The complaint
Miss L is unhappy because Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) did not reimburse the money she 
transferred to a fraudster.
What happened
Miss L says that she invested in Forex trading some years ago when she invested £100 and 
received a return of around £1,000 a few days to a week later. She didnt have a strategy 
and considers she was just lucky to have made this profit. In December 2019 Miss L was 
thinking about trading again but wished to learn strategies rather than just trying her luck. 
At the same time, she saw someone Ill call Mr K on Twitter and contacted him via social 
media. Mr K told Miss L he was a trader and could help her to learn how to trade and invest 
for her. Miss L says she asked Mr K for further information and he told her that shed receive 
a full refund if she wasnt happy or didnt receive a return on her investment. Miss L 
continued to communicate with Mr K by phone and on social media and says he was very 
knowledgeable and knew trading strategies and language. 
Miss L says she recognised Mr K from a well-known television programme and trusted him 
as a result. He was also active on several other social media platforms. This gave Miss L 
confidence and she decided to make the following payments to Mr K using her mobile app:
Date Amount
28/12/19 £200
28/12/19 £200
28/12/19 £200
30/12/19 £200
31/12/19 £200
Total £1,000
Miss L has explained the payments covered things like a course fee, trading software Mr K 
said he would need to install and the funding of an investment. Mr K told Miss L that if she 
invested £200, shed receive a return of £2,100 within two hours. 
Miss L says that she found out she was the victim of a scam when she asked Mr K for a 
refund. Mr K told her he would arrange a refund through an e-money provider, but Miss L 
would need to pay money first for the refund to go through. Miss L contacted the e-money 
provider and was told it was a scam. Mr K then blocked Miss L on social media and 
disappeared.
Monzo isnt a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
CRM Code (the CRM Code) but has explained that it is committed to applying the principles 
set out in it. The Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
APP scams in all but a limited number of circumstances.  Monzo says one or more of those 
exceptions applies in this case. It says Miss L made the payments without having a 
reasonable basis for believing they were genuine payments. In particular, Monzo says Miss 
L ought to have done more checks to make sure the payee was legitimate. 
The investigator who considered Miss Ls case initially upheld it but after considering 
Monzos response she felt Monzo acted reasonably in deciding not to refund Miss L under 
the CRM Code. Miss L didnt accept what the investigator said and asked for a final decision, 
so the case has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether Monzo 
should have reimbursed Miss L under the provisions of the CRM Code and whether it ought 
to have done more to protect Miss L from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Theres no dispute here that Miss L was tricked into making the payments. She thought she 
would learn some trading strategies and make a return on an investment but transferred 
funds to a fraudulent third party. But this isnt enough for Miss L to receive a refund of the 
money under the CRM Code. The Code places a level of care on Miss L too. 
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that*: 
 The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by failing to 
take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning
 The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine 
goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
 The customer has been grossly negligent 
*The two further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code do not apply to this case. 
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics of Miss 
L and the complexity of the scam, I think the concerns Monzo has raised about the 
legitimacy of the transactions Miss L made are enough to support its position that she failed 
to meet her requisite level of care under the CRM Code for the payments she made. I dont 
think she had a reasonable basis for believing the payments were for a genuine investment 
or coaching and the person she transacted with was legitimate. Ill explain why. 
- Mr K told Miss L shed receive a return of £2,100 in two hours after investing £200. 
Such a rate of return is too good to be true. Miss L has explained that shed invested 
in Forex some years before and made a good profit, but she hasnt provided any 
evidence of this and the returns were made in a period of days to a week rather than 
in two hours. I consider the high rate of return should have led Miss L to be 
concerned about whether Mr K was a legitimate trader.
- Mr K told Miss L shed get her money back if she wasnt happy. Given her previous 
experience Miss L should reasonably have known that that this kind of investment is 
volatile and risky, returns cant be guaranteed, and a genuine trader wouldnt offer 
her a refund. 
- Mr K said he was a trader, but he didnt provide Miss L with any details of the 
company he worked for as Id expect a legitimate trader would and the payments Miss L made were to an individual rather than to a company. Given these points and 
the fact the rate of return was too good to be true I think Miss L should have checked 
out what Mr K told her.    
- Most genuine regulated investment firms wouldnt arrange an investment via social 
media. Miss L and Mr K exchanged messages as follows,
Mr K - Im an entrepreneur and run my own accumulations systems server I profit 
funds for others if ur interested let me know and join us today make 5k
Miss L  How much
Mr K - 200 makes u 2100 today
Ur able to invest twice
U receive within 2 hours Ive just paid this one
I dont consider this is the kind of communication youd expect from an expert or 
legitimate trader and it doesnt appear that Miss L asked questions about how it was 
possible to make such substantial returns in such a short timescale. I consider these 
points should have caused Miss L to question whether Mr K was a legitimate trader.
- Miss L says she was reassured Mr K was legitimate because shed seen him on a 
well-known television programme. Ive not been able to find any link between Mr K 
and this programme, but in any event the television show isnt about investments or 
financial services in any way so Im not persuaded that appearing in it could 
reasonably mean Mr K was a legitimate trader. 
- Miss L continued to make payments over a four-day period but didnt receive 
anything in return each time. I believe that the fact Miss L didnt receive anything in 
return  given this is what the trader promised - should have led her to be 
concerned about the legitimacy of Mr K and the proposed deal and so I think she 
ought reasonably to have undertaken further checks as a result. 
Given everything Ive said I consider Miss L should fairly and reasonably have completed 
some checks before making the payments to Mr K and that overall she hasnt met the 
required level of care to be reimbursed under the CRM Code. 
Ive gone on to think about whether Monzo did enough in this case to protect Miss L from 
financial harm from fraud. 
The CRM Code says that where firms identify authorised push payment scam risks in a 
payment journey, they should provide Effective Warnings to their customers. The Code also 
says that the assessment of whether a firm has met a standard or not should involve 
consideration of whether compliance with that standard would have had a material effect on 
preventing the scam. 
Im also mindful that when Miss L made these payments, Monzo should fairly and 
reasonably also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other 
signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud. So Ive also considered 
whether the payments Miss L made were unusual or suspicious. 
Overall, the payments Miss L made were unremarkable and I dont think they stood out 
enough for Monzo to have been concerned that Miss L might have been at risk of financial 
harm from fraud at the time she made them  I dont think Monzo shouldve identified an 
authorised push payment scam risk in any of the payment journeys. Miss L had made 
legitimate payments for similar amounts before. 
Taking everything into account, I think Monzos actions in this particular case were 
appropriate and proportionate to the payments Miss L made.Finally, Ive considered Monzos actions once it was made aware of the scam. Miss L first 
contacted Monzo on 31 December 2019 when she explained shed sent money to someone 
who said they were an investor but didnt get any money back and could no longer get hold 
of the individual. Miss L was asked to send Monzo everything she had but didnt contact it 
again until 3 January 2020. At this point Miss L said shed been scammed. Monzo contacted 
the receiving bank the same day but was told that no funds remained. 
Overall
I consider Miss L didnt have a reasonable basis for believing she was making a payment for 
a genuine investment and advice about how to trade, and that had Miss L have made 
additional checks the scam would have been prevented. Im sorry to have to disappoint Miss 
L, but I cant fairly say Monzo should have done more or that it should refund the money that 
she has lost.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman