DRN-3148058
The complaint
Mr O has complained that the guarantee date for his transfer value was missed because of 
Parmenion Capital Partners LLPs processes. His eventual transfer value was lower than the 
guaranteed amount hed expected.   
What happened
Mr O was transferring the value of his defined benefit pension scheme to a self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP) with Parmenion. A transfer value from the transferring scheme was 
provided in August 2019, and was guaranteed until 13 November 2019.
Mr Os financial adviser sent documents by recorded delivery for Parmenion to complete. 
Parmenion received them on 11 November 2019, processed them and forwarded them by 
first class post on 12 November 2019. But they werent received by the transferring scheme 
until the end of November 2019, after the guarantee date had expired. 
The transfer value had to be recalculated, and the second valuation was around £20,000 
lower than the original. 
Mr O thought that Parmenion should have returned the documents by special delivery, so 
they would have arrived before the guarantee date expired. He said that Parmenion was 
responsible for the loss hed suffered, and he considered it should make up the shortfall.
Parmenion didnt uphold Mr Os complaint, however, saying in summary that it had adhered 
to its 48 hour service level for processing such requests, and whilst it was unfortunate that 
the documents hadnt arrived before the deadline, it couldnt be held responsible for the 
reduction in the transfer value.
Dissatisfied with the response, Mr O referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She was satisfied 
Parmenion had dealt promptly with the forms when it received them, and she didnt consider 
it was unreasonable for the business to use first class post to forward them to the ceding 
scheme administrators. 
The investigator also said that even if it had been possible for Parmenion to return the forms 
sooner, it was unlikely the transferring scheme could have processed the transfer before the 
guarantee date expired. So she didnt find Parmenion was responsible for the loss Mr O 
considered hed suffered.
Mr O didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. He said his adviser had made 
Parmenion aware of the deadline when the adviser checked it had received the forms on 11 
November 2019. So he considered Parmenion should have used next day delivery to 
forward them on. Mr O also said the transfer value was guaranteed, provided the forms were 
received in time by the transferring scheme, irrespective of when the actual transfer took 
place.
As agreement couldnt be reached, Mr O asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 13 October 2021, in which I set out my 
reasoning as to why I was minded to uphold the complaint. In summary, I thought that, whilst 
Parmenion had been helpful in trying to assist Mr O to meet the transfer value expiry date, it 
had failed in the last  and arguably most important  step of the process, which was 
ensuring that the documents were sent by next day delivery to ensure that they were 
received in time by the ceding scheme administrators. 
My findings from that decision are set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its accepted that Parmenion received the relevant forms from Mr Os adviser on 11 
November 2019. It then processed the documents and forwarded them to the transferring 
scheme by first class post on 12 November 2019.
Mr O has said throughout the complaint that his adviser spoke to Parmenion following 
delivery of the documents with the latter, and that his adviser made Parmenion aware of the 
deadline at that time.
Both Mr O and Parmenion have supplied evidence to support what has been said. 
Parmenion processed the documents immediately on receipt, which also suggests to me it 
was aware of the urgency to meet the guarantee deadline. Im also mindful that the 
documents were delivered to Parmenion by special delivery.
Parmenion has told us it uses first class, special and recorded delivery to send post. Its also 
said that its usual turnaround time for this sort of work is 48 hours. I dont think thats 
unreasonable, and its in line with general industry standards. And if Parmenion had used a 
guaranteed form of postal delivery, on balance I think its more likely than not that the forms 
would have reached the transferring scheme on 13 November 2019. 
Transfer information provided by the transferring scheme says:
If we receive the Transfer Agreement and financial advice confirmation after the guarantee 
expiry date of 13 November 2019, we will work out the transfer value again and it may be 
higher or lower than the value quoted on the enclosed Guaranteed Transfer Value 
Statement.
This suggests to me that, as Mr O has asserted, the transfer value was guaranteed provided 
the forms were received by the deadline date. It wasnt necessary for the actual transfer to 
be made by that date. So Im satisfied that if Mr Os forms had been delivered to the 
transferring scheme on 13 November 2019, the transfer value would have been paid in line 
with the value quoted in August 2019.
So Parmenion was aware of the required timescale to ensure the transfer value remained 
guaranteed, and was able to send the completed documentation by next day delivery as part 
of its standard process. Had it done so, it seems to me more likely than not that it would 
have arrived with the scheme administrators by the deadline.
Its fair to say that Parmenion was under no obligation to expedite matters to ensure that the 
documents reached their destination by the deadline  this being sooner than the 48 hour 
service standard. But Ive listened to the telephone calls from the day that Parmenion 
received the documents for processing. Mr Os adviser spoke to Parmenions representative twice, and although no specific guarantees were given that the matter would be resolved in 
the manner understood by the adviser, neither did the representative say that it wouldnt. In 
fact, the representative said in the second call that things were good to go. If there was any 
doubt as to Parmenions ability to meet the deadline, I think the phone calls were the 
opportunity to tell Mr Os adviser this.
I should note that the Parmenion representative was very helpful in all other respects relating 
to the transfer during both calls and found solutions to various issues which needed 
resolving before the documentation could be sent to the scheme administrators.
But the Parmenion adviser was also unambiguously aware of the deadline  it was 
discussed on several occasions during the initial call and Mr Os adviser said that it 
absolutely needed to be met.
And so, having resolved the issues with the documentation and discussed the deadline, I 
think it should have been clear that it needed to be sent by next day recorded delivery. I 
think that, if it was Parmenions intention to simply send the required documentation by first 
class post, rather than by recorded delivery, it should have said so. Although the specific 
issue of how the documents would be sent wasnt raised by Mr Os adviser or Parmenions 
representative, as Ive said before, I think it was reasonably clear what needed to happen for 
the deadline to be met. 
And this was very unfortunate, because in all other respects, Parmenion tried to do what it 
needed to do in order to satisfy the deadline.
But I nevertheless have to bear in mind that, but for the final shortcoming in not sending the 
documents by next day delivery, which I think the Mr Os adviser would have been justified in 
believing would happen (given the awareness of the deadline), its more likely than not that 
the deadline would have been met. And Mr Os transferred sum would have been 
significantly higher. And we know that it was possible, as part of its processes, for 
documents to be sent by next day delivery if necessary.
Ive then thought about whether I need to balance this against the fact that Parmenion 
nevertheless completed and returned the forms within a reasonable timescale (and within 48 
hours), even though the final act of actually sending the documents didnt manage to meet 
the deadline. And Ive also thought about whether a proportionate/partial remedy might be 
appropriate here, given the lateness of the request and its efforts to try to meet the deadline.
But my thoughts return to one central fact, which is that it didnt really matter that the request 
had been made of Parmenion with only a few days until the deadline expired. Parmenion 
was aware of the deadline, had indicated that it was possible to meet the deadline, and had 
the facility to send the documents by next day delivery on 12 November 2019 so that they 
would reach the scheme administrators by the deadline of 13 November 2019. So its less a 
matter of what should have been possible, and whether it adhered to a 48 hour timescale 
(which it did)  but what was in fact possible.
That it was in fact possible is, of course, due in large part to its own endeavours in trying to 
help Mr O and his adviser. And Im mindful that it could be said that Parmenion is a victim of 
its own helpfulness here, and Id repeat that, from everything Ive seen and heard, 
Parmenion tried to meet the deadline.
And so I accept that a different interpretation of the above points is possible, and it could be 
argued that Parmenion is being treated unfairly because it tried to expedite matters and 
process the transfer documents sooner than its standard (and quite reasonable in my view) 48 hour service standard. Had it simply informed Mr Os adviser that it wasnt possible to 
meet the deadline because of the lateness of the request, the complaint might not be upheld. 
But theres an additional consideration here as well, related to the management of 
expectations, and to what extent, had this been applied more successfully, Mr O or his 
adviser might have acted differently. Mr Os adviser was at pains on the phone to make it 
clear how important it was that the documents were received by the scheme administrators 
by the deadline. Had there been an indication that this might not be the case, and that 
Parmenion would send the forms by first class post instead of guaranteed next day delivery, 
he could himself have taken steps to ensure that the documents arrived on time  including 
having them collected by courier and delivered the same day as they were ready to be 
posted  which has been confirmed as being early on 12 November 2019.
I acknowledge that theres a degree of speculation here as to whether that further step would 
in fact have been taken. But having taken account of the available evidence, my view is that, 
on the basis of the very real (and as it transpired, accurate) concern that a revaluation of the 
transfer value might disadvantage Mr O, it was more likely than not that Mr Os adviser 
would have taken whatever steps were necessary to ensure their delivery by the deadline.
Putting things right
With all of those points in mind, and to reiterate once again, although I acknowledge that 
Parmenion tried to help here, I do think that, on a fair and reasonable assessment of all the 
facts of this case, it should compensate Mr O for the reduction in the transfer value he later 
received.
My current view, therefore, is that Parmenion should establish, as at the date of any final 
decision along these lines, the value of Mr Os SIPP had it received the higher transfer 
value. If possible, it should ensure that his pension funds are increased by that amount, 
taking account of any charges for doing so, annual allowance issues and available tax relief.
If Parmenion is unable to make the payment to Mr Os SIPP, or there are annual 
allowance issues - or such a payment would conflict with lifetime allowance protection - 
it should pay the amount directly to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it 
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced 
to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr O's actual or expected marginal 
rate of tax at his selected retirement age. For example, if Mr O is likely to be a basic rate 
taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate 
of tax. I have assumed that Mr O will be a basic rate taxpayer, and so a deduction of 
20% would be appropriate here. But on the further assumption that Mr O would have 
taken 25% tax free cash, this notional deduction should be applied to 75% of the 
compensation payment.
Mr O agreed with my findings, but added that he still couldnt understand why Parmenion 
hadnt used next day delivery instead of first class post, given that the former was 
possible as part of its standard procedures. He suggested that it review its procedures in 
light of this case.
He also said that his adviser had confirmed that it was the date of receipt with the 
scheme administrators which locked in the guaranteed transfer value. And his adviser 
had further said that, had Parmenion told him that it wouldnt be able to meet the 
deadline, he would have done whatever was necessary to ensure that the documents 
arrived on time, including incurring whatever costs would be involved to do so.Parmenion wished to make further representations, as follows:
Whilst it acknowledged that it hadnt informed Mr Os adviser that it wouldnt meet 
the deadline, it also hadnt given any guarantees that the documents would reach 
the scheme administrators in time.
All the actions it took exceeded its service standard to try to meet the deadline  
and had it simply adhered to the service standard, the deadline wouldnt in any 
case have been met, irrespective of the method of sending the documents.
It accepted that, having processed the paperwork faster than usual, had it then 
sent the documents by special delivery they may have arrived by the deadline. 
But it also noted that the paperwork had been issued well in advance of the 
deadline and it was submitted to Parmenion with insufficient time for it to meet the 
deadline under its service standard.
It noted that I had acknowledged there was a degree of speculation as to what 
action Mr Os adviser might have taken to ensure the deadline was met, but if 
Parmenion hadnt exceeded its service standard, there would have been no 
action that the adviser could in any case have taken to ensure the deadline was 
met.
The root cause of the deadline not being met was the lateness of the paperwork 
being submitted for Parmenion to process, but on the basis that its representative 
hadnt informed the adviser that there was no guarantee of meeting the deadline, 
full responsibility for the loss had passed to Parmenion. It didnt think that this 
was a proportionate or reasonable outcome.
In further support of that point, it said that it may not have picked up the 
paperwork until 48 hours after it had received it, which would have meant that Mr 
O missed the deadline. But I had noted in my decision that Parmenion tried to 
assist, despite the pressure that this would have placed upon normal processes 
and checks, given its 48 hour service standard.
It acknowledged, however, that there was a customer at the end of it all and it 
said that, as a gesture of goodwill, it would be willing to cover 50% of the overall 
cost. But given that nearly three months had elapsed before the transfer 
paperwork was submitted to Parmenion for processing, any additional payment to 
Mr O should be based upon an assessment of that aspect, rather than focussing 
purely on the final two days of the process.
It maintained that it didnt think it was liable for Mr Os loss and that the cause of it 
stemmed from it being provided with insufficient time to process the transaction.
The investigator put the business offer to Mr O, but Mr O declined it, adding the 
following:
Although Parmenion had said that it didnt have enough time to guarantee that 
the documents would be delivered in time, this wasnt the case  it did have 
enough time.
It understood the urgency of the case, and his adviser had made the deadline 
clear. That it had dealt with the case promptly, rather than within the 48 hour 
service standard, was to its credit and demonstrated that it understood the 
urgency.
But it then made an entirely avoidable error. Next day delivery was clearly 
essential, given the serious consequences of the deadline being missed.
This error was solely responsible for his loss  not the fact that the paperwork 
was submitted so close to the deadline.
There were complexities surrounding the preparation of the paperwork of which 
Parmenion had no knowledge, but which Mr O understood contributed to the overall time taken to submit it.
There were no issues with the paperwork which would have prevented the 
documents being sent by next day delivery and being received by the ceding 
scheme before the deadline expired.
Although Parmenion has said that, if the documents had been sent by next day 
delivery, they may have been received by the scheme the following day, Mr O 
was satisfied that they would have been received. And in the very unlikely event 
that they werent, Mr O could have claimed against the Post Office.
With regard to Parmenions offer, Mr O said that he didnt think the matter was 
one of goodwill, but rather actual financial loss, which had been caused by 
Parmenion.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, I am sympathetic to much of what Parmenion had said in response to 
my provisional decision. And to reiterate, I fully acknowledge  as does Mr O - that it did all it 
could to process the paperwork so that it would have be ready to send the next day. That 
much is evident from the very helpful tone of the telephone conversations Ive listened to  
and for that I think Parmenion is to be commended.
And as I said in the provisional decision, Id thought carefully about whether a proportionate 
settlement might be appropriate here, as has been offered by Parmenion in response to the 
provisional decision. I fully appreciate the comments about the lateness of the submission of 
the documents, and that it would have been perfectly entitled to simply adhere to its 
standard service level if it needed, for example, to deal with other normal processes to 
ensure that they met its service standard for those customers, and was therefore unable to 
expedite matters for Mr O.
But this is less about what should have been possible, had Parmenion simply adhered to its 
service standard, and more about what was in fact possible.  And for all the reasons set out 
in the provisional decision, and which Parmenion seems to accept, the deadline was known, 
hence the urgent and helpful processing to begin with, but then so would have been the 
need to send the documents by next day delivery.
I dont think it would be fair to think about this from the hypothetical perspective of 
Parmenion having been less helpful and simply adhering to its service standard. To its 
credit, it was very helpful, but this type of above and beyond customer service not only 
benefits the individual customer, but also Parmenions standing with consumers and 
intermediaries who might be more inclined to use its services, or tell others about its 
services, in the future. And so this higher level of customer service benefits both parties. 
The fact remains that, whatever the motive, Parmenion took the decision to exceed its 
service standard and help Mr O and his adviser. This is what actually happened. And what 
actually happened next was that Parmenion provided that initial high level of service, which 
should have meant that the deadline would be met, but then unfortunately failed in the last 
act to ensure, as far as possible, that the deadline was reached. And whilst it has said that 
next day delivery may have resulted in the deadline being met, I think its more likely than 
not that it would have been.
Mr Os adviser justifiably expected that, in light of the conversations held, the deadline would 
be met. And his concern on this point was evident from the phone calls. Had that expectation 
been managed differently, and hed been told that the documents might simply be forwarded using standard first class mail, my view, as set out in the provisional decision, is that he 
would have taken whatever action was necessary to ensure that the documents were 
received by the deadline. A loss of expectation only fails to become an actual financial loss if 
it can be demonstrated that, but for the provision of incorrect information, or other failure to 
properly manage the expectation, the consumer wouldnt in any case have acted differently. 
But if it can reasonably be concluded that they would have acted differently, and would have 
avoided consequential financial disadvantage, its then fair to consider whether its a case of 
actual loss, rather than one of expectation.
And this is what I think happened here  had Mr Os adviser not justifiably believed that all 
was in hand and that the necessary steps would be taken to ensure the delivery of the 
documents before the deadline  i.e. using next day delivery  my view remains that he 
would have acted differently, either by escalating the matter within Parmenion to ensure next 
day delivery was used, or by other independent means, e.g. courier.
And had this happened, I think its more likely than not that the deadline would have been 
met. Its for this reason that I dont think I need to consider the matter of any delays in 
submitting the paperwork to Parmenion in the first place. Irrespective of the number of days 
left to the deadline, Parmenion had committed to helping Mr Os adviser meet the deadline, 
and but for sending the paperwork by first class mail instead of next day delivery, this would 
more likely than not have been achieved.
As I said in my provisional decision, I was concerned that Parmenion may feel that its 
become a victim of its own helpfulness here. But, on the basis of such helpfulness potentially 
benefitting both parties, for the reasons set out above, and bearing in mind that we in any 
case look at individual cases and their particular circumstances, I would like to think that this 
wouldnt disincentivise Parmenion from taking similar helpful steps in the future. 
I also appreciate Parmenions comment relating to this being about the customer  I agree  
and I acknowledge the offer it made to pay half of the loss. I think this was a step in the right 
direction, but whilst I know that this will disappoint Parmenion, and I understand why, my 
overall view remains that Mr Os loss stems from the decision, or more likely a simple 
oversight, in sending the documents by first class mail, rather than by next day delivery  
rather than from the date on which they were submitted to Parmenion.
As such, I maintain that it should be responsible for the whole loss. 
Putting things right
As set out in the provisional decision, on a fair and reasonable assessment of all the facts of 
this case, Parmenion Capital Partners LLP should compensate Mr O for the reduction in the 
transfer value he later received.
Parmenion Capital Partners LLP should establish, as at the date of this decision, the value of 
Mr Os SIPP had it received the higher transfer value. If possible, it should ensure that his 
pension funds are increased by that amount, taking account of any charges for doing so, 
annual allowance issues and available tax relief.
If Parmenion is unable to make the payment to Mr Os SIPP, or there are annual 
allowance issues - or such a payment would conflict with any lifetime allowance 
protection - it should pay the amount directly to him. But had it been possible to pay into 
the plan, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should 
be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr O's actual or expected marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. For example, if Mr O is likely to be a basic rate 
taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate 
of tax. I assumed in the provisional decision that Mr O will be a basic rate taxpayer, and 
so a deduction of 20% would be appropriate here. But on the further assumption that Mr 
O would have taken 25% tax free cash, this notional deduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation payment.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Parmenion Capital Partners LLP to 
undertake the above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman