DRN-3918399
The complaint
This complaint has  been made on behalf of the estate of the late Mrs S. Her daughter and 
representative, Mrs W, complains that Creation Financial Services Limited (Creation) 
irresponsibly granted her late mother a Selfridges store card account. She has requested 
that the interest and late payment charges she paid on her account be refunded. 
What happened
The store card was opened in June 1999. Creation has told us that the last credit limit 
increase on the account was given in December 2006. We also know that the account was 
sold to a third party in June 2011. 
Due to the time that has elapsed and its data retention policies, Creation has been unable 
to provide any further information about the account and its history. 
Mrs W has sent us some information about the account, as well as information about other 
credit products Mrs S had taken out at around the time and also later on.
Based on the limited information available about the account history and Mrs Ss 
financial circumstances at the time, our adjudicator didnt think Creation had acted 
unfairly in the way it managed the account. Mrs W doesnt agree so the complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Creation will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
Creation says its unable to send us a full business file as it no longer has any records 
regarding Mrs S, due to its retention policy. Thats unfortunate, but not unusual, and it 
therefore means that any finding I make has to be based on the available evidence and 
information. That includes all the information Mrs W has sent us in relation to her late 
mothers finances. Whilst I am grateful for this, it has still left me unable to piece together a 
detailed history of Creations lending history with Mrs S. The purpose of doing that would be 
to see if there was a point at which Creation should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was likely to be unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. If so, that would mean Creation 
should have realised that it shouldnt have granted the initial credit limit and/or gone on to 
provide credit limit increases.
In responding to our adjudicators findings, Mrs W has provided us with a good deal of 
information about Mrs Ss financial circumstances at the time to help us to understand what 
Creation might have found out if it completed reasonable and proportionate checks. This 
includes information demonstrating that Mrs S had at least two other store card accounts at 
around the time she took out this card. 
In much the same way as our adjudicator, Ive looked at the information we have to try and 
piece together more about what happened with this particular account. Unfortunately, that 
information is very limited. 
Ive seen that in March 2010 Mrs S had given information for the purposes of a debt 
management plan, showing a balance on the account of £5,000. In relation to the card itself, 
Mrs W has told us that the credit limit reached £3,450 in March 2006, at which point Mrs S 
had a balance of £423.54. In February 2008, when the credit limit was £5,000, the account 
had a balance of £2,710. At that time, she also drew out £800 in cash but may have used up 
to £1,971 by way of cash withdrawals.  
I am grateful to Mrs W for all her efforts in providing us with this information. However, its 
still the case that we have only limited information about Mrs Ss financial situation for the 
time the card was opened and the subsequent account history, including credit limit 
increases. In short, what we have isnt enough for me to be able to make a finding about 
whether Creation may not have made a fair lending decision. For example, we dont know 
what proportionate checks carried out by Creation would have shown. And without better 
information from Creation, I am unable to comment on what steps were taken to find out 
about Mrs Ss financial situation. As things stand I havent seen enough to show or suggest 
that Mrs S was experiencing financial difficulty to the extent that Creation shouldnt have 
granted the opening credit or that it was unfair of it to have increased her credit limits. 
Mrs W has said that Mrs S should have been treated as a vulnerable consumer. I certainly 
dont wish to dispute that Mrs S had been experiencing challenges with her financial 
situation as well as serious health issues. But based what Ive seen, I simply cant say 
whether Creation ought to have identified Mrs W as a vulnerable consumer or whether it 
ought to have done more to help her with her financial situation. 
All of this means I am not in a position to make a finding as to whether Creation carried 
out reasonable and proportional checks to satisfy itself that Mrs S would be able to 
manage her payments under the agreement. And based on the information Ive seen, I 
cant say what proportionate checks would have shown. 
I therefore dont uphold this complaint because I am unable to say whether Mrs S was 
caused loss or material distress or inconvenience as a result of actions taken by Creation, 
both when the opening credit was agreed and subsequently when further credit limit 
increases were given. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs S 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 March 2023. Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman