DRN-2631412
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Fairmead Insurance Limited renewed his landlords insurance 
policy for a number of years without telling him.
What happened
In 2007, Mr S took out a mortgage and life assurance with Fairmead through a financial 
adviser. He also took out a landlords insurance policy with Fairmead. The policy covered a 
property owned by Mr S which he let out. 
In 2020, Mr S contacted Fairmead to say hed never received any renewal documents since 
the policy started. Fairmead said that the policy had been set up by the financial adviser so 
that the correspondence was sent to the advisers address rather than to Mr S. It changed its 
records so that Mr S would receive the documents directly in future.
Mr S complained to Fairmead. He said that hed been unable to review the policy since it 
started because hed never received any correspondence about it. 
Fairmead didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had acted in accordance with the instructions 
from the independent adviser and Mr S should therefore take the matter up with the adviser.
Mr S was unhappy at Fairmeads response. He referred his complaint to us. He said his 
financial adviser was no longer operating. He said hed been unaware of which of his direct 
debits related to the landlords insurance policy and because hed never received any 
renewal correspondence hed been denied the opportunity over the years to choose more 
competitive cover.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. She considered it 
was reasonable for Fairmead to have acted in accordance with the financial advisers 
instructions.
Mr S didnt accept the investigators findings. He said hed spoken to his financial adviser 
and staff at the company for which the adviser worked and they had all denied receiving 
renewal correspondence from Fairmead. He said his financial adviser had said he never sold 
Mr S a landlords insurance policy. He questioned whether any commission had been paid on 
the sale of the policy since 2007 and, if so, to whom.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is a lack of evidence from the time of sale though I dont necessarily consider this is 
surprising given the passage of time. Fairmead has provided evidence to show that renewal 
documents have been sent each year to the financial adviser. I note the financial adviser 
apparently didnt receive the renewal documents but Im satisfied they were sent. Fairmead 
has confirmed that no commission was paid.
It is difficult after so many years to know what has happened. But I am also unsure of the 
nature of Mr Ss complaint. He told us that by not receiving the renewal notices he had been 
denied the opportunity to seek a more competitive quote. This implies he always knew the 
policy existed. However, he has also suggested that he never agreed to take out the policy 
in the first place and was unaware of its existence.
On balance, I consider that Mr S almost certainly agreed to take out the policy in 2007 and 
was aware that it existed. Indeed, it seems that the issue over the renewal documents came 
to light in 2020 when Mr S contacted Fairmead because he wished to make a claim under 
the policy. I find it unlikely that Mr S, who clearly has other insurance policies, decided that 
he did not want to insure his rental property. There is no evidence to show that he held 
duplicate insurance cover for the property under another policy. I therefore consider that, 
contrary to what he has on occasion implied, Mr S knew that his property was insured with 
Fairmead since 2007.
As I said, it is difficult to know what happened at the point of sale. It appears that something 
went wrong in the administration so that renewal documents were sent to the financial 
adviser rather than directly to Mr S. This could well have been a mistake on the part of 
Fairmead, though I cant rule out the possibility that it was a mistake by Mr S or the financial 
adviser acting on his behalf. Due to the time which elapsed before Mr S realised he hadnt 
been receiving renewal documents and raised his complaint, I cant reasonably conclude 
that Fairmead was the party at fault.
However, even if I thought it was Fairmeads error, I dont consider that this has necessarily 
had any adverse financial effect on Mr S. This is because I am satisfied he wanted to have 
landlords insurance cover every year since 2007. And the fact he didnt bother chasing up 
the absence of renewal documents for 13 years indicates that he took little interest in the 
detail of the policy or in ensuring he secured the best possible deal. I therefore consider that, 
even if Fairmead had sent the renewal documents to him directly, it is likely that he would 
have simply accepted the quote and allowed the policy to renew rather than shop around for 
a more competitive quote, assuming that such a quote was even available.
In summary, the passage of time means it is not possible for me to conclude that Fairmead 
is to blame for Mr S not receiving renewal documents each year. But even if I had thought 
Fairmead to be at fault, Mr Ss passive approach to the matter suggests that he wouldnt 
have acted differently even if he had received the documents. I therefore consider that 
Fairmeads possible error hasnt caused Mr S to suffer a financial disadvantage in any case.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman