DRN-1724101
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs P complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax unfairly charged them 
an early repayment charge (ERC) when they bought a new property. Mr A and Mrs P 
would like the ERC refunded.
What happened
Mr A and Mrs P had a mortgage with Halifax. In May 2018, after being on a variable interest 
rate, they spoke to a Halifax mortgage adviser and took out a new mortgage product with the 
interest rate fixed at 3.49% until 31 July 2020. Mr A and Mrs Ps intention was in the near 
future to move to a new build to be near their daughters school and the adviser assured 
them that the mortgage product would be portable. At that stage the loan was £194,799.00. 
Part 7 of the mortgage offer said there would be an ERC if the loan was paid off early. Part 8 
said that this product could be taken to a new mortgage this avoiding the ERC If Halifax 
agrees to the new loan. 
 
Mr A and Mrs P then wanted to move to a new build house and take out an increased 
mortgage. The mortgage would have been 90 % LTV. Halifax said that the builder selling the 
properties was not on its approved list of builders that it would approve for a mortgage of 90 
% LTV. So, it wouldnt agree the mortgage. Mr A and Mrs P went to another lender and got 
the mortgage they wanted. This meant they couldnt port the mortgage product and had to 
pay an ERC of £3,600.00 when they sold their house in January 2020. Halifax apologised 
that the specifics of porting to a new build property werent discussed at the initial interview 
and paid compensation of £300. Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint 
should be upheld as he believed the ERC was correctly applied. Mr A and Mrs P disagreed 
and asked for a review,
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the conversations that Mr A has had with my colleagues and understand the 
strength of his feelings and I asked for further information from Halifax and Mr A and Mrs P 
before coming to my decision. I thank them for their assistance. Mr A and Mrs P had a 
mortgage product with an ERC that could be ported but that was subject to Halifax granting 
a loan on the new property. That condition appears in the mortgage offer which Mr A and 
Mrs P agreed to. If granted a new loan Mr A and Mrs P could port the interest rate on their 
then balance of about £195,000.00. 
So, in order to port. Mr and Mrs P would have had to been granted a loan by Halifax on their 
new home which they werent. The reason was that the builder of the development they 
chose wasnt on Halifaxs list of approved builders for mortgages of 90% LTV. Ive checked 
that list and confirm that to be the case, so it appears that the mortgage was refused fairly in 
accordance with Halifaxs lending conditions at the time.
 
But thats not the end of it. Mr A and Mrs P clearly feel they were misled because, having 
identified the builder and the type of house they would want to move to, that the Halifax 
adviser said that the mortgage product was portable but eventually they couldnt port.  I dont 
have a recording of that conversation so Im going on Mr A and Mrs Ps recollections, the 
likely information they had about the future purchase and the context of this particular 
discussion. This was a situation where Mr A and Mrs P were fixing their interest rate for a 
period but were in the near future going to move to be in the catchment area of their childs 
school. That required the mortgage to be portable. It is in fact portable but not in the 
particular circumstances of Mr A and Mrs Ps intended purchase. 
Mr A and Mrs P say that they told the adviser the name of the builder and the size of the 
house that they intended to move to. As I understand it from Mr A, at that stage they hadnt 
yet chosen a specific development - they were choosing between two - or indeed what the 
final price would be as the builders werent accepting formal reservations at that time and 
didnt do so until the end of the year. So, its unlikely they would have known the mortgage 
they wanted. Its also reasonable to assume that if for some reason these developments 
werent built, in order to move to a house close to their daughters preferred school they may 
have looked at alternatives.  
In 2019, Mr A and Mrs P appear to have applied to get a mortgage of 90% on a property 
worth about £370,000.00 which was double their existing mortgage. Although in April 2018, 
Mr A may have discussed the builder and the type of house, there appears to have been no 
discussion about the potential future purchasing price or the LTV or the size of the future 
mortgage that they would require. I wouldnt expect they would have known these figures at 
that stage given they had yet to decide between two developments. This application was 
clearly in the future and at stage the adviser wasnt dealing with a mortgage application in 
the future. 
The question I have to consider is how far the adviser should have gone in assessing Mr As 
and Mrs Ps future mortgage intentions before advising them to take out this mortgage 
product. The adviser told them it was portable, and it was and that meant it was subject to 
Halifaxs lending conditions at the time of lending. I dont believe that the adviser would have 
been in a position to assess the likelihood of success of Mr A and Mrs Ps future mortgage 
application. Mr A and Mrs P at that stage didnt know which development the wanted, so 
presumably not the price they were paying or the amount of borrowing they wanted and 
crucially the LTV on the property they eventually bought. There was still a lot of uncertainty 
as to Mr A and Mrs Ps future intentions
Even if Mr A and Mrs P had all this information, from my experience its also not the role of 
the mortgage adviser at a mortgage product interview to assess the future likelihood of 
success of a future mortgage application and I wouldnt expect the adviser to do that. I 
expect she assessed that the interest rate on the mortgage product would benefit Mr A and 
Mrs P, confirmed that they may wish to move within the period of the mortgage and told 
them that as the product was portable and they could do that subject to Halifax approving 
the future mortgage. Even if Mr A and Mrs P werent told it that it was subject to that, it was 
contained in the written offer they accepted. As porting was important to them, I expect they 
would have paid attention to the relevant section.   
In order to accept that the adviser misled them I would have to be persuaded that the 
adviser told them that they could automatically port when they applied for their next 
mortgage. But that would mean that the adviser was confirming that their next mortgage 
would automatically be approved, and Mr A and Mrs P arent saying that. Theyre saying that 
a warning light wasnt raised when they named the builder who might likely build their new 
property. But the adviser wasnt dealing with their future application and the reason that such 
advisers dont is that Halifaxs lending policies, as do all lenders policies, change. For example, the list of approved builders for loans at 90 % LTV is lengthy and I expect that 
builders are added and deducted from it on a regular basis. So, it would be difficult to 
confirm in advance that a particular builder would be on the that list when an application is 
later made. So, the adviser said that the mortgage product was portable which is that it can 
be ported - not will be ported - subject to Halifax approving a future mortgage application 
which unfortunately didnt occur. 
Halifax has accepted that the adviser may have raised Mr A and Mrs P expectations and 
paid £300 compensation which seems reasonable. But Im not of the view that the adviser 
misled Mr A and Mrs P that they would be able to get the mortgage that they eventually 
applied for with the lender and for that reason I cant fairly uphold his complaint. 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman