DRN-1635034
Complaint
Ms A says Oakam Ltd (trading as Oakam) irresponsibly lent to her. Shes also said that 
Oakam treated her unfairly when she explained that she was experiencing difficulty paying 
back her current loan.
Background
This complaint is about seven instalment loans that Oakam provided to Ms A between 
August 2015 and May 2018. 
Our adjudicator upheld Ms As complaint and thought that she shouldnt have been provided 
with any of her loans. She also thought that Oakam had treated Ms A unfairly when she 
explained that she was having difficulty paying back her loan. Despite being chased for a 
response on a number of occasions Oakam declined to do so. So the complaint was passed 
to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending - including all the key relevant rules, 
guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Oakam needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms A 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Oakam should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Oakams lending history with Ms A, I think that Oakam should 
reasonably have seen that Ms A was unlikely to have been able to make her payments in a 
sustainable manner when it provided Ms A with her very first loan. 
I say this because the credit check that Oakam itself completed showed that Ms A had 
recently had a County Court Judgement (CCJ) issued against her. Oakam says that this 
CCJ was for a small amount but I think its important to consider this in the context that 60% 
of Ms As accounts were in difficulty and the judgement was issued shortly before.
Oakam continued lending to Ms A even when its later checks showed that this CCJ wasnt 
satisfied and her indebtedness was growing. And even when this CCJ was eventually 
settled, Ms A then ended up defaulting on other accounts. So, in my view, Oakam repeatedly 
lent to Ms A in circumstances where it ought reasonably to have realised that any further 
loans were more likely than not unsustainable for her. 
Ms A had to pay interest and charges on loans that Oakam shouldnt have provided her with. 
So I think that she lost out and Oakam should put things right.
Ive also seen what our adjudicator said about the way Ms A was treated during the phone 
call she had with one of Oakams agents. In the absence of anything from either party 
indicating why this is insufficient or excessive, Im satisfied that the £100 award is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances bearing in mind the distress and inconvenience Oakam's 
actions caused in this case.
Putting things right  what Oakam needs to do
refund all interest and charges Ms A paid on loans 1 to 6;
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
 
all interest and charges applied to loan 7 from the outset should be removed. The 
payments Ms A should then be deducted from the new starting amount (which should 
be the amount that was originally lent. If an outstanding balance remains after all 
adjustments have been made Oakam can deduct this from what it now needs to pay 
Ms A. If this still results in Ms A owing money, Id like to remind Oakam of its 
obligation to exercise forbearance should it decide to collect on any outstanding 
amount.
 
all adverse information about loans 1 to 6 should be removed from Ms A credit file;
 
should there be no remaining balance on loan 7 after all adjustments have been 
made all adverse information should be removed about this loan too;
 
pay Ms A £100 for the distress and inconvenience its actions have caused.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Oakam to take off tax from this interest. Oakam must 
give Ms A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
 
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, Im upholding Ms As complaint. Oakam Ltd should pay Ms A 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman