Complaint
Mr G has complained about the way Revolut Ltd handled his chargeback.
What happened
In May 2019, Mr G told Revolut that an item he bought was not as described. They gave him 
a form to start a chargeback.
Revolut asked for evidence to support the claim, such as screenshots of the items sales 
page, pictures of what Mr G received including measurements, evidence that hed asked the 
merchant for a return address, and evidence of him sending the item back.
Initially, Revolut said they didnt think they could proceed with the claim as the item didnt 
appear to be substantially different to its description. But they agreed to try anyway. They 
explained the chargeback process and timescales, including that under the rules Mr G would 
need to return the item to the merchant first.
Mr G asked for advice on other legal routes, but Revolut explained they couldnt help with his 
consumer rights issues, just the chargeback scheme.
On 31 May 2019, Mr G told Revolut that he was returning the item to the merchant and 
would let them know if he had any problems.
Over the next few months, Revolut asked Mr G for updates. They explained they only had 
until 20 August 2019 to continue with the chargeback, and they wanted to make sure they 
could still help him if he needed them to.
Mr G said hed arranged a return and refund with the merchant, and thered been delays, but 
he was hopeful it would be resolved. He didnt ask Revolut for further help, but Revolut 
raised the chargeback on 19 August 2019 anyway, just in case Mr G needed it.
The chargeback went through and Mr G got a full refund on 26 October 2019.
Mr G complained about Revolut. He said theyd placed unfair barriers to his claim, had made 
him go to unreasonable lengths for evidence, and had called him a liar. He was unhappy 
they hadnt given him advice about other possible legal routes.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. She 
thought Revolut had taken the initiative to help Mr G. She explained they couldnt help him 
with the other routes hed asked about, and theyd used the correct scheme. She pointed out 
that with Revoluts help, the claim had been successful. The information theyd asked for 
was required for the chargeback, and she couldnt see theyd made any errors. She found 
that they had never said or implied that Mr G was lying.
DRN-1801642Mr G didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator, and for much the 
same reasons.
First, I should explain that chargebacks are part of a voluntary scheme, and are just one 
possible alternative way of getting money back from a merchant. Revolut were not obliged to 
put this chargeback through, though I think it was good practice that they tried to help Mr G. 
Chargebacks are not guaranteed to work, and Revolut had to follow strict rules that the 
chargeback scheme sets down. Here, I can only look at whether Revolut acted appropriately 
when putting the chargeback through  Im not here to look at the chargeback rules 
themselves, and I cant tell the chargeback scheme to change them here.
Im afraid that much of Mr Gs complaint comes from how the chargeback itself worked. For 
instance, I understand he felt it was a barrier to his claim that Revolut asked him to return 
the goods first. But under the chargeback rules, Revolut were not allowed to proceed with 
the claim until Mr G had returned the goods and evidenced the fact. So they werent blocking 
his claim  they were actually helping it along. Revolut cant change the chargeback rules, 
and neither can I. Im only here to look at whether Revolut acted appropriately  and I think 
they did.
The evidence Revolut asked for was needed for Mr Gs claim, and was relevant and 
reasonable. They were asking for it to help Mr G, to make sure that his chargeback had the 
best chance possible of going through.
I understand Mr G is unhappy that he needed to provide this evidence himself, and I realise 
it wouldve caused him some degree of trouble. But again, Im afraid thats how the 
chargeback works. It was his responsibility to gather the evidence to support his own claim. 
Indeed, most of the required evidence could only reasonably have come from Mr G.
I can see that on occasion, Mr G sent Revolut evidence that was similar to what they were 
asking for, but not quite right. And they correctly explained it wasnt quite enough and 
clarified exactly what they needed. I think that Revoluts initial explanations were clear, and 
that their follow-up explanations were polite and helpful.
I appreciate that Mr G wouldve liked advice on other legal routes. And I understand he may 
have thought that since Revolut could help with the chargeback, they might be able to advise 
him more widely on consumer rights and legal points. But here, Revolut were just the card 
company who he happened to put the payment through with  they were not, for example, a 
consumer rights group or his solicitors. Revolut explained that they couldnt help with the 
consumer rights issues; they could only do a chargeback. And that seems reasonable in this 
particular situation.
Ive gone through Mr Gs correspondence with Revolut, and I cannot see that they ever said 
or implied that he was a liar. I think they were polite throughout. I can see that Revolut 
initially said they didnt feel the item was that different to its description, and tried to manage 
Mr Gs expectations about the chance of success. I appreciate that that may have felt 
disheartening for Mr G, but I think it was reasonable. Chargebacks are voluntary, are not 
guaranteed to work, and this was Revoluts reasoned opinion. They agreed to help Mr G 
anyway.Indeed, I think Revolut were very pro-active in chasing Mr G and making sure the 
chargeback route was still open to him. They explained how the scheme worked including 
the deadlines and timescales, asked for appropriate evidence, and pointed him to where he 
could get more detailed information on the scheme. They responded to his correspondence 
promptly and acted quickly within the timescales. And ultimately, they got Mr G his money 
back, using a voluntary scheme to help him when they were not required to.
From the evidence Ive been given by both sides, I have not found that Revolut did anything 
substantially wrong here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman