DRN-2217122
The complaint
Mr M complains Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, will not refund a disputed 
transaction.
Halifax says the payment was authorised.
What happened
On 22nd September 2019 Mr M complained to Halifax about a transaction on his account.   
He said he had not made it and did not recognise the recipient.  The transaction was a faster 
payment in the sum of £1650 payable to a new payee which had been set up on Mr Ms 
account.
Halifax rejected his complaint.  It said the payment had been made using Mr Ms registered 
device and using his fingerprint as security.  As it was not possible for someone else to have 
accessed his device in this way, it said it was going to hold him liable.
When Mr M came to this service, he initially told us that at the time of the transaction, he had 
been out for dinner with his family.  His phone had been in his sight all night and he had not 
allowed anyone access to it.
A few months later, Mr M told us he was out for dinner by himself and had left the phone on 
the table whilst he had gone to the rest room.  
Our investigator did not think Halifax should do anymore.  Neither of Mr Ms version of 
events accounted for how someone was able to access his phone using his fingerprint, set 
up a new payee and make the transfer.
In response, Mr M then told us he had his PIN and debit card in the back of his phone and 
that the PIN could be used to access his phone if the fingerprint failed.  He suggested this 
might be the way a fraudster was able to make the transaction.
Our investigator didnt agree - and the matter was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Mr M made this transaction himself.
I am satisfied his fingerprint was used to access his account at the time.  I am satisfied only 
he knew the information required to set up the new payee and I am satisfied that he has 
attempted to mislead this service with the differing accounts.
I have noted Mr M then logged into his online banking over 200 times and yet did not 
complain to Halifax until some six weeks later.
I dont consider Mr M to be a credible witness and I have seen nothing to suggest Halifax 
has been unfair or unreasonable in how it has dealt with his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman