DRN-1786555
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that esure Insurance Limited turned down a claim they made under 
their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B made a claim on their home insurance policy after damage happened in 
early July 2019 when there had been bad weather.
esure sent a surveyor to look at the damage who took photos and prepared a report. The 
surveyor looked at damage to the gutter and tiles. The surveyor thought the main cause of 
damage was be due to poor workmanship, or a breakdown of materials over a time.
esure looked at what the surveyor had to say and said the claim wasn't covered. They said 
the weather conditions highlighted damage that had been caused over a significant period of 
time. This type of damage is not covered under the 'wear and tear' exclusion in the policy. 
esure also looked at photographs of the property and didn't consider the damage to be 
caused by a one off storm event, so turned down the claim.
Mr and Mrs B remained unhappy so brought their complaint to our service where one of our 
investigators looked into things. She also thought, based on the surveyor's 
report, esure didn't act unfairly when saying the main cause of the damage was wear and 
tear; which isn't covered under the policy. esure also said the claim wasn't covered because 
storm conditions weren't met when the damage happened. Our investigator looked into this 
and agreed the weather conditions at the time didn't meet the definition of a storm as set out 
in the policy. So she thought esure acted fairly by turning down the claim for two reasons.
Mr and Mrs B provided some extra information which our investigator considered, however 
this didn't change her opinion about the outcome. Mr and Mrs B disagreed so the complaint 
has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it's important to tell Mr and Mrs B there's obviously been a problem with the gutter and 
some tiles. This has caused a level of upset, and there's also been a cost to repair it. But it's 
also important to say, as our investigator explained, our role is not to re-underwrite the claim, 
but to decide whether esure acted fairly and reasonably when considering the evidence and 
applying the policy terms to the claim. 
When considering claims for storm damage an insurer should investigate three things:
were there storm conditions at the time?
is the damage of a type consistent with that caused by a storm?
was the storm the main cause of the damage?When providing evidence as part of our investigation esure says the wind speeds at the time 
didn't constitute a storm. Our investigator looked at weather data for the day of the damage 
and agreed that the policy terms weren't met for a storm. Mr and Mrs B provided some extra 
information about the weather conditions which our investigator considered. Had this 
been the only reason for turning down the claim I might've questioned esure more about this. 
However, the lack of storm conditions isn't the only reason the claim was turned down. Since 
I'm persuaded the claim has been turned down fairly for another reason, I don't feel it's 
necessary to make a finding on this aspect of the complaint. 
To answer the second and third questions, esure instructed a surveyor's report on the 
damage.
The surveyor inspected the property, took photos and prepared a report. They looked at the 
condition of the gutter including the construction, as well as previous repair work that 
appeared to have been done. It was their opinion the damage was caused by poor 
workmanship or poor design. 
esure applied the policy terms to the claim. They said because of the issues highlighted by 
the surveyor the main cause of damage wasn't due to a storm. esure said the weather 
conditions highlighted maintenance issues with the gutter and there was no evidence of the 
storm being the main cause of the damage.
That's not to say there wasn't a problem; there was. But esure looked at what the surveyor 
said about the cause of the damage, and applied the 'wear and tear' exclusion under the 
policy. This exclusion covers; wear and tear, loss or damage as a result of lack of 
maintenance, and loss or damage that happens gradually over time. Mr and Mrs B feel the 
exclusion hasn't been applied correctly. However having looked at both the policy and the 
surveyor's report, I'm happy esure acted reasonably when considering the evidence 
and applying this exclusion.
Having considered everything, I'm satisfied esure applied the policy terms in a fair and 
reasonable way when turning down the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman