DRN-3674161
The complaint
Ms T complains that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) wont replace, or arrange a 
replacement TV for her with the retailer, under her appliance policy.
What happened
D&G replaced Ms Ts TV under her appliance policy in 2019. Once it arranged the 
replacement, the policy ended.
Three years later, the TV developed a fault. Ms T found that lots of other people with the 
same make and model complained about a similar fault, so she asked D&G to arrange a 
second replacement.
D&G said there was no cover available to her and shed need to raise the issue with the 
manufacturer.
After contacting the manufacturer, Ms T understood she needed to complain about the fault 
to the retailer. So, she contacted D&G again. D&G repeated its position that it was not 
responsible, and Ms T would need to seek resolution with the manufacturer.
Ms T complained.
Our investigator didnt think D&G had treated Ms T fairly. He said although D&G wasn't the 
retailer, it was the retailers customer, so it shouldve dealt with the matter on Ms Ts behalf. 
Our investigator thought D&G couldve assisted Ms T with this matter sooner, especially as 
shed explained that, due to health issues, she relied on her TV. For the distress and 
inconvenience caused, our investigator recommended 
D&G pay £250 compensation.
Neither Ms T nor D&G agreed. Ms T didnt think the requirement for D&G to assist her went 
far enough. D&G said it didnt have any further liability as the policy had ended.
I issued a provisional decision in July 2022 explaining that I was minded not to uphold Ms 
Ts complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
I realise this is not what shed hoped for, but I havent seen anything in the evidence to 
indicate that D&G had any further responsibility for the policy that ended three years earlier. 
Ill explain.
Theres no dispute about the way D&G handled Ms Ts original claim. It accepted her claim 
and sent a link to her for the retailer so she could choose, order and agree delivery of the 
replacement TV she wanted. In line with the terms and conditions, the policy ended once the 
TV was replaced.
Based on this evidence alone, Im satisfied that D&G fulfilled its obligation to Ms T under the 
policy, so I see no reason for it to take any further responsibility for the TV.
Ive gone on to look at what D&G did when Ms T complained about the TV fault and whether 
it shouldve done more. D&G said it would not repair or replace the TV because the policy 
had ended, so she would need to approach the manufacturer. My understanding of the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 is that Ms T would need to approach the retailer. Because the TV 
was more than six months old, it would also be Ms Ts responsibility to prove that the fault 
was likely to have been present from new. 
So, on the face of it, I think D&G gave Ms T incorrect advice.
Ms T went on to contact the manufacturer who told her the TV was out of warranty and she 
would need to contact the retailer. Ms T didnt make contact with the retailer. Instead she 
went back to D&G and asked it to handle the matter for her. She believed D&G was the 
customer and, therefore, responsible for following up with the retailer.
Although Ive decided D&G gave incorrect advice, I havent seen evidence to persuade me 
that it caused Ms T any loss. Thats because, even after the manufacturer advised her to 
approach the retailer, Ms T chose not to and continued to contact D&G. So, I cant say that 
D&Gs actions caused Ms T any significant distress or inconvenience.
I understand she was distressed by its refusal to help her, but as Ive decided D&G was not 
responsible for the faulty TV, Im satisfied it was reasonable to refuse further action. I see no 
reason to ask D&G to pay Ms T any compensation. 
Thinking about why Ms T asked D&G to handle the matter for her, it seems she has focused 
on the relationship between D&G and the retailer as that of a buyer/seller in the traditional 
sense. However, D&Gs role in this was to fulfil its responsibility under a contract of 
insurance. So, when D&G arranged the replacement TV, it was fulfilling its contract with Ms 
T rather than creating a new one which would attract ongoing responsibility after the policy 
ended.
Here, the policy ended three years earlier when Ms T received the replacement TV. It would 
be unfair and outside the policy terms and conditions to expect D&G to take any 
responsibility for ongoing issues.
In summary, although D&G gave incorrect advice when Ms T first contacted it about her 
faulty TV, I havent seen anything in the evidence to indicate that it caused her any loss, or 
that it shouldve taken responsibility for the ongoing issues. Therefore, the evidence doesnt 
persuade me that D&G need take any further action, and I dont consider that any 
compensation is warranted. 
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
D&G agreed with my provisional decision and had nothing further to add.
Ms T didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As Ms T didnt make any further submissions or provide further evidence for me to consider, 
and D&G accepted, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Ms Ts 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman