DRN-3332544
The complaint
Mrs F says James Hay Administration Company Ltd, trading as James Hay Partnership 
(JHP), delayed the setting up of a third-party (Selftrade) dealing account within her 
Individual Savings Account (ISA) in 2020, and therefore delayed her financial adviser in 
making specific pre-planned investments in the account. She claimed compensation for 
financial loss in the delayed investments and, separately, for the trouble, upset and 
inconvenience caused by that and by JHPs delay (between June 2020 and May 2021) in 
addressing her complaint. 
JHP disputes the complaint. It says it did not delay the setting up of the account and did not 
delay Mrs Fs investments; that the ISA and dealing account applications were received on 4 
February, on 10 February it wrote to Mrs F and her adviser to confirm that the new ISA had 
been opened (and to confirm how she would be able to trade directly in the dealing account, 
when opened and funded, through JHPs online service), on 14 February her adviser 
provided information required for the account application, on 24 February it informed her 
adviser that the account had been opened and on 25 February it was funded (upon her 
advisers instruction); that the completion delay, which it did not cause and which did not 
affect Mrs Fs investments, related only to establishing third-party authority for her adviser to 
deal in the account; and that it apologises for the delay in addressing her complaint but it has 
no responsibility for the compensation she claims.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. He mainly found as follows:
He confirmed the same chronology of initial events that JHP referred to and, with 
regards to the third-party authorisation matter, he noted the following  on 8 April 
JHP says it learnt from Selftrade that an unsigned third-party authority form had been 
sent to Selftrade directly; it forwarded the form to Mrs F on 21 April, received it back 
on 18 May and then forwarded the completed and signed form to Selftrade on 21 
May; her investments were made on the same date; her adviser complained, on her 
behalf, on 4 June and JHP responded on 11 May 2021 (after the matter had been 
referred to us).
The specific investments were made into Aviva, GSK and SSE. The earliest the 
investments could have been made was 25 February, when the account was funded. 
They were made on 21 May but, overall, Mrs F incurred no financial loss in making 
them on this date. Instead, she made a net gain by investing at the prices on 21 May 
as opposed to the prices on 25 February. The closing share price level for Aviva on 
25 February was 381.80 and on 21 May it was cheaper at 237.00; the closing level 
for GSK on 25 February was 1602.20 and on 21 May it was more expensive at 
1664.20; and the closing level for SSE on 25 February was 1600.00 and on 21 May it 
was cheaper at 1204.50.
Complaint handling is not a regulated activity, so this service cannot address Mrs Fs 
claim for compensation for JHPs delay in addressing her complaint.
In the other matters  JHP wrote to the adviser on 10 February confirming the setting 
up of the ISA, the need for funding of the dealing account before trading can begin, 
the need for third-party authorisation for the adviser and confirmation that Mrs F 
could trade directly in the account; the adviser says this may not have been received 
but there is evidence that JHP sent it, so it cannot reasonably be responsible for any 
postal failure thereafter; JHP could have acted faster between 8 and 21 April (in 
terms of forwarding the third-party authority form to Mrs F after Selftrade highlighted 
the need for its resubmission) and between 18 May and 21 May (during which it 
received the completed form and forwarded it to Selftrade); but it did not take an 
unreasonably long period of time to act in each case, and it had given prior notice 
about Mrs Fs ability to deal in the account directly; so overall it did not cause a 
meaningful delay in the matter.
Mrs Fs husband conveyed, on her behalf, her disagreement with this outcome and asked for 
an ombudsmans decision. He accepted that, overall, no financial loss in the investments 
was incurred but he said JHPs mishandling of her complaint remains a matter for which she 
should be compensated. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our jurisdiction is set out in the regulators Handbook, within its Dispute Resolution (DISP) 
provisions. DISP 2.3.1 R says we can address only complaints about firms carrying out 
regulated activities (or ancillary activities connected to regulated activities). The Handbook 
also says a complaint is any oral or written expression of dissatisfaction, whether justified or 
not, from, or on behalf of, a person about the provision of, or failure to provide, a financial 
service, claims management service or a redress determination, which alleges that the 
complainant has suffered (or may suffer) financial loss, material distress or material 
inconvenience. On its own, complaint handling is not a regulated activity and it is not an 
ancillary activity connected to the conduct of a regulated activity. A complaint about 
complaint handling is also not a complaint, as defined by the Handbook, because it is not 
 about the provision of, or failure to provide, a financial service, claims management 
service or a redress determination . 
In some cases, a complaint to a firm and its handling of that complaint might form a part of 
the core claim (about a regulated and/or ancillary activity) pursued by the complainant. An 
example could be where it is alleged that a mishandling of a complaint added to the 
substantive problem or partly delayed its resolution. In Mrs Fs case, the subject matter of 
the June 2020 complaint submitted on her behalf had already been concluded (in May 2020) 
prior to the complaint, so the complaint was isolated and not a part of the underlying issue. 
For the above reasons, I cannot address Mrs Fs allegation that JHP mishandled her 
complaint (and her claim for compensation in this respect). The next matter to address is her 
claim about the timing of her investments. On balance and for the reasons given below, I do 
not consider that JHP is responsible for the timing of her investments.
Between 4 and 10 February 2020 JHP received Mrs Fs applications for the ISA and the 
dealing account and it confirmed to her and her adviser the setting up of her ISA. On 
balance, I do not consider that JHPs actions were unduly delayed during this period. I have 
seen the advisers email to JHP of 14 February, in which the particular information required 
for the dealing account application was provided. On 24 February JHP informed her adviser 
that the account had been set up. This was done 10 ordinary days after its receipt of the information her adviser provided. I have considered whether (or not) this is a delay that JHP 
could be held responsible for. I am unable to draw such a conclusion because I do not have 
evidence on when precisely the account was confirmed to JHP by Selftrade, so I do not have 
evidence that JHP delayed in conveying this to Mrs Fs adviser. Even if JHP was late in 
doing this, because her investments were not made until around three months thereafter (on 
21 May) and for the reasons given below, I do not consider that such a delay would be 
material to the timing of her investments.
The account was funded, upon the advisers instruction, on 25 February  the day after the 
adviser was informed of its opening. This indicates that the adviser was aware the account 
had been set up and was available for funding. Prior to this, both Mrs F and the adviser were 
informed by JHP, on 10 February, that she (Mrs F) would be able to place trades directly 
with Selftrade once the account was set up and funded, and that in order to do so all she 
had to do was visit JHPs website to register online for direct access to the dealing account. I 
agree with the investigators finding that JHP could have acted faster during the two periods 
he identified (as noted above). However, the facts show that this aspect is irrelevant to the 
timing of Mrs Fs investments. The key findings are that she sought to make her specific 
investments through the dealing account that she was opening at the time, and that she 
could have made those investments any time from 25 February onwards given that the 
account was live and funded on this date  and given that she had prior notice about direct 
dealing (available after funding of the account) that did not require completion of the third-
party authorisation process. 
The fact that the investments were not made by Mrs F any time from 25 February onwards 
was/is not JHPs fault, and the delay  up to 21 May  in making those investments was also 
remote to JHP and to the third-party authorisation process. Overall, on balance and for the 
above reasons, I do not consider that JHP caused  or contributed (meaningfully enough to 
warrant compensation) to  this matter.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mrs Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman