DRN-3395999
The complaint
Ms F is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money shes lost to a fraudster.
Whats happened?
Ms F says she saw a private advert for a van on a well-known online marketplace. Shes 
used the marketplace many times in the past without any problems. She contacted the seller 
and was told that the van was still available to buy for £3,500. The seller sent her various 
photographs of the van, as well as the vehicles specifications and MOT details. Ms F 
thought that the van was being sold for a reasonable price and she saw that the seller had 
100% positive feedback from previous buyers, which reassured her. The seller also provided 
her with a picture of their passport, which gave her confidence in the purchase.
It was agreed that Ms F would pay the seller via PayPal and the van would be delivered to 
her. She was told that she could check the van on delivery and return it within 5 days to 
receive a full refund if she wasnt happy with it. The seller sent her a link to what appeared to 
be PayPals website, and she was directed to make a faster payment in a secure live chat. 
After shed paid, she received an invoice from the seller and a PayPal receipt which looked 
legitimate.
When the van didnt arrive by the expected delivery date, Ms F contacted the seller who 
indicated that there had been a mix-up with the delivery company. A new delivery date was 
agreed. This happened twice more. When the van wasnt delivered a third time, and the 
seller stopped corresponding with her, Ms F realised she had been the victim of a scam. She 
contacted PayPal and was informed that shed used a spoofed website to pay the seller 
(Ms F says it looked professional and sophisticated to her, it even had a browser padlock 
icon to indicate that it was a secure website).
When Ms F reported the scam to Monzo, it declined to reimburse her because it said that the 
international payment she had made was not covered by the Lending Standards Boards 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code). Monzo reached out to the beneficiary bank 
on the same day that Ms F reported the scam to it, but no funds remained.
Ms F wasnt happy with Monzos position. She said it should have noticed that the 
transaction was unusual and made some basic enquiries about it before processing it and/or 
advised her about the scam risk. 
What did our investigator say?
Our investigator thought that Monzo could have prevented Ms Fs loss. So, he 
recommended that it fully reimburse her.
Monzo didnt agree with our investigator and the complaint has now been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Monzo has said that the CRM Code doesnt cover international payments, and that is 
correct. But thats not the only consideration here.
Its common ground that Ms F authorised the payment. So, even though she didnt intend to 
pay a fraudster, the payment was authorised under the Payment Services Regulations. 
Monzo had an obligation to follow Ms Fs payment instructions, and Ms F is presumed liable 
for the loss in the first instance. But thats not the end of the story.
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider that Monzo 
should:
Have been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering, and the financing of terrorism.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the 
possibility of financial harm.
Ive looked at Ms Fs account activity in the six months prior to the scam. The payment of 
£3,500 was relatively high value, for significantly more than any other recent payments out of 
the account, went to a new payee and was made in Euros (payments made in another 
currency are not usual for Ms Fs account). So, I think it stood out as unusual and out of 
character, and I think its reasonable to expect Monzo to have asked some further questions 
about it.
It doesnt appear that Ms F was coached by the fraudster, so I think she wouldve spoken 
freely if Monzo had asked her some questions about the payment. And I think its most likely 
the scam would have become apparent at this point. Ms F has said she had no concerns about making the payment for various reasons. But 
I think that Monzo had or ought to have had a good enough understanding of how vehicle 
scams work  including that fraudsters often purport to sell vehicles which dont exist or dont 
belong to them on online marketplaces, that they usually send enough information about a 
vehicle to reassure a customer without allowing them to inspect it in person and that they 
more often than not offer a money-back guarantee if a buyer is unhappy with a vehicle upon 
delivery  to have been able to identify the risk of harm from fraud if it had asked her some 
probing questions. Monzo would most likely have also uncovered that the payment was 
going to a different destination, in a different currency to what Ms F thought, and that shed 
clicked a link the seller had sent her in order to make the payment.
If Monzo had done enough, I think it would most likely have been obvious to the bank and 
Ms F that there was a risk of financial harm, and the scam wouldve unfolded without the 
£3,500 payment being made. Of course, Monzo could also have declined to make the 
payment altogether if Ms F had still wanted to go ahead despite its warnings, and given the 
circumstances here, I think it wouldve been reasonable for it to do so.
I appreciate Monzo needs to strike a balance in the extent to which it intervenes in 
payments, against the risk of unduly inconveniencing or delaying legitimate payment 
requests and I wouldnt have expected it to interrogate Ms F. I also acknowledge that the 
main perpetrator here is the fraudster. But overall, I think appropriate questions should 
reasonably have been asked in this case, and if they had been Ms F wouldnt have wanted 
to go ahead or, if she did, Monzo couldve declined to make the payment altogether. Either 
way, I think the scam wouldve been prevented and Ms F wouldnt have suffered a loss.
Considering everything, I think the fair and reasonable outcome is to uphold this complaint 
and instruct Monzo to reimburse Ms Fs loss and pay 8% simple interest per year from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement.
Ive thought about whether Ms F should bear some responsibility by way of contributory 
negligence, but I dont think she should. Im satisfied that her explanation on why she wasnt 
concerned about the transaction is reasonable. Shes said that: 
Shes used the online marketplace before without any problems.
She received photos of the van she intended to purchase and information about it.
The seller sent her a copy of their passport and had 100% positive reviews from 
previous customers on the online marketplace, which reassured her.
The vehicle was reasonably priced.
She thought she could return the van and receive a full refund if she wasnt happy 
with it upon delivery.
She thought she was paying the seller via PayPal (a reasonably secure method of 
payment) and the website she was directed to looked professional and sophisticated, 
it even had a browser padlock icon to indicate that it was a secure website.
She received a PayPal receipt which looked legitimate.
I think that all of the above was enough to satisfy a reasonable person. Overall, I dont think 
there was any contributory negligence on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct 
Monzo Bank Ltd to:
reimburse Ms Fs loss within 28 days of receiving notification of her acceptance of my 
final decision; pluspay 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman