DRN-3615983
The complaint
Mr R complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS), trading as Audi 
Financial Services, have failed to apply a deferral period to his finance agreement, were 
wrong to suggest there were arrears on his account, have refused to extend the term of his 
agreement and were unreasonable when reporting adverse information to his credit file.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr R, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Im able to consider the issues that Mr R raised with VWFS in January 2022 and to which 
they provided their final response later that month. 
Mr R acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
Im persuaded that VWFS have not made a mistake when reporting the arrears on the 
account. I say that because the account statements shows there have been missed 
payments starting in 2019 and because Im not persuaded there was ever an agreement in 
place to defer payments. 
Ive looked at VWFSs system notes and they explain that Mr R contacted them in March 
2020 about a deferral, but they dont suggest he was offered one. Mr R appears to have 
been told to keep an eye on the website and whilst he says he subsequently made a deferral 
request I think if he had done there would have been further information available to me 
about that. There would, for instance, have needed to be a modified agreement in place that 
Mr R would have been asked to sign. 
VWFSs system notes show that they accept Mr R was given wrong information when he 
called in January 2022. It seems the agents on those calls wrongly assumed Mr R had been 
in a deferral period. Whilst that was a mistake I would expect VWFS to compensate Mr R for, 
I dont think it was a mistake VWFS had to honour. There were still arrears on the account 
and no deferral had been put in place. VWFS offered to reduce Mr Rs balance by £100 in 
acknowledgement of that mistake and I think that was fair redress in the circumstances.
Ive reviewed the arrears letters sent to Mr R at the address listed in his finance agreement. 
Along with the statements of account that were also sent to Mr R at the same address I think 
these show the arrears that were mounting on the account. It was Mr Rs responsibility under 
the term of the contract to ensure that payments were made, and I dont think it would be 
reasonable to suggest there is evidence the arrears on the account were the result of any 
mistake made by VWFS. 
I can see that the address we have for Mr R on our system is different from the address 
VWFS have been sending letters to. I cant see any record in VWFSs system notes of Mr R 
advising them of a change of address and so it wouldnt be fair to suggest VWFS have done 
anything wrong by continuing to send correspondence to the address they hold for Mr R, the 
one on the finance agreement. I can see that VWFS were also emailing Mr R and that those 
emails were being received and responded to. I think it would have been clear to Mr R, 
regardless of whether arrears letters were being received, that he hadnt been keeping up 
with payments.
VWFS have a responsibility to report accurate information about consumers financial 
performance on accounts to the credit reference agencies. As Im not persuaded there was 
anything wrong with the arrears information they were recording, Im not persuaded they are 
wrong to report that information.
I understand that Mr R wanted VWFS to allow him to continue payments over a longer, 
undefined period, to pay off the balance. I dont think there was ever an agreement in place 
to allow that to happen. The extended agreement set up in 2018 prescribed a payment 
period after which the full agreement was to have been paid. VWFS dont have to refinance 
the agreement any further. But, If Mr R is experiencing financial difficulties I would expect the 
business to show forbearance and be supportive by agreeing an affordable repayment plan 
with Mr R. 
Overall, however, Ive not seen evidence that has led me to support Mr Rs complaint and 
Im not asking VWFS to take any further action.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman