DRN-2861744
The complaint
Ms J complains about the way that Society of Lloyds dealt with her residential block policy 
claim for water damage to her flat. Various parties have been involved, including the loss 
adjusters and the syndicate underwriting the policy. For convenience I shall refer to Lloyds 
throughout unless I say otherwise.
What happened
In November 2019 Ms J reported a claim to Lloyds because there was water leaking into her 
flat. Lloyds registered the claim and advised Ms J that she needed to contact the 
management company (L) to get the leak repaired, and that repairs to her property because 
of the water damage couldnt start until that happened. It also asked her for details about her 
claim. Ms J attempted to contact L and had to write directly to its chief executive in order to 
get a response. She replied to Lloyds request for more information in January 2020. 
It became clear that L didnt appear to be progressing things so Lloyds appointed loss 
adjusters at the end of March 2020 to chase matters up. Following a site visit the loss 
adjuster said he had offered to find Ms J alternative accommodation (AA), and shed turned 
this down because of the lockdown. although she denies this was the case. The loss 
adjusters corresponded with L chasing it up through May, June and July 2020. They also 
arranged for contractors to carry out a report as to what was needed to carry out the 
necessary repairs, although also because of lockdown there were problems in accessing 
Ms Js property
L reported back to Lloyds in early July 2020 that it had had difficulty gaining access to Ms Js 
flat. Ms J denied this was the case. In August 2020 some repairs were carried out and L told 
Lloyds that the leak had been fixed. Ms J confirmed that it hadnt. It was around this time that 
Ms J further enquired about AA. She explained that her daughter had been unable to live in 
the property because of the damp, and had entered into a flat share arrangement with a 
friend. Lloyds agreed to pay the rent for this and also agreed to fund AA for Ms J. She 
moved into a property in October 2020.
Lloyds continued to chase L about repairing the leak, which, in turn, continued to report back 
that it was having trouble gaining access to Ms Js property and another flat which was 
occupied by a tenant rather than a leaseholder. Access to the other flat was necessary to 
trace the leak.
My understanding is that the leak affecting Ms Js flat wasnt finally fixed until March 20231. 
Ms J initially complained to Lloyds that it had caused unnecessary delays. She believed it 
had said it was the agent of L, who was the joint policyholder (with the leaseholders). She 
also complained about the failure to provide her with AA and that Lloyds had shared 
information about her with L in breach of the Data Protection Act.
Lloyds denied responsibility for the delays and asserted it had continually chased L about 
the repairs. It pointed out that it was not the agent for L. It said Ms J had refused AA when it 
was initially offered to her and that when she confirmed she wanted AA, it arranged for her to 
move to a let property on a 12 months let (with a 6 months break clause). It said it couldnt 
deal with her data protection complaint which it suggested she refer to the Information 
Commissioner.
On referral to this service our investigator said that Lloyds had acted reasonably.
Ms J disagreed and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
scope of this decision
Lloyds final response to Ms J was dated 17 December 2020. As our investigator advised 
Ms J, although the claim has continued since then (and Ive noted some in my background 
above), my consideration only covers matters up until that final response date. If Ms J has 
issues with anything that has happened since that date she will have to raise a further 
complaint with Lloyds about it. Specifically I understand that Ms J applied for an injunction 
against L, about which there was some correspondence between Lloyds and Ls solicitors in 
February 2021. I confirm that I havent considered the issues raised in those letters.
Secondly I cant deal with Ms Js complaint about breaches of data protection rules. She has 
raised a formal complaint with the Information Commissioners Office, and that is the most 
appropriate forum to deal with that complaint.
delays
I should make it clear that Lloyds (or the Lloyds Syndicate) is not the agent for L. Whilst 
Ms J alleges she was told this, I cant see that this was ever represented to her. When they 
were appointed, the loss adjusters clearly advised Ms J their involvement would progress 
matters. But although L is a joint policyholder, Lloyds and its loss adjusters were limited in 
what they could do. The responsibility for repairing the leaks was clearly on L and it was 
primarily Ms Js responsibility to contact L. I wont go into every letter, attendance note and 
email, but from the loss adjusters point of view I think they did chase L quite frequently over 
a long period. And L did appoint contractors to investigate the cause of the leak themselves.
I note that both L and Lloyds appointed contractors repeatedly asserted that Ms J didnt 
allow access to her flat. In the case of the contractors it was said that she had placed 
onerous conditions, beyond those required by officials in response to Covid, on them 
attending her flat. And Ls contractors sent through a note theyd put through Ms Js door 
asking for her co-operation. I know Ms J denies any failure to allow access and believed that 
the leak wasnt coming from inside her flat. Nevertheless it was reasonable for Lloyds to 
believe the information it was getting from the contractors and from L. 
This also applies to the information given to Lloyds in August 2020 that the leak had been 
repaired. I agree that Lloyds shouldnt have said this to Ms J in its final response letter. The 
evidence from the files is that after that was put to Ms J, she had a long telephone 
conversation with the loss adjusters, when she told them the leak was continuing, who in 
turn relayed this back to L and continued to chase it to take action. I think Lloyds was or 
should have been aware of this further activity when drafting its final response.
Ms J says she was dissuaded by the loss adjusters from taking legal proceedings, on the 
basis that they would be pursuing L. There was nothing wrong in my view in saying that. As Ms J has subsequently discovered legal proceedings are expensive and may not obtain the 
result desired.
As for whether Lloyds could have done anything else, I think it was reasonable of it to expect 
L to have taken action. It gave information to Ms J as to who to contact, and from 
mid-January 2020 when Ms J had told it she had written to Ls chief executive until it 
appointed loss adjusters to the end of March it was reasonable for Lloyds to expect some 
action to have been taken. The primary responsibility for chasing this was Ms Js, and Lloyds 
did then appoint the loss adjuster in the hope of moving matters forward. I note Ms Js 
suggestion that Lloyds could have threatened to withhold policy cover, but I dont think this 
would have been helpful to all the residents of the block who would have been reliant on L to 
keep their properties insured.
AA
There is a difference between what each party says about this. The loss adjuster insists that 
he offered to source AA for Ms J in March 2020 but she had declined because of the Covid 
situation. I think the issue is over whether Ms J should have been offered AA straight away 
rather than wait for the leak to be fixed and the drying to start. Theres no attendance note of 
the loss adjusters advice or Ms Js refusal. However the loss adjuster did repeat that to 
other parties at the time. But I think it likely that AA was only intended to start when the work 
commenced and the leak had been fixed. And in light of her daughter moving out I think 
Lloyds could have taken action once it knew about this in July 2020.
But if a business should have taken action, we look at what it did to resolve the matter. And 
its clear that AA was found for a twelve month let, eight months of which had to be paid in 
advance. This started in October 2020. Lloyds also agreed to pay for Ms Js daughters 
accommodation. So I think any delay in providing such AA was mitigated by the action 
Lloyds then took. I wont make any further finding in that respect.
overall
So overall up until December 2020, I think Lloyds acted reasonably. Any delays were caused 
by L, over which it had little control. I think it took reasonable steps to remedy the situation.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman