DRN-1986606
The complaint
Mr A complains Vanquis Bank Limited is unfairly holding him liable for the balance on an 
account which he says does not belong to him.  He also complains that this complaint was 
investigated without any authority from him to do so.
Vanquis says it is satisfied that Mr A is the genuine account holder.
What happened
In September 2019, Vanquis was contacted by Mr A about an account which he said was 
not his. He said he had not applied for the account and should not be held liable for the 
outstanding balance.
Vanquis said it sent Mr A some declaration forms which he needed to sign and return before 
it started to investigate.  These were not received and so, weeks later, Vanquis sold this debt 
onto a third party.
Some months later, the signed declaration was received by Vanquis and it then investigated 
Mr As complaint.  However, it concluded that it would not be upholding it because the 
evidence suggested that Mr A had in fact been the one to open the account.  It confirmed 
this in its final response.
Mr A then further complained that the signed declaration had not come from him so he said 
Vanquis ought not to have investigated the complaint.
When he brought his complaint to this service, our investigator looked into matters for him.
Our investigator didnt think he could ask Vanquis to do anymore  but Mr A was not happy 
and asked that an ombudsman consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid its not good new for Mr A because based on what Ive seen, I 
think it is fair and reasonable for Vanquis to hold him liable for this account.  I also think it is 
fair and reasonable for Vanquis to conclude that the signed declaration came from Mr A and 
so it had the authority to investigate this complaint.
My reasons are very much the same as the investigators but for clarity, I will repeat them 
here:
- the mobile number registered at the account opening is the same number used to 
complain to Vanquis;
- the address used to open the account is the address where Mr A currently resides 
and has done so for a while.  Whilst I acknowledge that he says he has moved 
around at some point, he confirms this has always been his postal address;
- the account with Vanquis was managed through a direct debit set up with a current 
account with L.  Checks show this account with L was in Mr As name;
- the voice on the calls with Vanquis when the account was opened and when Mr A 
complained about the declaration forms is the same.  Ive listened to the calls and I 
think its fair and reasonable for Vanquis to come to the same conclusion;
- there is no possible benefit to anyone else in Vanquis investigating Mr As complaint.  
In fact, the only person who would benefit is Mr A himself  assuming the complaint 
was upheld.  I think its likely that Mr A sought to raise a further complaint point 
because his initial complaint had been rejected.
So, when I consider these points, it just doesnt seem logical that a third party (whether a 
stranger or someone known to Mr A) would derive any benefits from opening an account in 
Mr As name and servicing it for a number of years from another of Mr As accounts.  And all 
this whilst providing Mr As genuine address and contact number which increased the 
opportunity of him being alerted to this fraudulent activity at any time.  Any suggestion that 
this was someone other than Mr A would just not be credible.
For these reasons, I dont think I could fairly ask Vanquis to do anymore. I cant see that it 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in how it dealt with Mr As complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman