DRN-2870898
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as T has complained that Liberty Mutual Insurance Europe SE unfairly 
turned down its business interruption insurance claim after it was forced to close due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic.  
 
Mrs D, a director of T, has brought the complaint on Ts behalf.
What happened
T held a business interruption insurance policy with Liberty Mutual. It claimed on its policy 
after being forced to close by the to the Governments actions in response to the Covid-
19 pandemic.  
  
Liberty Mutual said that, while the policy covered business interruption as a result of a 
notifiable human infectious or contagious disease at the premises, T had closed as a result 
of the Government Act in response to the national pandemic. As Liberty Mutual thought T 
had closed in response to the national lockdown, rather than because someone at its 
premises had Covid-19, Liberty Mutual turned down its claim.  
  
T was unhappy with Liberty Mutuals response and brought the complaint to our service. T 
didnt think it was fair for Liberty Mutual to turn down the claim when it couldnt prove 
whether anyone had Covid-19 due to testing not being available. 
Our investigator looked into Ts complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he didnt 
think T had closed due to someone at its premises having Covid-19.
T disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said a positive Covid-19 test 
shouldnt be required in order for the claim to be paid. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact 
on Ts business. But Im not going to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.   
  
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to 
see if Liberty Mutual have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions 
of the policy when declining Ts claim.   
  
The most relevant part of Ts policy covers:  
  
Interruption of or interference with the Business in consequence of compulsory 
closure by a public body authorised to prevent or restrict access to the Premises 
arising from
a) discovery of a notifiable human infectious or contagious disease at the   
Premises
In order for this extension to provide cover, the interruption or interference to Ts business 
would need to be in consequence of compulsory closure arising from the discovery of a 
notifiable human infectious or contagious disease at Ts premises. Covid-19 is a notifiable 
infectious or contagious disease so Ive considered the information I have to decide if, on 
balance, T has demonstrated there was a discovery of a case at its premises.
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-19, 
save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able to produce a positive 
test result from that period. To treat that as a minimum requirement would, in my view, be 
unfair.  
 
Therefore, its necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on balance, that Covid-19 was discovered at the 
insured premises. As with any insurance claim, the burden of proof initially rests with the 
policyholder to demonstrate that its suffered a loss its policy covers.  
T hasnt provided anything to indicate that anyone at its premises had Covid-19. So I dont 
think its shown there was most likely a case discovered at its premises which led to its 
closure. Therefore, this extension doesnt provide cover for the circumstances of Ts claim. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome that T was hoping for, but having considered the matter 
very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Liberty Mutual to pay Ts claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman