DRN-4188039
The complaint
Mr T complains that as interest rates have risen, hes paying less capital every month on his 
tracker repayment mortgage with HSBC UK Bank Plc. He said that HSBC had recalculated 
this without explaining this to him or getting his agreement, and this would cost him more.
What happened
Mr T said he has a tracker mortgage, and as interest rates went up, so did his contractual 
monthly payment (CMP). Mr T said he expected that. But he said he didnt expect that, at 
the same time as his CMP increased, the amount being used to pay off the capital also 
decreased. He said that now, each CMP he makes contributes around 15% less to the 
reduction of capital than it did when his mortgage was taken out. 
Mr T said he hadnt authorised HSBC to do this, he wanted his capital payments to remain 
constant until he told HSBC otherwise. Mr T said the changes HSBC had made would mean 
that he would pay more interest over the period of the loan. 
Mr T said hed asked HSBC to explain, and it hadnt. All it said was that the mortgage broker 
wasnt responsible for explaining this to him. Mr T wanted us to look into this for him. 
HSBC said it had listened back to the call Mr T had when he set up this mortgage, and it was 
satisfied the recommendation it made then was suitable for his needs. The advisor didnt 
explain during the call about the mechanics of how a CMP worked, but HSBC said it 
wouldnt usually expect its advisors to go into that level of detail, and Mr T hadnt asked any 
questions about this. 
HSBC said that in general terms, in the first years of a capital repayment mortgage (the sort 
of mortgage Mr T has) more interest will be paid monthly, whilst in the later years more of 
the capital is repaid monthly. On a short term basis, HSBC said Mr T could usually expect to 
see a small change in the capital repaid in each monthly repayment. But, importantly, it said 
that what had happened recently on Mr Ts mortgage was a series of interest rate increases. 
So there hadnt been a period of consecutive months on the same rate that HSBC could 
point to, to show Mr T how this worked.
HSBC also said that changes to Mr Ts mortgage would also be affected by the point in his 
billing cycle when the interest rate changed. If the interest rate changed partway through a 
month, then it might take longer for all the effects of this change to filter through. But it said 
Mr T wouldnt pay more overall because of how HSBC was calculating his CMP. He might 
end up paying back more overall if interest rates were higher than initially anticipated, but 
HSBC said Mr T had told it he understood and accepted this. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. At first, he said he hadnt seen 
any evidence that the amount of Mr Ts CMP going toward repayment of the capital had 
changed. He referred Mr T to the relevant provisions in the terms of his mortgage. And he 
said he wouldnt expect a mortgage advisor to explain in detail how the CMP is worked out. 
Mr T didnt agree. He sent us some more detailed information on his recent monthly 
payments, which he said clearly showed the capital repayment part of his CMP decreasing 
as interest rates were rising. He said that meant there must be something wrong. Or, if this 
was right, then HSBC or our service should be able to provide an illustration. 
Our investigator then wrote again, he said HSBC had provided some general information on 
how Mr Ts mortgage was worked out, which he shared with Mr T. (I wont set that out again 
here.) And he said he still didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong.
Mr T said that wasnt what he wanted, he wanted a tailored illustration for his own mortgage. 
Our investigator said Mr T would need to ask HSBC for this. And he said that our service 
doesnt audit mortgages for people. Because Mr T had requested that his complaint be 
considered by an ombudsman, this case then came to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
I should start out by confirming what our investigator said, that our service doesnt audit 
individual mortgages for complainants. So I cant provide the detailed and personalised 
information on his mortgage that Mr T said he would like. However, I hope a more 
generalised explanation covering how interest rate changes affect the CMP on a repayment 
mortgage, may still assist. 
What Mr T is concerned about, is that over the period between the end of 2021 and early 
2023, each month, the amount of money which is being used to reduce his outstanding 
capital balance owed to HSBC, was going down. He said HSBC must be changing how it 
works out this capital repayment, and it shouldnt do that without having either agreed this 
with him, or explaining it at the outset. 
I think that what Mr T is concerned about here, is just a function of how a capital repayment 
mortgage works, in the particular circumstance of repeated rises in interest rates. Ill try to 
explain that. Mr T may also find it useful to look at one of the many mortgage interest rate 
calculators available online, which will work out for him the annual repayments on different 
rates of interest, and show how this will affect the proportions of each annual repayment 
devoted to interest and capital. Some produce this calculation in the form of a graph, which 
makes the effect of a change in interest rates more clearly visible. 
What Mr T will see, if he checks such a site, is firstly that capital repayment does vary over 
the term of the mortgage. As our investigator said, in the first few years, the amount of 
capital repayment is rather smaller, and it increases over the term, until at the end the bulk of 
the CMP is made up of capital repayment, with only a small proportion being used to cover 
interest. 
But what is perhaps less obvious, is how the interest rate affects this calculation. And thats 
where using one of these online calculators can assist, because it allows for marked 
changes to be made to the interest rate. Comparing the results for very different rates of 
interest will highlight how that changes the overall proportion of the CMP which is being used 
for interest, and for capital repayment. 
This change isnt as simple as the higher the interest rate, the larger the amount of the 
monthly payment which is being used to cover interest. The way that this interest repayment reduces, and the capital repayment increases, each month, also changes. So when interest 
rates are low, then a graph showing the interest amount reduction and the capital repayment 
rise will show the change over the years almost in a straight line, across all the years of 
repayment. But once the interest rate rises, the graph shows much more of a curve, because 
it takes far longer for capital repayments to accumulate, and to make substantial reductions 
on the capital owed, which then impact interest. This effect is just a result of the need to 
smooth out payments over the entirety of the mortgage. 
So what Mr T complains of here, a reduction in the amount of his CMP which is being used 
towards capital repayments, is simply what I would expect to see on a repayment mortgage 
like his, when the interest rate rises. The payment goes up, and unfortunately, because more 
of the payment over the lifetime of the mortgage is interest, that means that at the same time 
as the interest rate rises, the amount of the CMP dedicated to the capital reduction is likely 
to decrease. 
What Id expect to see, if there was only one increase in interest rates, isnt the reduction in 
the amount of capital repayment month on month, which is what Mr T has shown us. If there 
was only one increase in interest rates, then I would expect to see an increase in the CMP, 
and a reduction in the amount of the CMP which goes towards capital repayment (and 
HSBC has said this might take effect over two months, if the interest rate change happened 
part way through Mr Ts payment period). Then Id expect to see the proportion of CMP 
going towards capital repayment start climbing again, albeit more slowly than before. 
However, I note that when HSBC replied to Mr Ts complaint, it said it wasnt able to point to 
such a period during Mr Ts recent account history, because there had, unfortunately, been 
consecutive rate rises over a sustained period. What HSBC says about a period of 
consecutive interest rate rises is consistent with the changes in Mr Ts CMP which I can see 
in the information hes sent us. I think thats why his monthly capital repayment amount 
seems to be trending down. But once the interest rate on his mortgage stabilises, he should 
see the amount of that CMP going toward repayment of the capital start to slowly climb 
again, month on month.
I hope this assists Mr T. For the avoidance of doubt, Ive not seen anything in this case 
which suggests to me that HSBC has made a mistake about the proportion of Mr Ts CMP 
which is being used to repay the capital he owes. And I dont think that HSBCs advisor had 
to explain how Mr Ts mortgage works to him, in this level of detail, during the meeting where 
he took out his tracker mortgage. 
For those reasons, I dont think this complaint should be upheld.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman