DRN-2333306
The complaint
Ms E says Lloyds Bank PLC (trading at the time as TSB) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. Ill refer to the business as Lloyds in this decision to keep things 
simple.
What happened
Ms E opened a TSB Trustcard credit card account in 1995. At the same time, she took out a 
PPI policy to protect her credit card repayments.
The policy would have helped with Ms Es monthly credit card payments for up to 12 months 
per successful claim for accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Ms E disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Es case.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I need to decide what I thinks most likely 
to have happened, based on the information I have.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Es complaint. Ill explain why.
Lloyds no longer has a copy of Ms Es application form or credit agreement for the card. 
I dont think thats surprising or unreasonable, given that she opened the account so long 
ago. It has, however, provided a sample of the type of application form that was in use 
when Ms E opened the account.
The sample application form includes a section on PPI, with a brief description of the 
cover, and a box to tick if the applicant wished to take it. I think its likely that the form 
that Ms E completed would have been in a similar format. Im satisfied from the way PPI 
is presented that Ms E would have realised that the PPI was optional. And I think she 
decided to take it, knowing that she had a choice  although I can understand how she 
may no longer remember this, so long after the event.
The sale took place a long time ago. Ms E cant remember whether Lloyds 
recommended the PPI to her. Lloyds no longer has a record of how the policy was sold. 
For the purposes of this decision, Ill assume that Ms E applied for the credit card and 
PPI face to face, at a meeting in a branch of the bank, and that Lloyds recommended the 
PPI to her. This is to Ms Es advantage, as it means that Lloyds had a responsibility to 
check that the cover was suitable for her. But it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable, 
based on what Ive seen of Ms Es circumstances at the time.
I acknowledge that Ms Es told us shed have been entitled to sick pay at her employers 
discretion. The PPI would have covered Ms Es monthly credit card payments for up to 
12 months per successful claim for accident, sickness or unemployment. Thats longer 
than it sounds as if Ms E could have been sure shed receive sick pay for. Whats more, 
the PPI would have paid out in addition to any payments Ms E received from her 
employer. So she could have used those to meet other expenses. 
Ms E says shed have had savings at the time, although shes understandably not sure 
how much. But having the PPI would have meant she could have kept hold of her 
savings or used them to meet other day-to-day expenses if she was off sick or lost her 
job.
Ive borne in mind that Ms Es told us that shes always been paid in full when shes been 
off sick. She also says that when shes been made redundant, shes always found new 
work quickly, due to her experience and qualifications. But while I dont doubt that what 
Ms E says is true, I dont think she could have guaranteed that this would be the case. 
And having the PPI would have meant that she wouldnt have needed to worry about her 
monthly credit card repayments if shed been off sick, or if shed lost her job.
Ive also noted what Ms E has said about the fact that she was living with her mother at 
the time, with no financial pressures. Shes mentioned that her family were very 
supportive and would have helped her financially if necessary. But circumstances can 
change, and I cant be sure that Ms Es family would have continued to be in a position to 
support her if the need had arisen. So taking everything into account, I think the PPI 
could have been useful for Ms E.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Ms E about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Im satisfied that Ms E chose to take out the policy. So it looks as if she 
wanted this type of cover, even if shes understandably forgotten that now, so many 
years later. And from what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, she wasnt 
affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover- for example, unusual working 
arrangements, or existing medical conditions.
The policy was competitively priced, and Ive seen nothing to suggest that Ms E couldnt 
afford it. And as she was paying for it monthly, she could have cancelled it at any time if 
her circumstances changed, or if she decided she no longer wanted the cover.
So taking everything into account, I think its unlikely Ms E would have made a different 
decision if better information had been provided. On balance, I think shed still have 
taken out the PPI.
Im sorry to disappoint Ms E. I realise that its frustrating that Im having to make my 
decision without sight of the paperwork she signed when she took out the PPI. But for 
the reasons Ive set out, I dont find that the PPI was mis-sold.This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms E. But Lloyds 
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms E because:
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms E about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Ms E, that 
was unfair.
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Ms E.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Ms E any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2021. 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman