DRN-4283912
The complaint
Mr D complains about the sale of a timeshare product in February 2019. He says too that the 
services he bought are no longer available, following the placing into administration of the 
seller. 
Because Mr Ds purchase was funded in part with a loan from Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc (now 
Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc), Mr D says that it is liable to meet his claims against the seller. 
Ill refer to the lender as Hitachi Capital.   
What happened
Mr D and his partner were existing timeshare owners. In February 2019 they bought from 
Club La Costa (UK) Plc (CLC) a fractional interest in a timeshare property. They paid in 
part with a loan in Mr Ds name from Hitachi Capital, and also traded in their existing 
timeshare. 
A fractional timeshare is an arrangement by which members have the use of a designated 
property for a fixed period each year or, as in this case, every other year. After a fixed period 
of time, the property is sold and each member with an interest in it takes a share of the 
proceeds. 
In September 2021 Mr D wrote to Hitachi Capital to demand the return of the money he had 
paid under the loan agreement and that the balance be written off. He said, in summary:
The company which sold the timeshare product, CLC, was in administration and was no 
longer in a position to provide the services he had bought.  
The service had been misrepresented to him. Specifically, he had been told that the 
timeshare he had bought was worth significantly more than what was in fact the case. 
Hitachi Capital said it responded to Mr Ds complaint in a letter of 21 December 2021. That 
letter said, again in summary:
It was not realistic to compare the price paid for the timeshare product with its resale 
value. It did not believe the product had been misrepresented. 
The terms of the loan, including the interest rate, had been clearly set out and Mr D had 
not been misled about it. 
Hitachi Capital did not accept Mr Ds complaint and told him that he could refer the 
matter to the Financial Ombudsman Service, but that he needed to do so within six 
months.  
In May 2022 Mr D wrote to Hitachi Capital again, to say that he had not received a response 
to his complaint and that he would be referring the matter to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. He did so in February 2023. 
Hitachi Capital said that Mr D should have referred his complaint to this service within six 
months of the letter of 21 December 2021. Because he had not done so, it said that this 
service had no power to consider it. Mr D said he had not received the letter of 21 December 
2021 and that he could not therefore refer his complaint to the service. 
One of our investigators considered what had happened. She noted that the letter of 21 
December 2021 had not addressed the complaint that CLC could not provide Mr D with the 
services he had purchased. She could therefore consider that part of his complaint. 
However, she agreed with Hitachi Capital that the other elements of the complaint had been 
referred to the service more than six months after the letter of 21 December 2021. 
The investigator did not however recommend that the complaint arising from CLCs 
administration be upheld. She thought the evidence indicated that other companies were 
continuing to provide the services which Mr D had purchased.   
Mr D did not accept the investigators recommendation and asked that an ombudsman 
review the case. He repeated that he had not received the December 2021 letter. He said 
too that he expected the timeshare services to be provided by CLC and not a different 
company. He did not believe he would receive the same standard of service or the same 
product from anyone else.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Services power to consider the complaint
Under our rules, the Financial Ombudsman Service cannot generally consider a complaint 
which is referred to it more than six months after the date of the respondents final response. 
So, the first issue I must consider is whether the letter of 21 December 2021 was a final 
response to all or any of the complaint which Mr D had made. To meet that definition, it must 
address the complaint made and either offer a resolution or explain why none is being 
offered. It must also tell the complainant that they can refer the matter to this service, provide 
details of how to do so, and explain that they have six months in which to make the referral. 
I am satisfied that Hitachi Capitals letter of 21 December 2021 did that in respect of Mr Ds 
complaints about the value of the timeshare and about the rate of interest on the loan. It did 
not however address his complaint about CLC being placed into administration. Ill return to 
the effect of that. 
An ombudsman can disregard the time limit referred to above if the failure to refer the 
complaint in time was the result of exceptional circumstances. Mr D has mentioned two 
matters which might be exceptional circumstances. He says that he did not receive Hitachi 
Capitals letter and that he has been seriously unwell. 
I accept that non-receipt of a final response could be an exceptional circumstance which 
might justify an extension of the usual time limit. I think however that it is more likely than not 
that Hitachi Capitals final response was safely delivered to Mr D. It was properly addressed, 
including the postcode. Whilst some post goes missing, the vast majority does not. 
I note that Mr D chased for a response in May 2022  before the time limit had expired  but 
did not receive one. That is consistent with the final response not having been received, but 
its also consistent with it having been overlooked. And it would have been helpful if Hitachi 
Capital had replied to that letter referring back to its final response. I do not believe however 
that its failure to do so is a reason to disregard the time limit. I note that Mr D says he did not refer his complaint to this service because he understood 
from our website that he needed a final response letter. In fact, as our website explains: 
If you havent received a response to your complaint within eight weeks, you can also refer 
your complaint to us.       
I have considered too what Mr D has said about his health. I accept what he has told me 
about that, but I am not persuaded that it was his health that caused the delay in referring his 
complaint to us. I note that he was able to communicate with Hitachi Capital in May 2022, so 
there seems to have been no impediment to referring the matter to this service. And, when 
the issue of the time limit was first raised, he did not refer to his health; he said only that he 
had not received the final response.     
For these reasons, I believe this part of Mr Ds complaint was referred to us outside the 
relevant time limit and that I have no power to consider it. 
Breach of contract claim 
As I have indicated, the final response letter did not address Mr Ds complaint resulting from 
the administration of CLC. Hitachi Capital accepts that and has agreed that this service can 
consider that element of the complaint. 
One effect of section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is that a customer who has a 
claim for breach of contract against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, bring that 
claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
I do not understand Hitachi Finance to dispute that the loan was made under pre-existing 
arrangements between it and CLC, the seller of the timeshare. I have therefore considered 
what Mr D has been said about the administration of CLC. 
The CLC group of companies has said that CLC was part of its sales group. It and other 
sales companies within the group are no longer trading, but club memberships and other 
services are provided by other companies. Mr Ds ability to use the timeshare unit in the 
weeks he bought is unchanged, and he remains able to convert its use to points to take 
holidays elsewhere. 
I accept in general that that is likely to be the case. It is not at all unusual for timeshare 
properties to be sold by one entity, while responsibility for the operation and management of 
resorts lies with another. 
I am not persuaded that Mr Ds contract required services to be provided by the seller, CLC. 
That would be very unusual. And in any event, it does not seem to me that Mr D has 
suffered, or will suffer, any loss if those services are provided by a different company. He 
has not provided any evidence to show that, since the administration, he has received a 
reduced or inferior service from that which he received previously or for which he contracted. 
I stress that it is not for me to say whether Mr D has a claim for breach of contract against 
CLC or whether he has a like claim against Hitachi Capital. In deciding whats fair and 
reasonable, however, I must have regard to any relevant law, including section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act. Having done that, however, I think that Hitachi Capitals response to 
Mr Ds claim was fair. My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ds complaint, and I dont require 
Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc to take any further steps to resolve it.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman