DRN-4011285
The complaint
Mr M and Ms T complain about Ageas Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim made under 
their home insurance policy.
What happened
The long and often complex background to this complaint is very well known to both Mr M 
and Ms T and Ageas. So, Ill give only a brief summary of the main points here. Id like to 
assure Mr M and Ms T and Ageas that I have read and carefully considered all of the 
relevant information and evidence we have relating to this case.
At the relevant times, Mr M and Ms T had a home insurance policy underwritten by Ageas. 
This covered their home and its contents, amongst other things.
Mr M and Ms T made a claim in November 2011 after noticing damage in their garden 
affecting their garage, swimming pool and hard landscaping.
Ageas appointed a loss adjuster to assess the claim. In March 2012, the loss adjuster wrote 
to Mr M and Ms T to confirm that remedial works would be completed by January 2013.
However, in January 2013, Ageas told Mr M and Ms T their claim was to be declined. 
Mr M and Ms T tell us Ageas gave two different reasons for this. They initially said the 
damage wasnt covered at all, but later said Mr M and Ms T had misrepresented the facts 
when they bought the policy because they didnt declare a history of subsidence at the 
property.
At this point, Mr M and Ms T took advice from a barrister (Ill refer to him as Mr W). And, to 
summarise, Ageas eventually concluded they had been mistaken and accepted the claim.
Mr M and Ms T say they asked for a cash settlement so that they could get the work carried 
out themselves, but Ageas decided to appoint contractors to carry out the remedial work to 
the relevant parts of the property.
The work eventually began in Autumn 2014, around three years after the claim had been 
made. Almost two years later, in mid-2016, Ageas announced that the necessary works 
were complete.
Its important to say, at this point, that from the outset Mr M and Ms T were taking advice 
from a qualified civil engineer (Ill refer to him as Mr C). 
It was Mr Cs view that the remedial works carried out by Ageas contractors were unlikely to 
resolve the issues with subsidence in Mr M and Ms Ts garden. In his view, it was necessary 
to install a land drain under the garden to divert groundwater away from the affected areas. 
Ageas didnt accept this and didnt install a land drain. They thought the problems were likely 
to be solved by the removal of a number of trees close to the affected area of the garden.
Soon after the repairs has been completed in 2016, Mr M and Ms T say they noticed that 
cracks were reappearing in their pool surround and patio  and that their garage (at the back 
of the garden) was damp. They also noticed damage to a retaining wall at the back of the 
garden.
Mr M and Ms T say that by around late 2017, the loss adjuster appointed by Ageas had 
accepted that the remedial works previously carried out had not been entirely (if at all) 
effective. They agreed to try to deal with the damp in the garage. And to monitor the cracks 
in the hard landscaping.
At a site meeting in early 2019, Mr M and Ms T say the loss adjuster accepted that more 
work needed to be carried out, including the installation of a land drain. But they say nothing 
then happened for another year or so.
Weve been provided with a document dated July 2020 and titled Specification and 
Schedule of Repairs, which sets out the work now needed to be done to stabilise Mr M and 
Ms Ts garden and to repair the damage to the garage and areas of hard landscaping. 
As I understand it, Ageas and Mr M and Ms T are now agreed on that schedule of works and 
believe it will provide effective and lasting repairs to the garden. It includes the installation of 
land drains and a scheme of underpinning, amongst other things.
There is one caveat to that. Ageas are not proposing to carry out any works to repair the 
retaining wall at the back of the garden. They say the damage to that wall predates Mr M 
and Ms T taking out their policy with Ageas and so is not covered. 
Mr M and Ms T believe the damage has mainly occurred since 2011  and largely as a result 
of Ageas failing to carry out effective remedial works after they made their claim in 
November 2011. 
To date, the remedial works set out in the (mostly) agreed schedule have not yet started. Its 
now more than 11 years since Mr M and Ms T first made their claim to Ageas.
In that time, Mr M and Ms T have made a number of complaints to Ageas. They werent 
happy with the response to those complaints, so they brought them to us.
In summary, they want us to: 
set a timeframe for Ageas to complete the necessary remedial work; 
instruct Ageas to accept responsibility for repairs to the retaining wall and the 
driveway in front of the garage;
require Ageas to cover the fees now payable to Mr W and Mr C; and
award reasonable and adequate compensation for Mr M and Ms Ts trouble and 
upset caused by the delays, loss of utility (of the pool, garage, garden and rear 
entrance to the property), poor communication and poor handling of the claim. 
Our investigator looked into it and thought Mr M and Ms Ts complaint should be upheld. She 
asked Ageas to pay for repairs to the retaining wall and driveway. And to pay all of Mr Cs 
fees (some of which Ageas had already paid) and Mr Ws fees, but only in relation to the 
work he carried out when the validity of the claim was in question. And to pay Mr M and 
Ms T £3,500 in compensation for their trouble and upset.Neither Ageas nor Mr M and Ms T agreed with the proposed outcome, which is why the 
complaint has been referred to me for a final decision.
Ageas dont think they should be responsible for repairs to the retaining wall. They also think 
some of the delay in the settlement of the claim isnt their fault. 
In particular, they say their initial response to the reported damage was reasonable, in all the 
circumstances, even if the repairs proved not to be entirely effective in the end. 
They say the remedial work now proposed is far more extensive than that proposed by Mr C 
at the outset, so accepting his views earlier  and implementing the works he suggested -
wouldnt have solved the problem in any case.
And theyve said its extremely difficult to find contractors to carry out the proposed remedial 
works.
Mr M and Ms T were disappointed that we hadnt set a timetable for completion of the 
remedial works. They think that will inevitably lead to further delay. 
They also think we should specify exactly what Ageas need to do to reinstate the retaining 
wall, in essence because it cant be repaired and needs to be rebuilt.
Mr M and Ms T were also disappointed that we hadnt asked Ageas to pay all of Mr Ws fees. 
And they think the compensation our investigator proposed is, in their own words, derisory. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, I should make it absolutely clear that this complaint is not about the now 
proposed remedial work. Fundamentally, Ageas and Mr M and Ms T agree about what 
needs to be done to tackle the subsidence in the garden. They also agree about the repairs 
that need to be carried out. And they reached that position before this complaint was brought 
to us.
The one exception is in relation to the retaining wall  and Ill return to that below. Ill also 
make clear below what I think about the repairs to the driveway, although I understand the 
parties have also reached an agreement about that.
The complaint issues Mr M and Ms T brought to us were about: Mr Cs remaining fees; 
Mr Ws fees; the driveway; the retaining wall; the delays and poor service; and the 
compensation for Mr M and Ms Ts trouble and upset. Ill deal with those issues in that order.
Mr Cs remaining fees
It appears to be accepted by all involved that Mr Cs advice in this case has been useful. Its 
also allowed Mr M and Ms T to understand the problem and the various solutions that have, 
over the period in question, been proposed to deal with it.
So, Im satisfied Mr and Ms T were entitled to seek that advice  and, when it proved (more 
or less) correct, to ask Ageas to pay for it. As I say, I dont believe Ageas are disputing that. 
And I understand they have paid out for all the relevant invoices theyve received so far.
Mr M and Ms T say there are other payments to Mr C still outstanding. Im sure Ageas will consider any relevant invoices and will pay out if they clearly cover advice relevant to this 
particular claim. 
Im also sure Mr M and Ms T will appreciate that I have to allow Ageas the opportunity to 
review any such invoices, to ensure they are reasonable and relevant to this claim. 
Otherwise, I could justifiably be accused of requiring Ageas to issue then with a blank 
cheque.
Mr Ws fees
I know this will disappoint Mr M and Ms T, but I agree with our investigators view on this 
particular point.
On balance, Im satisfied that Mr M and Ms T were entitled to seek legal advice when the 
validity of the claim was questioned  and to expect Ageas to pay the bill for that legal advice 
if Ageas then changed their stance on the claim (which they did).
In essence, Mr M and Ms T had to obtain that advice, which was about a legal matter  the 
application of the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representation) Act (CIDRA) - in 
order to secure a fair outcome for themselves in this case. If they hadnt, it seems to me, 
Ageas would very likely have maintained their position and declined the claim.
So, Im going to require Ageas to pay Mr Ws fees for the advice provided about that matter 
specifically and at that particular stage of the claim. 
After that, once the claim was accepted by Ageas, it seems to me that the reasonable and 
pertinent support and advice Mr M and Ms T needed was technical rather than legal. I know 
Mr W has provided further advice  for example about what Ageas obligations were (and 
why) after the claim was accepted. 
I have no doubt that was comforting and/or of interest to Mr M and Ms T, but Im satisfied 
that advice didnt change the course of the claim in any significant way. Once they accepted 
the claim, Ageas knew  as did everyone else  that they were obliged to remedy the 
covered damage. The real question, at that point, was how that should be done (which 
brings us back to Mr Cs role and advice), not whether it should be done.
Again, Im sure Mr M and Ms T will appreciate that I couldnt reasonably conclude that an 
insurer, if in dispute with a customer, is obliged to pay for any and all (legal or other) advice 
that customer chooses to obtain, just as long as the insurer in the end accepts the 
customers argument. That would expose insurers to potentially excessive costs over which 
they have no control at all.
If I were convinced that Ageas, in this case, were going down a path which proved 
erroneous and it was only the intervention of Mr W that put them back on a course that was 
fair to Mr M and Ms T, then I might take a different view. 
But I dont think that is the case here. Ageas may have made errors, but in essence, once 
the issues around the validity of the claim were settled, it wasnt primarily Mr Ws legal 
advice that brought Ageas to the repair schedule they have now agreed with Mr M and Ms T.
I am very much aware that Mr W has said that it would be difficult  it not impossible  to 
invoice separately for the advice about the validity of the claim. 
Thats not really something I can comment on, although it appears to me that in principle 
Mr W might reasonably be able to work out how many hours he spent on each piece of advice and/or each element of each piece of advice. Im sure Mr W, given his profession, 
has great experience of accounting in detail for the time he spends on his clients cases. 
All that I can do is require Ageas to consider any invoices  for that specific advice about the 
validity of the claim  that Mr M and Ms T provide. If Mr M and Ms T cant do that, then I 
cant reasonably require Ageas to make any payment towards those costs.
Repairs to the driveway
It appears that this issue  which was live when Mr M and Ms T brought their complaint to us 
 is now settled to both parties satisfaction. 
In short, Ageas have accepted that further repairs to the driveway are required and are 
covered under the policy. An earlier cash settlement paid to Mr M and Ms T was to cover 
previous damage, which is not the same as the damage which now needs repair.
Given that the parties are agreed on next steps on this issue, I neednt go into great detail 
here. But because this issue did form part of the complaint made to us, I should just confirm 
that the agreement which has now been reached seems perfectly fair and reasonable to me. 
The retaining wall
It appears that all parties are agreed that the retaining wall at the back of the garden has 
fallen into a state of chronic disrepair / collapse. And that it needs substantial work to be 
restored or rebuilt altogether.
Mr M and Ms T say that Ageas should pay for that work. Ageas say the damage to the wall 
pre-existed the inception of the policy and so isnt covered.
We reasonably regularly see cases where damage (which is covered because its caused by 
an insured peril) may have pre-existed the inception of an insurance policy, but then 
continues and/or gets substantially worse over the period after the policy is taken out. 
In such cases, assuming no exceptions apply, we take the view that the insurer should 
usually cover the cost of remedying the damage which has occurred during the lifetime of 
the policy. And if the only way the insurer can repair that (new) damage is to also the repair 
the old (pre-existing) damage, then they should also repair the older damage.
Our position is to a great extent reflected in the line taken by the Association of British 
Insurers (ABI) on subsidence claims where the damage may be on-going over different 
periods of insurance cover. So, the insurance industry itself accepts that best practice is for 
insurers to accept claims in these kinds of cases and circumstances.
In this case, there is no dispute that the damage to the wall has been caused by an insured 
peril (subsidence or landslip). If Ageas are to fairly decline this part of the claim, they would 
need to show that the damage currently in evidence happened  and then stopped  before 
the policy was taken out. 
Otherwise, the damage has continued into the lifetime of the policy and the principles set out 
above will apply  Ageas should cover the damage which occurred during the lifetime of the 
policy. And if to do that effectively they need to repair old damage too, then they should also 
carry out those repairs.
Ageas say the wall had some cracking before the policy was taken out and have provided 
evidence which seems to support that.However, I dont think Ageas could reasonably suggest that the damage didnt continue 
during the lifetime of the policy. I should mention here that Mr M and Ms T took out 
insurance with another provider several years ago, so the policy with Ageas came to an end.
But the cracks in the wall are now much more significant than they were in 2011. And there 
are several expert survey reports carried out through the lifetime of the policy which clearly 
demonstrate that the damage was on-going  and getting worse - in the relevant period. 
So, Im satisfied the damage has been on-going during the lifetime of the policy - and that 
Ageas therefore have an obligation to carry out the repairs. And, on the face of it, it seems to 
me that the damage which occurred during the lifetime of the policy cant practically be 
repaired without repairing any pre-existing damage.
There appears to be some potential disagreement between Mr M and Ms T (taking Mr Cs 
advice) and Ageas about whether the wall can be repaired  in a lasting and effective way  
or needs to be rebuilt altogether.
Mr M and Ms T have asked us to help avoid that potential future disagreement by stipulating 
that Mr C should be involved in specifying what works are now necessary.
I would imagine Ageas will want to take Mr Cs opinion into account. He has been right 
before - about the causes of the subsidence and the means of remedying the problem. But I 
cant reasonably tie Ageas hands, at this stage, by insisting they adopt a particular solution 
before theyve even had a chance to fully assess the damage themselves and consider their 
options. 
The complaint Mr M and Ms T made to us was that Ageas didnt accept that the retaining 
wall was covered under the terms of the policy. Ive addressed that complaint point above  
the damage is covered. 
Its not for me now to dictate to Ageas exactly how they rectify the damage. They are entitled 
to assess this part of the claim and determine the next steps  in discussion with Mr M and 
Ms T, of course, and in a timely manner.
Delays and poor service 
I accept that this was not a straightforward claim. And that it wasnt unreasonable at first to 
look at other potential causes of the subsidence. I also accept that contractors may not have 
been competing in great numbers to get the work.
However, complex and difficult though it may have been, its now more than 11 years since 
Mr M and Ms T first notified Ageas of their claim.
I dont intend to go into great detail about exactly how each and every delay occurred. 
Suffice to say Ageas spent more than a year erroneously  as it turned out - arguing that the 
claim should be declined. There was no reason for the claim to be declined and therefore 
that was more than a year wasted.
It appears to have been around a year and half after that before the work actually began. I 
cant see any justification for that delay, especially given that the loss adjuster had assessed 
the claim and scoped out the necessary work (in at least enough detail to say when it would 
be completed by) at the outset.
The work took almost two years to complete. Again, that seems an unjustifiable delay, in any 
circumstances. And the recurrence of the damage  after that initial (and ineffective) work was completed - 
was reported to Ageas in 2017. Were now in 2023 and the necessary remedial work hasnt 
yet begun. There is no justification for that delay.
Ageas say theyve had difficulty finding contractors to do the work. But they have had at 
least one tender they declined, seemingly on the basis of cost. And, once Ageas had 
decided to carry out the repairs, rather than offer a cash settlement, they were obliged to get 
the necessary work carried out in a timely and effective manner.
It seems to me that Ageas business, as an underwriter of insurance, is to properly equip 
themselves to deliver the promised service when a customer makes a valid claim. 
Bluntly, if they cant find contractors  in Mr M and Ms Ts area and/or for this kind of 
property or more generally - then they ought to consider whether they should be offering the 
relevant insurance cover.
In summary, Mr M and Ms Ts claim has been subject to long, unnecessary and unjustifiable 
delays. 
I can also see from the evidence we have on file that Mr M and Ms T have not always had 
timely replies  or replies at all - from Ageas or their agents when theyve made perfectly 
reasonable enquiries about progress and next steps with the claim. 
At times, the customer service Ageas provided has been well below the standard Mr M and 
Ms T had a right to expect.
Putting things right
Ill summarise what Im going to instruct Ageas to do in response to this complaint. Ill then 
turn to the question of the amount of compensation Mr M and Ms T should be awarded.
Bearing in mind the arguments Ive set out above, Im going to require Ageas to:
pay for any further fees put forward for Mr Cs services in helping Mr M and Ms T 
deal with this claim (assuming Mr M and Ms T provide invoices or receipts and Ageas 
are satisfied these relate to this claim);
pay for Mr Ws fees in so far as they relate to advice provided to Mr M and Ms T 
about the validity of the claim (again, assuming Mr M and Ms T provide invoices or 
receipts and these clearly relate to the relevant advice about the validity of the claim);
carry out the agreed repairs to the driveway in front of Mr M and Ms Ts garage; and
accept the element of the claim relating to the retaining wall and scope and carry out 
the necessary remedial work in a timely manner.
I know Mr M and Ms T want us to instruct Ageas to carry out the remedial work within a 
given timeframe. I can understand that, and I fully appreciate why Mr M and Ms T want us to 
ensure that there are no further unnecessary delays.
However, its not for our service to act as surrogate loss adjusters or claims handlers. We 
cant entirely predict what will happen in the future as regards this claim. And Im aware in 
any case that there are a number of issues still (legitimately) to be decided, such as how to 
best repair or replace the retaining wall.So, its not for me to set a timetable for Ageas  or to specify penalties for them failing to 
meet any agreed timetable. Thats simply not the role our service is empowered or equipped 
to perform.
Having said that, I would say that I sincerely hope Ageas will deal with the claim from this 
point onwards with as much speed as is practically possible. 
And Id add that if Mr M and Ms T arent happy with the service Ageas provide and/or the 
speed at which they deliver it in future, they will be entitled to make a further complaint to 
Ageas - and then to us, if they arent happy with Ageas response.
I cant pre-empt the outcome of any such future complaint. We would, of course, have to 
look at that complaint on its own merits and in light of all the relevant circumstances. 
But there is at the very least a possibility that if there were further unnecessary delays, Mr M 
and Ms T might reasonably expect more compensation for their further trouble and upset.
Ill turn now to the trouble and upset Mr M and Ms T have been caused by Ageas errors in 
the handling of this claim  and the appropriate level of compensation for that.
Mr W put forward some submissions, via Mr M and Ms T, in response to our investigators 
view on this case. And I cant find any fault with his summary of the trouble and upset Mr M 
and Ms T have been caused. 
He said compensation was due for the inconvenience Mr M and Ms T had experienced, the 
loss of use  of their garage, pool, garden and rear access to the property  and the worry 
and upset theyd suffered.
I entirely agree with that summary. And, of course, I have to take into account that all of 
those factors have been present for far longer than they needed to be given the delays in 
dealing with this claim. 
It was inevitable that the ground movement in Mr M and Ms Ts garden  which of course 
Ageas did not cause  would lead to some loss of utility, some inconvenience and some 
considerable worry for Mr M and Ms T. 
So, when I consider the compensation to be awarded now, Im looking at how much longer 
that went on because of Ageas failure to handle the claim in a timely or effective manner.
In considering compensation awards, we take into account the severity of the impact on the 
customer and the duration of that impact.
The guidance we publish on our website says that we consider compensation awards of 
between £1,500 and £5,000 to be appropriate where customers experience sustained 
distress (possibly affecting their health) and/or severe disruption to daily life, usually lasting 
for more than a year.
In my view, Mr M and Ms T have certainly suffered sustained distress, loss of utility and 
inconvenience as a result of Ageas errors. And the unnecessary delays in the handling of 
this claim amount to much more than the year mentioned in our guidance.
When I consider the duration of the trouble and upset then, Im drawn towards the top end of 
that £1,500 to £5,000 bracket.
When I consider the severity of the inconvenience and disruption though, I am drawn away from the very top end of that bracket. Mr M and Ms T remained in their home, which itself 
was not under any risk. They had access to all the usual facilities of their home and didnt at 
any time have to move out or seek alternative accommodation.
In summary, I think the £3,500 suggested by our investigator is a fair and reasonable 
amount of compensation given the level of the additional inconvenience, stress and loss of 
utility which resulted from the delays in Ageas handling of the claim.
I know this will disappoint Mr M and Ms T, who may have thought that around ten times that 
amount - or more - would be appropriate. I hope they will not think Im downplaying or 
underestimating the concern and worry these events will have caused them. 
I know it will have been very difficult to cope with the idea that their garden, pool and garage 
might be permanently unusable (if Ageas did not deal with the claim effectively) or might 
sooner or later slide down the slope altogether. But I have to decide what compensation is 
reasonable bearing in mind the considerations we outline in the guidance we publish. 
Bearing that guidance in mind, it seems to me that an award of £3,500  above the mid-point 
of the relevant bracket (as described above) is appropriate. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr M and Ms Ts complaint.
Ageas Insurance Limited must:
on receipt of relevant receipts or invoices from Mr M and Ms T, pay any further costs 
for Mr Cs services in helping Mr M and Ms T deal with this claim;
on receipt of relevant receipts or invoices from Mr M and Ms T, pay for Mr Ws fees in 
so far as they relate to advice provided to Mr M and Ms T about the validity of the 
claim;
carry out the agreed repairs to the driveway in front of Mr M and Ms Ts garage;
accept the element of the claim relating to the retaining wall and scope and carry out 
the necessary remedial work in a timely manner; and
pay Mr M and Ms T £3,500 in total in compensation for their trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms T to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman