DRN-2369830
The complaint
Mr S complains that Metro Bank PLC asked him for additional identification when he was 
trying to open an account.
What happened
Mr S visited a branch of Metro Bank in October 2019 to open accounts for his children and to 
move his business account. He was told what documents hed need to bring in. He 
presented his driving licence and proof of address and felt hed given enough for his 
accounts to be opened.
Two days later Mr S was telephoned and asked to bring in his passport. He was very 
unhappy with this as hed had his passport with him on a previous visit but no-one had asked 
him for it. Metro Bank explained it was needed for him to open his account but he disagreed 
and complained.
Our investigator explained that Metro Bank was asking Mr S for his passport to confirm his 
identity. And he didnt think this was unreasonable. Our investigator also explained to Mr S 
that this was to ensure there wasnt a breach of his identity and gave him the reasons why 
Metro Bank had asked for it. Mr S was unhappy that Metro Bank didnt tell him at the time 
and also feels their policy to ask for a passport discriminates against those without a 
passport. He said he wanted to know what wouldve happened if he didnt have a passport to 
show them.
Our investigator explained that this was irrelevant as Mr S does have a passport, and if he 
can show this to Metro Bank then it can complete the account opening process.
Mr S remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to review this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
When Mr S applied to open his accounts, his applications were transferred to the accounts 
opening teams. It was at this point Metro bank decided it wanted to see Mr Ss passport to 
ensure that he was who he said he was. Essentially this measure was in place to make sure 
that no-one was applying for an account in Mr Ss name incorrectly.
Metro bank has provided me with evidence as to why it asked for Mr Ss passport and Im 
satisfied it was reasonable to ask for this and that it wasnt acting unfairly. I appreciate it 
wouldve been frustrating for Mr S to have to go and present his passport after already 
having visited the branch. However, any further delay of the account opening has been 
because Mr S has decided not to provide his passport.
Mr S has asked throughout what Metro Bank wouldve done if he couldnt provide his 
passport. But I dont think that is relevant here. Mr S has confirmed to both us and Metro 
Bank that he has a passport and hes been told this is what is needed to open his accounts. 
Ive seen no evidence that Metro Bank has treated Mr S differently to any other customer. 
And I dont think it has acted unfairly here.
Mr S says Metro Bank shouldve told him the reasons behind it asking for his passport. Im 
satisfied it told Mr S that it needed it to verify his identity. I dont think it needed to give any 
other reason but Im pleased that our investigator was able to share with Mr S directly some 
more context around it.
As I dont think Metro Bank has acted unreasonably in asking Mr S to provide his passport, 
Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman