DRN-2085969
The complaint
 Mr F says UK Credit Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
 
What happened
Mr F took out a guarantor loan from UK Credit in April 2015. It was for £5,500 over 60
months. The monthly repayment was £186.83 and the total repayable was £11209.80.
Mr F says he was in financial distress when he applied and he was desperate for money, 
having taken out numerous payday loans in the previous months. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She said UK Credits checks
were not proportionate, and proportionate checks would have shown the loan wasnt
sustainably affordable for Mr F.
UK Credit disagreed saying Mr F took out the loan to settle his payday loans, so it is 
unreasonable to consider the cost of those loans as ongoing expenses. Its calculations show 
Mr F would have had £75.86 of disposable income (after making this loan repayment) so it 
was affordable. In response, our investigator said that Mr F was in a cycle of borrowing to 
repay and UK Credit should have considered this. In addition there were other categories of 
Mr Fs ongoing expenditure that UK Credit hadnt taken into account and this was not 
reasonable. UK Credit replied saying taking all of Mr Fs transactions into account each 
month his income exceeded his outgoings, and as he was using the loan to consolidate 
debts it put him in a better financial position. 
As no agreement was reached the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when UK Credit lent to Mr F. Its 
rules and guidance, set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), obliged UK Credit 
to lend responsibly. Amongst other things, UK Credit was required to carry out a reasonable 
and proportionate assessment of whether Mr F could afford to repay what he owed in a
sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an
affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So UK Credit had to think about whether 
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for 
Mr F. In other words, it wasnt enough for UK Credit to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr F.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (eg. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether UK Credit did what it needed to before agreeing to
lend to Mr F, and have considered the following questions:
did UK Credit complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Fs 
loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did UK Credit make a fair lending decision?
did UK Credit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
UK Credit asked for some information from Mr F before it approved the loan. It asked for 
details of his income, his monthly living costs and his existing credit commitments. It used an 
income verification tool to check his declared income. It checked his credit file to understand 
his credit history and existing debts. It also asked about the purpose of the loan which was to 
repay his existing payday loans and to have some money for emergencies. From these 
checks combined UK Credit concluded Mr F had sufficient monthly disposable income for 
the loan to be affordable.
But I dont agree that these checks were proportionate. Mr F was applying to borrow a
significant amount of money from UK Credit. He was entering into a long-term commitment 
and would need to make monthly repayments for five years. So I would expect that UK 
Credit would want to gather, and independently check, more detailed information about 
Mr Fs financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. It knew he had needed to take 
out payday loans shortly after repaying previous payday loans and that his mortgage was in 
arrears suggesting Mr F was having problems managing his money. So, in the round, I think
it would have been proportionate for UK Credit to independently check the actual state of 
Mr Fs finances before agreeing the loan.
This means I need to look at what proportionate checks would most likely have shown UK 
Credit and consider if it ought to have realised that there was a risk Mr F couldnt sustainably 
afford the repayments.
I have looked at Mr Fs bank statements. This is one way UK Credit could have gathered theinformation I think it needed on Mr Fs financial situation. This is something UK Credit has 
also done retrospectively as part of its complaint investigation. It argues they show Mr F 
could afford the loan as his disposable income (after clearing all his payday loans with this 
loan) would be £75.86. 
I accept its point that its not reasonable to include the cost of any debts that this loan would 
settle as ongoing expenses. However I am not wholly persuaded its conclusion is fair though 
as leaving Mr F with such a low level of disposable income would have left him exposed to 
any unforeseen essential costs. 
But more crucially, I dont agree its reasonable not to consider certain frequent transactions 
that UK Credit says it excluded on the basis it wouldnt have know what these funds were 
used for. The purpose of proportionate checks would have been to gain a full understanding 
of Mr Fs finances. So had UK Credit carried out better checks and realised Mr F was 
spending hundreds of pounds each month on unknown expenses I would have expected it, 
as a responsible lender, to query this. 
Mr F has subsequently provided statements for a second current account. It seems he used 
this account predominantly for petrol, food out and groceries. As well as for some of his 
payday loan repayments. The majority of transactions from his main account that UK Credit 
didnt take into account were transfers into this account (on average £560 a month in the 
three months prior to application). So I think it should have taken most of this expenditure 
into account. And this would have shown the loan was not affordable for Mr F.
In addition, UK Credit already knew from Mr Fs credit check that he was in arrears on his 
mortgage  a priority debt, and he was living in his overdraft. Repayments on the largest part 
of Mr Fs mortgage had not been up-to-date for four months which should have concerned 
UK Credit that Mr F was having problems managing his money. Whilst he told the lender he 
was borrowing to repay the payday loans and that would have reduced his monthly credit 
commitments, I dont think it should have been reassured or satisfied with his testimony that 
he was going to clear his mortgage arrears by selling his property.
In summary, I think had UK Credit completed proportionate checks and responded fairly to 
the information it had, it would have realised the loan was unlikely to be unaffordable for 
Mr F  both on a pounds and pence basis and looking more at the sustainability. So as a 
responsible lender it would have decided not to approve his application.
Putting things right
Its reasonable for Mr F to have repaid the capital amount that he borrowed as he had the
benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt have
been given to him. So he has lost out and UK Credit needs to put things right.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on the loan and treat all the payments
Mr F made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Fs loan account results in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then UK Credit should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Fs credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires UK Credit to deduct tax from this interest. UK Credit should giveMr F a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Fs complaint and UK Credit Limited must out things right as set out
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman