DRN-4260524
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly closed her ISA accounts.
What happened
Around November 2021, Barclays wrote to Mrs P about her ISA accounts, explaining that 
there had been no activity on these accounts for a while, so the bank planned to close her 
accounts. Barclays also explained what action Mrs P could take to prevent her accounts 
being closed.
Mrs P says she contacted Barclays by phone shortly after receiving these letters and is 
unhappy that the bank still closed her accounts a few months later.
In its response to Mrs Ps complaint, Barclays explained that it closed Mrs Ps accounts 
because it classed the accounts as dormant- given there had been no activity on the 
accounts for five years. Barclays says it couldnt locate the call Mrs P refers to, but did find 
some notes around the time to reflect that Mrs P had enquired about restoring access to her 
online banking. Barclays accepts that Mrs P did get in touch and, although it couldnt re-open 
her accounts, it offered her £150 compensation because of its error.
Mrs P escalated her complaint to this service, asking that Barclays re-open her accounts, 
apologise and pay her £700 compensation plus interest. Our investigator concluded that the 
bank had delivered a fair resolution to Mrs Ps complaint. Mrs P doesnt agree, so the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided that Barclays has offered a fair amount of compensation.
The terms of Mrs Ps accounts explain that Barclays can close her accounts if she hasnt 
used them for a long time. The terms go on to explain that the bank will provide notice and 
instructions on how to prevent closure. Ive also seen details of the procedure Barclays 
follows when deciding whether an account has become dormant. Barclays says Mrs P didnt 
use her accounts for five years, so I think it was reasonable that it classed Mrs Ps accounts 
and dormant and decided to close them.
Barclays wrote to Mrs P in November 2021, notifying her that it planned to close her 
accounts. The bank also advised Mrs P on the steps she can take to prevent this happening 
 which included paying money in, making a withdrawal or contacting the bank. Barclays 
didnt close Mrs Ps accounts until around three months later, so I think it gave her 
reasonable notice of the closure before it went ahead.
Mrs P says she called the bank a few weeks after receiving the letters. It seems the main 
purpose of this call was so that she could reinstate access to her online banking. Barclays 
couldnt locate the call, so I cant say for certain what was discussed. But the bank accepts 
that this call was an expression by Mrs P to keep her accounts open. I think this is 
reasonable. Although I havent seen anything that suggests she expressly asked for her 
accounts to remain open, I think that Mrs Ps request to reinstate access to her online 
banking reasonably indicates that she didnt want the accounts to be closed. 
Barclays accepts that it acted unfairly by doing by closing her accounts and offered Mrs P 
£150 compensation. Although the bank cannot re-open her accounts, I havent seen 
anything to suggest that Mrs P wouldnt be able to open new ISA accounts with Barclays. 
Moreover, I cant see that Mrs P experienced a significant financial loss because her 
accounts were closed  Mrs P hadnt made any recent deposits and the monthly interest she 
had been earning was for relatively low amounts.
So I think the compensation Barclays has offered is fair. Although I note that Mrs P was 
dealing with some difficult personal issues around the time, I cant fairly say that what 
Barclays did wrong caused her significantly more distress and inconvenience  and to a 
degree that would persuade me that additional compensation would be fair. 
Mrs P also referred to delays and poor service she says she experienced from Barclays after 
she complained. However, complaint handling isnt considered to be a regulated activity, so 
it isnt within the remit of this service to comment on issues related to how Barclays handled 
her complaint.
So I wont be asking Barclays to do anything more in relation to this complaint. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman