DRN-2728179
The complaint
This complaint has been brought by Mr D1 and Mr D2, who are the directors of a limited 
company I will refer to as JT.  The complaint is against Hampshire Trust Bank Plc (HTB) and 
is about delays and poor service by HTB in relation to a commercial loan. Mr D1, whos dealt 
with the complaint throughout, says that the companys application for funding was pushed 
to the back of the queue, and that HTB failed to pass on information to their solicitors.
To settle the complaint JT would like HTB to honour a quotation of £1,750 plus VAT for legal 
fees and disbursements., and to refund the majority, if not all, of the arrangement fee to 
cover loss of rental income.
What happened
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of 
arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
The complaint has arisen out of the following circumstances. In 2019 Mr D1 and Mr D2, who 
ran other successful businesses, decided to venture into the buy-to-let (BTL) market and set 
up JT specifically for that purpose. They found a property they wanted to buy and, through a 
specialist broker, applied for finance from HTB. Mr D1 says he was told in February 2019 
that the legal costs and disbursements on its side would be £1,750, and that if JT used the 
same solicitors on a dual representation basis, the overall legal costs would be cheaper.
A decision in principal was given in relation to funding for two properties, (on the basis of the 
arrangement fee being added to the loan) but JT subsequently decided to purchase only one 
property and so the application was submitted in March 2019 for that property. A valuation 
was carried out for HTB on 19 March 2019, but was in a short form, whereas HTB required 
a more detailed report. This was carried out about 4 weeks later, the cost of which was paid 
by the broker, as it was the brokers error which had resulted in the incorrect valuation being 
requested. 
On 16 May 2019 HTB issued a facility letter offering a mortgage facility to JT, supported by 
personal guarantees from Mr D1 and Mr D2. The amount to be advanced was £82,500 over 
a period of ten years, on an interest-only basis. The maximum loan-to-value ratio was 80%. 
There was an arrangement fee of £1,650 and a tapering early repayment charge if the loan 
was repaid during the term. 
There were several conditions which needed to be fulfilled before completion could take 
place. The deposit for the property purchase was, it appears, being funded out of capital 
from one of Mr D1 and Mr D2s other businesses, and so a Deed of Subordination was 
required in relation to this. HTB also required a report and valuation that was dated no earlier 
than three months from drawdown, confirming the property was worth at least £110,000. In 
addition, an asbestos report was to be carried out and referred back to HTBs valuer to 
confirm there was no effect on the valuation figure. 
There were other conditions in relation to (amongst other things) satisfactory searches being 
carried out, the provision of an Energy Performance Certificate and confirmation of 
insurance. None of the banks conditions was especially onerous and it was anticipated by 
all that the transaction would proceed smoothly.
In order to ensure things went smoothly, JT instructed the same solicitors as the bank  a 
firm I will refer to as PS  to act for them on the purchase, as well as for the bank on the 
mortgage. The legal work was done on a dual rep basis, with a solicitor acting for HTB and 
a paralegal acting for JT. 
On 16 May 2019, the same date as the mortgage offer was issued, HTB instructed PS. I 
have seen the email to the solicitors, which sets out Mr D1 and Mr D2s email addresses and 
mobile numbers.
After receiving the formal offer, Mr D1 noted some errors. The application fee of £1,650 had 
incorrectly been added to the loan, when it had been agreed this would be paid upfront.  The 
broker clarified with HTB that JT wanted to pay the application fee upfront. An amended 
mortgage offer was issued on 29 May 2019. 
Meanwhile, theyd heard nothing from PS. On 30 May 2019 PS contacted the estate agents 
for Mr D1 and Mr D2s contact details and finally confirmed their instruction on the case on 
5 June 2019.
But PS sent an invoice for £2,376 (£1,950 plus VAT for fees and £30 plus VAT for a 
disbursement), which was £230 plus VAT more than Mr D1 and Mr D2 had been quoted for 
the legal work. Unhappy with this, but under pressure from their vendor, Mr D1 and Mr D2 
decided to proceed, and raise this in a complaint to HTB.
Mr D1 and Mr D2 were also unhappy to learn that there were additional costs involved to put 
the Deed of Subordination in place, and that they also had to have independent legal advice 
(ILA) in relation to their personal guarantees, which involved additional expense.
The asbestos report was carried out on 7 June 2019 and came back with an assessment 
score of very low. 
I wont set all the back-and-forth between HTB, the brokers and solicitors, but I can see that 
HTB was chasing both throughout June and July in relation to matters that were still 
outstanding. The transaction finally completed on 2 August 2019. 
In the meantime, a complaint had been made to HTB about the increase in costs and the 
length of time the matter was taking, which JT attributed to errors made by HTB. In its final response letter dated 25 June 2019, HTB accepted there had been an error in the 
initial instructions to the solicitors when a figure for legal costs of £1,850 plus VAT was 
quoted rather than £1,950. HTB confirmed that PS had agreed to honour the original quote 
of £1,850.
HTB also confirmed that the additional £450 plus VAT was for the Deed of Subordination, 
but it had been agreed that this would be reduced to £175 plus VAT. But HTB clarified that 
ILA was required in relation to the Personal Guarantees and that this could not be waived.
Although HTB acknowledged thered been a mistake in the original offer dated 16 May 2019 
(the inclusion of the application fee), thered been no delay in relation to this, because the 
solicitors had been instructed on 16 May 2019 and so the legal work had not been 
compromised by this mistake.
(A complaint was also made to PS, as a result of which in January 2020 JT was refunded 
£400 plus VAT for legal fees and £175 plus VAT in relation to the Deed of Subordination.)
Dissatisfied with HTBs response, Mr D1 and D2, on behalf of JT, complained to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service about errors, delays and a retention of £300 held back after 
completion, for which no explanation had been given. 
Initially our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. However, after obtaining 
further information from HTB, he was satisfied that there had been no errors by HTB other 
than those it had already acknowledged. As a result, he didnt think HTB was required to do 
anything further. 
The investigator clarified that the £300 retention was £250 plus VAT which PS holds back on 
all transactions to cover the cost of any outstanding post-completion work or disbursements. 
The £300 had already been released to JT.
Mr D1 agreed with most of the investigators findings, but asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. He made some further points, which I have summarised:
PS were given the wrong contact details for them by HTB and PS has confirmed this in 
writing;
the estate agents also confirmed on 29 May 2019 that PS had said there had been no 
instructions from JT;
HTB only chased PS after PS had managed to track down Mr D1 and Mr D2 by other 
means;
this was their first venture into the buy-to-let market and the information they were given 
about the need for ILA and the retention of £300 should have been given at the outset;
if theyd known about these extra costs, they would probably not have gone ahead with 
the purchase;
through delays, being bumped for other clients and unprofessional conduct by HTB, the 
transaction took six months, which is unacceptable.
As the matter remains unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will begin by explaining that JT applied for this loan through a specialist business finance 
broker. No advice was given to JT or Mr D1 and Mr D2 by HTB on this transaction. 
I will also clarify that PS were acting on the purchase for JT, which is a separate matter from 
acting for HTB on the mortgage. 
First, Ive looked at Mr D1s concerns about the length of time it took from the initial enquiry 
in February 2019 until the mortgage offer in May 2019. I can see that the initial enquiry was 
25 February 2019. There was correspondence in late March 2019 about valuations, damp, 
potential title issues and a flying freehold with the valuation department. 
However, on 24 April 2019 HTB was told by the broker that the application was going ahead 
on just one property (split into two flats). The mortgage offer was issued on 16 May 2019, 
which, given this was a commercial mortgage application, seems reasonable to me. Ive 
seen nothing in the business file to suggest JTs application was bumped so that HTB could 
deal with other applications ahead of it.
Ive noted what Mr D1 has told us about PS being given the wrong contact details by HTB. I 
looked at the initial instructions to PS sent by HTB on 16 May 2019. I also asked the 
investigator to check these details with Mr D1 and Mr D2  and Mr D1 confirmed that the 
contact details in the email from HTB dated 16 May 2019 are the correct email addresses 
and phone numbers for him and Mr D2.
Yet on 18 October 2019  in response to Mr D1s complaint to PS  Mr D1 was told: 
 we were provided email addresses which appear to have been incorrect. When 
no response was received from you, we requested the estate agent confirm the email 
addresses. We regularly send chasers, but where we do not receive an email stating 
the address is incorrect it is unfortunately difficult for us to know this is in fact the 
case 
Ive been given a detailed timeline of events which HTB obtained from PS about all the 
contact PS had with all parties in the matter. The timeline is split between the work done for 
HTB and the work done for JT. 
In the timeline of work done for HTB, this shows that the instruction was received from HTB 
on 16 May 2019 and there was contact with the broker about the timescale. An email was 
also sent to the dual rep team  which is the staff within PS acting for JT on the matter  
setting out what was required in relation to costs undertakings, the Deed of Subordination 
and that the guarantors would be required to take ILA.
In relation to JT the dual rep timeline says:
17 May HTB Sols initial letter
20 May Memo of sale from agent received21 May Call to agent to enquire who our client was as was in the directors
personal names
23 May Letter from Sellers Solicitor with pre-contract pack
29 May Revised offer from HTB received
30 May Client Creation Form
5 June Letter to client. File opened (following receipt of ID)
5 June Email to client Legal fees should read £2,376
I cant see in the timeline of the transaction from PS any email sent to Mr D1 or Mr D2 on 
either 16 or 17 May 2019 after instructions were received from HTB. 
I dont know why PS told Mr D1 the email addresses provided by HTB were incorrect (Mr D1 
has confirmed to us they were in fact the right addresses). Nor do I know why no contact 
was attempted on the mobile phone numbers HTB had provided to PS (which again Mr D1 
has confirmed were his and Mr D2s numbers). Those are questions only PS can answer. 
But Im entirely satisfied that there was no mistake by HTB in relation to the contact details 
given to PS on 16 May 2019.
The issue in relation to the application fee being added to the mortgage offer arose because 
this had been included in the original decision in principle by the brokers and so was carried 
through into the application. It was only after the offer had been issued that the brokers 
clarified that it wasnt to be included. But Im satisfied that this didnt cause any material 
delay.
Im satisfied that it was the brokers job to advise Mr D1 and Mr D2 of what they would need 
to do in order to fulfil HTBs lending criteria  including the personal guarantees and the 
need to take ILA at their own expense. It wasnt HTBs responsibility to advise Mr D1 and 
Mr D2 about this. The mortgage offer simply set out the conditions which JT needed to fulfil 
in order to be granted the loan, and it was up to the broker to explain the implications of this 
to Mr D1 and Mr D2.
I also note it was the brokers error which led to the incorrect valuation being carried out, and 
a delay of a month (in February/March 2019) before the full valuation was completed. The 
additional cost of this was borne by the broker. I cant hold HTB responsible for the brokers 
mistake in commissioning the wrong type of valuation.
Im also satisfied the quote for the legal work was on the basis that JT would be funding the 
deposit. But this was, in fact, being funded by a loan from another of Mr D1 and D2s 
companies, and so the Deed of Subordination was required. 
I can see from emails between HTB, PS and the broker that there were outstanding matters 
in relation to both the purchase of the property and the mortgage which were causing delay. 
For example, the brokers told HTB on 27 June 2019 that completion should take place as 
soon as the Deed of Subordination and a Board Resolution had been received. 
[Mr D1] has confirmed this will be with [PS] tomorrow. I am hoping there is nothing 
else needed by you and that we can complete tomorrow?
But PS (copied into the email from the broker) replied:
Completion will not be taking place tomorrow. This is a purchase therefore the full 
due diligence for this aspect of the transaction is not yet complete. Initial enquiries were raised and I have now received replies. This was done prior to all the search 
results being received. These have now been received and will be reviewed with a 
view of further enquiries being raised subject to their results. I will then be reporting 
this to [JT]. HTBs conditions will not be fully satisfied until we reach a more 
advanced stage of this process. I will endeavour to ensure completion can take place 
as quickly as possible, but I need to ensure all work is done in a diligent matter for 
[JT]. (sic)
On 5 July 2019 the broker chased the matter again and received this response from PS:
I have advised you many times that I am still working through the file as all the 
searches have only just been returned. I have been raising enquiries and reviewing 
the replies received form the seller.
I have in fact finalised the report on title today as far as I am able so this will be sent 
to the client on Tuesday as I am out of the office on Monday There is many 
documents to be collated with this report so this will be done on Monday for my 
return to the office on Tuesday. 
As I understand there are still some conditions of drawdown which are outstanding 
which you may wish to action  For example Condition 3 as there has been no 
asbestos report provided to the bank to date. The attached has also not been 
completed and returned to HTB so I would be grateful if you could make the 
necessary arrangements (sic)
It is not specified what the attached referred to in the email is, but in response the broker 
says:
The direct debit [mandate] was posted to the bank last week and the asbestos report 
was provided to the bank and signed off by the valuer and the bank last week
Given this, I can reasonably conclude that it was the direct debit mandate that was the 
attached, as there are subsequent emails between the broker and HTB trying to locate this, 
because it hadnt arrived in the post. HTB was also chasing other outstanding matters, 
specifically confirmation of insurance and information about licensing of the property. The 
broker finally had to send a scanned copy of the direct debit mandate to HTB on 8 July 2019.
Details of the insurance and licensing sent to HTB until 19 July 2019. Confirmation of the ILA 
in relation to the personal guarantees was received by PS on 22 July 2019, There was a 
further query from HTB about the insurance as the policy wording it had been sent didnt 
cover flood damage. The policy wording had to be updated and it was sent to HTB on 
23 July 2019. PS was then ready to request the funds for completion on 25 July 2019.
It seems that completion didnt take place until 2 August 2019 because of issues with the 
seller, and that, of course, is outside the control of HTB. PS retained £300 in order to cover 
the cost of any post-completion work that might need to be done. Thats not something 
which involved HTB; rather, it seems to relate to the conveyancing work, which is separate 
from the mortgage. Consequently, HTB isnt responsible for this.
Overall, the timeline of events doesnt persuade me that there has been any delay or error 
by HTB in relation to its handling of the mortgage application. Any delays seem to have been 
as a result of issues arising in the conveyancing process (which is separate from the 
mortgage) or as a result of outstanding information required by HTB which the broker 
needed to provide.I fully understand why Mr D1 and Mr D2 were frustrated at the length of time the transaction 
took to complete. But Im satisfied that the timescale for the mortgage offer to be issued was 
reasonable, once HTB had been told which property JT was going ahead with. HTB was told 
this on 24 April 2019 and the initial offer was issued on 16 May 2019 (later amended on 
29 May 2019). 
Im also satisfied that the timescale for the mortgage work to be done (alongside the 
purchase of the property, the Deed of Subordination and the personal guarantees) wasnt 
excessive. Instructions were received on 16 May 2019 and PS was ready to request the 
funds on 23 July 2019. I can see that there were some delays during this time, but Im 
satisfied, for the reasons given above, that these were not as a result of any act or omission 
on the part of HTB.
Im satisfied that the reduction in legal costs offered by HTB in its final response letter is fair. 
I note that the entire cost of the Deed of Subordination has now been reimbursed to JT by 
PS, as well as a further £400 plus VAT reimbursed by PS. Given this, Im not persuaded that 
HTB should be required to cover any additional legal costs incurred or loss of profit claimed 
by JT for potential loss of rent. This means I wont be ordering HTB to pay any further 
redress.
My final decision
Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D1 and Mr D2 
on behalf JT to accept or reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman