DRN-4448624
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E have complained that Astrenska Insurance Limited (trading as Collinson 
Insurance) declined a claim they made on their single trip travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs E were due to travel on the Eurostar on 25 March 2023 and then catch a 
connecting train to their destination. But on 24 March 2023 they were notified that their 
connecting train had been cancelled due to industrial action.
Mr and Mrs E therefore decided to travel to their destination via an alternative route. They 
took a train to the airport, flew, and then arranged a transfer to their destination. They are 
claiming for the costs of the train, the flights and the final transfer, totalling £1,066,93.
Astrenska declined the claim on the basis that the circumstances where not covered under 
the policy terms.
Our investigator thought that Astrenska had acted reasonably in declining the claim. Mr and 
Mrs E disagree with the investigators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered the obligations placed on Astrenska by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). Its Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) includes the 
requirement for Astrenska to handle claims promptly and fairly, and to not unreasonably 
decline a claim.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint and Ill explain why.
The policy terms set out when different elements of the cover start and end. For single trips it 
states:
From the time of buying this insurance to the time you leave home to start your trip, cover is 
only available under Cancelling your Trip. Once you leave home to start the trip, 
Cancellation cover ends, and all other sections of the policy, begins.
Their connecting train was cancelled prior to them leaving home, when it was only the 
cancellation part of the cover that was active at the time. However, they did not cancel their 
trip and so are unable to claim under that section of the policy.
Mr and Mrs E nevertheless believe their claim should be paid under the missed departure 
and connection outside the UK clause because industrial action is in the list of what is 
covered.
Looking at that section of the policy, it states:
If you miss pre-booked transportation due to an event listed under 'What is Covered', 
stranding you abroad. We will pay up to the sum insured which applies to your trip and not 
each time your trip is disrupted..
So, even if it was disregarded that Mr and Mrs E hadnt left home when the connecting train 
was cancelled, they still wouldnt be covered as the circumstances also dont meet the 
requirements of this clause.
Mr and Mrs E accept that they were not stranded abroad. But they feel that it would be fair to 
interpret the phrase more broadly. They say there were violent riots relating to the strikes at 
their transfer point, they didnt speak the language and there was great uncertainty about the 
availability of future trains. Therefore, it would have been irresponsible and potentially 
dangerous for them to undertake the first leg of their journey. Its unreasonably for Astrenska 
to expect them to put themselves in that position before it would consider the claim.
Of course, it was entirely understandable, given the situation, that Mr and Mrs E decided to 
find an alternative route to reach their destination. The question is, was what happened to 
them an insured event under the policy terms.
Mr and Mrs E say they are well aware that not all unfortunate circumstances are covered by 
any given policy and find it disrespectful that the investigator pointed that out.
The investigator was just trying to explain that the insurer is entitled to decide what risks it 
will accept (in return for a premium). The parameters of the cover just need to be clearly set 
out in the terms and conditions of the policy.
In response to our investigators view, Mr and Mrs E have said that the contract terms are 
unclear and not prominent enough. Mr E says he read the terms and conditions but was 
unaware that cover would not be provided for situations where someone had not yet begun 
their trip but that some of their travel outside the UK had been cancelled. He says this 
scenario should be listed within the Whats not covered? section of the policy. Ive thought 
very carefully about this. I accept that this scenario is not explicitly set out under an event 
that is not covered. However, overall, I consider that the terms listed above are sufficiently 
clear, as they set out the specific events that are covered in the event of delay or 
cancellation. Im satisfied that Astrenska has done enough to make policyholders aware of 
the restrictions in this cover relating to connecting travel.
Ive also looked at the remainder of the policy wording to see if there were any other sections 
under which Mr and Mrs Es claim could be considered. But unfortunately, the circumstances 
they found themselves in dont fall within any other sections. Taking everything into account, 
I think it was fair and reasonable for Astrenska to decline the claim, in line with the policy 
terms and conditions.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2024. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman