DRN-3923411
The complaint
Mr W says the advice given and the arrangements made by Robert Bruce Associates (RBA) 
to transfer his defined benefit (DB) pension funds into a personal pension with Winterthur 
was unsuitable.
Mr W is represented by Claire Collinson Legal (CCL).
What happened
Firstly I should clarify which entity this complaint is properly brought against.
RBA became Robert Bruce Associated Limited (RBAL) in April 2014. The advice, which is 
the subject of Mr Ws complaint, was given before April 2014 when the firm responsible was 
RBA not RBAL.
I appreciate RBAL has responded to Mr Ws complaint as this is the current incarnation of 
the business and I can see theres a deed poll from 2014 where RBAL accepts responsibility 
for RBAs past business. Where a firm has taken responsibility for another regulated 
business, S234B of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 gives this Service 
discretion to set up a complaint against either the predecessor or successor firm.
Neither the provisions of a deed poll, nor the provisions of a contract between RBA and 
RBAL extinguish RBAs liability to Mr W. And generally we think its appropriate to set up the 
complaint against the firm which was originally responsible for the advice.
Any agreement between RBA and RBAL to accept the liability is a matter between the firms 
but this wont affect which firm we consider the complaint against in the views or decisions 
we issue.
So the appropriate respondent to this complaint is RBA. Ive treated all the submissions 
RBAL has made as being in respect of RBA.
Mr W was a member of a DB pension scheme. Hed accrued benefits with a former 
employer between July 1988 and October 2009. Having been made redundant in 2009, he 
says he was under the impression he had to move his pension arrangements away from the 
scheme hed been a member of.
Mr W made contact with RBA for advice about what to do with his DB pension benefits 
nearly a year after leaving his employer. On his authority, in August 2010 RBA contacted the 
DB scheme administrator to obtain details about Mr Ws pension. In September 2010 the 
administrator responded noting the cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of his benefits 
was around £62,000. It also set out information such as the level of his guaranteed annual 
pension as at the date of his leaving active membership, provision for increases to this and 
his death benefit entitlement.
In November 2010 there was a flurry of activity. This seems to have begun with completion, 
possibly over the phone, of a Pension Review Questionnaire. The form, which was 
subsequently signed and dated by Mr W, captured information about his circumstances, 
objectives and risk appetite. In summary, at the time Mr W is said to:
- Be in good health.
- Have an annual income of £12,000 per annum from his job as a warehouseman.
- Want to retire at 60.
- Have an attitude to risk of low to medium. From a further list of options, he ticked 
[these pension benefits are] a significant proportion of my financial wealth with which 
I do not want to take unnecessary risks.
- Want the maximum possible lump sum upon retirement and in respect of lump sum 
death benefits he selected no option, instead annotating the form to state, partner to 
share fund.
- Want to maximise the benefits payable during his lifetime as he didnt think hed be 
married when he retired.
- He selected an answer which stated I have serious concerns regarding the financial 
stability of my previous employer and I do not want my benefits under their control.
- In order of priority, his objectives were said to be for lump sum benefits upon death 
before retirement, a tax-free lump sum at retirement, and the ability to retire early.
On 11 November 2010 RBA wrote to Mr W, enclosing the necessary documentation 
required to transfer your existing pension scheme to a personal pension with Winterthur 
Life. The letter went on to state it had pre-populated the Winterthur application form and DB 
scheme discharge form as much as possible, and had marked where additional information 
was required from him and his signatures.
Also on 11 November 2010, a pension transfer analysis was conducted by Winterthur. In 
summary, this indicated that the critical yield (return required from Mr Ws new arrangement 
to match the benefits from his DB scheme) at age 65 was 8.1% for a full pension, or 7.5% 
where tax-free cash was taken with a reduced pension. The same respective figures were 
Mr W to retire at 60 were 9.1% and 7.8%.
On 12 November Mr W signed the transfer out form in relation to his DB scheme and the 
application to open a Winterthur pension. RBA sent the forms to Winterthur on 12 January 
2011. It confirmed receipt on 18 January 2011.
On 5 February 2011, Mr W signed a declaration for RBA. It stated that in transferring his DB 
funds into a new pension plan, it would be carrying out the transaction at his explicit request. 
It went on to set out his reasons for this and his understanding of the loss of certain 
protections and guarantees.
On 14 February 2011, RBA wrote to Mr W enclosing a suitability report which was dated 25 
January 2011. It asked Mr W to sign a declaration to say hed received it. After contacting 
the adviser on 16 February 2011 to point out some errors in the report in relation to his age 
and how soon he could draw on the benefits, Mr W signed for receipt on 18 February 2011.
RBAs suitability report noted that the transfer of Mr Ws DB pension benefits was against its 
advice. Given his stated requirement to continue with the transaction, it went on to 
recommend Winterthur as his new pension provider. And that he invested consistent with its 
assessment of his attitude to risk.
Mr W proceeded with RBAs recommendations. His DB scheme administrator confirmed on 
9 March 2011 that payment of his deferred benefits worth around £63,500 had been made to Winterthur. In December 2011, Mr W made a further lump sum contribution to his new 
pension plan of £10,000 net. In 2014, Mr W switched his pension away from Winterthur, but 
RBA wasnt involved in that transaction.
In December 2020, CCL representing Mr W complained to RBA about the suitability of the 
advice it gave to him in 2010/11. It said that it hadnt met the regulatory obligations placed on 
it. It says RBA didnt help Mr W understand that there was no requirement to leave his 
former scheme. It says the way it conducted its business with him, such as the sequencing 
of completing the transfer documents and delivering the suitability report, meant he took 
decisions without being fully informed. And it says Mr W formed the impression RBA was 
recommending he should transfer his pension benefits.
RBA provided its final response to Mr Ws complaint on 3 February 2021. It refuted the 
complaint points raised. It said it provided him with clear and repeated advice not to transfer 
his DB benefits. It said the assertion that he thought he had to transfer didnt make sense 
given there was over a year between when he was made redundant and when it produced 
the suitability report. And it said the report itself made clear he could remain in his former 
scheme. RBA also said that in any event Mr W had brought his complaint too late for this 
Service to consider it.
Turning to the matter of the jurisdiction of this Service to consider Mr Ws complaint, I note 
that an Investigator set out why we could look at the case in December 2021. RBA 
disagreed, so the matter was passed to an Ombudsman for review. He also concluded that 
we could look at Mr Ws complaint.
I note in a recent submission to this Service RBA has again raised the issue of time-barring 
Mr Ws complaint. It didnt raise any new arguments or produce any new evidence to support 
its judgement here. It said:
We consider that Mr W would have reasonably been aware that there was cause to bring a 
complaint at the time of the transfer (if he believed it to be unfair) or when he received his 
pension statements annually thereafter. It seems that Mr W took many years to bring this 
opportunistic complaint and we consider it to be time barred. We do not therefore believe 
that he is entitled to bring a complaint now for a transfer that occurred in early 2011.
This is because the test is when Mr W should reasonably have a cause to complain about 
the transfer. RBA's position is that it would have been as soon as he realised he would not 
have achieved a better return than he would have done from [his DB scheme]. That was 
clearly marked in the Suitability Report, and which is why the transfer was against advice.
Consequently, Mr W had, or should reasonably have had, knowledge to bring any complaint 
at the time of the transfer or when he received the pension statements that recorded that he 
would receive a pension significantly less than he would have received from [his DB 
scheme].
Whenever a case comes to an Ombudsman for a decision on the merits of it, they must still 
review our jurisdiction. Having done so I agree with the findings and conclusions set out by 
the Ombudsman in August 2022. I wont rehearse those matters of fact again in full. I think 
the following extracts from his decision neatly summarise the position:
The remaining question is when Mr W became aware, or ought reasonably to have become 
aware there was cause for complaint about the 2011 advice. RBA have essentially said 
there were two situations when Mr W would or should have known he had cause for 
complaint. In 2011, when Mr W received RBAs suitability report, and receipt of further 
annual statements.I acknowledge that the suitability report heading clearly says Against Advice, and on the 
second page of the report, goes on to say: You are aware that transferring this scheme 
means you are losing guarantees and that once the pension is transferred it cannot be 
reinstated. You are aware that to transfer this scheme is against our advice as you are losing 
guarantees within the scheme. However, you have decided to transfer the benefits to a 
personal pension. We are therefore arranging the transfer to a suitable personal pension.
The report sets out Mr Ws requirements, which included a desire for flexibility and a wish to 
break all ties with his ex-employer. The report discusses pension benefits Mr W would 
receive if he stayed in the DBS scheme. A transfer analysis report compares the DBS 
scheme with the proposed private pension provider. It clearly states there is no guarantee 
regarding the future value of the proposed individual pension. And Mr W did sign a 
disclaimer in February 2011 acknowledging the course of action may not be in his best long-
term interest, and that he was giving up various guarantees associated with his DBS.
RBA essentially say the above means Mr W must reasonably have known hed be worse off 
in retirement than if he stayed with the DBS scheme  and there can be no argument to say 
he didnt become aware of a cause for complaint at this time. I disagree.
Mr W knew he was transferring his pension to a new provider, and with that accepting 
certain risks that had been explained to him. But thats different, in my view, to being 
reasonably aware he had cause for complaint. I dont think its likely Mr W would have gone 
ahead with the 2011 transfer if hed have thought (or likely thought) from the very beginning 
that the advice process was flawed in some way. My view on this point is strengthened by 
the fact Mr W chose to invest a further sum into his 2011 pension approximately one year 
later  if hed have had any concerns about the 2011 advice and transfer a year later, I think 
its unlikely hed have made a further investment in the way that he did into the pension.
And I think the annual statements Mr W subsequently received would, at best, have simply 
reinforced what he already knew about the new arrangement. Leaving aside they were 
unable to provide a like for like comparison  DBS retirement at 65 as against new 
arrangement retirement projection as at 75  the statements would have recorded the 
possibility that he would potentially be worse off in retirement. Again, I dont think this, on its 
own, would have triggered awareness of a cause for complaint.
RBA played no part in the 2014 transfer. Mr W sought advice from an unregulated advisor 
and following this he agreed to transfer his pension again. I havent seen copies of the 
advice Mr W received in 2014, and so I dont know whether the circumstances relating to the 
previous 2011 transfer were discussed, or the suitability of the advice received.
However, given the nature of the advice and transfer in 2014  to an unregulated 
investment in a property on an island off the coast of Africa  Im persuaded its unlikely the 
2014 advice would have focussed in any material way on the suitability of the 2011 DBS 
transfer.
On that basis, Im prepared to conclude there was unlikely to have been any information 
provided to Mr W in 2014 that would have alerted him to have reasonable cause for concern 
that his 2011 transfer advice may have been unsuitable  and accordingly no reason to think 
he had a cause for complaint about that 2011 advice at that time.
I think Mr W became aware of cause for complaint in 2020 when he approached CCL for 
assistance regarding the unregulated 2014 switch of his pension arrangements, as his 
pension fund was illiquid by that time. In its dealings with him, CCL identified Mr W may have 
been subject to unsuitable advice to transfer his DB pension in 2011, and further enquiries 
were made with RBA at this point.
This Service can consider Mr Ws case.An Investigator considered the merits of Mr Ws case and recommended it should be upheld. 
He didnt think the insistent client process followed by RBA was properly handled and he 
thought the transfer of Mr Ws DB pension funds had been unsuitable. RBA disagreed. 
Amongst other arguments it says it had given Mr W clear advice throughout the process that 
he shouldnt transfer his pension. It says he also had an opportunity to change his mind after 
agreeing to the new arrangement.
As both parties couldnt agree with the Investigators view, Mr Ws complaint was passed to 
me to review afresh. I issued my provisional decision earlier this month. CCL and RBA 
provided short submissions in response which Ive considered in this final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
How does the regulatory framework inform the consideration of Mr Ws case?
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by RBA for Mr W. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, 
which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA 
Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like RBA. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Ws complaint.
At the time of the advice RBA gave Mr W, COBS 19.1.6 made the following specific point 
about advising on a transfer from DB schemes:
When advising a retail client who isa member of a defined benefits occupational pension 
schemewith safeguarded benefits whether to transfera firm should start by assuming 
that a transferwill not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transferto be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transferis in the 
client's best interests.
Under COBS 19.1.2, RBA was required to:
- Compare the benefits likely to be paid under the ceding arrangement with the 
benefits afforded by the proposed arrangement.
- Ensure that the comparison included enough information for Mr W to be able to make 
an informed decision.
- Give Mr W a copy of the comparison, drawing his attention to the factors that do and 
dont support its personal recommendation, in good time.
- Take reasonable steps to ensure that Mr W understood its comparison and how it 
contributed towards the personal recommendation.
In simple terms, RBA had to assess the benefits likely to be paid and options available under 
the DB scheme and compare this with those available under the new arrangements 
proposed before it advised Mr W on what to do.
Further, COBS 2.1.1 R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment business carried on 
for a retail client. The definition of designated investment business includes arranging 
(bringing about) deals in investments.
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same things that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the advice 
was suitable. In summary, the business must obtain the necessary information regarding: 
the consumers knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice; 
their financial situation; and their investment objectives.
Did RBA adhere to the regulatory requirements placed on it when advising Mr W?
RBA says that it consistently and clearly advised Mr W not to transfer his DB pension. When 
he told it he wanted to go ahead it asked him to sign a declaration that he was, essentially, 
an insistent client. He signed the form on 5 February 2011:
I, [Mr W] write with reference to the above numbered scheme. Please accept this as my 
confirmation that you have explained that you will be carrying out this transaction at my 
explicit request as I am wishing to remove myself from all contact with my previous employer 
and I have decided to opt out of the above pension scheme.
I fully understand that this course of action may not be in my long term best interest as a 
Personal Pension Fund is reliant on future fund performance, which cannot be guaranteed. I 
am aware that I will give up any entitlement to a Guaranteed Minimum Pension Fund and 
any other guarantees will be lost by transferring from the scheme to a private arrangement 
and cannot be re-instated.
Further, RBA points to its suitability report which it sent to Mr W with a short cover letter on 
14 February 2011. On the first page of the report it said transferring his pension would be 
against its advice.
RBA also says that Mr Ws argument that he thought he had to transfer his pension when he 
was made redundant in 2009 doesnt hold water because he didnt take any such action for 
many months after hed left his employer.
Ive thought carefully about what RBA has said.Where a firm decides to transact with a customer on an insistent client basis, I think it should 
communicate with them:
- In terms that are clear, fair and not misleading.
- Having regard for the information needs of the client such that the client can 
understand.
- That it hasnt recommended the transaction and that it will not be in accordance with 
the personal recommendation.
- The reasons why it isnt in accordance with that personal recommendation.
- The risks of the transaction proposed by the client.
- The reasons why it didnt recommend the transaction.
RBA also needed to obtain Mr Ws acknowledgement that the transaction wouldnt be in 
accordance with the personal recommendation given by it; and the transaction was being 
carried out at his request. I think this acknowledgement ideally shouldve been in Mr Ws 
own words.
In responding to my provisional decision RBA said:
the ombudsman appears to be applying current guidance into the thought process on 
insistent clients. At the time of the transactions in 2010, there were no rules and limited 
guidance on insistent clients. While it is accepted guidance changed some 5 years later, it is 
important to apply the rules in place at the time the transaction occurred. It is therefore 
surprising that the ombudsman states that the acknowledgment the transaction was against 
advice shouldve been in Mr Ws own words. Ideally, perhaps. However, in 2010 there were 
no rules or guidance about insistent client and RBA acted fairly by producing an against 
advice report and requesting Mr W sign a disclaimer. Its not fair on RBA to say that Mr W 
should have written an acknowledgment in his own words and to then frame the balance of 
the provisional decision against RBA because he did not do so when there was no guidance 
requiring this in 2010.
Ive thought carefully about what RBA has said, its made a fair challenge. But Ive concluded 
that its argument isnt telling for two main reasons. 
Firstly, I draw its attention to the specific FCA principles Ive already set out. They were in 
place well before it gave its advice to Mr W. The principles are the keystone from which most 
other guidance flows, including over time. I think a firm adhering to the principles wouldve 
ensured any insistent client process it operated could stand up against what was clearly 
being provided for in them.
Secondly, as I mentioned in my provisional decision, I have concerns about the process it 
followed. And, on balance, I concluded it was flawed because:
- Theres no evidence Mr W was knowledgeable in pension or investment matters.
- While its suitability report for Mr W did say proceeding would be against its advice, 
this was somewhat undermined by recommendations in the same suitability report 
about how he could proceed. Indeed, there was no explicit recommendation not to 
proceed in the report.
- The main reason for Mr W transferring his pension benefits was to break ties with his 
former employer. RBA knew this reason was a second order matter, but Ive seen no 
clear and fully formed attempt by it at the time to help him understand why this wasnt 
in his interest.- There are significant gaps in the information Mr W received, for example in terms of 
the benefits he was giving up; how this compared to projections from his new 
arrangements and planning for his income in retirement. So how could his decision 
making be said to be fully informed?
- There are weaknesses with the advice process RBA followed, not least the suitability 
report which was issued after Mr W had already signed paperwork to transfer his DB 
pension and open a new plan.
I note RBA has failed to address any of these points effectively in responding to my 
provisional decision.
As an aside, RBA did raise a related argument about Mr Ws investment in 2014 into 
unregulated products. It said:
It is evident that Mr W was insistent and gave little bearing to the advice he was receiving or 
alternatively he was very happy to accept extremely high risks for potential reward. He was 
clearly unconcerned about the risks of investing in an unregulated investment scheme in 
property on an island off the coast of Africa. It is understood that this investment caused Mr 
W to lose the majority of his pension funds
Im not persuaded by RBAs arguments here. For example, drawing inferences about events 
from 2010/11 to what happened in 2014 is problematic. Not least because Im not privy to his 
objectives and circumstances at the latter date, nor the advice he received. Mr W may or 
may not have been an insistent client again in 2014, I dont know because Ive not seen the 
information and obviously I havent assessed the process followed by the business involved. 
I do though think its unlikely he wouldve moved from having a cautious attitude to risk as 
RBA confirmed in 2010, to accepting extremely high risks in 2014.
Ill now consider my findings in a little more detail.
Theres no evidence Mr W had knowledge and experience of pension and investment 
matters. I think this shouldve been clear from the information RBA gleaned. This shouldve 
put it on notice that it had to be careful if it was to take matters through the insistent client 
route. And its important context when I consider what happened to him.
Theres no dispute RBAs suitability report stated that it was against its advice for him to 
transfer from his DB scheme. On the second page it said:
You are aware that transferring this scheme means you are losing guarantees and that 
once the pension is transferred it cannot be reinstated. You are aware that to transfer this 
scheme is against our advice as you are losing guarantees within the scheme. However, you 
have decided to transfer the benefits to a personal pension. We are therefore arranging the 
transfer to a suitable personal pension.
But there were other areas of the suitability report that muddied the waters, for example 
when discussing his existing DB scheme benefits RBA said:
We discussed the specific rights and benefits relating to this pension. I explained that if you 
were to affect a transfer then a number of these rights and benefits would be given up. 
Leaving your employer and taking a deferred pension does not necessarily reduce the 
benefits you have already accrued.
Its unclear what RBA meant here. One interpretation was that if Mr W stuck to his deferred 
benefits they might be reduced. But how could that be so? As it went on to cover - albeit in a 
rather disjointed and technical manner - his deferred benefits would enjoy annual uprating 
linked to statutory minimum provisions or the retail price index.Further, the suitability report makes the assumption throughout that Mr W had decided to 
transfer his DB pension. There was no explicit recommendation that he shouldnt do this, 
with accompanying detailed arguments about why. The report appears largely to have been 
about facilitating what he told RBA he wanted to do. Indeed the vast bulk of the content of 
the report was focussed on such.
In the suitability report RBA provided a summary of its recommendations, it said:
After considering all the options, your present circumstances and future requirements, I am 
pleased to confirm my recommendations and your requested action.
Your main requirements, as detailed at the beginning of the report, are met by using the 
Winterthur Personal Pension. The advantages and disadvantages have been discussed and 
highlighted in this report, covering the reasons why my advice is appropriate to your 
circumstances.
When advising you I also asked how much money you are prepared to commit to your 
objectives. You confirmed that you are prepared to commit the whole transfer value and are 
prepared to invest this for at least 5 years. I can confirm that my advice fits within your 
timescale and stated budget.
RBA stated that if Mr W transferred from his DB scheme it would be against its advice. But in 
the same suitability report it went on to tell him this could still be done and that it had 
researched his options. It knew he had a very strong desire to transfer his benefits, because 
he wanted to sever links with his former employer. No other substantive reasons for the 
transfer were apparent.
Its unclear from the paperwork RBA has provided why Mr W held what appeared to be a 
strong opinion on this matter. A box ticked by the adviser on the fact-find indicated that he 
had serious concerns about the financial stability of his former employer and he didnt want 
his benefits to remain under its control. On the same form the advisers handwritten note 
said:
Wishes to transfer to a new plan as does not want any ties with old company.
I dont know why Mr W felt like this. Perhaps he had strong feelings about his redundancy 
from his former employer. RBA doesnt appear to have explored this matter at all. 
In responding to my provisional decision RBA said:
while the transfer of the pension was partly to break ties with his former employer and it is 
suggested that this was a second order matter to RBA, it was certainly not second order 
to Mr W. At the time of the transfer, the Maxwell pension scandal was less than 8 years 
previous. The problems with that scandal were alive in Mr Ws mind and this was something 
he discussed with RBA. Mr W had real concerns about leaving his pension in the hands of 
his former employers and wanted to move it into a personal pension scheme.
I understand Mr W had strong views on the matter, but the problem for RBA is the only 
evidence on file suggests that his DB scheme was in a healthy financial state. According to 
the pension transfer analysis report, it remained open to new members. It was also known to 
be fully funded. Thats to say it had sufficient assets to provide for all the accrued benefits it 
owed and could thus meet its future obligations. In order to be fully funded, the plan had to 
be able to make all the anticipated payments to both current and prospective pensioners.In addition, even if Mr Ws scheme had got into trouble, it was backed by the Pension 
Protection Fund which wouldve guaranteed around 90% of his benefits. And further, the fact 
was Mr Ws employer and his pension scheme were two separate entities.
I cant see RBA made these matters clear to Mr W, even though it was in possession of 
these facts. Given the link with his employer was said to be such a motivation for the 
transfer, Id have expected to see much more on the record about these discussions.
RBA knew that what appears to have been the driving force behind Mr Ws desire to transfer 
his DB pension benefits was a weak argument for the transaction. It hasnt done enough to 
satisfy me that it provided him with the information and evidence that couldve put his mind 
at rest. Instead it failed to challenge his assumptions and continued to facilitate a transaction 
that was highly likely to cause him financial harm in retirement.
Another telling problem for RBA in this case are important information weaknesses. For 
example, in its suitability report to Mr W it failed to provide him with a meaningful comparison 
of the value of his deferred benefits with the new arrangements. I cant see that RBA 
effectively moved from high level assertions about the possibility for Mr W to be worse off 
after the transfer, into the realms of practical monetary implications for his retirement.
RBA doesnt dispute that the transfer of Mr Ws deferred benefits was highly likely to erode 
the value of his income in retirement. But I cant see that he received a direct comparison 
between his DB scheme benefits and what would be likely from his new drawdown 
arrangement.
Ive not seen how he was given the right information at the right time to be able to weigh 
properly how far his retirement benefits could be eroded or to appreciate the medium and 
long term consequences of such.
I find elements of the suitability report unclear. For example in covering Mr Ws existing 
deferred benefits it notes the scheme retirement age (SRA) of 65 and goes on to indicate his 
guaranteed annual pension of about £4,500. Of course, this excludes any uprating that was 
provided for between 2009 and his SRA. I understand the equivalent value at SRA wouldve 
actually been just over £7,000 per year.
I find elements of the suitability report to be factually incorrect. For example there are 
references to a pension scheme Mr W wasnt a member of. And references to transfer 
values that clearly had nothing to do with his benefits.
Linked to these weaknesses in providing Mr W with clear, fair and not misleading 
information, was the absence of effective retirement income planning by RBA. I cant see his 
required income in retirement is explored. In the evidence provided by it Ive seen no attempt 
to get to the bottom of this fundamental question.
Ive not seen evidence that RBA effectively advised Mr W about the long-term nature of 
pension planning. The need for a pot of funds to provide an income for many years ahead.
The actual process RBA followed in advising Mr W between August 2010 and February 
2011 was fundamentally flawed. Thats because by November 2010 Mr W had already been 
asked by it to give effect to the transfer by signing the DB scheme transfer form and an 
application to establish his new pension arrangement. Considering it didnt provide him with 
the suitability report  which was itself somewhat lacking for the reasons Ive already set out 
 it was putting the cart before the horse.This further strengthens my view about RBAs focus being on facilitating a transaction for Mr 
W rather than providing him with the fully formed advice about his retirement planning. Its 
approach more likely than not reinforced what was in his mind about transferring his 
retirement provision, rather than acting as a bulwark against precipitous action.
So, RBA hasnt satisfied me that it treated Mr W fairly by helping him to understand the 
significance of the decision he was about to make. He may have signed an insistent client 
form, but this doesnt absolve it from acting with due care and skill.
RBA has effectively accepted the transfer wasnt suitable. I agree. Its advice was given 
during the period when this Service was publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in 
loss assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. 
Businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
but I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates wouldve been 
considered reasonably achievable when it advised Mr W in 2010.
The pension transfer analysis report commissioned by RBA noted that the investment return 
(critical yield) required to match Mr Ws deferred benefits at retirement was 9.1% per year, if 
he were to retire at 60 as he indicated, taking all the benefits as an income. If hed chosen to 
take TFC, the figure was 7.8%. This compares with the discount rate of 6% per year for 
eleven years to retirement in this case. This doesnt even factor in matters such as his 
cautious appetite for risk, which wouldve meant lower returns. Mr W was more likely than 
not to receive benefits of a materially lower overall value than provided for in his DB scheme.
The Investigator posed the question, if a transfer wouldnt improve on the benefits of the 
scheme, there had to be some other strong justification for Mr W relinquishing the valuable 
guarantees that it provided him  what was this?
Ive already dealt with Mr Ws recorded desire to sever ties with his previous employer and 
RBAs failings in that regard. I note the suitability report suggests Mr W wanted control and 
flexibility over his pension, but theres no convincing evidence this was really of importance 
to him. In any event, the arguments for such are again weak and it was RBAs role to have 
made this clear. He was 48 by the time the suitability report was issued, 12 years from his 
preferred retirement age and 7 years from being able to access any benefits.
From the available evidence, there was no pressing need or strong argument in 2011 for Mr 
W to move away from his DB scheme. But there were significant risks in him doing so. His 
benefits in the scheme were guaranteed, with provision for increases each year. And it was 
his only pension aside from any state pension entitlement. The critical yields were more 
likely than not unachievable, especially given his cautious attitude to risk.
In respect of Mr Ws assessed attitude to risk  I think RBA got this about right. Indeed 
coupled with his knowledge, experience and capacity for loss, this simply adds to the case 
that a transfer of his DB pension wasnt appropriate. Setting this aside for one moment, I 
agree with the Investigator when he concluded its investment recommendations had been 
reasonable. This is important to bear in mind for redress purposes.
RBAs role was to discern what Mr Ws wants and needs were, and why. Its role wasnt 
simply to facilitate what he wanted without any critical thinking. It had to do these things 
because it had to act in his best interests. Even though it told Mr W that the transfer would 
be against its advice, I dont think its demonstrably met these obligations.
RBA was in a good position to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised Mr W about 
what was in his best interest for retirement planning. It cant rely on the limited caveats it 
made in its suitability report to Mr W to escape responsibility for what happened to him.While RBA acknowledged the transfer of his DB pension wasnt suitable, there were failings 
in the advice process which meant he wasnt fully informed about his position and I think its 
more likely than not the effect of fuller information and better analysis wouldve been 
significant to his decision making.
On balance, given these failings, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to conclude the 
process RBA followed meant Mr W can truly be regarded as an insistent client. Its 
communications werent clear or fair. It didnt act in his best interests. And it failed to act with 
due care and skill.
I think that if RBA had given Mr W appropriate fully formed advice, he wouldnt have gone 
ahead with the transfer of his deferred benefits. Its unusual for a lay person to seek 
professional advice and then go against the recommendations received.
To conclude I dont think the transfer of Mr Ws deferred benefits could sensibly be regarded 
as fair to him. As such I think RBA failed to meet the regulatory requirements placed on it 
when providing him with such advice and making the arrangements.
So, taking all the circumstances of the case into account, its reasonable to uphold this 
complaint against RBA and for it to put things right.
Putting things right
Im upholding Mr Ws case. So, he needs to be returned to the position he wouldve been in 
now - or as close to that as reasonably possible  had it not been for the failures which I hold 
Robert Bruce Associates responsible for.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs/ interest on costs that I think are 
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £160,000, I may recommend that 
the business pays the balance.
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should be 
calculated as set out below. Robert Bruce Associates should pay Mr W the amount 
produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than £160,000, I recommend that Robert Bruce Associates pays Mr W the balance.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. RBA doesnt have to do what 
I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr W can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the 
balance. He may want to get independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept 
this decision.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr W whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance /rules to come into effect. He has chosen 
not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint.
Im satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr W.
I consider Mr W wouldve remained in his DB scheme. Robert Bruce Associates should 
therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the pension review methodology, as 
updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ws acceptance of the decision.
Both parties raised points they wanted the redress to take into account. 
In December 2011, Mr W made a further lump sum contribution to his new pension plan  Mr 
W was concerned this shouldnt artificially inflate the assessed value of his personal pension 
in the calculations.
And in 2014 Mr W switched his pension away from Winterthur, but RBA wasnt involved in 
his investment in non-regulated products. It wanted to confirm it wouldnt be held responsible 
for losses arising from this transaction.
Both parties make proper observations and I would expect the redress methodology to make 
appropriate adjustments for these and any other relevant matters.
Robert Bruce Associates may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) 
to obtain Mr Ws contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme 
(SERPS or S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the 
calculation, which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr 
Ws SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible 
be paid into Mr Ws pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr W as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss would be tax- 
free and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr W within 90 days of the date 
Robert Bruce Associates receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further 
interest must be added to the compensation at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date 
of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, it takes RBA 
to pay Mr W (excepting that arising from delays with DWP SERPS adjustment data).
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Robert Bruce Associates deducts income 
tax from the interest, it should tell Mr W how much has been taken off. It should give Mr W a 
tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Robert Bruce Associates to carry out a calculation in line 
with the updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive established, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint. I now require Robert 
Bruce Associates to put things right in the way Ive already outlined. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman