DRN-1073589
 
The complaint
Mrs B complains that National Westminster Bank PLC ("NatWest") declined a regular 
transaction and blocked her card which caused her inconvenience.  
What happened
Mrs B has a credit card with NatWest. On 11 July 2019 she attempted to make a £930 
transaction but it was declined by NatWest, which then blocked her card. She said this was a 
regular transaction. She complained to NatWest.
In its final response NatWest did not uphold Mrs B's complaint. It said it had carried out a 
security check on her account in line with its fraud prevention strategy and the terms and 
conditions of Mrs B's credit card. Mrs B wasn't satisfied with this response, so she brought 
her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator concluded that NatWest hadn't done anything wrong when it stopped the 
transaction and blocked Mrs B's card. Mrs B didn't agree and asked for a final decision from 
an ombudsman. Over the course of her complaint with this service Mrs B said she 
experienced further customer service issues with NatWest. The investigator advised her to 
raise a new complaint with NatWest so it might have the opportunity to investigate. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to Mrs B but, having done so, I won't be asking NatWest to do anything 
further. 
In this decision I've looked at the complaint which relates to the declined transaction of 11 
July 2019. Mrs B's other concerns would need to be considered under a different complaint. 
I realise that having a transaction declined can be inconvenient and sometimes awkward for 
a customer. So I can understand Mrs B's frustration with the actions taken by NatWest, 
particularly as she said this was a regular transaction. But having read the account terms I'm 
satisfied that NatWest was within its rights to take such action to protect Mrs B's account. 
In the terms and conditions of Mrs B's account it says:
"(f) We may refuse a transaction if:
we believe there has been fraud on your account or it is at risk of someone using it to 
make a fraudulent or unauthorised transaction;
we reasonably believe that you (or an additional cardholder) did not authorise the 
instruction;"I've looked at system notes from NatWest. A restriction was placed on Mrs B's account at 
10.59am. Its automated system contacted Mrs B at 11.02 and 11.04am. Mrs B confirmed the 
transaction was genuine at 11.23 and the account was updated at 11.26am. The notes state 
that the restriction was not based on Mrs B's transactions but on information provided by 
other customers and fraud agencies concerning possible fraud going on at the time. And 
while Mrs B said this was a regular transaction, I can see from her credit card statements 
that in the previous six months transactions to the same company were mostly around £300-
500. This transaction was £930.
It's not my role to examine the bank's processes. That's the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. My role is to decide if NatWest has applied the process fairly. Banks and other 
financial institutions have a responsibility to protect their customers' accounts by applying 
anti-fraud measures. In this case it blocked a transaction due to information it received more 
widely but the transaction was verified as authentic by Mrs B within 30 minutes. While I 
appreciate this was inconvenient for Mrs B for a short period of time I do consider NatWest's 
actions concerning this transaction to be reasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2020.
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman