DRN-4168273
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as P, complains that ERGO Versicherung 
Aktiengesellschaft (Ergo) unfairly declined its damage claim.
Mr F, a director of P, brings the complaint on Ps behalf.   
What happened
P took out a Commercial Combined Insurance policy in November 2020. In February 2022 it 
made an accidental damage claim for five treadmills which P said were damaged beyond 
repair as a result of anti-bacterial spray being applied to the equipment by gym members 
during the COVID-19 pandemic. P said the screens on the treadmills had frozen and 
became entirely unresponsive. 
ERGO appointed a loss adjuster to investigate the claim. The loss adjuster was told that 
three of the treadmills became intermittent around September 2021 and then they broke 
down completely within a few weeks. The other two treadmills were reported as damaged in 
October 2021.
ERGO concluded that the damage occurred gradually and been caused by repeated use of 
the anti-bacterial spray rather than a one-off event. And as gradual deterioration was 
excluded under the policy, ERGO declined the claim.  
P didnt agree with ERGOs reasoning for declining the claim. In response, it said the 
cleaning regime implemented was in line with the governments direction during the 
COVID-19 Pandemic. More than 100 treadmills were cleaned in the same way, and of those, 
only five were damaged. P therefore didnt agree that the damage was as a result of gradual 
deterioration over time. P referred to the expert report which said the treadmills they 
reviewed had failed because of a large amount of liquid found within the consoles. P said 
this was likely a one-off event where too much liquid had been used. P pointed out that there 
was nothing in the experts report which said it occurred gradually over time. 
EGRO said that there was no evidence that a large amount of liquid had been spilt over the 
machines and also the five treadmills were damaged around the same time, therefore it was 
unlikely they would all be associated with a random one-off event. 
Unhappy that ERGO wouldnt change their stance on the case, P brought its complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman. Our investigator upheld the complaint. In summary, she said she 
was satisfied there was a case of accidental damage here. From what she had seen, she felt 
it was likely that the liquid from the anti-bacterial spray built up over time, but she didnt think 
that gradual build -up was equivalent to gradual deterioration. She felt if the treadmills were 
deteriorating, they would be wearing out over time and ERGO hasnt been able to show that 
this happened. She concluded that ERGO hadnt applied the exclusion fairly. She 
recommended that ERGO meet the claim for all five treadmills.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Both parties have provided detailed submissions to support their position. I want to assure 
them Ive read and carefully considered everything theyve said, but my findings focus on 
what I consider to be the central issues, and not all the points raised.
The issue for me to decide in this instance is whether or not it is fair and reasonable for
ERGO to decline Ps claim on the basis they have set out in their final response to Ps
complaint; that the damage is not a one-off event but as a result of gradual deterioration, 
cover for which is excluded.
I should note at the outset of this decision that Ps policy is not a perils based policy but an 
all risks policy, subject to certain exclusions. This being the case, the onus is not on P to 
prove that an insured event has taken place but rather for ERGO to prove the operation of a 
relevant exclusion.
In this case, the exclusion which ERGO has sought to apply is that of gradual deterioration. 
In order to prove this exclusion, ERGO would need to be able to evidence that the damage 
for which P is claiming has been caused gradually over time by an issue about which P 
should have been aware.
Im satisfied that P has cover for damage and theres no dispute that theres damage to the 
five treadmills being claimed for.
ERGO has relied on the following policy exclusion to decline Ps claim:
Section 2  Material Damage All Risks 
Exclusions Applying to Section 2
The following exclusions apply to this section
f. Damage to any Property Insured and/or any consequential loss directly or 
indirectly caused or contributed by: 
v) moth, termites, vermin or insect, wear, tear, gradual deterioration, rust or 
oxidisation, rot, mould or mildew, inherent vice, latent defect 
The onus is on ERGO to show it would be fair to rely on the above policy exclusion. I 
therefore need to consider whether ERGO has correctly applied the exception in the policy 
when declining Ps claim.
ERGO said for a large amount of liquid to cause damage on one occasion, the spray bottle 
would have to be used improperly and liquid poured onto the machines, and there was no 
indication that anybody was alleged to have acted on this basis.  
I have reviewed a report provided by ERGOs appointed loss adjuster. They said the 
damage has been caused as a result of the anti-bacterial spray being used on the treadmills. 
Overtime, it has seeped into the console causing them to break.  I have also reviewed an expert report provided by ERGO which states the screens are 
beyond repair due to being damaged from an overuse of anti-bacterial spray. And that large 
amounts of liquid were found within console which will be as a result of spray being applied 
directly onto consoles. 
I am therefore persuaded that the cause of the damage was the use of the anti-bacterial 
spay on the treadmills. ERGO commented on it being unusual that all five treadmills broke 
down around the same time. I think its likely this was a coincidence as the spray would have 
been used on the treadmills for around the same length of time, causing the build-up of fluid 
which then damaged the machines.  
The evidence does suggest that the application of the anti-bacterial spray over-time has 
caused a gradual build-up of fluid and then eventually resulted in damage. The policy 
exclusion which ERGO have relied on is one for gradual deterioration, but I dont think 
ERGO has shown that its what happened here. I say this because, if something were to 
gradually deteriorate, I would expect to see it slowly declining, which happens over time, like 
wear and tear. Im aware that P said some of the treadmills became intermittent for a few 
weeks before their complete breakdown. I dont think a few weeks would be considered as 
gradual. The gradual action here appears to be the build-up of fluid, i.e. the cause of 
damage, rather than the damage itself.
 
Additionally, even if I were to accept the damage was gradual, I would then need to consider 
whether P would have been reasonably aware of the gradual damage and could have done 
anything to stop it from getting worse. In the circumstances, it might have been difficult for P 
to have been aware that the fluid was building up inside the console. Even when the 
treadmills became intermittent, if P had reported the issue, it may be that there would not 
have been enough time to identify the problem and prevent it from getting worse. I make no 
finding on this aspect. It is not a point that has been previously raised, and the parties have 
not had the opportunity to comment on it. However, this is not an issue in this particular 
case, as I am not persuaded that the damage was gradual in nature. 
 
While I think there was gradual build-up of fluid, I agree with our investigator that this isnt 
the same as something gradually deteriorating over time. Im not persuaded that ERGO has 
shown that the damage was caused by gradual deterioration. So, I dont think its fair that 
this exclusion would apply. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. My decision is that ERGO Versicherung Aktiengesellschaft should 
settle Ps claim, subject to the other terms of its policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Ankita Patel
Ombudsman