DRN-3261834
The complaint
Mr W and Mrs W complain that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) were slow in 
dealing with their mortgage application.
What happened
Mr W and Mrs W had a mortgage with NatWest. The balance was £168,812. They wanted a 
further advance of £29,390 to pay off a car loan from another lender and pay for home 
improvements. On 7 December 2020, they had a telephone-based appointment for a new 
mortgage of £198,202, repayable over 30 years. At that time, NatWest did a House Price 
Index (HPI) survey which showed a valuation of £265,901. On 10 December 2020, a 
desktop valuation was carried out which showed a figure of £235,000. 
On 5 January 2021, the mortgage adviser told Mr W and Mrs W that the HPI valuation 
couldnt be used as the proposed mortgage exceeded a loan to value (LTV) of 60%, so the 
lower desktop valuation had to be used  and in line with policy, this meant that a maximum 
LTV of 80% applied - so the maximum loan was then £188,000. 
On 25 January 2021, a revised application was completed for a lower further advance of 
£19,198  which meant that only £15,000 of the third-party loan could be paid off. Mr W and 
Mrs W then opted to pay for a standard valuation, and this gave a figure of £250,000  in 
March 2021. They then applied for a further advance of £31,000 (plus a fee of £299), which 
was agreed - in April 2021, an offer of a further advance of £31,000 was made. Of this, 
£26,716 was to be used to pay off the car loan.
Mr W and Mrs W complained. They said the delays in dealing with the application were 
unacceptable - as it took more than six weeks between the first mortgage appointment and 
the offer on 25 January 2021. And - the mortgage adviser shouldve known what NatWests 
policy was on the use of HPI valuations  that the maximum LTV was 60%. But they said 
they werent told this until much later - on 5 January 2021. 
They said the mortgage adviser knew about the lower desktop valuation on 10 December 
2020  but didnt tell them until 5 January 2021. Had they known earlier, they couldve 
looked for another lender. Also  they said the mortgage adviser communicated with them 
by text messages- and after 5pm in the evening and this wasnt professional. They hadnt 
said that texts were their preferred method of communication. Also, the mortgage adviser 
had been slow to respond and provide information. And he had texted them on 24 December 
2020 to say he would provide an update the following Tuesday, but didnt. 
They said that because of the delays, theyd had to pay the car loan for four months more 
than they should have and couldnt complete the work needed on their garage. They worked 
out that compensation of £3,532 was appropriate, including loss of income  due to wasted 
time. They also asked that should they choose to move their mortgage - the early repayment 
fee should be waived. Later, they accepted NatWests offer to undertake a full valuation but 
had to pay for it - it cost £352. But they wondered why this wasnt offered to them in the first 
place. And  NatWest took longer than the FCA guidelines of eight weeks to deal with their 
complaint.
NatWest apologised for what had happened. They couldnt explain why there had been a 
delay between 10 December 2020 and 5 January 2021. Nor could they see why the 
mortgage adviser didnt tell Mr W and Mrs W about the policy on HPI valuations earlier. But it 
was NatWests policy to use desktop valuations for mortgages with an LTV over 60% - which 
the proposed mortgage was. They couldnt say why this wasnt said at the time of the first 
appointment. They offered a full valuation to Mr W and Mrs W  but couldnt say what this 
valuation would show, and Mr W and Mrs W would have to pay for it. They said that text 
messaging was the normal method of contact and most customers appreciated that. They 
apologised that it had taken more than eight weeks to deal with Mr W and Mrs Ws 
complaint. Overall, they said their service had fallen short of what it shouldve been. They 
paid compensation of £100 in respect of the delay in the complaint process and offered £400 
for their poor service. Mr W and Mrs W rejected the latter offer.
Mr W and Mrs W brought their complaint to us. Our investigator said NatWest had dealt with 
their complaint reasonably. NatWest had accepted their service hadnt been very good - and 
therefore her review came down to deciding on the right level of compensation.  She said 
that we dont make awards based on Mr Ws hourly wages  as hed asked for. She thought 
the level of compensation offered by NatWest was right.
Mr W and Mrs W asked that their complaint be looked at by an ombudsman 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mr W and Mrs Ws complaint is that there were unnecessary delays in dealing 
with their mortgage application because the mortgage adviser (MA) shouldve known the 
policy concerning valuations, and he delayed in telling them about it; they shouldve been 
offered a standard valuation when the desktop valuation came in lower; that to deal with 
matters by text wasnt appropriate; that the MA didnt get back to them when he said he 
would; and NatWest didnt deal with their complaint within the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
(FCA) guidelines. They also said there were a number of inaccuracies in their mortgage 
application, and this was unprofessional.
 
Ive looked at NatWests policies for valuations, and they use two types of property valuation 
 an HPI valuation, which uses national house price data and trends; a desktop valuation  
where a professional valuer uses their local knowledge to complete a valuation. Neither 
method involves a physical inspection of the property. NatWests policy is that for mortgages 
below £350,000 (which was the case here) - HPI valuations can be used where the loan to 
value ratio (LTV) is below 60%; and a desktop valuation is used for LTVs below 80%. A third 
type of valuation exists  a standard valuation. This is where the property is inspected by a 
valuer. NatWest told us that its not part of their process to offer this.
Delays in processing: 
Its clear that the desktop valuation  on 10 December 2020  wasnt high enough to support 
Mr W and Mrs Ws mortgage application, given NatWests policy on LTVs. It then took until 5 
January 2021 for the MA to advise Mr W and Mrs W of this. Ive looked at the MAs 
testimony and during this time, he was questioning the banks policy to see if he could have 
the mortgage approved with the HPI valuation. This was also made more difficult by the 
Christmas break. I can see he was trying to get the right outcome for Mr W and Mrs W  but he shouldve advised them earlier of what was happening. He made an error in saying on 24 
December 2020 that he would update Mr W and Mrs W the following Tuesday  but he was 
going to be on leave then, until the following week. He then texted them on 5 January 2021 
about the HPI policy. Following further discussions with the underwriters and with Mr W and 
Mrs W, the further appointment was booked for 25 January 2021. 
I agree that the delays by the MA advising Mr W and Mrs W of the policy were unreasonable 
 and he shouldve known about this on 10 December 2020 and told them about it. But  I 
cant be sure that Mr W and Mrs W couldve found another lender in the short period 
between 10 December 2020 and 5 January 2021  and it wouldve had to have been a 
lender that had different policies on valuations and LTVs. I note there was an early 
repayment charge of 3% on part of the existing lending  and this would also have to have 
been considered. And so  Im not persuaded that a new mortgage with another lender was 
a realistic option in the time available. In the event, they were given a mortgage illustration 
for £19,198 on 25 January 2021  and this put them in the position they wouldve been in 
earlier in December 2020. Mr W and Mrs W later said to us that NatWest shouldve offered 
them a standard valuation in December 2020, rather than later, when they complained. Ive 
dealt with that aspect below.
And so  this comes down to the issue of the delays in the processing of the application, and 
the impact of that. Ive considered this. If the MA had used the desktop valuation on or 
around 10 December 2020  as he should have  its likely that the approval couldve been 
given earlier. Its not possible to be precise about this  but I assume that a new approval 
couldve been given before Christmas. And so  the delay caused probably amounted to 
three to four weeks. Mr W and Mrs W have said they had to make several payments to the 
car loan as a result  which cost them money and have also claimed loss of earnings. Ive 
considered this. I can see the car loan was for £26,417 in January 2021 at a rate of 3.9%. 
The repayments were £399 per month. The delay in the further advance probably caused 
one extra payment to be made to the car loan. The further advance taken by Mr W and Mrs 
W was at a fixed rate of 3.19%.  So - the impact was the difference in the interest for one 
month on the repayment of £399  which was less than £1. So I dont think that was 
significant. And as a principle, our service doesnt make awards based on loss of earnings. 
But we do consider the overall circumstances of the complaint in deciding what a fair amount 
of compensation should be.
Mr W and Mrs W have also said they should be allowed to transfer their mortgage in the 
future without an early repayment charge. Ive considered this point  but I dont think this is 
reasonable as NatWest followed their policy and processes. Their error was in the delay in 
communication of the policy. NatWest have said that the delays werent acceptable and 
offered compensation of £400. Mr W and Mrs W have argued that this is too low. Ive 
considered what theyve said. This service has set out criteria for considering awards of 
between £300 up to £750. These might be fair where the impact of a businesss mistake has 
caused considerable distress, upset and worry  and/or significant inconvenience and 
disruption that needs a lot of extra effort to sort out. Typically, the impact lasts over many 
weeks or months, but it could also be fair to award in this range if a mistake has a serious 
short-term impact. I can appreciate what Mr W and Mrs W have said  but the impact of 
what happened was short term  it delayed the mortgage by three to four weeks. I can see 
this caused them some worry and stress, and they needed to spend some time to chase 
NatWest to get things sorted out. But  looking at the correspondence - I dont think that was 
excessive. So I dont think a higher award than £400 is fair, and I agree that NatWests offer 
is reasonable. 
Offer of a standard valuation:NatWest offered this option to Mr W and Mrs W in their final response in March 2021. Mr W 
and Mrs W say this shouldve been offered earlier, and they shouldnt have to pay for it. I can 
see where they are coming from here - but I can see that its NatWests policy not to arrange 
for standard valuations for applications. They will only arrange either a HPI or desktop 
valuation for loans of Mr W and Mrs Ws size. Im satisfied that Mr W and Mrs W were 
treated the same as all NatWests borrowers, and so I dont think they were acting 
unreasonably by not offering a standard valuation earlier. 
Text messaging: 
I must say that at first, I found it odd that texts were used, and we asked NatWest about this. 
They told us that it was common for mortgage advisers to use texts in this way, and its 
appreciated by most customers. They also said that Mr W had been communicating with the 
MA by text so they continued the conversation in that way. And  they were normally sent at 
the end of the day after MAs had completed their appointments. And so - it does appear to 
be a good way of providing service to customers. Ive not seen that Mr W or Mrs W had 
requested to be communicated with in a different way. So Im not persuaded NatWest have 
acted unreasonably by using this method of contact. 
Complaint timescales:
I can see that NatWests final response was sent two days after the expiry of the eight-week 
timescale allowed by the FCA guidance for dealing with complaints. I note that NatWest 
have paid compensation of £100 for this. But Im not going to comment further on this as our 
service isnt able to look at this aspect of Mr W and Mrs Ws complaint. We are governed by 
strict rules about what complaints we can, and cannot, look at. These are covered in The 
Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook. This defines a complaint as being about a financial 
product or service. So, complaints specifically about a businesss complaint handling or 
processes arent included. 
Inaccuracies in the fact find:
Mr W and Mrs W said there were a number of inaccuracies recorded such as the wrong 
ages of children; wrong settlement figure on the car loan; and a point about £168 on income 
and the way it was dealt with. NatWest say these werent material in reaching a decision on 
the mortgage application. Ive looked at these and I agree with NatWest here.
I can see that Mr W and Mrs W feel strongly about what happened. But in the circumstances 
of this complaint, Im not going to ask NatWest to do anymore here  other than pay the 
compensation for distress and inconvenience of £400 to them. 
My final decisionNatWest has already made an offer to pay £400 to settle the complaint and I think this offer 
is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc should pay £400.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman