DRN-3284601
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim under their 
legal expenses insurance policy. 
Where I refer to Aviva, this includes its agents and claims handlers. 
What happened
In 2008, Mr and Mrs Ms home was flooded. Following this, the Community Council received 
funding from the local authority to replace a footbridge and incorporate a flood prevention 
barrier. But in 2020 a further flood occurred to Mr and Mrs Ms home. They believe the 
precautions put in place have failed.
Mr and Mrs M submitted a claim to Aviva under their legal expenses insurance policy, to 
take action against the Community Council and the local authority for negligence. They said 
the remedy they were seeking was to have the right of way diverted and the bridge removed, 
so that they could build a wall as flood prevention.
Aviva instructed one of its panel solicitors to complete a legal assessment of the claim and if 
covered, pursue it under the policy. But on reviewing the claim, the solicitors identified policy 
exclusions that they believed applied, as follows:
disputes relating to class actions  neighbouring properties have also been affected 
by flooding, although to a lesser extent. And any flood prevention would affect the 
community as a whole, not just Mr and Mrs M.
a claim relating to planning including town and country planning legislation  
seeking to divert a right of way and install flood prevention measures are issues that 
would be required to be dealt with by the Community Council and the local authority 
under consultation with the local community. 
an application for judicial review  any challenge to the local authoritys decision to 
repair the existing barrier would fall within the realms of a judicial review. 
Based on this advice, Aviva declined the claim. Mr and Mrs M raised a complaint, but Aviva 
maintained its position, so they brought it to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She was satisfied Avivas decision was based 
on a reasoned legal opinion of the claim and therefore was a fair one to make. But Mr and 
Mrs M didnt agree. They say their claim is for negligence which has affected the use, 
enjoyment and right over their home which is covered by the policy. They say if their 
preferred remedy wasnt covered by the policy, Aviva shouldve told them so that they could 
explore other options. 
As Mr and Mrs M didnt accept our investigators view of the complaint, its been passed to 
me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Property Disputes section of Mr and Mrs Ms legal expenses policy says:
What is covered?
A dispute relating to the interference of your use, enjoyment or right over your home.
A dispute relating to damage to your home.
A dispute regarding an agreement for the sale or purchase of your home.
A dispute with your landlord regarding a tenancy agreement to rent your home.
A dispute with a contractor in relation to work on your home.
What is not covered?
A claim relating to planning including town and country planning legislation.
Further to this under General Exclusions there is a term which says:
We will not pay for:
An application for judicial review.
Disputes relating to class actions e.g. if you are part of a group of people who are all 
making the same claim.
 
Aviva itself isnt a legal expert, its an insurer. So I think its fair and reasonable for it to rely 
on suitably qualified legal advice when making decisions about a claim, unless that advice is 
obviously wrong.
Ive considered the legal advice on the policy exclusions to decide whether its fair to apply 
them to this claim. Ill address them individually below.
Town and country planning
As our investigator has explained, councils and local authorities have the power to make 
orders to divert, extinguish or create paths and any public right of way. To divert a right of 
way, planning permission is required and the public has the right to object it. These orders 
are made under the Town and Country Planning Act 1990.
As such, I dont think its illogical for the solicitors to conclude that an exclusion for claims 
relating to town and country planning legislation would apply here, and the advice is not 
obviously wrong. So I see no reason for Aviva not to rely on it. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ms comments that if their preferred remedy isnt one thats covered 
by the policy, there are other options. But Mr and Mrs M didnt present any other remedy to 
Aviva, so it was reasonable that it assessed the claim based on the information provided. If 
Mr and Mrs M wish to present their claim to Aviva with an alternative remedy, Aviva are 
required to consider that claim under the policy terms and conditions. 
Class actions
The term class action isnt defined in the policy terms and conditions. And the term doesnt 
generally apply in English law (where a group of connected cases might be brought under a 
Group Litigation Order). But the example given is where the policyholder is part of a group of 
people all making the same claim. I think it would be fair to apply that approach.Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs Ms claim is caught by the class action exclusion. I say 
this because the claim is not part of any collective proceedings being brought by a group of 
people. Whilst there may be neighbours who are also affected by flooding and may benefit 
from any remedy sought by Mr and Mrs M, as far as Im aware, there are no claims or 
proceedings being pursued at this time.
It may be fair for Aviva to decline cover where there is a group of people bringing an action. 
But I dont think it would be fair to apply that term simply on the basis that the dispute is one 
which is theoretically capable of being pursued by others.
Judicial review
Again, the policy doesnt define the term judicial review. But the general definition of this is 
a type of court proceeding in which a judge reviews the lawfulness of a decision or action 
made by a public body.
The solicitors explain that the actions Mr and Mrs M are seeking of challenging the local 
authoritys decision on flood prevention would be to go down the route of a judicial review. I 
see no reason why Aviva isnt entitled to rely on this legal advice as its not obviously wrong. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs M say whilst they have questioned the actions proposed by the 
Community Council and the local authority, this doesnt form the basis of their claim under 
the policy. But unless they have their own legal advice to contradict the assessment of 
Avivas solicitors, I cant say its unfair for Aviva to rely on it when making a decision on 
cover.
Summary 
Im satisfied the claim is caught by the town and country planning legislation exclusion and 
the judicial review exclusion. And it was fair for Aviva to rely on the advice of the solicitors 
when declining the claim. 
If Mr and Mrs M wish to pursue their claim for negligence in order to obtain an alternative 
remedy, they need to discuss this with Aviva to see if cover is available. Should they be 
unhappy with any subsequent decision, theyre entitled to raise a further complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman