DRN-1970986
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Y complain about Fairmead Insurance Limited, trading as Legal and General, 
and their decision to decline their claim for damages following escape of water at their 
property.
What happened
In March 2019, Mr and Mrs Y went away and left their daughter to check their property 
regularly throughout that time. When they returned in May, they discovered a leak from the 
flat above had seeped into their bedroom, damaging the ceiling, wall, carpet and the 
contents of their wardrobe which was underneath.
So, they made claim on their home insurance policy with Fairmead. They also made the flat 
above aware of the leak, who arranged for the leak to be fixed. Fairmead considered the 
claim and rejected it as they felt Mr and Mrs Y hadnt arranged for their property to be 
inspected once every 14 days as they were required under the terms and conditions of the 
policy. Mr and Mrs Y were unhappy with this decision, so they raised a complaint.
They thought Fairmeads decision to decline the claim was unfair as their daughter had 
visited the property at least twice a week to make sure there were no issues and collect post 
she was still having delivered to their address. They thought their daughter had checked 
their property reasonably and there had been no smell that indicated a leak was present. So, 
they thought Fairmead should accept and handle their claim. They also complained about 
how long it took Fairmead to assess and then reject their claim.
Fairmead didnt agree. They thought, after assessing pictures of the damage, that the leak 
had most likely been ongoing for a period of time. So, they thought Mr and Mrs Ys daughter 
shouldve noticed the leak if shed checked the property to a reasonable standard. They 
thought this wouldve prevented further damage to the property. So, they didnt think Mr and 
Mrs Y had acted in line with the terms and conditions and it was fair for them to decline the 
claim on this basis. They also thought theyd acted within a reasonable time frame so didnt 
think they needed to do anything further. Mr and Mrs Y remained unhappy so referred their 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. He didnt think Fairmeads terms 
and conditions made it reasonably clear how in-depth Mr and Mrs Ys daughter needed to 
check the property. He thought shed taken reasonable steps by checking the boiler in the 
kitchen and ensuring the property remained secure. He also didnt think it was likely Mr and 
Mrs Ys daughter wouldve been able to spot the leak due to its location in the corner of the 
room, above a wardrobe. Finally, he thought it was impossible to know when the leak began 
so didnt think it was fair to assume Mr and Mrs Ys daughter noticing the leak earlier 
wouldve made a difference to the damage that was caused. 
So, he didnt think Fairmead had acted fairly when declining the claim and thought Fairmead 
should deal with the claim in order to put things right. Mr and Mrs Y accepted this view. But, 
Fairmead disagreed. They maintained they didnt think Mr and Mrs Ys daughter had taken 
reasonable steps to mitigate the damage by inspecting the property to a reasonable standard. They thought it was likely a damp smell wouldve been present, so the claim 
couldve been made sooner. So, they didnt think theyd done anything wrong when declining 
the claim. As Fairmead disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im upholding the 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.
First, Im aware it is Mr and Mrs Ys responsibility to prove that an insured event has taken 
place. In this situation, neither party dispute that there was an escape of water at the 
property, so Im satisfied there was an insured event and it was reasonable for a claim to be 
made. Its also important to explain that my role isnt to re-underwrite the claim. It is my role 
to decide whether Fairmead have acted both fairly and reasonably when handling the claim 
and deciding to decline it. And in this situation, I dont think that they have.
Fairmead declined the claim on the basis that a policy condition hadnt been met. This 
condition stated:
'ii) The buildings shall be inspected internally at least every 14 days with records kept of 
each visit.'
Fairmead didnt think Mr and Mrs Ys daughter had complete a reasonable internal check of 
the property, meaning the leak had been present for longer than it shouldve been. So, they 
thought more damage had been caused and this showed Mr and Mrs Ys failure to mitigate 
the damage. 
But its not in dispute that Mr and Mrs Ys daughter checked the property on a regular basis. 
As Mr and Mrs Ys daughter explained, she attended at least twice a week to retrieve her 
post and make sure the property was secure and in a reasonable condition. As part of this, 
she checked the boiler to make sure there were no issues. 
So, Ive considered what I think is a reasonable inspection of the property, and whether the 
policy condition Fairmead are relying on is reasonably clear. And having done so, I think Mr 
and Mrs Y have acted in line with the policy condition Fairmead have referred to. This 
condition doesnt state that each room in the properly needs to be inspected thoroughly. So, 
I dont think its fair for me to say that Mr and Mrs Ys daughter must have done that for her 
inspection to qualify.
When considering what is a reasonable inspection, I think its fair for Mr and Mrs Ys 
daughter to have entered the property and to have checked the rooms and appliances that 
were most likely to have suffered an issue. This would include the boiler and the kitchen. I 
dont think its reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs Ys daughter to foresee that the flat above 
would have a leak that would soak through into a bedroom as I think this is an unusual 
circumstance that couldnt be predicted.
And even if Mr and Mrs Ys daughter had, I think the location of the leak wouldve made it 
difficult for it to be noticed until the damage had occurred. So, as Im unable to say exactly 
when the leak occurred during the period of time Mr and Mrs Y were away from the property, 
I dont think it would be fair for me to say that their actions failed to prevent the damage. 
Im aware Fairmead feel its likely the leak wouldve caused a damp smell and Mr and Mrs 
Ys daughter wouldve noticed this had she inspected the property reasonably. But Mr and 
Mrs Ys daughter has said on several occasions there was no smell when she visited. As Mr and Mrs Ys daughter is the one who attended the property, on balance I think its more 
likely that there wasnt a smell as she suggested. So, I cant agree with Fairmead that Mr 
and Mrs Y failed the meet the policy condition by not noticing a smell and reporting the claim 
sooner.
So, I think the actions Mr and Mrs Ys daughter took by entering the property regularly and 
checking the boiler and the security of the property, were reasonable and fall in line with the 
policy condition Fairmead refer to. So, I dont think Fairmead were fair to decline the claim 
for this reason.
But, as Mr and Mrs Y spoke to the resident of the flat above and arranged for the leak to be 
fixed when they returned, I dont think the length of time Fairmead took to the decline the 
claim led to any further damage. I also havent seen evidence to show Fairmead caused any 
unnecessary delays when assessing the claim. So, it wouldnt be fair for me to hold them 
accountable for any inconvenience Mr and Mrs Y experienced during this time.
Putting things right
My role is to place Mr and Mrs Y back in the position they wouldve been in had Fairmead 
acted fairly in the first instance. And its my decision that Fairmead decided unfairly that Mr 
and Mrs Y didnt meet the policy condition which led to the claim being declined. So, to put 
things right, I direct Fairmead to re-assess and deal with the claim on the basis that Mr and 
Mrs Y did meet the policy condition thats been referred to.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ys claim about Fairmead Insurance 
Limited, trading as Legal and General, and I direct them to deal with Mr and Mrs Ys claim as 
the policy condition has been met.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y and Mr Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 August 2020.
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman