DRN-4432522
The complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) removed his overdraft limit.
What happened
Barclays wrote to Mr W in June 2023 telling him it intended to remove his overdraft limit on 
28 July 2023 because the income being paid into the account wasnt enough to justify the 
limit on the account. 
Mr W contacted Barclays to appeal its decision on 11 July 2023. He told Barclays hed been 
a customer for many years, had savings in a separate account with them and wanted the 
overdraft to stay in place for peace of mind. 
Barclays call notes show removal of the limit was due to it following responsible lending 
guidelines. As Mr W wasnt able to give details of any additional income, and refused the 
option to have a lower limit, Barclays confirmed the overdraft would be removed as set out in 
its letter.
Barclays also wrote to Mr W on 23 August 2023 to confirm his complaint had been looked at 
again and the original decision was unchanged.
Unhappy with Barclays response, Mr W brought his complaint to us. He said he felt the limit 
was being removed because of the nature of his income and therefore Barclays actions were 
discriminatory. He also believed Barclays didnt have the right to take away the overdraft 
without his permission.
One of our investigators considered Mr Ws complaint and concluded that Barclays hadnt 
done anything wrong. They said Barclays were allowed to remove the overdraft limit 
provided notice was given. They further said there was no evidence to suggest that Barclays 
actions were discriminatory. 
Mr W disagreed with the outcome and spoke with the investigator. He asked that his 
complaint was reviewed by an ombudsman. He said again that he felt the removal of the 
overdraft limit was due to indirect discrimination.
The complaint has therefore been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr W, I dont 
believe Barclays has done anything wrong and therefore I wont be telling it to do anything 
further.  
Barclays choice as to whether or not it agrees or continues an overdraft limit, and at what 
amount, is a commercial decision for it to make. I cant interfere with that. Here, Barclays has 
explained why it made that decision, which is based on the income to the account in 
comparison to the amount of the overdraft limit.  Thats a decision its entitled to take.
So, Ive then thought about whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in taking this 
action. In doing so, I considered the Terms and Conditions for Mr Ws account which 
Barclays provided. In these, in section five, under the heading When we can close an 
account or end a service, there is a further sub-heading on page 21 Asking you to pay back 
your overdraft. This says
If you have an arranged overdraft, we can end it at any time and for any reason. 
Well give you at least 30 days written notice and ask you to pay it back.
The terms and conditions also say on page 48
Responsible lending is important to us, before and after we agree to lend money to 
you. If we think we should change or remove your limit(s), well tell you at the time. 
We can set a different limit, or cancel the arranged overdraft facility.
So, while Mr W thinks that Barclays cant remove the overdraft limit without his permission, 
the terms and conditions clearly explain that it can be removed at any time and for any 
reason provided the correct notice period is given. And Barclays say it reviews lending in line 
with responsible lending which I think is enough to have suggested to Mr W that it would do 
this. 
I appreciate Mr W feels the length of his relationship and the funds he holds with Barclays 
should be taken into account. Barclays said the income paid to the account wasnt enough to 
justify the limit on the account and asked Mr W if the information it held was wrong or if hed 
accept a lower limit. Mr W had no other income to declare and didnt want to accept a lower 
limit. So, Barclays did consider what Mr W had to say  even if this didnt change its mind in 
relation to its decision. 
Notice was given on 9 June 2023 to remove the limit on 28 July 2023, which is more than 30 
days notice. So, Barclays has followed their process correctly and in doing so, I think it has 
treated Mr W fairly. 
Mr W says he feels Barclays discriminated against him given the problems hes experienced. 
I can understand why Mr W feels this way but having looked at all the evidence I dont think 
Barclays has done so. Nor do I think Barclays has acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
I hope that it helps Mr W to know that someone impartial and independent has looked into 
his concerns.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Stephen Farmer
Ombudsman