The complaint
Mr M complains that SN Marketing Services Ltd (trading as My PPI Refund) misled him and 
wasted his time.
What happened
Mr M instructed My PPI Refund ("MPR") to check whether he'd had PPI with Lender C. 
MPR checked this and told Mr M that he should make a claim. Mr M said that Lender C had 
already told him that he didn't have PPI. But MPR said that it was still worth pursuing. Mr M 
explained that during this time he received over 40 text messages from MPR.
After MPR submitted Mr M's claim, Lender C confirmed it had already investigated and that 
Mr M didn't have PPI. Mr M complained that MPR had wasted his time. He had spent a 
considerable amount of time on the phone to MPR when he'd already told it that he didn't 
have PPI. He explained that MPR misled him into thinking that he had a claim to be made.
MPR apologised to Mr M and offered him £25 compensation because it said it could've 
explained earlier that Lender C's search for PPI had come back inconclusive, and this is why 
it was worth pursuing. But it didn't feel Mr M had lost out financially.
Our investigator felt MPR had done enough to put things right, so he didn't uphold the 
complaint. He explained that MPR should have explained why it felt the claim was worth 
pursuing. But he didn't think this had a large impact on Mr M and felt the compensation of 
£25 was fair and reasonable.
Mr M disagreed and felt that MPR should pay a higher amount of compensation. So the 
complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I've come to the same outcome as our investigator for similar reasons. I understand Mr M 
must have been frustrated when he received messages from MPR saying PPI had been 
found when his lender had already told him that he didn't have it. But I've considered why 
MPR had sent these.
MPR received a spreadsheet from Lender C with results on whether PPI was found for a 
number of consumers. The result for Mr M's account was "unable to determine". It was this 
that prompted MPR to contact Mr M and ask him to make a claim. I don't think its 
unreasonable for MPR to have done this - there wasn't a conclusive answer as to whether 
Mr M had PPI or not and so MPR felt it was worth pursuing. And as MPR's role is to 
DRN-1176084represent Mr M in his potential claims for PPI, I think it was fair for it to have encouraged Mr 
M to pursue the claim on the information it had.
I do think MPR could've explained the position in a better way. So I agree with Mr M that the 
text messages he received saying that PPI had been found could've been misleading. Mr M 
had been told that he had no PPI, but whilst I think the messages may have been confusing, 
I've already explained why I think MPR had good reason to contact Mr M about making  
claim. It was acting on information it was given by Lender C. Because of this, I think the £25 
compensation is fair to reflect the trouble and upset caused. I can understand why Mr M felt 
his time had been wasted, but even if MPR told him at the time that Lender C had said it 
couldn't determine whether he had PPI, I think it's likely he still would have pursued the claim 
as this was different to what Lender C had told him directly. So I think if MPR hadn't made 
the error the same amount of time would've been spent pursuing the claim. Because of 
this, I won't be asking MPR to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, I don't uphold this complaint as the compensation SN 
Marketing Services Ltd (trading as My PPI Refund) has already offered Mr M is fair and 
reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2019.
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman