DRN-2164601
The complaint
Mr U says Barclays Bank UK PLC delayed making payment of compensation for the         
mis-sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Mr U says Barclays caused him to 
experience unnecessary distress and inconvenience due to the delay and lack of 
communication. 
What happened
Mr U complained to Barclays about a PPI policy sold to him to protect an overdraft. Mr U 
used a claims management company (CMC) to bring the complaint.
On 10 March 2020 Barclays wrote to Mr U. In the letter it said it was upholding the 
complaint.
Barclays offered Mr U a total of £8,705.02. This was made up of a refund of premiums 
(£968.40), a refund of interest Mr U incurred because of the PPI premiums (£4,765.22) and 
compensatory interest for the time hed been out of pocket (£2,971.40 net of tax).
My understanding is that a cheque made out for £8,705.02 was sent to the CMC.
Mr U was informed by his CMC on 6 April 2020 that the cheque had not cleared. On the 
same day Mr U contacted Barclays which confirmed the cheque had been stopped and 
advised him to contact the Solicitors Regulation Authority. Mr U asked Barclays to send him 
a new cheque direct instead of to the CMC.
Mr U then contacted Barclays again on 20 April 2020 as he had still not received the cheque. 
Barclays told him that it would not be issuing a cheque to him direct and that all payments 
involving the particular CMC used by Mr U were on hold.
Mr U asked this service to step in. 
On 27 May 2020 Barclays told this service it would issue a cheque made out directly to       
Mr U.   
On 10 June 2020 Barclays made payment by direct transfer to Mr Us CMC. I note it had 
updated the calculation to take account of the delay and paid the CMC £8,802.57.
My understanding is the CMC passed on the compensation to Mr U after taking its fee.
Mr U remained upset that Barclays never apologised to him for the delay in making payment 
or for the lack of communication around what was happening.
An adjudicator from this service recommended Barclays pay Mr U £100.00 for the distress 
and inconvenience he had experienced.
Barclays told this service it would not make any additional payment so the complaint has 
been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the way Barclays calculated the compensation. I am satisfied Barclays 
calculated the compensation in the way Id expect it to. And I can see Barclays updated the 
compensatory interest before making payment in June. So I am satisfied the compensation 
paid to Mr U is correct, and I note Mr U hasnt made any complaint about the actual offer 
made by Barclays.
Barclays has told us there was a legal problem between itself and the CMC which led to it 
putting compensation payments on hold. Barclays has said that due to the nature of this 
issue it made clear communication with Mr U difficult.
Ive thought about this but I can see Mr U asked Barclays to issue a new cheque to him 
direct and I cant see any reason why Barclays couldnt have made any necessary checks it 
needed to and arranged this. 
I also note Barclays told this service on 27 May 2020 that it would arrange for a cheque to be 
sent to Mr U direct, made out in his name. But it paid the CMC by bank transfer on               
10 June 2020 anyway.
And I can see Barclays itself said to this service, Please accept our sincere apologies that 
we were not clear and transparent with the information provided to the consumer as this was 
a sensitive issue  
Taking everything into account I think Barclays could have handled the situation better and 
arranged payment to Mr U direct, especially as he told it as early as 6 April that it could send 
a cheque to him directly.
I imagine the situation caused Mr U some distress, he had received an offer of over £8,000 
and was then told the cheque had been stopped and wasnt told any information about when 
he might receive it.
Mr U then had to ask this service to become involved which was an unnecessary 
inconvenience.
Taking all this into account I think a payment of £250.00 is fair compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience experienced by Mr U. 
Putting things right
To compensate Mr U for the delay in making payment and lack of clear communication 
Barclays should pay Mr U £250.00.
To be clear this should be paid to Mr U directly and not via the CMC he used to bring the 
original complaint. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr U the sum of £250.00  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman