DRN-2149806
The complaint
Mr F complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
Oodle Financial Services Limited, trading as Oodle Car Finance, wasnt of satisfactory 
quality.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and have been set out by the 
investigator so I wont repeat them again here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
a used car was supplied to Mr F under a hire purchase agreement with Oodle Car 
Finance that he electronically signed in June 2019;
Oodle Car Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it 
was of satisfactory quality at that time - whether or not it was of satisfactory quality 
will depend on a number of factors, including the age and mileage of the car and the 
price that was paid for it;
the car that was supplied to Mr F was nearly nine years old and had a price of £3,995 
 it passed an MOT test before it was supplied to Mr F and its mileage was recorded 
as 78,674;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
the car broke down in August 2019 and a cylinder mis-fire was diagnosed so the car 
was taken to a local garage; 
the cars spark plugs were replaced but Mr F says that there was still an intermittent 
fault with the car and the garage said that the injectors needed to be replaced;
Mr F complained to the dealer and it replaced the injectors but the car continued to 
mis-fire so he complained to Oodle Car Finance - he also paid another garage 
£41.62 in November 2019 to investigate the fault and it swapped two cylinder plugs 
and coils;
Oodle Car Finance arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent expert in 
November 2019  the inspection report recorded the cars mileage as 80,073 and 
concluded that the car was suffering from a misfiring cylinder and that: Taking into 
consideration the time and mileage elapsed since finance inception we consider on 
the balance of probability the faults would have been developing at that point;
Oodle Car Finance said that repairs had been carried out in August 2019 and it 
couldnt ascertain if that had caused the present issues with the car so it negated his 
right to reject the car;
Mr F then complained to this service and our investigator said that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr F so he should be able to reject it  
and she recommended that Oodle Car Finance should: refund the deposit paid by 
Mr F and his monthly payments from September 2019 when he stopped using the 
car, both with interest; reimburse him for the cost of the repair to the spark plugs and 
the diagnostic report; pay him £300 for the trouble and upset that hes been caused; 
and remove any data from Mr Fs credit file;
Oodle Car Finance hasnt accepted those recommendations and has provided a 
detailed response from the dealer which says, in summary, that damage was caused 
to the car by the initial repair and that it shouldnt be responsible for that;
I consider it to be clear from the evidence that the car had a misfiring cylinder in 
August 2019  about two months after the car had been supplied to Mr F and in that 
time hed driven it for about 1,000 miles;
Mr F paid a garage £120 to replace the spark plugs and Ive seen no evidence to 
support the dealers claim that the garage caused further damage to the car;
the dealer replaced the cars injectors but the fault has continued so Mr F hasnt been 
able to use the car since September 2019 and an independent expert considered 
that the fault would have been developing when the car was supplied to Mr F; and
I consider it to be more likely than not that there was a fault with the car when it was 
supplied to Mr F so it wasnt of satisfactory quality at that time, the car has been 
repaired but continues to be faulty and hes not been able to use it since September 
2019  so I consider that it would be fair and reasonable for Oodle Car Finance to 
allow him to reject it.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Oodle Car Finance to end the hire purchase 
agreement and to arrange for the car to be collected from Mr F  both at no cost to him. The 
agreement shows that he didnt pay a deposit for the car but I consider that it should remove 
any information about the agreement that its recorded on his credit file.
Mr F was supplied with a car that wasnt of satisfactory quality and he used it between June 
2019 and September 2019 to drive less than 1,500 miles. I find that Oodle Car Finance 
should refund to Mr F the monthly payments that hes made for the car since the beginning 
of September 2019, with interest. It can keep the payments that he made before then as 
payment for the use that hes had from the car.
Mr F paid £120 for the cars spark plugs to be replaced and £41.62 for further work on the 
car. I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Oodle Car Finance to reimburse him for 
those amounts, with interest. The diagnostic report was provided by a motoring organisation 
of which Mr F was a member  though he says that he had to upgrade the level of his 
membership. I dont consider that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require Oodle Car 
Finance to pay him any compensation relating to the diagnostic report or his membership of 
that organisation. 
These events have clearly caused distress and inconvenience for Mr F  and I sympathise 
with him for the issues that hes described. I find that it would also be fair and reasonable for 
Oodle Car Finance to pay him £300 to compensate him for that distress and inconvenience . My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Fs complaint and I order Oodle Financial Services Limited, 
trading as Oodle Car Finance, to:
1. End the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from 
Mr F  both at no cost to him.
2. Refund to Mr F the monthly payments that hes made under the agreement since 
the beginning of September 2019.
3. Reimburse Mr F for the £120 that he paid for the spark plugs to be replaced and 
the £41.62 that he paid for other work on the car.
4. Pay interest on the amounts at 2 and 3 above at an annual rate of 8% simple 
from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
5. Remove any information about the agreement that its recorded on Mr Fs credit 
file.
6. Pay £300 to Mr F to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Oodle Car Finance to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred to at 4 above. Oodle Car Finance must give Mr F a certificate showing how 
much tax its deducted if she asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman