DRN-3045037
The complaint
Mr S complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited cancelled his car insurance and 
charged him a cancellation fee, when hed asked them not to do so.
What happened
Mr S had car insurance underwritten by Advantage.
In August 2020, he sold his car and called Advantage to cancel his policy. When Advantage 
told him there was a £45 cancellation fee, Mr S told them not to cancel the policy. 
Advantage pointed out that it wasnt appropriate for Mr S to insure a vehicle he didnt own. 
He says they told him it was illegal to do so. He thinks this is was misleading.
Advantage then wrote to Mr S to tell him theyd cancelled the policy. They also said after 
theyd calculated the pro rata refund and applied the cancellation fee, he owed them around 
£25, which theyd take from his bank account the following week.
Mr S says he told Advantage not to take the money as he was withdrawing authorisation, but 
they went ahead. 
Mr S complained to Advantage. He said theyd:
taken money from his account without authorisation;
given him a spurious reason for insisting he cancel his policy;
changed their line on that later when they said he couldnt insure the vehicle because 
he didnt own it; 
cancelled the policy of their own accord;
charged him a £45 cancellation fee which he wasnt told about when he bought the 
policy;
charged an excessive cancellation fee; and
pressurised him to drop his complaint by suggesting he was acting illegally.
Advantage didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint, so he brought it to us. Our investigator looked into 
it and didnt think Advantage had done anything wrong.
Mr S disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start with the easier issue first. When Mr S bought the policy, he had access to  and was 
later sent copies of - a number of documents, including a summary of the cover and a terms 
and conditions booklet.
The policy booklet has a section specifically about cancellation. It says that following 
cancellation, Advantage will calculate the refund as follows:
 well refund the part of the Premium on a pro rata basis for the period of cover 
that hasnt been used minus our after 14-day cancellation fee and our other non-
refundable fees
It then says a list of Advantages fees appear in the policy cover summary and on their 
website.
The policy cover summary very clearly states that cancellation after the usual 14-day cooling 
off period will incur a charge of £45.
None of that is unusual  its fairly standard industry practice. And, as importantly, it was or 
should have been clear to Mr S when he took the policy out that cancellation would incur a 
£45 fee. He either read this at the time, accepted it and bought the policy. Or he didnt read 
the terms  and I cant hold Advantage responsible for that. Im satisfied they did all they 
could reasonably do to make Mr S aware of the terms.
The policy terms and conditions also make it clear that if a customer is paying by direct debit 
or instalments, they will still have to pay any amount owed after the refund / cancellation fee 
calculation has been done. So, Im satisfied that  at the outset  Mr S agreed terms and 
conditions with allowed Advantage to draw money from his account if he owed them money 
after cancellation.
So, if we assume the cancellation was appropriate  and Ill come back to that question 
shortly  Advantage have done exactly what they said theyd do in the terms and conditions 
Mr S was  or should have been  aware of when he bought the policy. Theyve calculated 
the amounts owed correctly and taken the money as they said they would.
I can see why Mr S is a bit frustrated by the position he found himself in. There was only so 
long left on the policy that cancelling it (at a price of £45) made him worse off than if hed 
simply let it run, on the face of it taking more of a service from Advantage.
That is unfortunate, but I have to disagree with Mr S that he was entitled in those 
circumstances just to leave the policy in place. 
To put it very simply, you cant insure something you dont own or have no interest in. To do 
so, makes no sense logically. You cant suffer any loss or damage. Insurance in those 
circumstances is quite simply an absurdity, it cant exist or have any effect. 
Mr S may not have believed Advantage on this point  or indeed our investigator  but the 
point is well made by the industry body, the Association of British Insurers ABI). Their on-line 
guidance defines what constitutes an insurable intertest as follows: 
The interest that a person has in something such as a particular property or another 
individual, which means that the person would suffer a loss should that property or 
individual be harmed. In insurance law, you can only buy insurance for something or 
someone in which you have an insurable interest.
I dont mean to get into a semantic legal argument with Mr S  thats not our role - but I think 
itd be difficult for me to conclude that Advantage had unfairly and unreasonably deceived or 
misled Mr S when they told him he couldnt legally insure a car he didnt own, bearing in 
mind what their own industry body says on the matter (as quoted above).In terms of car insurance, allowing someone to insure a vehicle which wasnt theirs  or 
driven by them - could have unfortunate consequences in practical terms. If the new owner 
of the car had no insurance, was involved in an accident and fled the scene, Mr S  and 
Advantage  might suffer the inconvenience at least of being chased to settle the third party 
claim.
I do see why Mr S feels aggrieved that he effectively had to pay more to cancel the 
remaining part of a service than hed have had to pay to continue to take advantage of it. But 
that was an unfortunate consequence of the circumstances Mr S found himself in, which 
were not of Advantages making, and the timing of his sale of the car.  
I cant see that Advantage have treated Mr S in any way unfairly or unreasonably by insisting 
that his policy be cancelled and/or by applying - and collecting - their standard cancellation 
fee.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman