DRN-2951992
The complaint
Mr W complains about the outcome of the review that was carried out by Royal London 
Mutual Insurance Society Limited (Royal London) of the transfer of his Occupational Pension 
Scheme (OPS) benefits in 1998. He says he was told he hadnt suffered a financial loss but 
doesnt think thats correct. 
What happened
Mr W held deferred benefits in the Shipbuilding Industries Pension Scheme (SIPS). In 1992 
he met with Royal London and agreed to transfer the benefits into a personal pension. 
In 1998, as part of the industry wide pensions review, Mr W was asked if he wanted the 
advice to transfer to be reviewed. He accepted the invitation but subsequently Royal London 
wrote to him to confirm that a calculation found that he hadnt suffered a financial loss as a 
result of the 1992 recommendation. Mr W took no action following the confirmation.
At the same time Royal London also reviewed another OPS that Mr W had transferred and 
found that he had suffered a loss as a result. The outcome of that review was that his 
service in the OPS was reinstated.
In 2009 Mr W contacted Royal London to ask for clarification of the reviews. He said he 
could only find records of one review having taken place. Royal London confirmed that a 
review of the transfer from the SIPS had been carried out, but the matter was now closed as 
there had been no cause for concern. It said Mr W had been reinstated into his other OPS.
In January 2013 Mr W met with an adviser who reviewed his retirement provision. The 
adviser contacted Royal London regarding the reviews that were completed on Mr Ws 
previous pension transfers. Royal London explained that it had made a slight alteration to 
the original calculation, but still concluded that Mr W hadnt suffered a financial loss as a 
result of the SIPS transfer.  
In 2014 Mr W wrote to Royal London as he was again concerned about the advice hed been 
given previously to transfer. He said hed recently been advised that it was unlikely a 
personal pension would be better than an OPS and wanted a further review to be carried 
out. Royal London said that it had already reviewed the plan in 1998 and found there to be 
no loss following the transfer. It said it had responded to further requests to review the 
calculation in 2009 and 2013 and didnt propose to do so again. 
Mr W the queried why the guaranteed minimum pension set out by SIPS wasnt included in 
Royal Londons calculation. Royal London confirmed it had included the figure in its 
calculation. So Mr W wrote to the SIPS directly and asked it to confirm the figures it provided 
to Royal London  which it did.
In 2015 Mr W, using a representative, complained again about the outcome. He said the 
review from 1998 had been a snapshot of the situation at the time, but it was now clear that 
he would be worse off as a result of the transfer  so he wanted to be reinstated into the 
SIPS.
But Royal London said the position had been confirmed as no loss in 1998 so there was no 
reason to offer reinstatement and the calculation, which was based on projections to 
retirement, was its final position at the time of the review.  
Mr W has told us that he was speaking to other ex-colleagues from the SIPS in 2020, when 
he realised his pension was lower than theirs, and so he doubted the outcome of the 1998 
no loss review. He then brought his complaint to us. 
Royal London objected to us looking at the complaint as it said it had been brought too late, 
so one of our investigators looked into whether we could consider the complaint and 
concluded that we couldnt. She said the review had taken place more than six years ago 
and, under our rules, we then had to consider whether Mr W ought reasonably to have been 
aware of a cause to complain more than three years before he did. 
She found that, in 2014, Mr W expressed concern about the outcome of the review in a letter 
to Royal London, following his communications with The Pensions Advisory Service (TPAS). 
The investigator said the letter confirmed that Mr W thought there was a problem with the 
calculation from 1998, so it was clear that he ought reasonably to have become aware of a 
cause to complain in 2014 and should have raised his complaint within three years - by 
2017. 
Mr W didnt agree with the investigator. He said he accepted Royal Londons view that he 
hadnt suffered a loss following the transfer in good faith. But hed subsequently been told by 
two different advisers that the decision should be challenged as it was unlikely that a 
personal pension plan would be better for him than an OPS. He thought these were 
exceptional circumstances and asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman, so 
it was passed to me for a review.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said that Mr Ws complaint was one that we could consider, but 
that also having looked at the merits of the complaint it shouldnt be upheld. I made the 
following summarised points in support of my findings, although this decision should be read 
in conjunction with the full text  and findings - of that provisional decision, which form part of 
this final decision:
Six years had passed since the review of Mr Ws pension had taken place, so his 
complaint had been made out of time on that part of our rules relating to time limits.
Id gone to consider whether the complaint had been made within three years from 
when Mr W ought reasonably to have been made aware of a cause for complaint.
Although Royal London responded to Mr Ws various approaches over the years 
requesting confirmation of the suitability of the transfer from 1992, it failed to deal 
with them as complaints  which it accepted they were  and didnt provide Mr W 
with referral rights to this service. 
So taking into account Royal London ought to have dealt with Mr Ws complaint by 
2014 at the latest and stopped the time bar clock, its failure to do so meant that 
Mr Ws complaint had been brought inside the time limits allowed.
However, I then considered the complaint Mr W had made but didnt think it should 
be upheld. I said that Royal London was only obliged to conduct the review of Mr Ws 
pension once  which it did in 1998. 
So I didnt think it needed to repeat the exercise as had been the purpose of 
pensions review in trying to draw a line under pension mis selling and correct 
matters at that point in time. Responses to my provisional decision
Royal London said it noted my comments about not providing referral rights to Mr Ws 
complaints and didnt object to us considering the complaint. It said it had no further 
comments to make about my provisional decision. 
But Mr W didnt agree and made the following points as part of his further submission:
He thought his circumstances were exceptional as Royal London had told him 
several times that he hadnt suffered a financial loss but hadnt provided details of 
how it reached this conclusion.
Initially he was comfortable with the decision that, while the transfer of his other OPS 
was unsuitable, the transfer of the SIPS wasnt  and hadnt led to a financial loss.
But later conversations with two separate financial advisers, and an employee of 
TPAS, suggested that he probably did suffer a financial loss.
He wanted a proper response to his letter of 2014 which required Royal London 
supplying copies of the calculations it undertook for an independent review. He also 
wanted us to review the figures for accuracy. 
He was concerned that Royal London had made a previous calculation error which it 
said it discovered when undertaking the later calculation in 2013. 
He gave recent examples of poor service hed received from Royal London and 
conflicting advice hed received. This wasnt linked to his complaint, but he said it led 
to a further erosion of his confidence in Royal Londons ability to be able to correctly 
undertake complex calculations.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having carefully considered Mr Ws further submissions I see no reason to depart from 
my provisional findings  which I know will disappoint Mr W, so Ill explain my reasons.
I know Mr W has wanted, for many years, to see the evidence that demonstrated he didnt 
suffer a financial loss as a result of his OPS transfer in 1992. I hope that the information we 
provided to him recently, along with this explanation for why Royal London isnt obliged to 
carry out a review of the calculation from 1998, goes some way to putting a close to his 
ongoing concerns.
Mr W said he wanted to see the calculation Royal London undertook in 1998 which it then 
used to confirm there hadnt been a financial loss as a result of the transfer in 1992. So I 
obtained the calculation  which had been updated in 2013 to take into account an 
allowance for the spouses pension on death after retirement. 
The investigator sent a copy of the calculation to Mr W and also told him that wed looked at 
the basic assumptions that had been made  and we were satisfied theyd been input 
correctly, but we werent in a position to check the accuracy of the actual calculations. 
Mr W hasnt told us that hes aware of any errors within the calculation, but in case Im not 
going to ask Royal London to carry out the calculation again. 
Thats because an industry wide pensions review was put in place in 1994 as a result of 
some concerns from the regulator that the advice to transfer out of pension schemes offering 
guaranteed benefits hadnt always met the required standards. The aim of this review was to review such transfers based on the position that existed at the time and to pay 
compensation, if appropriate, with the objective of putting matters right then. It was a purely 
one-off exercise, which recognised the impracticalities of waiting until someone retired  
which in Mr Ws case would have been more than 20 years, before assessing any loss. 
The aim of the calculation was to work out if any loss had been suffered as a result of the 
transfer and, if so, what would to be required to increase the value of Mr Ws personal 
pension to provide the same level of benefits as his OPS would have provided. Because of 
the time that needed to elapse before Mr W retired, the calculations had to be based on a 
number of assumptions of what might happen between then and his retirement date. The 
regulator set out how the calculation needed to be run, and the assumptions that all 
businesses had to use to assess any potential loss. 
Unfortunately, the assumptions used havent subsequently been borne out  and annuity 
rates have also fallen significantly. This has meant the benefits provided by personal 
pensions are lower than might reasonably have been anticipated. So, in this case, although 
Royal Londons calculation concluded that Mr W was likely to be better off when compared 
to his OPS benefits  subsequent economic events have meant this wont, unfortunately for 
Mr W, now happen. 
I appreciate Mr W accepted the outcome of the review in 1998 on the understanding that he 
wasnt worse off as a result of the transfer. But this doesnt mean it would be fair to ask 
Royal London to revisit things 23 years later, knowing the investment returns and annuity 
rates since the calculation was carried out. Royal London followed the guidance that was set 
by the regulator at the time, and as mentioned, this was a one-off exercise. The objective 
was simply to draw a line under things at the point the review was carried out using 
assumptions which were considered reasonable at the time.
I know Mr W believes it simply wasnt possible to conclude that he hadnt suffered a financial 
loss in 1998, and that subsequent conversations with financial advisers and TPAS have 
confirmed those views. I can see how strongly he feels about this matter and I have some 
sympathy for the frustration hes suffered in trying to get the original calculation figures 
provided to him.
But the view of the advisers is with the benefit of hindsight and what is now know about 
subsequent investment returns and annuity rates. Royal London was only obliged to do the 
calculation once  which it did in 1998, and I havent seen anything to suggest that it made 
any errors with the basic inputting of Mr Ws details at that time. 
Mr W also hasnt made me aware of any errors that hes seen within the calculation after we 
provided him with a copy, so theres no basis on which I can reasonably tell Royal London to 
revisit the calculation  which I think was carried out in line with the pension review 
guidelines that the regulator had set out.    
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman