DRN-3747874
The complaint
Mr H complains about a timber framed summerhouse he bought using a fixed sum loan with
Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited.
What happened
In June 2021 Mr H bought a flat packed timber framed summerhouse from an online
supplier. To pay for the summerhouse, Mr H took out a fixed sum loan with Omni.
Shortly after receiving the summerhouse, Mr H contacted the supplier and told them he
found it to be of poor quality. He also said he was disappointed to find the windows were
made of plastic, instead of glass. So, Mr H asked to return the summerhouse.
The supplier agreed and told Mr H that they would collect the summerhouse on 14 June
2021. But, Mr H says the supplier didnt follow through with the arrangements. Mr H also
says he was working away from his home the day after the planned collection, so hadnt
rearranged another date with the supplier.
In his absence, Mr H says a family member built the summerhouse as a surprise, ready for
his return. Once back home, Mr H tried to arrange another collection date with the supplier.
However, the supplier told Mr H that it was part of the terms and conditions of his agreement
with them, that they wouldnt collect the summerhouse, if any assembly had started.
Mr H still wanted to return the summerhouse, so he contacted Omni and made a claim under
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). Omni replied to say they agreed with the
supplier, in that as the summerhouse was assembled, he couldnt return it. Omni also said
the materials used for the summerhouse were made clear before Mr H entered the fixed sum
loan agreement. But, as a gesture of goodwill, Omni offered to pay Mr H ten percent of the
cash price of the summerhouse.
Mr H didnt accept Omnis offer and brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators
looked into the case and found that Omni hadnt treated Mr H fairly. She said the
summerhouse was ready for the supplier to collect on the arranged date. And it was only
after the supplier failed to collect the summerhouse, that it was assembled, outside of Mr Hs
knowledge or control.
The investigator concluded that Omni should collect the summerhouse at no cost to Mr H,
refund all the repayments he had made and refund the £165.50 deposit paid to the supplier.
The investigator also asked Omni to pay Mr H interest on the deposit amount, as Mr H lost
the use of those funds, once he had paid them.
Mr H accepted the investigators findings, but Omni didnt. They said the suppliers terms
and conditions meant Mr H wasnt able to return the summerhouse, once it had been built. 
The investigator didnt change her conclusions and now Mr Hs case has been passed to me 
to make a decision.
I sent Mr H and Omni my provisional decision on this case, on 16 September 2022. I 
explained why I think the complaint should be upheld. A copy of my provisional findings is 
included below:
Section 75 of the CCA 
This case is about an application for a fixed sum loan agreement, which is a regulated 
financial product. As such, we are able to consider complaints about it. 
The relevant piece of legislation Ive thought about is section 75 of the CCA. This provides 
protection for consumers for goods and services bought using credit. Under section 75, 
subject to certain criteria, consumers who use a fixed sum loan to pay for goods and 
services, have an equal claim against the finance provider, for any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. 
In Mr Hs case, he says section 75 means he has an equal claim against Omni, because the 
supplier breached the contract he had with them. So, with what Ive said in mind, I agree that 
Mr H was able to ask Omni to consider if he has a claim under section 75 of the CCA. 
The quality of the summerhouse 
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA), there is an implied term written into contracts 
that goods supplied need to be of satisfactory quality. The CRA says the quality of goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, 
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant 
circumstances. 
In Mr Hs case, he says the summerhouse was made of poor quality materials. If the goods 
provided by the supplier are not of satisfactory quality, then this is a breach of contract. So, 
Omnis responsibility to Mr H is to consider his section 75 claim and decide if the 
summerhouse was of satisfactory quality. If its found it was not of satisfactory quality, it 
would be for Omni to then offer Mr H an appropriate remedy. 
The underlying issue with Mr Hs section 75 claim is that the summerhouse was assembled 
before the supplier or Omni could arrange for an inspection of the materials used. This was 
largely out of Mr Hs control, seeing as it was built by someone else without his knowledge or 
consent. So, Ive considered the evidence we do have, to look at the quality of the 
summerhouse. 
Mr H says the person who built the summerhouse made remarks about the materials and 
the chances of it standing up to various weather conditions. We dont have an expert report 
from Mr H, but Ive looked at the photographs hes provided, showing what he says are poor 
quality materials. 
The photographs show various gaps where the wooden panels meet and holes at points, 
where Mr H says water ingress could cause further damage. The photographs also show 
damage to the material used for the windows. 
I acknowledge that Mr H has provided evidence of the problems hes found. But, in all the 
circumstances, I think its difficult to tell from the evidence we have, if the materials used for 
the summerhouse are of an unsatisfactory quality. I think Omnis ability to investigate that 
further was hampered by the assembly of the summerhouse, where it was no longer in a 
similar condition, to when Mr H took delivery of it. 
With this in mind, I think Omni have treated this part of Mr Hs section 75 claim fairly. Misrepresentation 
Mr H also says the supplier gave him incorrect information about the materials used within 
the summerhouse. He says he expected the summerhouse to have glass windows, thicker 
and treated timber, as well as a different sized guttering. 
Ive looked at the suppliers description of the summerhouse Mr H bought. It says:
Single styrene glazed double french(sic) doors 
Mr H says he thought glazed meant the summerhouse doors would come with glass 
windows. But, I dont think the suppliers description gave Mr H incorrect information. I think 
the supplier told Mr H, the doors were styrene glazed. And having considered that further, I 
can see that styrene is similar to plastic, which is what was supplied to Mr H. 
I acknowledge that Mr H says the supplier has since changed how the summerhouse is 
advertised. We dont have previous versions of the suppliers brochure. However, I can see 
that the supplier offers the option of different types of windows for a further cost. I can also 
see that the styrene windows are offered as the standard option. Based on all the other 
evidence, Im not persuaded Mr H was given incorrect information about the material used 
for the doors. 
The invoice from the supplier to Mr H dated 1 June 2021 doesnt give a measurement for the 
guttering delivered with the summerhouse. And there isnt any mention of the guttering within 
the suppliers description of the summerhouse, in the brochure. I accept Mr H may have 
disliked the guttering he was sent, but I dont think the supplier told him something about it 
that wasnt true. 
Ive also considered where Mr H says the timber wasnt pressure treated and not of the 
correct thickness he was expecting. The invoice shows that Mr H received a 19mm tongue 
and groove floor. Mr H says this was only 11mm, the same thickness as the cladding. The 
invoice also says Mr H received pressure treated timber. 
Overall, I think what Mr H says differs from the suppliers description from the brochure and 
the invoice given to Mr H prior to delivery. So, Ive considered that the supplier doesnt 
appear to offer anything different than a 19mm tongue and groove floor and that all the 
timber supplied is treated as standard. And that Ive not seen any persuasive evidence or 
report from Mr H about the timber. 
Having looked at everything, on balance Im not persuaded the supplier gave Mr H incorrect 
information about the materials used within the summerhouse. So, I think Omni have treated 
Mr Hs section 75 claim fairly. 
The suppliers terms and conditions 
Ive looked at the emails between Mr H and the supplier sent shortly after the summerhouse 
was delivered. And I think Mr H correctly exercised his right to change his mind over the 
purchase. Section 11 of the terms and conditions of Mr Hs contract with the supplier say: 
If you are a consumer then for most products bought online you have a legal right to 
change your mind within 14 days and receive a refund. These rights, under the 
Consumer Contracts Regulations 2013, are explained in more detail in these terms. 
Mr Hs correspondence with the supplier also shows it was agreed for the summerhouse to 
be collected on 14 June 2021. So, I think the supplier acted in line with the terms and conditions of the agreement, by arranging for Mr H to be able to return the summerhouse. 
However, the supplier didnt follow through with this arrangement, which meant it was for 
both parties to try and arrange another date. I can see how this was inconvenient for Mr H, 
as he had plans for the following days, to spend time away from his home. 
Mr H has told us that without his knowledge or permission, a family member built the 
summerhouse with the intention of surprising Mr H, when he returned from his time away 
from home. Mr H has explained that the family member is a builder. 
Section 11 of the terms and conditions of Mr Hs contract with the supplier goes on to say: 
Your right as a consumer to change your mind does not apply in respect of: 
 Products which you have begun to assemble; 
 Products you have modified/cut/drilled/changed; and 
 any Products which an ancillary service has been begun to be performed (for 
example, holes cut for electrical installation). 
Within the complaint to Omni, Mr H says the assembly of the summerhouse was out of his 
control and this could have been avoided, had the supplier met the agreed collection date. 
Omni says that assembling the summerhouse, means its no longer in a saleable condition. 
Ive thought carefully about this and although I can empathise with the position Mr H found 
himself in, I dont think it would be fair to hold Omni responsible for it either. I say this 
because neither the supplier nor Omni could have foreseen that Mr Hs family member 
would have tried to help out in Mr Hs absence. 
I think Mr Hs contract with the supplier is clear, in that any assembly of the summerhouse 
would mean his right to return it, would end. I understand the difficulties caused by the family 
members attempts to help and how this impacts Mr Hs personal circumstances. But, I dont 
think Omni should have to provide a refund of the repayments made to the fixed sum loan 
because of the missed collection date by the supplier. 
Omnis offer to Mr H 
Throughout Mr Hs complaint, Omni have said the suppliers offer to refund £165.50 is fair. In 
addition, Omni have offered to reduce the outstanding balance of Mr Hs fixed sum loan by 
£250. And Mr H still has the summerhouse, albeit he says its now in a poor condition. So, 
Mr H may not be able to realise a significant value from any private sale. 
Having thought about this further, I think the two amounts go part way to what Mr H had 
initially asked the supplier for. I accept its not as much as Mr H wanted, when he first raised 
his concerns. But, I think Omnis offer is fair and reasonable, taking into consideration my 
conclusions about Omnis responsibility to Mr H under section 75 of the CCA. 
Furthermore, given the passage of time that has now passed, Mr Hs fixed sum loan may 
have been repaid. So, Omni may need to pay the £250 directly to Mr H. I should also add 
that by endorsing the suppliers offer to pay Mr H £165.50, Omni has a responsibility make 
sure that part is completed, should Mr H accept this decision. 
Finally, I remind Omni of their responsibility to treat Mr Hs financial circumstances with due 
consideration and forbearance, should he need support with the repayment of any 
outstanding balance of the fixed sum loan. Mr H didnt accept the provisional decision and in summary, he said:
- Had the supplier collected the summerhouse as planned, it wouldnt have been built.
- The materials used in the summerhouse were of poor quality.
- A report from a builder supports the argument that the materials were of a poor 
standard.
- Photographs taken since the summerhouse was built, show it wasnt built to last and 
would never be watertight.
- A professional cleaner was unable to offer their service to clean the summerhouse, 
as it was in a poor condition.
- He shouldnt have to pay for a summerhouse that he could never have used.
Omni responded and accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Mr Hs disappointment with my findings and how they differ from the 
investigators conclusions. Ive read Mr Hs additional comments and Ive looked carefully at 
the photographs hes provided. Ive also looked at the reports from the builder and the 
cleaner, who have both summarised the condition of the summerhouse. Having done so I 
still dont think Omni need to increase the offer theyve made to Mr H.
The report from the builder was completed around nine months after the summerhouse had 
been built. In the report, the builder passes comment on the quality of the materials used 
and the impact of that, on the quality of the construction. I can see that the builder looked at 
the summerhouse after it remained in Mr Hs garden for a significant time, in what Mr H says 
was changeable weather conditions.
Moreover, the photographs Mr H has provided are similar to those Ive already considered. 
They do show water ingress and gaps where wooden panels are supposed to meet. But. Ive 
concluded that its difficult to establish the quality of the materials used in the summerhouse, 
after it had been built. And, Ive not seen anything to change my conclusions here. 
Although Ive carefully considered what Mr H has sent to us, Im not persuaded it shows that 
the summerhouse delivered to him by the supplier was of standard that a reasonable person 
would say is of unsatisfactory quality.
Ive also thought about the report Mr H has provided from a professional cleaner. This report 
was completed around seven months after the summerhouse was built. Again, the 
summerhouse had stood in Mr Hs garden throughout this time and was subject to the 
various weather conditions.
The cleaners report tells us the cleaner declined to offer a quote on the grounds that they 
thought it too unsafe to work in the summerhouse. But, it doesnt persuade me that the 
summerhouse itself is of poor quality.
In Mr Hs case, Ive concluded that the building of the summerhouse has impacted his and Omnis ability to appraise the goods delivered to him. Overall, I dont think it follows that the 
missed collection date, resulted in the construction of the summerhouse. This missed 
collections was indeed down to the supplier. But, I dont think I can fairly conclude that Omni 
should refund the total cost of the summerhouse to Mr H, as its subsequent construction 
wasnt a consequence they could fairly foresee.
Mr H has explained that he may look to cancel his direct debit with Omni. I should add that 
doing so, may have further implications with the information recorded with credit reference 
agencies. In any case, I remind Omni of their responsibility to Mr H, to treat his financial 
circumstances with due consideration and forbearance.
Having considered everything, I still dont think it would be reasonable to hold Omni 
responsible for the summerhouse being built. I accept this was to some extent out of Mr Hs 
control, but it meant there was an impact on Mr Hs contract with the supplier. And while I 
empathise with Mr Hs circumstances, I havent been able to find that theres been a breach 
of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier, which he can hold Omni responsible for.
In all the circumstances, I think Omnis offer to reduce Mr Hs fixed sum loan account by 
£250 and to honour the suppliers offer to pay Mr H £165.50 is fair.
Putting things right
For these reasons Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited should:
1 reduce Mr Hs fixed sum loan account by £250; and 
2 arrange for the suppliers refund of £165.50 to be paid directly to Mr H.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Omni Capital Retail Finance 
Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2022.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman