DRN-3578707
The complaint
Mr A complains about his mortgage with Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax. In 2010 he 
extended the term of the mortgage. He now complains that Halifax wont agree to reduce the 
term back down again.
What happened
Mr A took out his mortgage in 2006. In 2010, he extended the term from 25 to 35 years. He 
has now asked Halifax to reduce the term back to what it was before  but Halifax has 
refused to do so. It says the reduced term, and increased monthly payments, wouldnt be 
affordable.
Mr A complained. He said that since the term extension, hed made several overpayments to 
reduce the capital. He says that if Halifax agrees to reduce the term, that means more of his 
monthly payments will be used for capital rather than interest. So keeping the term longer 
means that he will pay more in interest overall, and means that his loan to value will stay 
higher for longer, restricting the choice of interest rates available to him with Halifax, and 
restricting his options for moving to another lender. He says that a term reduction would be 
affordable for him, but hes self-employed and Halifax wont look at his income in a fair way. 
Mr A also complains that Halifax hasnt adjusted his monthly payment when hes made lump 
sum overpayments in the past. This again means that hes paid less than he would have 
done, keeping his balance higher and increasing the interest he will pay overall. Mr A wants 
Halifax to reduce his mortgage balance and waive early repayment charges to allow him to 
move elsewhere.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint, so Mr A asked for it to be 
considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A originally took out his mortgage over a 25 year term. He extended that to 35 years in 
2010. Mr A says he did that following the advice of a Halifax adviser in a branch, though 
Halifax has sent us a copy of a letter he wrote to Halifax asking for the term extension. 
But however the term extension was done, it was done based on Halifaxs criteria and the 
lending rules of the time.
The lending rules changed in 2014. From then on, lenders were under an obligation to carry 
out an affordability assessment whenever an existing borrower requested a change to their 
mortgage  unless the change was not a change to the terms of the mortgage that would 
have a material impact on affordability.
The rules say that changing the term of a mortgage is a material change that impacts 
affordability. Thats because, with repayment mortgages like this one, changing the term 
changes the monthly payment. A longer term means more time to repay the capital, and so a 
lower monthly payment, whereas a shorter term means a higher monthly payment.
And so the rules say that where a borrower wants to change the term of their mortgage, and 
therefore change the amount they pay each month, a lender has to carry out an affordability 
assessment to allow that to happen  though lenders have a discretion to set aside the 
assessment and allow the application, provided the change is otherwise in the borrowers 
best interests.
Im therefore satisfied that it was reasonable for Halifax to carry out an affordability 
assessment when Mr A asked it to shorten the term of his mortgage. It wasnt simply a case 
of reversing a change made ten years earlier to restore the original mortgage  it was a 
change to the mortgage which would impact the amount Mr A had to pay each month. And 
so Halifax had to carry out an affordability assessment.
Having done so, Halifax didnt think the reduced term  with higher monthly payments  was 
affordable. So it refused the application. It did so based on the evidence of income Mr A 
provided, in the form of his end of year tax records from HMRC showing his declared 
income.
Mr A says this wasnt fair, or logical. He says hes self-employed. He says his accountant 
manages his affairs so as to reduce his tax liability  and therefore the amount reported on 
his annual tax return does not reflect the full income he has access to. He says on that basis 
the mortgage is clearly affordable.
Ive taken this into account. But I think Halifax made a reasonable decision here. Its lending 
policy for self-employed borrowers is only to consider income declared to HMRC and taxed 
as such. Thats what it did in Mr As case. Im aware that the self-employed can legitimately 
take money out of their businesses in other ways. But I think its fair that Halifax would only 
consider reported taxable income for the purposes of a mortgage application. That 
represents the income Mr A received, paid tax on and evidenced. I appreciate hed been 
making overpayments in the past. But an affordability assessment depends on evidence of 
income at the time of the application and in the future, and past overpayments arent 
relevant to that. 
When considering this income, the reduction in the term of Mr As mortgage wasnt 
affordable. And while Halifax can in certain circumstances disregard the outcome of an 
affordability assessment, I dont think it was unfair that it didnt do so here.
I say that because reducing the term tied Mr A into making higher monthly payments every 
month. Based on the income he was able to evidence from his tax returns, that wasnt 
affordable. It wouldnt be in his best interests to tie him into making unaffordable payments  
and if Mr A is able to take money from his business in other ways, theres no barrier to him 
making overpayments as and when he wants to. But hes not compelled to pay more each 
and every month.  
In all the circumstances, therefore, I dont think Halifax acted unfairly when it refused to 
reduce the term of Mr As mortgage. 
I can see that Halifax has applied past overpayments to Mr As mortgage when he made 
them. And while it might not always have reduced his monthly payment immediately, as 
interest is charged daily that means hes never been charged more interest  as soon as an 
overpayment is made, the balance reduces and so does the interest charged. Ive seen no 
basis for concluding that his mortgage balance is wrong or unfair.Finally, the outcome of Mr As term reduction application makes no difference to his eligibility 
for a new interest rate. Taking a new rate with Halifax is not dependent on an affordability 
assessment. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman