DRN-4298775
The complaint
Miss A complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money she lost when she was the 
victim of a scam.
What happened
In late 2022, Miss A was looking for work and had applied for a number of jobs. She then 
received a text message from someone who said they worked for a recruitment company, 
saying they had a company with a number of vacancies and asking if they could get the 
person in charge to contact her. Miss A agreed and then received a message from someone 
who said they worked for a data company, with details about a job.
Miss A was told the job involved completing tasks and that she would earn commission for 
each set of tasks completed. The person messaging her then showed her how to open an 
account with a cryptocurrency exchange, buy cryptocurrency, and then use the 
cryptocurrency to funds the tasks she was being given to complete. And over the next few 
days, Miss A made a number of payments from her Monzo account to buy cryptocurrency, 
which was then sent on to wallet details the data company gave her.
Ive set out the payments made out of Miss As Monzo account below, as well as some 
credits she received:
Date Details Amount
18 December 2022 To 1st bank details £43
18 December 2022 To 1st bank details £12
19 December 2022 To 2nd bank details £17
19 December 2022 To 2nd bank details £90
19 December 2022 Credit from data company £152.67 credit
20 December 2022 To 3rd bank details £500
20 December 2022 To 4th bank details £900
20 December 2022 To 5th bank details £100
20 December 2022 To 5th bank details £2,600
21 December 2022 To 5th bank details £3,850
24 December 2022 To 6th bank details £100
25 December 2022 To 7th bank details £60
25 December 2022 To 7th bank details £60
14 January 2023 Credit from 6th bank details £84.29 credit
15 February 2023 Recovered from 7th bank 
details£120 credit
Unfortunately, we now know the data company was a scam. The scam was uncovered when 
the data company told Miss A she needed to pay in an extra £10,000 in order to continue 
being given tasks and access the money she was making. Miss A said she didnt have the 
money for this and, when she couldnt borrow the money, the data company stopped 
responding to her. Miss A then reported the scam to Monzo and asked it to refund the 
money she had lost.
Monzo investigated but said it didnt think she had taken reasonable steps to check who she 
was paying or what for. So it didnt agree to refund the money she had lost. Miss A wasnt 
satisfied with Monzos response, so referred a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They thought Monzo should have 
intervened before allowing Miss A to make the ninth payment she made, and so it should 
bear some responsibility for her loss. But they also thought Miss A should have been 
concerned by what she was being told. So they thought it would be fair for Monzo to refund 
50% of the money Miss A lost, from the ninth payment onwards. Monzo disagreed with our 
investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Are the payments Miss A made covered by the CRM code?
Ive first considered whether the CRM code applies to the payments Miss A made as a result 
of this scam.
The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM code) is a 
voluntary code which Monzo has said it is committed to applying the principles of. It sets out 
a number of circumstances in which firms are required to reimburse customers who have 
been the victims of certain types of scam. But it only covers certain types of payments where 
a customer paid funds to another person for what they thought were legitimate purposes, but 
which were in fact fraudulent.
Miss A has said the payments she made were to buy cryptocurrency, which was then sent to 
a number of different electronic wallet details the data company gave her. I recognise that 
she only did this under the direction of the scammers. But the purchase of the 
cryptocurrency itself appears to have been genuine, as Miss A appears to have actually 
bought cryptocurrency before sending it on to the scammers. So the way the CRM code is 
written means that I dont think it applies to these payments.
Did Monzo do enough to protect Miss A?
Banks are expected to make payments in line with their customers instructions. And Miss A 
accepts she made the payments here. So while I recognise she didnt intend for the money 
to go to scammers, she did authorise the payments. And so the starting position in law is 
that Monzo was obliged to follow her instructions and make the payments. So Miss A isnt 
automatically entitled to a refund.
Even though I dont think the payments Miss A made are covered by the CRM code, the 
regulatory landscape, along with good industry practice, also sets out requirements for 
banks to protect their customers from fraud and financial harm. So, in line with this, I think 
Monzo should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
And so Ive also considered whether Monzo should have identified that Miss A was 
potentially at risk of fraud as a result of these payments.
The first few payments Miss A made here werent for what Id consider to be particularly 
large amounts, and didnt leave the balance of the account at particularly unusual levels. 
And so I think its reasonable that Monzo didnt identify a risk of fraud as a result of these 
first payments.
But once Miss A tried to make the ninth payment here, for £3,850 on 21 December 2022, I 
think Monzo should have identified a risk. This payment was for a significantly larger 
amount. And at this point Miss A had made a number of payments to a number of different 
accounts within a few days, totalling a considerable amount of money. And the amounts 
were increasing over time  which matches a pattern of payments often seen in scam cases. 
So I think Monzo should have identified that she was at risk of financial harm from fraud at 
this point and intervened to carry out additional checks before allowing the payment to go 
through.
Its not for our service to dictate the checks Monzo should do or the questions it should ask. 
But banks should take steps designed to protect their customers from the risk of financial 
harm. And, in these circumstances and given the size of this payment, I think it would be 
reasonable to expect those checks to include questions about the purpose of the payment 
and then follow-up questions about the work Miss A thought she was doing.
While Miss A had been asked to say at least one of the payments was for friends and family, 
she was told this was the policy of the person selling her the cryptocurrency. I havent seen 
clear evidence that she was asked to mislead Monzo any further or to hide that she was 
ultimately paying for a job she was doing. So, if asked, I think its likely Miss A would have 
told Monzo the payment was for a job she was doing. I think Monzo should then have asked 
further questions about the job, such as what the work was, how she had been contacted 
about it and why she was having to pay to carry out the work. And I think Miss A would then 
have said she was completing online tasks for a data company, shed been contacted about 
the job via an instant messaging app and had to buy cryptocurrency to funds the tasks she 
was then doing. And as there are a number of things here which sound suspicious, I think 
Monzo should then have warned her that she was likely the victim of a scam.
If Monzo had warned Miss A that she was likely the victim of a scam and given her some 
advice on how to avoid scams, such as trying to withdraw all her money, checking the 
company employing her was registered on the government database on limited companies 
or asking for some record of her employment, I think the scam would have been uncovered 
and Miss A wouldnt have made any further payments.
So if Monzo had done more to protect Miss A, as I think it should have, I dont think she 
would have made this ninth payment or any of the later payments. And so I think Monzo 
should therefore refund the money she lost as a result of this scam, from the ninth payment 
onwards. As Miss A has now been without this money for a period of time, I think Monzo 
should also pay her compensatory interest at the rate of 8% simple a year from the date of 
the payments until the date they are refunded.Should Miss A bear some responsibility for her loss?
Ive also considered whether Miss A should bear some responsibility for the loss she 
suffered. And while I appreciate this was a sophisticated scam where she spoke to several 
different people and had been given an app to download and monitor her tasks and 
earnings, I think there were a number of things about what she was told or what was 
happening that should have caused Miss A significant concern.
She doesnt appear to have received a contract or any other documents relating to her 
employment by the data company. All the contact she had with the company was through an 
instant messaging service, which isnt what Id expect from a professional company. And she 
was told she had to pay upfront before she could do any work for the company, which I think 
is unusual  particularly for the kind of work she thought she was doing. And so I think these 
things should all have caused her some concern.
Miss A also doesnt appear to have done significant checks into who the data company was, 
or whether the people she was speaking to were actually connected to the company. And 
given the amount of money she was sending them, I think it would be reasonable to expect 
her to have done more checks into these things before going ahead.
The amount Miss A was told she could earn was quite high for what appears to be relatively 
little and relatively straightforward work. So I think this should have caused her some 
concern that was she was being told was too good to be true.
Miss A was also told all the payments to and from the data company had to be made in 
cryptocurrency, which is very unusual. And she was asked to mislead Monzo about the 
purpose of at least one of the payments she made, by saying it was for friends and family. 
And I think these things should have caused Miss A significant concern.
I sympathise with the position Miss A has found herself in. But I think there were a number of 
things here which should have caused her significant concern, and I dont think she did 
enough to satisfy those concerns or that the seemingly genuine parts of the scam should 
have been enough to overcome them. So I think it would be fair and reasonable for her to 
bear some responsibility for the loss she suffered.
I therefore think both Miss A and Monzo should bear some responsibility, and so it would be 
fair for Monzo to refund 50% of the money Miss A lost  from the ninth payment onwards.
As Miss A received a credit into her account from the account she sent the tenth payment to, 
I think it would be fair to deduct the amount of this credit from the amount she lost. And as 
the eleventh and twelfth payments she made were returned to her account, I also think it 
would be fair to deduct these from her loss too. Miss As loss from the ninth payment 
onwards is therefore £3,865.71, and so Monzo should refund 50% of this  or £1,932.86.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require Monzo Bank Ltd 
to:
Refund Miss A 50% of the money he lost, from the ninth payment onwards  totalling 
£1,932.86Pay 8% simple interest a year on that refund, from the date of the payments until the 
date of the refund
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman