DRN-2216589
The complaint
Ms B is unhappy Quickly Finance Limited, trading as Fast Track Reclaim (FTR) is charging
her a fee for payment protection insurance claims (PPI), that she said she didnt authorise
them to make. She said shed made the PPI claims herself with her lenders.
What happened
Ms B said she made PPI claims with her lenders before the August 2019 deadline. But she
couldnt be sure shed received an acknowledgement from them about her claim.
In December 2019, one of her lenders Ill call R told her the claim was successful and the
amount of compensation shed be paid. Ms B said a few days later she had an invoice from
FTR asking her to pay their fee as her claim with R had been successful. Ms B complained 
to FTR as she said shed never asked them to submit a claim for her as she hadnt returned 
the documentation, they had sent to her.
FTR said Ms B had asked them to carry out a free PPI check, and shed signed a letter of
authority (LoA) in August 2019 authorising them to act on her behalf should PPI be found.
FTR said as a result of the PPI check, it was confirmed by Ms Bs lender R that she had
PPI and theyd investigated whether this had been mis-sold. FTR said Ms B hadnt cancelled 
their agreement so as Ms Bs claim was successful, they could charge their success fee.
Ms B wasnt happy with FTRs response and referred her complaint to us
Our investigator said FTRs terms were contradictory, as they said theyd submit a PPI claim
after the end of the free PPI check. But went on to say they would charge a fee if they
submitted her PPI claim or she could make the claim herself. And as Ms B hadnt returned
any further documentation, shed made the choice to make the PPI claim herself. So, didnt
think FTRs fee was justified.
FTR didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in August 2020 that said:
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im currently minded not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
I can understand Ms Bs frustration as she said she doesnt remember asking FTR to act on
her behalf and said she didnt see or sign any LoAs for them. She also thinks she made the
claim direct to her lender herself. In making my decision I need to determine whether Ms B
had authorised FTR to act on her behalf. And if she had, whether she let them know she no
longer wanted them to work for her.
FTR has shown an online application for a free PPI check was made in August 2019. The
personal details in this application correlate with the personal details Ms B has given this
service. FTR has said to carry out their free PPI check, lender details were needed. And
these were also included in the application. The supplied information is specific to Ms B, so
on balance I think it would have been Ms B who completed the on-line application. A LoA
would have been generated by the application, and to be submitted a signature had to be
added and this is what happened. FTRs terms and conditions were also available to see.
And in signing the LoA Ms B had agreed to them.
FTRs terms and conditions say:
Free PPI Check Period:
a. FTR will use reasonable endeavours to request the Company confirm whether PPI existed
on any accounts which You held with them by making a Pre-submission or DSAR
b. If no PPI is identified this Agreement will come to an end but this Agreement will continue
on any accounts where a Company has confirmed You had PPI.
They go on to say:
Preparing and Submitting Your Claims;
a. Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and you authorise FTR to
continue to provide You with the Claims Services
b. If further information is required from You prior to submitting a Claim(s), FTR will
endeavour to contact You and You agree to provide reasonable assistance and information
to allow Us to submit a Claim{s) on Your behalf
I can see that in September 2019 FTR told Ms B about her claims with lenders she didnt
have any PPI with  unsuccessful claims. But they also told Ms B that she did have a PPI
policy with lender R and FTR asked her to complete further documentation. And I can see
they also sent reminders about these documents to Ms B.
Ms B didnt respond to any of FTRs requests, as she said shed submitted her own PPI
claim direct to her lender. I dont know the exact date as I havent seen any evidence that
shows Ms B did this. But Ms B has said it was before the deadline date. I can understand Ms
B thinking she hadnt authorised FTR to act on her behalf as she hadnt responded to their
requests for further information. But as shown above, FTRs terms and conditions
specifically explained that the agreement would continue if PPI was found. And I think it was
for Ms B to have told FTR if she no longer wanted this to happen.
FTRs terms and conditions also say:
You may cancel Your Claim(s) at any time within 14 days from the date you sign the Letter
of Authority (Cooling-off Period) at no cost to you unless you or FTR have received a
reasonable offer of compensation within the Cooling Off Period.
I havent seen any evidence that Ms B asked FTR to cancel her agreement. Ms B said she
didnt return any documentation to FTR but as the deadline was fast approaching, it wasnt
unusual for lenders to auto convert claims without the need for any supporting
documentation to make sure customers didnt miss out on the opportunity to claim. As they
did here. So, I think even though the claim may not have been formalised according to Ms B,
I dont think its enough that she simply disengaged from the process. And by not telling FTR
she didnt want them to act on her behalf they continued as her representative.
I can see lender R, in October 2019 kept both Ms B and FTR updated about the progressof the claim. And sent the offer of compensation, in November 2019 to both her and FTR, I
think this also shows lender R accepted FTR had authority to represent Ms B in making her
PPI claim. So, Im satisfied FTR were authorised to act on Ms Bs behalf.
FTR charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they
actually undertook. This means that any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be
done for free. Where a claim was successful, FTRs fee may be more or less than the value
of the work they actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement.
FTR havent charged for the unsuccessful claims mentioned above. But have for Ms Bs
claim with lender R  a successful claim.
FTRs fees were charged in line with what Ms B agreed to and reflect the fee cap thats in
place for PPI claims. Ms B could have cancelled her claim with FTR. But I cant see she
cancelled the claim before it was successful. And I dont think it was enough by Ms B no
longer engaging with FTR to consider this as her cancelling her agreement with them.
So, Im satisfied that FTR was authorised to act on Ms Bs behalf and her claim was
successful. This means FTR can charge their fees for this claim.
responses to my provisional decision
Ms B didnt agree with my provisional decision and made the following comments:
the signature on the LoA wasnt hers:
shed never returned any documentation FTR asked for despite being chased for 
this; and 
shed been told by lender R that theyd not had any contact with FTR.
FTR accepted my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Ive not changed my 
thinking and Im not upholding this complaint, Ill explain why.
It isnt our role to consider whether a signature is genuine or not, we arent handwriting 
experts, that would be for a criminal court to decide. Were an informal dispute resolution 
service, acting as an alternative to the courts. This means were impartial and look at both 
sides of the story. We dont place more weight on one sides story because of who they are. 
We ask questions and weigh up all the information were given. Where there is a different 
version of events as is the case here, I have to base my decision on what I think most likely 
happened  the balance of probability.
Ms B doesnt dispute she asked FTR to carry out a free PPI check for her. And the personal 
details in this application correlate with the personal details Ms B has given this service. The  
LoA generated by the application, would have been populated with the supplied information. 
I know Ms B doesnt think she added her signature. But the free PPI check cant be 
submitted without one. And as the application was submitted, Ive no reason to doubt a 
signature was added at this time. The supplied information is specific to Ms B and the 
application would have been made for her benefit to seek redress for a mis-sold PPI policy.  
So, on balance I think it would have been Ms B who completed and submitted the on-line 
application, including the signed LoA. As outlined in my provisional decision, FTRs terms and conditions say:
Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and you authorise FTR to
continue to provide You with the Claims Services
And I can see in September 2019, that FTR sent Ms B text messages saying PPI had been 
found and to follow a link to complete further documentation that might be needed for her 
claim. I think this showed Ms Bs application had moved from a free PPI check into FTRs 
claims service. And she would have had 14 days to cancel her agreement with FTR from this 
point, free of charge.
I can understand Ms Bs frustration as she didnt complete this additional documentation. But 
as I explained in my provisional decision, her lender automatically converted her claim from 
the information FTR had provided, so this additional information hadnt been needed. And it 
wasnt enough, by not responding, for her agreement to be cancelled. And as she hadnt told 
FTR that she didnt want them to represent her, they continued to act as her authorised  
representative.
Ms B said lender R has told her theyd had no contact from FTR. But Ive seen the letters 
sent to both Ms B and FTR from lender R and I think this shows that there had been 
contact as lender R recognised FTR as Ms Bs authorised representative.
So, Ive not been persuaded to change my decision as Im satisfied FTR were authorised to 
act on Ms Bs behalf to pursue PPI claims for her. And her claim with lender R was 
successful. So FTR are justified in seeking their success fee.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman