DRN-4241677
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the way in which AWP P&C SA handled a claim under his travel 
insurance policy, including the service received and the payment made towards his 
damaged prescription glasses.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied AWP fairly and reasonably settled the claim by making a 
percentage deduction for depreciation. However, I do think it caused unnecessary delays 
and I direct AWP to pay Mr C £100 compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience 
this caused Mr C.  Ill explain why.
AWP has a regulatory obligation to treat customers fairly. It must also handle 
insurance claims promptly and fairly.
The policy terms provide cover for loss, damage or theft of baggage and AWP 
hasnt disputed that Mr Cs glasses fall within the definition of baggage. 
Section 5 of the policy (entitled baggage and baggage delay) also says: claims will 
be considered on a new for old basis provided the item is less than 2 years old at the 
date of the incident and you can provide the original purchase receipt. All other items 
will be subject to a suitable deduction for wear and tear and depreciation Ill refer 
to this as the depreciation term.
Mr C accepts that his glasses were more than two years old.
The policy terms dont set out the percentage deduction for wear and tear and 
depreciation. However, AWP has provided our Service with its internal depreciation 
guidelines, and in line with that guidance Im satisfied its applied the correct 
percentage reduction to reflect the number of years Mr C had owned his glasses for. 
And I think its acted fairly and reasonably by applying its depreciation guidelines. 
Mr C says that the depreciation guidelines shouldve been clearly set out in the policy 
terms and his previous insurer had applied a lower percentage for depreciation. 
However, different percentage reductions apply to different items of baggage, and 
in my experience, different insurers will apply different depreciation percentages. 
Further, the depreciation term as set out in the policy isnt unusual and can be found 
in many travel insurance policies. It isnt standard industry practice for the 
depreciation guidance to be set out in terms of the policy. So, I dont agree that the 
way in which the depreciation term is set out is unfair or unreasonable.  
So, Im satisfied AWP has settled the claim fairly by applying the percentage 
reduction to the original purchase price of the glasses and deducting the policy 
excess.
However, I do think AWP caused unreasonable delays here and the claim couldve 
been settled earlier. From AWPs contact notes it doesnt look like Mr Cs claim was 
progressed for around 5 weeks, despite him contacting AWP for updates during that 
time. Further, Mr C confirmed around the time of first reporting his claim, at the end 
of April 2022, that he didnt have a receipt for the glasses, but it doesnt look like this 
was noted. Mr C then had to confirm this information again in early June 2022. I 
accept that payment of the claim was unnecessarily delayed, the cumulative effect 
wouldve been frustrating for Mr C and caused him some unnecessary 
inconvenience. 
Putting things right
I direct AWP should pay Mr C £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint and direct AWP P&C SA to put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman