DRN-3112449
The complaint
Miss H complained that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) wont pay her full medical 
insurance claim under her travel insurance policy and about its service. My references to 
URV include its agents.
What happened
Miss H had a single trip travel insurance policy to cover her trip from 17 March 2020 to end 
November 2020. The relevant sections of the policy were underwritten by URV.
Miss H had booked a flight to an Asian country with stopovers in two European countries. 
The relevant dates are:
11 March 2020 the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 a pandemic
12 March 2020 Miss H bought the travel insurance policy
16 March 2020 the UK prime minister issued a statement saying that now was the 
time for everyone to stop non-essential contact with others and to stop all 
unnecessary travel
17 March 2020 Miss H departed the UK on an early morning flight and arrived in 
Germany at 9.35 am for two day stopover
17 March 2020 (early afternoon) Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised 
against all non-essential international travel to take effect immediately
19 March 2020 Miss H took flight from Germany to Denmark where she had a four 
hour stopover
19 March Miss H took flight from Denmark to Asia
23 March 2020 FCO advised all British travellers abroad who are usually based in 
the UK to return immediately.
Miss H remained in the Asian country and in June 2020 she became unwell. She contacted 
URV in July 2020 to make a claim for her medical treatment costs. Shed been medically 
advised to have surgery for chronic sinusitis.
URV initially declined the claim on the basis that Miss H hadnt followed FCO advice not to 
travel so under the policy terms there was no cover. It said Miss H should have returned 
from either of the European countries rather than travel to Asia after the FCO advice.
Miss H complained to URV. She said shed departed the UK before the FCO advice on 
17 March and there wasnt any advice to return home immediately.
In August 2020, around the time of Miss Hs surgery abroad, URV reconsidered. It said 
although her claim wasnt covered under the policy terms it would agree to cover emergency 
medical treatment and repatriation, if it agreed they were medically necessary, at pre Covid- 
19 costs. She would need to pay the expenses and claim the cost for it to assess. When 
URV later received the latest medical report its medical advisers said Miss H could have 
medical management for her pain, the surgery could be done in the UK, and she should be 
fit to fly.
Miss H complained to us. In summary she said:
URV initially said the FCO advised against travel abroad on 16 March, which was 
incorrect, when she left the UK there was no FCO advice not to travel. When she got 
to Asia she looked into the FCO updated advice and thought she didnt need to 
return to the UK and it was safer for her to stay abroad than return to the UK
URV had continued to ask her for her medical information when shed told it not to 
contact her as she was going to have surgery and needed time to focus on the 
operation and her recovery
Her doctor in Asia said she couldnt fly without having the surgery and by the time 
URV said she could fly home for the operation shed had it. She said she told URV at 
the start of her complaint she was having the surgery so if it agreed cover at a later 
date it would be too late to discuss whether the surgery was necessary and it would 
need to pay all the costs
She wants URV to: pay for all her medical costs which include £3,500 for surgery; 
pay compensation for her time making arrangements for her medical treatment, time 
spent making her complaint and her stress URV caused; not limit her repatriation 
cover.
Our investigator thought URV had fairly said Miss H travelled against FCO advice and he 
also referred to the FCO advice on 23 March 2020 for all British travellers abroad to return to 
the UK. He said URVs offer to cover emergency treatment and pay pre Covid-19 
repatriation costs was more than it needed to do under the policy terms and was fair and 
reasonable.
 
Miss H disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision.
Before I made my provisional decision I asked Miss H to clarify whether URV had paid any 
costs and she said it hadnt.
I made a provisional decision that I was intending say that URV had made a fair and 
reasonable offer and given Miss H reasonable service. As I was intending to make findings 
on the service issue, that our investigator hadnt addressed, the provisional decision gave 
both parties the opportunity to respond before I made a final decision. I said:
Industry rules set out by the Financial Conduct Authority say an insurer must handle claims 
fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when 
deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Miss Hs complaint.
The policy general exclusion section says:
We will not pay for claims arising directly or indirectly from
Travelling against FCO adviceYour travel to a country, specific area or event when the Travel Advice Unit of the 
Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) or regulatory authority in a country to/from 
which you are travelling has advised against all, or all but essential travel.
The policy emergency medical and other expenses section says URV will pay reasonable 
fees for necessary and emergency treatment.
The policy defines emergency treatment as:
any ill-health or bodily injury which occurs during your trip and requires immediate
treatment before you return home.
Ive read Miss Hs detailed response to our investigators recommendation. I wont address
all the points she makes as Ill focus on the main issues as to why I think URVs offer and
service was fair and reasonable.
Im intending to not uphold this complaint because:
Miss H had left the UK a few hours before the FCO published its official advice to 
British nationals against all non-essential international travel. Miss H gave two 
different scenarios in her response which she says show she acted reasonably in 
travelling to Asia. But Miss Hs circumstances were very different from the scenarios 
she presented. When the FCO advice was published she was in Germany for two 
days, albeit as part of a stopover. Two days after the FCO advised against non-
essential international travel, due to a declared global pandemic, Miss H took flights 
to Asia for an eight month non-essential trip. The relevant policy term says that 
Miss H was not covered for travel to a country when the FCO has advised against all 
or all but essential travel. In Miss Hs circumstances I think URV fairly concluded she 
was travelling to the Asian country against FCO advice and the policy exclusion 
applied
Miss H says the British Government said its travel advice may change while you are 
in a country to advise against all travel there, or all but essential travel, because of 
new COVID-19 risks. If this happens, we do not advise you to return immediately to 
the UK. Instead, you should follow the local advice on any restrictions the local 
authorities are taking to control the virus before your return to the UK. Her point is 
that statement meant she should follow the advice on restrictions from the German 
Government and she says there were no restrictions in place in Germany that 
prevented her from travelling to the Asian country. But the German Government had 
given advice restricting travel abroad in various ways for their own nationals. I dont 
think Miss H could reasonably understand the lack of advice from the German 
Government to British nationals meant she could travel to the Asian country despite 
the FCO advice
Even if I thought URV couldnt reasonably say Miss H travelled against FCO advice 
from 17 March to 22 March, from 23 March 2020 she was travelling against FCO 
advice. On 23 March the FCO advised all British travellers abroad who are usually 
based in the UK to return. Miss H says the FCO advice was for British nationals who 
were tourists and short stay travellers and that didnt apply to her as she wasnt a 
short stay traveller. But the FCO website didnt say that, it said:
oAll British travellers abroad who are usually based in the UK advised to return now 

oBritish travellers should contact their tour operator or airline now. Commercial flight 
options are still available at presentoAll British tourists and short-stay travellers currently abroad should return to the UK 
where and while commercial flight options are still available
The website also said the British Government was working on alternatives where 
commercial flight availability was limited.
And the FCO website also gave clear information about who was exempt from the 
advice:
oThis advice is aimed at British people travelling abroad, rather than those who are 
permanent resident overseas who are urged to follow the advice of the local 
authorities in their host count.
Ive no evidence that on 23 March 2020 Miss H was a permanent resident of the 
Asian country where she was. The information available to me suggests that she was 
planning to travel abroad for around eight months, returning in November 2020. 
I think the FCO advice to return to the UK applied to Miss H and I dont think she 
could reasonably consider that it didnt. I understand that commercial international 
flights werent suspended in the country Miss H was in until 4 April 2020 so I think its 
most likely that she would have been able to return to the UK at the time
As Miss H was traveling against FCO advice, under the policy terms she had no 
cover. URVs initial decline to cover Miss H was reasonable. URV then decided to 
offer her cover for emergency medical expenses and repatriation costs at pre Covid- 
19 costs. The policy covers emergency only medical expenses anyway (as is 
common for most travel policies) and its offer to limit any medically necessary 
repatriation costs was fair as under the policy terms it didnt need to offer to any 
cover
URVs decline of claim letter to Miss H should have been clearer. It referred to the 
British Governments announcement and FCO website content on 16 March 2020. 
On that date the Governments advice was to avoid all unnecessary travel, but there 
was no specific advice against all but essential international travel until 17 March 
2020. But I dont think the lack of clarity in URVs letter means its decline of the claim, 
and subsequent offer of cover, was unreasonable for the reasons Ive explained 
above
Miss Hs email to URV of 10 August 2020 asked it not to call her while she was still in 
hospital. URV responded the same day that there was contradicting information 
because from its notes Miss H had been liaising with its assistance team and 
agreeing to call backs from them, and from its notes that appears to be correct. URV 
suggested to avoid confusion Miss H speak directly to the assistance team if she 
didnt want contact. URVs email to Miss H on 14 August says it had tried to call her 
but had no answer and asked if shed been discharged. Miss H replied that the calls 
caused her stress which is why she hadnt answered and she wanted to know why 
URV wanted her medical information. URV told her it didnt want to cause her more 
stress but given its offer of cover it needed up to date medical information to assess 
her condition. I do understand Miss H wanted to focus on her recovery. But URV 
acted reasonably in asking her for medical updates to assess if the treatment she 
had was emergency treatment
URV told Miss H it would cover her emergency medical costs on the basis of her 
paying the costs and making a claim and it assessing those costs in line with the policy terms. As Ive said, thats a fair offer and more than URV needed to do under 
the policy terms. From URVs notes Miss H only knew about its offer on the day she 
went into hospital for the surgery. So Miss H was going to have the surgery even 
when she thought URV wasnt going to cover the cost and she went ahead with the 
surgery knowing there was a risk it wouldnt cover the cost
URVs offer was on the basis of pay and claim for it to assess. Ive seen no 
evidence that Miss H has submitted a claim for the costs shes seeking, which 
I understand include her prescription costs as well as surgery costs. So URV hasnt 
had the chance to fully assess the claim and it needs to do so. When URV received 
Miss Hs updated medical information its medical team advised medical management 
for Miss Hs pain, that the surgery could be done in the UK and she should be fit to 
fly. So URVs medical team didnt think the surgery was emergency treatment. But it 
needs to have the chance to see exactly what costs Miss H is claiming and to explain 
what, if any, payment it would cover and its full reasons for any decline of costs 
claimed. Miss H needs to submit a claim form to URV detailing her costs for its 
assessment. If the parties dont agree the outcome of that assessment Miss H can 
make a separate complaint to us on that issue
Theres no basis for me to award compensation to Miss H. I think URV made a 
reasonable offer for cover, and more than it was required to do under the policy 
terms in the circumstances of this case. Miss H arranged her medical treatment while 
URV was declining the claim, and I think the decline was reasonable, although URV 
later offered to consider Miss Hs medical expenses on a pay and claim basis. I dont 
think URVs service was unreasonable. Our service doesnt generally award 
compensation to consumers for time spent in making a complaint and theres no 
reason to do so in this case.
Responses to my provisional decision
URV said it had no points to add. Miss H didnt agree with my provisional decision and 
responded in detail. In summary she said:
URV insisted that shed travel abroad against FCO advice on 16 March 2020. She 
took legal advice and was told that as the FCO advice was on 17 March 2020 under 
the policy wording URV couldnt decline her claim based on the government advice 
on 16 March. As URV wouldnt discuss that point with her she didnt think it was 
acting in her best interests and that impacted on her future contact with URV about 
her medical treatment. She said URV was irresponsible to tell her the FCO advised 
against non-essential travel on 16 March
She didnt agree URVs offer to cover the pre Covid-19 cost of repatriation and
emergency medical costs was fair and reasonable or that its service to her was 
reasonable. She said URV only made its offer on the eve of her surgery and within 
the offer limited the policy cover which she felt was URV bullying her into accepting 
a change of policy terms just as she was going into surgery. She thought the calls 
she received from URV as she was preparing to go into hospital were harassment 
as shed told URV when she was going for surgery but it kept calling her and asking 
her the same medical questions. She said in one call, when she was going to the 
operating theatre, URV told her she should leave the hospital immediately and get on 
a plane, which she found very upsetting. She thought URV were just trying to get 
information from her to decline the claim which is why she told URV to stop callingShe thought my provisional findings were that URV couldnt reasonably say she 
travelled against FCO advice from 17 to 22 March and Id relied on the 23 March 
FCO advice to British travellers to say the policy wasnt valid. She said we hadnt 
looked into whether shes a short stay or permanent resident in the Asian country. 
She said shed remained in the country initially on a 12 month visa and was planning 
to remain in the country for the foreseeable future. She considered that she was 
wasnt a short stay traveller which she thought was the basis of my decision whether 
URV could have declined the claim
She explained why she considered her treatment was necessary and emergency 
treatment, but URV had only concentrated on the treatment needing to be an 
emergency. She was disappointed Id referred to URVs medical teams decision that  
the surgery could be done in the UK and she should be fit to fly as shed not provided 
any medical information to URV. She thought my reference to URVs medical teams 
decision prejudiced any future claim she made 
She didnt want to present her claim for medical costs to URV to be assessed as she 
didnt think it would consider the costs and she would have to spend a lot of time 
chasing it for payment or making another complaint. She wants URV to make a 
proposal to settle her £4,000 costs or shell take legal proceedings.
Miss H also asked us to send her all the evidence URV had provided to us which we sent to 
her together with the call recordings URV had sent. We asked Miss H if she had any further 
comments now that she had the information but she didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered Miss Hs full response to my provisional decision, which Ive 
summarised above. I appreciate Miss H believes strongly that URV acted unfairly to her.
Miss H has told us she doesnt intend to make a claim for URV to assess. As URVs offer is 
for Miss H to pay and make a claim for it to assess its not proposed a settlement. So 
I understand she intends to take legal proceedings against URV, which is a decision for her 
to make. 
Ive explained above why I think URVs decline of claim and then offer was fair. But as 
Miss H thinks I said URV couldnt reasonably say she travelled against FCO advice from 
17 to 22 March I want to clarify that point. In my provisional findings I said:
When the FCO advice was published she was in Germany for two days, albeit as part of a 
stopover. Two days after the FCO advised against non-essential international travel, due to 
a declared global pandemic, Miss H took flights to Asia for an eight month non-essential trip. 
The relevant policy term says that Miss H was not covered for travel to a country when the 
FCO has advised against all or all but essential travel. In Miss Hs circumstances I think URV 
fairly concluded she was travelling to the Asian country against FCO advice and the policy 
exclusion applied.
So I do think URV fairly considered Miss H was travelling to the Asian country against FCO 
advice and that the policy exclusion applied.
I explained in my provisional decision why I also thought Miss H stayed in the Asian country 
contrary to FCO advice from 23 March 2020. Miss H has now told us she travelled on a 12 month visa but thats not evidence that as at 23 March 2020 she was a permanent 
resident of the Asian country. As the FCO website said its advice didnt apply to permanent 
residents I still think the FCO advice to return to the UK applied to Miss H and I dont think 
she could reasonably consider that it didnt.
As I think URV could have fairly declined the claim, its offer to cover her emergency medical 
cost on a pay and claim basis was more than it needed to do under the policy terms. The 
policy requires the treatment to be necessary and emergency, not necessary or emergency. 
I dont think URV was trying to limit the cover under the policy, other than any repatriation to 
be at pre Covid-19 costs which, as it didnt need to make any offer, was fair. So I dont think  
URV was trying to bully Miss H into agreeing less cover than the policy should have given 
her, as she suggests.
I dont accept that Ive prejudiced Miss Hs ability to make a claim by saying URVs medical 
team decided that from the medical report it had the surgery could be done in the UK and 
she should be fit to fly. Ive not made a finding as to whether that was a fair conclusion for 
URV to make. For me to be able to make a finding as to whether that decision by URVs 
medical team was fair Miss H would need to make a claim to URV, all the medical 
information be seen and assessed in line with the policy terms and for URV to have the 
opportunity to explain what, if any, payment it would cover and its full reasons for any 
decline of costs claimed. 
URVs email to Miss H on 21 July 2020 said Further to our conversation I am sorry to have 
to advise you that due to your continued travel against the advice of the FCO on 17.03.20 
your cover has been declined however you still may make a claim for consideration. URVs 
system notes show that email followed URVs call to Miss H on 21 July to explain why she 
wasnt covered. In that email URV gave the correct date of 17 March 2020 for the FCO 
advice against non-essential travel. Some of URVs later letters to Miss H referred to the 
British Governments 16 March 2020 announcement to avoid all unnecessary travel being on 
the FCO website on 16 March. In its later letters URV could and reasonably should have 
been clearer about when the FCO advice was given, as it had been in its 21 July email to 
Miss H. As Ive said, I dont think the lack of clarity means URVs decline of the claim, and 
subsequent offer of cover, was unreasonable for the reasons Ive given above.
URV sent us recordings of five calls with Miss H which it says are the only ones. Ive listened 
to the calls. Three of the calls werent answered. In the two calls where URV did speak to 
Miss H theres no evidence that it was asking her inappropriate questions. One of the calls 
appears to end before the conversation is finished. That call wasnt made while Miss H was 
in hospital. URVs internal notes show some other calls occurred and one says Miss H was 
waiting to go into surgery. The notes for that call say URV went through the emergency 
cover it had agreed to and that Miss H was very happy, which doesnt support that URV told 
Miss H in that call that she should leave hospital immediately and fly home. Ive no evidence 
from the calls or URVs system notes (which show its contact with Miss H) that URV was 
harassing Miss H, as she suggests. I havent seen evidence to support that URV gave 
Miss H unreasonable service.
For the reasons in my provisional findings and these findings I think URVs initial decline to 
cover Miss H was reasonable and its offer to cover her for emergency medical expenses and 
repatriation costs at pre Covid-19 costs on a pay and claim basis was more that it was 
required to do under the policy terms, and fair. And on the evidence I have I dont think 
URVs service was unreasonable. Theres no basis for me to award compensation to Miss H.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint as Union Reiseversicherung AG made a fair and reasonable offer and on the evidence I have gave Miss H reasonable service. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman