DRN-3139275
The complaint
Mr M complains Everyday Lending Limited trading as Trusttwo didnt complete reasonable 
and proportionate checks when approving him as a guarantor for a loan.  
What happened
In March 2019 Mr M was accepted as a guarantor on a loan for another party, the borrower. 
The loan was for £5,000 over a term of 24 months. The monthly repayments were around 
£286, and the total repayable value was around £6,870.
In December 2019 Mr M raised a complaint with Trusttwo as he felt it hadnt completed 
reasonable and proportionate checks when approving him as a guarantor. He said had it 
done so, it would have identified the loan repayments wouldnt have been affordable to him 
had he needed to step in where the borrower couldnt make them. 
Mr M brought his complaint to our service when it couldnt be resolved by Trusttwo. 
Our service reviewed Mr Ms complaint twice. The most recent investigator concluded:
The checks Trusttwo completed on the borrower were not proportionate;
This was because the verified salary of the borrower fluctuated and as such the 
investigator was satisfied further checks shouldve been completed;
Had further checks been completed its likely Trusttwo wouldve realised the loan was 
unaffordable to the borrower as they were left with too little a disposable income each 
month  meaning the loan wasnt sustainable.
Trusttwo disagreed with these findings; and maintained it completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks on both the borrower and Mr M. It maintained it made a fair decision to 
lend to both parties.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ms complaint.   
Bearing in mind the complaint before me, I think that there are a number of overarching 
questions I need to consider in order to fairly and reasonably determine Mr Ms complaint. 
These are:
1. Did Trusttwo complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that the 
borrower would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that the borrower would have been able to 
do so?
2. Did Trusttwo obtain Mr Ms properly informed consent before binding him to the 
guarantee and indemnity agreement?
3. Did Trusttwo complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr M to satisfy itself that 
he was in a position repay the loan in the event the borrower did not?
If so, did it make a fair decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr M would have been able to do so?
4. Did Trusttwo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive gone on to answer these questions in turn.
Did Trusttwo complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that the 
borrower would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
The relevant rules, regulations and guidance at the time Trusttwo lent required it to carry out 
reasonable and proportionate checks. These checks needed to assess the borrowers ability 
to afford the loan and repay it sustainably over its term  without causing them financial 
difficulties.  
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they should be proportionate, 
taking into account things like the type, amount, duration and total cost of the credit, as well 
as the borrowers individual circumstances. 
And it isnt sufficient for Trusttwo to just complete proportionate checks  it must also 
consider the information it obtained from these checks to make a fair lending decision.
Trusttwo obtained the borrowers income and verified this with payslips. It also asked the 
borrower to declare their monthly rent and used Office of National Statistics data to calculate 
the borrowers monthly expenditure, based on the average person in the borrowers 
circumstances. It also completed a credit file check. 
From all of this information Trusttwo assessed the loan to be affordable to the borrower and 
it approved the lending.
Ive carefully considered Trustwos argument, but I dont agree its checks were 
proportionate in this instance. I say this because it received four weeks of payslips from the 
borrower. And as part of its checks it appears to have calculated the borrowers weekly pay 
based on averaging the four payslips, and then calculating the equivalent pay over a monthly 
basis. But, two of the four payslips show holiday pay and the income the borrower received 
in these weeks is, comparatively, considerably less. Its therefore evidenced that the 
borrowers pay was subject to change based on their working hours and whether they took 
leave. They also appear to benefit from a weekly bonus that was paid at a reduced rate one 
week and wasnt paid in another week. So, this additional money by way of a bonus that 
Trusttwo used in its affordability calculations wasnt guaranteed. 
The affordability calculations Trusttwo completed left the borrower with a very low monthly 
disposable income. This level of disposable income doesnt provide the borrower with what I 
would consider to be reasonable breathing space on a monthly basis to cover any 
unexpected expenses that could occur. And this disposable income is based on the higher 
salary calculations Trusttwo has used, which I dont consider do reasonably reflect the 
borrowers likely actual monthly income when averaged out across a larger period. Trusttwo also saw the borrower had four active accounts on their credit file, two having limits 
which were being fully utilised. The borrower explained the main purpose of this loan was to 
repay their existing debt, both formal debt and informal debt with family members. And the 
remaining funds were to be used to carry out necessary repairs to their car and the property 
they were renting. So, Trusttwo were aware the borrowers total indebtedness was 
increasing; and that they couldnt afford to deal with the car and property repairs that had 
unexpectedly occurred without looking to borrow further money. 
I therefore consider Trusttwo ought to have looked to verify the borrowers outgoings rather 
than use statistics based on the average persons circumstances.
Would further checks have shown the borrower would have been able to sustainably meet 
any repayments towards the loan?
Trusttwo has provided this service with the four weeks payslips it obtained from the 
borrower when assessing their application. It has said it used Office of National Statistics to 
calculate the borrowers expenses and has provided the results of the credit file check it 
completed. It has also provided us with calls it had with the borrower at the application stage. 
Having considered this evidence, I dont consider Trusttwo did make a fair lending decision 
when approving the borrower for this loan. And it therefore follows Mr M would not have 
been called upon to provide the guarantee and indemnity for this loan. 
Trusttwo obtained four weeks worth of payslips from the borrower to verify their income. It 
has said it averaged the income across these four weeks to determine the borrowers 
average weekly income. It used this figure to determine the borrowers monthly income and 
ultimately calculated they were left with a low disposable income per month after all 
deductions. 
However, from the four payslips Trusttwo obtained the borrowers salary changed 
significantly based on their working hours. While they appear to receive holiday pay at the 
same rate as their working pay, they receive two additional payments when working, one of 
which appears to be an attendance bonus. I can see from the payslips that in one week 
where the borrower took leave, they didnt receive either of these extras payments  
meaning in that week they received around 30% less gross pay. And in another week where 
they worked reduced hours, they received a reduced bonus. 
So, it was clear to Trusttwo that these additional payments werent guaranteed and were 
dependent on the hours the borrower worked. Given Trustwos own calculations detailed the 
borrower would be left with a nominal disposable figure each month, any further absence 
would considerably reduce this disposable figure, or could indeed leave the borrower with 
outgoings in excess of their monthly income. And I dont consider a period of two weeks 
absence within a month unlikely at some point over the full term of the loan. As such, the low 
disposable income gave the borrower no breathing space should their pay decrease in any 
given month due to absence.
Ive also thought about the level of disposable income the borrower was left with on a 
monthly basis to cover any unexpected costs. 
Ive listened to the telephone calls Trusttwo has provided between itself and the borrower. In 
the first of the calls the borrower has said they were looking to consolidate two existing lines 
of credit as part of this loan, an overdraft and a credit card. Trusttwo saw this borrowing as it 
was evident on the credit file check it completed. The borrower also said they were looking 
to repay a family member money theyd borrowed from them, and to pay for necessary repairs to their car and the property they were renting. So, Trusttwo knew it was increasing 
the borrowers total indebtedness by approving this loan. And based on what the borrower 
told it during the call, Trusttwo was also on notice that the borrower wasnt able to meet 
unexpected costs that had occurred from their disposable income without taking further 
borrowing.
So, I dont consider this loan was sustainably affordable to the borrower and it therefore 
follows Im satisfied Trusttwo didnt make a fair lending decision when approving this loan. 
As Ive already determined that this loan shouldnt have been provided to the borrower, it 
therefore follows Mr M wouldnt have been called upon to provide the guarantee and 
indemnity for the loan. As such, Ive not gone on to consider questions two and three as I set 
out above.
Did Trusttwo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive not seen any information which suggests Trusttwo acted unfairly or unreasonably in any 
other way in relation to Mr Ms complaint.  
Putting things right
Everyday Lending Limited trading as Trusttwo should put Mr M back in the position he would 
be in had it not approved this loan. So, in order to settle Mr Ms complaint, it should:
Release Mr M from any obligations he has under the Guarantee and Indemnity 
agreement, and then terminate it;
Refund any repayments Mr M has made towards this loan, together with 8% simple 
interest per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement; 
Remove any information recorded on Mr Ms credit file as a result of this loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Lending Limited trading as Trusttwo to take off 
tax from this interest. Everyday Lending Limited trading as Trusttwo must give Mr M a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is that Im upholding Mr Ms complaint about 
Everyday Lending Limited trading as Trusttwo and direct it to put things right as detailed 
above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Richard Turner
Ombudsman