DRN-3756774
The complaint
Mrs M complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc (The Co-op) has refused to refund her the 
amount she lost as the result of a scam.
Mrs M is being represented by a third party but to keep things simple I will refer to Mrs M 
throughout my decision.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary, Mrs M fell victim to a scam in 2020 where she lost around £15,000.00 investing 
with a company called Coin2FX (C2). In early 2021 Mrs M was contacted by an individual 
claiming to be from a different department at C2 looking to help her recover her lost funds. 
As part of the process to recover the funds Mrs M had lost she was convinced to make the 
following payments from her credit card, as instructed by C2 to cryptocurrency exchanges. 
These funds were then forwarded to C2. 
1. 11 February 2021 - £369.01
2. 11 February 2021 - £366.56
3. 11 February 2021 - £734.07
4. 11 February 2021 - £1,102.56
5. 12 February 2021 - £523.78
6. 22 March 2021 - £700.00
7. 22 March 2021 - £356.10
8. 22 March 2021 - £450.00
9. 22 March 2021 - £640.00
It turned out Mrs M had fallen victim to a second scam and was unable to recover any funds 
from C2.
Mrs M thought The Co-op should have done more to prevent her from falling victim to this 
scam. Our Investigator considered Mrs Ms complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. As 
Mrs M disagreed this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances of this complaint are not in dispute and the evidence provided by both 
Mrs M and The Co-op set out what happened well. What is in dispute is whether The Co-op 
should refund any of the money Mrs M has lost because of this scam.
The Co-op was unable to process a chargeback of the payments Mrs M made in relation to 
the scam.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
Mrs M was dealing with C2, which was the business that instigated the scam. But Mrs M 
didnt make the credit card payments to C2 directly, she paid separate cryptocurrency 
exchanges (Simplex Paybis, CoinMama and Paybis). This is important because The Co-op 
was only able to process chargeback claims against the merchants she paid (Simplex 
Paybis, CoinMama and Paybis), not another party (such as C2).
The service provided by Simplex Paybis, CoinMama and Paybis would have been to convert 
or facilitate conversion of Mrs Ms payments into cryptocurrency. Therefore, Simplex Paybis, 
CoinMama and Paybis provided the service that was requested; that being the purchase of 
the cryptocurrency.
The fact that the cryptocurrency was later transferred elsewhere  to the scammer  doesnt
give rise to a valid chargeback claim against the merchants Mrs M paid. As Simplex Paybis, 
CoinMama and Paybis provided the requested service to Mrs M the charge back attempt 
would fail. 
Mrs M has accepted she authorised the payments she made to Simplex Paybis, CoinMama 
and Paybis, so the starting point here is that Mrs M is responsible. However, banks and 
other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect against the risk of 
financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large transactions to guard 
against money laundering.
The question here is whether The Co-op should have been aware of the scam and stepped 
in to prevent the payments Mrs M was making.
All the payments Mrs M made from her credit card were to legitimate businesses and were 
not for a significant enough value that I wouldnt have expected them to trigger The Co-ops 
fraud prevention systems. Mrs M was also required to verify at least some of the payments 
as being genuine before they could be carried out, which she did.
Mrs M contacted The Co-op by telephone after making the first payments in February 2021. 
She explained that she had spoken to someone and that the payments were fraudulent. Its 
clear from this call that Mrs M was aware she had fallen victim to another scam, yet she 
went on to make four further payments in March 2021. 
I have listened to other calls Mrs M had with The Co-op in 2020. In these calls Mrs M was 
warned about these types of scams, that the businesses were not regulated, and that 
payments would not be refunded if anything was to go wrong.
Considering the above I think Mrs M was sufficiently warned by The Co-op about the types 
of scams and even accepted herself that she had fallen victim to a second scam before 
sending more funds just one month later.
Mrs M has told us that she was venerable at the time of the scam having just lost a close 
family member. But I think The Co-op did enough to advise Mrs M of the potential risks and 
was not required to do more to help protect her from this scam. So, it doesnt need to refund 
any of the payments Mrs M made as part of this scam.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman