DRN-4429767
The complaint
Mr J complains Quidie Limited trading as Fernovo (Quidie) provided him with a loan which 
wasnt affordable.
What happened
Mr J was granted one loan on 28 August 2018 for £400. Mr J was due to make four
instalments of £168.49 and Mr J repaid the loan on 24 December 2018.
Quidie considered the complaint, and it outlined the checks that it carried out before it
approved the loan. Quidie concluded the checks were proportionate and showed Mr J could
afford the loan repayments. However, it explained that should Mr J withdraw his complaint
then as a gesture of goodwill it would refund him £40 of interest. Unhappy with this
response, Mr J referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator, who didnt uphold it. But she did say that
the credit check results showed that Mr J had a number of active loans and at least seven
active credit cards near their credit limits. However, even if Quidie wouldve used the figures
from the credit search results Mr J still had enough disposable income to afford the loan
repayments.
Mr J didnt agree and in summary said:
Proportionate checks needed to be holistic and he already outstanding debts.
Based on the adjudicators figures, Mr J only had around 8% of his income spare in 
which to make the loan repayment.
The credit search carried out by Quidie showed that Mr Js debts were increasing.
Relying on his declared income and expenditure wasnt reasonable given the high 
interest rate.
It isnt always right to say that checks could be less thorough at the start of the 
lending relationship.
The purpose of the loan wasnt checked.
The adjudicator explained, why in her view Mr Js comments hadnt changed her mind and
Mr J then asked for an ombudsmans review. He made some further comments:
Quidie ought to have looked more closely at his finances because at the time Mr J 
had three other payday loans active at the time.
Further checks wouldve highlighted Mr J was spending money gambling each 
month.
After this loan was approved, Mr Js credit file started to show payment 
arrangements.
As no agreement could be reached the case was passed to me and I proceeded to issue a 
provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to uphold Mr Js complaint. 
Both parties were asked to provide any further submissions as soon as possible but, in any 
event, no later 30 October 2023. 
Quidie didnt respond to the provisional decision and Mr J confirmed he was happy with the 
outcome. 
A copy of the provisional findings follows this in smaller font and forms part of this final 
decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Quidie had to assess the lending to check if Mr J could afford to pay back the amount hed
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to
the circumstances. Quidies checks could have taken into account a number of different
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Js income
and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Quidie should have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr J. These factors include:
Mr J having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr J having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time 
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or 
was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr J coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also suggestive 
of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr J. The adjudicator didnt consider
this applied in Mr Js complaint and I would agree as only one loan was granted.
Quidie was required to establish whether Mr J could sustainably repay the loan  not just
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr J was able to repay his loan
sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Js complaint.
Before the loan was approved, Quidie asked Mr J for details about his income, which he
declared as being £3,250 per month. Quidie says the income figure was checked by cross
referencing information through a third-party report which gave Quidie a high level of
confidence that Mr Js declared income was accurate. Given this was the first loan, it was
reasonable for Quidie to have relied on this income figure.
Mr J also declared monthly outgoings of £1,600 which was broken down as £350 for
housing, £50 utilities, £200 for food, £50 for transport and £950 on existing credit
commitments.Quidie then went about checking this information. Firstly, Quidie said it used an affordability
report provided by a credit reference agency and that report indicated that the amount Mr J
declared for his credit commitments was accurate.
Secondly, while Mr J declared a monthly mortgage payment of £350 following verification
from the report that I mentioned above, Quidie increased this figure to £653. And used this
higher figure for its affordability assessment.
Thirdly, excluding credit commitments and the mortgage Mr J had declared other living costs
of £300 per month. Quidie says this is much lower than averages provided by the Money
Advice Service (MAS). Using MAS averages for someone in a similar situation to Mr J  for
example having two dependants should have led to living costs of around £1,185 per month
and so this is the figure it used for the affordability assessment.
Overall, Quidie using the MAS average of £1,185, plus the mortgage cost of £653 plus the
credit commitments of £950 giving total monthly outgoings of £2,788. With an income figure
of £3,250 this left £462 per month in disposable income to afford the monthly repayments of
around £169. The loan looked affordable.
Before the loan was approved Quidie also carried out a credit search and it has provided the
results it received from the credit reference agency. It is worth saying here that although
Quidie carried out a credit search, there isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone
one to a specific standard. But what Quidie couldnt do is carry out a credit search and then
not react to the information it received if necessary.
The headline data wouldnt have given Quidie cause for concern, it knew that Mr J didnt
have any defaults within the preceding three years, no delinquent accounts within the last 12
months nor where there any Count Court Judgements.
It also knew that Mr J had close to £30,000 of debt (excluding the mortgage), was using 96%
of his available credit limits on revolving credit and or budget accounts and had 19 active
credit accounts.
As part of the credit search, Quidie was provided with details of the open accounts that Mr J
had. It knew that he had seven active credit cards owing a total of £18,690. And importantly,
two of the credit cards  according to the credit report were over the prescribed credit limit
and then the reminder where all close to the set credit limit. Assuming that Mr J was due to
repay 3% of the balance on these cards  this would equate to a monthly repayment of
around £560.
Quidie also knew that Mr J had a number of loans outstanding. Only one was categorised as
a payday loan and one was clearly a bank loan as well. The other loans were classed as
Finance House loans and given the starting value and or the term of the loan these were
likely to either be high-cost credit loans or payday instalment loans.
In any event, the payday loan had been opened in July 2018 and then the two Finance
House loans opened in April and May 2018. Mr J had in recent months taken on several new
lines of credit. The other loans that Mr J had were opened in 2017. The total monthly cost to
service the loans, according to the credit report was £1,561.
So, the monthly credit commitments declared by Mr J couldnt have been correct, I
appreciate Quidie said it was verified by the credit commitments in the credit report but what
Quidie had access to showed the commitments (excluding the mortgage) to be greater than
that  in fact these commitments were around £2,120 each month.
On top of this, and Quidie seems to have accepted this, is that the mortgage payment was
paid by Mr J and so we have to add another £653 bringing Mr Js credit total commitments to
£2,774 each month before his living costs were considered.
Now even going with the declared other living costs of £300 per month this brings theexpenditure up to £3,074 each month. This left only £178 to afford the loan repayment of
around £169. So clearly, just based on the credit commitments that Quidie was given in the
credit report, the mortgage payment and the declared other living costs the loan wasnt
affordable.
I say this because I dont think I can foresee a situation were leaving a consumer with only
£9 after making the loan repayment  each month for four months is fair or reasonable. In
my view the loan wasnt affordable.
And its worth saying here, that Quidie seems to suggest the £300 each month Mr J declared
(for other living costs) wasnt enough and not in line with MAS averages which is why it
increased these costs to £1,185 per month. And using this figure, then the loan clearly isnt
affordable even taking account of the fact that Mr J may not have been liable for the full
mortgage payment.
I am therefore intending to uphold the complaint because the information Quidie was given
as part of the affordability assessment showed that not only was Mr J in my view over
indebted but also the loan wasnt affordable for him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J accepted the findings of the provisional decision and Quidie hasnt responded. I 
therefore see no reason to depart from the findings that I previously made. I still think, the 
information Quidie gathered during its affordability assessment showed it that Mr J couldnt 
afford to make his repayments and so the loan ought to not have been granted.  
Ive outlined below what Quidie should do in order to put things right for Mr J. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Quidie should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might
have happened had it not lent to Mr J, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly there are a
great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr J may have simply left matters there. Or
they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even
possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Mr J in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude Mr J would more likely than not have taken up any one of these
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Quidies liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Quidie shouldnt have lent to Mr J.A. It should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr J towards interest, 
fees and charges towards the loan.
B. Quidie should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr J 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr J originally made 
the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. It should pay Mr J the total of A plus B.
D. Quidie should remove any adverse information it has have recorded on Mr Js credit 
file in relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Quidie to deduct tax from this interest. Quidie should give
Mr J a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Mr Js 
complaint. 
Quidie Limited trading as Fernovo should put things right as directed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman