DRN-1699988
The complaint
Miss W complained that she felt discriminated against when she was asked to provide a 
specific residency document when opening a bank account with Starling Bank Limited. Miss 
W also complained about the service provided by Starling when she tried to resolve this and 
when she then complained.
What happened
Miss W applied for an online account with Starling and submitted a provisional driving 
licence as proof of identification. She was then asked to also provide a residence permit. 
Miss W contacted Starling and let it know she didnt have a residence permit as she didnt 
need one. She also said she found it offensive that she was asked to provide this. 
Starling explained the permit was requested because Miss W was not born in the UK and it 
needed the permit to complete the verification process. Miss W was told she could probably 
upload her passport instead and the advisor said he would contact her later the same day to 
confirm if this could be done. Miss W said she wasnt contacted later that day as promised 
and she contacted Starling three days later. Her account was set up on the same day. 
Miss W complained to Starling but it didnt uphold her complaint. In its final response letter it 
said she was unhappy at being asked to submit a residence permit and felt this was an 
example of prejudice based on her country of birth. It also said Miss W complained at being 
unable to receive messages or contact Starling via its app while her account was being 
verified. Starling offered £25 to Miss W as an apology for the service she received.  
Starling also said it conducts identity, fraud prevention and credit checks for every account 
application. And, as part of this, it is required to ensure all customers can provide proof of 
residency. It said a driving licence can be used as proof of identification but does not qualify 
as proof of residency. So, if a driving licence is submitted, Starling will request further 
documentation. And this applies to every account and to all customers. 
Starling acknowledged that Miss Ws distress could have been avoided if the app had given 
her the option of submitting a passport. Starling also confirmed that consumers cannot 
access in-app chat until an account is fully verified. It says it cannot change this feature, but 
does provide other methods of contact 24 hours a day. 
Miss W was unhappy with this response and complained to this service. Her complaint 
points are that:
She feels discriminated against possibly based on her name not being white, her 
skin tone and her country of birth, following the request for a residence permit. 
The Starling advisor didnt get back to her about uploading a passport.   
She said its not the case, as suggested in the final response letter, that all 
individuals who apply for accounts using a driving licence are asked to provide 
additional proof of residency. Several friends of Miss Ws have applied for accounts 
in this way but she was the only one asked to provide additional residency 
information. 
She said other information in the final response letter is also incorrect  she wasnt 
told by the advisor that she could upload her passport. She feels she shouldnt have 
had to call to say the final response was incorrect and hasnt been offered 
compensation for the time this took and the distress it caused.  
She said she understands the need to ask for proof of residency, but asking for a 
document that only non-British citizens would hold not only highlights a level of 
prejudice, but also creates a barrier with regard to the sign up process. 
Our investigator upheld Miss Ws complaint in part. She said Starling has now confirmed 
why Miss W was asked for further documentation and it is entitled to ask for information to 
satisfy proof of residency. So our investigator didnt think Miss W being asked to provide 
further information was discriminatory. 
Our investigator said the advisor did send Miss W a message via the app, but she didnt 
receive this. An email should also have been sent because Miss W wasnt able to access in-
app messages at that stage. So Miss W had to chase up information about uploading her 
passport and this delayed her opening her account by three days. 
Our investigator said the final response letter incorrectly suggested the advisor had told 
Miss W she could upload her passport. And also incorrectly said all individuals who applied 
using a driving licence would be asked to provide additional information. She said this made 
Miss M feel singled out. Our investigator said had Miss W been told the reasons she was 
being asked for further information, this could have alleviated some of her stress over the 
situation. She asked Starling to pay Miss W an additional £125 compensation, taking the 
total amount to £150.
 
Starling did not agree with our investigator and so this complaint has come to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im partially upholding Miss Ws complaint for broadly the same reasons as 
the investigator. 
Looking first at the issue of Starling asking Miss W for a residence permit, Im satisfied that it 
was fine for Starling to ask for further documentation of some kind, if thats what its security 
processes require. Having said that, its understandable why Miss W questioned the 
process, given that it only gave her the option of providing a document she doesnt have and 
doesnt need. I can see that Starling has said its taken on board that it could also give 
individuals the option of uploading a passport, but I think it should have done this sooner. I 
think Starling made an incorrect assumption about Miss Ws citizenship when it only offered 
her the option of uploading a residence permit. It should have provided her with other 
options for documents she could upload in order to meet its security requirements. If Starling 
had done this, then Miss W might not have felt discriminated against in the way she did. 
When Miss W had an online chat with an advisor about the residence permit issue, she was 
told he would contact her with information about whether she could upload her passport 
instead. I can see that Starling sent an in-app response to Miss W about this. But it 
acknowledges it should have also sent an email, because Miss W wouldnt have been able 
to use the app to access the message until her account was set up.   I know that Starling said it sent a text message to Miss W, at the same time it sent the in-app 
message, telling her she had a new in-app message. And it provided an alternative way to 
contact Starling if the message couldnt be accessed. Miss W acknowledges receiving this 
message and said she tried to access it using the app, but couldnt. From what I can see, the 
alternative way of contacting Starling was simply a link to its various contact details on its 
website. It didnt provide Miss W with access to the response she was waiting for from 
Starling. 
So, Starling made an error when it didnt send the message to Miss W by email. This meant 
Miss W was likely to have experienced some distress because Starling didnt appear to be 
dealing with her query and she was inconvenienced by having to phone Starling again. And 
this also caused a three day delay in Miss Ws account being set up.
Im satisfied that the final response letter sent to Miss W contained two errors. Firstly, 
Starling wrongly suggested Miss W was told by its advisor that she could upload her 
passport, when she wasnt able to do that.  
Miss W was also provided with incorrect information in the final response letter about why 
she needed to provide additional documentation. She was told that anyone applying for an 
account using a driving licence would be asked for additional information  but this isnt the 
case. Miss W said she knew this information was incorrect because she had friends whose 
experiences contradicted what Starling had said. And Starling has now acknowledged that 
what it said was incorrect. The impact on Miss W was that she had to spend additional time 
querying what Starling had said in the letter. And it meant her concerns that she was being 
discriminated against were heightened. 
To summarise, Im satisfied that Miss W was inconvenienced by having to contact Starling 
on several occasions when contact wouldnt have been necessary if errors hadnt been 
made by Starling. Im also satisfied that if Miss W had been provided with correct information 
in the final response letter, then the distress she experienced wondering whether she was 
being discriminated against could most likely have been avoided. Im also satisfied that 
although Starling need to be allowed to ask for further documentation prior to setting up 
accounts, in line with its security processes, it should offer appropriate options so that any 
consumer applying for a new account can upload the documentation relevant to them. And, 
its failure to do this left Miss W feeling that Starling was being insensitive and discriminatory. 
I think compensation is appropriate for the distress and inconvenience caused and Im 
satisfied that an additional £125, bringing the total to £150, is appropriate. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part. I order Starling Bank Limited to pay 
an additional £125 to Miss W. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman