DRN-2860512
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy Bank of Scotland plc hasnt fully refunded him the money he lost to an 
investment scam. 
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our investigator when she wrote to the 
bank upholding Mr Ds complaint. As such, the facts are well-known to both parties, so I 
dont need to repeat them at length here. In summary:
Mr D was looking for investment opportunities online. He had previously invested in 
fixed-term savings bonds with banks and building societies and now had matured 
funds he wanted to reinvest.
He saw an investment bond advertised from what appeared to be the website of a 
well-known investment bank. Unfortunately for Mr D, the website was a clone of the 
legitimate bank and was in reality being operated by fraudsters.
This offered a three-year fixed term investment with an interest rate of 5% per 
annum, invested in a fund comprising US municipal bonds. The literature he was 
sent appears to have been largely based on the detail of a legitimately traded 
investment fund.
Mr D says he knew and trusted the name of the bank involved. So, he didnt consider 
he needed to check the firm on the FCA register  he had no doubt the firm was 
regulated. He noted that the literature said it had FSCS backing which further 
reassured him. 
After correspondence with the fraudsters, including a telephone discussion, Mr D 
decided to invest £25,000. He sent this to what he was told was the intermediary 
bank by faster payment on 17 July 2019.
Mr D didnt receive any quarterly return (which hed been promised). When he tried to 
obtain the missing returns, he realised hed been the victim of a scam. He reported 
this firstly to the Police and then, in April 2020, Bank of Scotland.
Bank of Scotland contacted the receiving bank to try to recover the money. But no 
funds remained, leaving Mr D with a loss of the full sum.
The case was considered under the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM). This is 
a voluntary scheme Bank of Scotland has signed up to, designed to reimburse customers 
that have fallen victim to a scam. The starting position under the Code is for a customer to 
be refunded. A firm might choose not to refund if it establishes that a customer has not met 
their requisite level of care. In making such an assessment, a firm may consider whether the 
customer:
ignored an effective warning;
made the payment without having a reasonable basis for belief that it was for 
legitimate purposes; or
has been grossly negligent.
Bank of Scotland refunded 50% of Mr Ds loss when he reported the scam. It did so on the 
basis it hadnt provided him with effective warnings about scams at the point he made the 
payment. It also paid Mr D £50 in compensation.
Bank of Scotland declined to refund the remaining 50% as it felt Mr D hadnt done enough to 
check the legitimacy of whom he was paying.
In summary Bank of Scotland has said:
it considered Mr D was an experienced investor, but he had failed to carry out 
sufficient checks to validate the investment was legitimate.
Mr D had failed to search the FCA website and, if he had done, he would have seen 
a warning regarding fraudsters impersonating the investment bank.
The rate of return of 5% was too good to be true considering the rate available on 
typical bank and building society savings bonds at the time
So, it didnt think Mr D had a reasonable basis for belief in making the payment.
Mr D brought his complaint to our service as he wasnt happy with Bank of Scotlands 
decision. One of our investigators looked into the complaint and recommended it be upheld. 
Our investigator didnt think Bank of Scotland had established that Mr D had failed to meet 
his requisite level of care under the CRM Code. In particular, she pointed to the 
sophistication of the scam  including the professional looking correspondence and the fact 
that a genuine regulated firm had been cloned. She wasnt persuaded the rate of interest 
was so much higher than typical investment return rates that it ought to have seemed too 
good to be true to Mr D. She noted that Mr D didnt search the FCA website for the 
investment company but thought his explanation for why he didnt was reasonable in the 
circumstances. Given he hadnt seen the warning at the time, it couldnt have impacted his 
thinking. Overall, considering all the circumstances, she didnt find Bank of Scotland had 
established that Mr D made this payment without a reasonable basis for believing the 
investment was legitimate - or that he shouldnt be refunded for any other reason under the 
CRM Code.
The investigator said Bank of Scotland ought to have fully reimbursed Mr D at the time he 
made his claim and so should refund the remaining 50% of his loss in order to settle the 
complaint together with interest on the refund at the simple rate of 8% a year from the date it 
declined his claim to the date of settlement. 
The investigators findings were sent to both parties on 1 April 2021. Bank of Scotland 
responded, disagreeing, on 9 April 2021. Our investigator provided a further response on 7 
May 2021, giving a new deadline of 21 May 2021. 
That deadline has passed and, over two weeks later, the bank has still failed to respond. As 
such, the case has been escalated to me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our statutory rules provide  at DISP 3.5.8 to 3.5.15 of the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook  that we may give case-management directions and fix or extend deadlines; and 
that we may:reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and take account of the 
failure by a party to provide information requested; 
And that
If a respondent fails to comply with a time limit, the Ombudsman may: (1) proceed 
with consideration of the complaint;
Ive therefore concluded that, in the absence of a response from Bank of Scotland to the 
investigators further findings on 7 May 2021, it is fair and reasonable to proceed on the 
basis of the evidence we already have.
Ive considered whether, under the CRM Code, Mr D ought to have been fully reimbursed 
when he notified Bank of Scotland of the scam. In doing so, Ive considered whether or not 
he met his requisite level of care under the CRM Code. I believe he did, for substantively the 
same reasons the investigator has already explained, so it would have been fair and 
reasonable for Mr D to have received a full refund at the time.
 
Putting things right
For the reasons set out by the investigator and above, Ive decided that Mr D ought 
reasonably to have been fully refunded under the CRM Code. I therefore direct Bank of 
Scotland plc to pay Mr D:
the balance of the money he lost through this scam and not already returned to him, 
within 28 days of receiving notification of his acceptance of my final decision; plus,
interest at the simple rate of 8% per year on that amount (less any tax properly 
deductible) from the date Bank of Scotland plc declined Mr Ds claim under the CRM 
Code to the date of settlement. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ds complaint about Bank of Scotland plc, as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman