DRN-2137820
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy esure Insurance Limited declined to cover trace and access costs following 
an escape of water claim under his buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
In June 2019 Mr K told his buildings insurance provider (esure) that his boiler had lost
pressure. esure said Mr K needed to appoint an engineer to locate the leak which was found
to be under the living room laminate floor. At this time Mr K turned off the water supply in
order to mitigate any further potential damage.
esure asked Mr K to provide photos of the area where the leak was once uncovered. esure
said it told Mr K if the water had gone directly into the ground and not caused any
damage to the buildings it wouldnt cover any restoration costs for trace and access.
In July 2019 an engineer had to remove part of the laminate flooring and concrete below in 
order to carry out a repair. Some holes were drilled in the flooring to access the leak. Mr K 
later provided a photo of the area of the leak, but esure said it couldnt determine whether 
any damage had been caused by the escape of water to the buildings, and so it sent a 
surveyor to Mr Ks home.
The surveyor attended and carried out a visual inspection and moisture readings of the area
of repair. They reported that no damage had been caused to the buildings as a result of the
escape of water, so trace and access cover wouldnt be met. esure therefore declined to
cover any associated trace and access costs.
Mr K disputed this and complained to esure. He said the photo he provided was taken after
the engineer had removed damaged material, and damp patches could be seen around the
pipe. Mr K also said the moisture reading should be considered as inconclusive as the
engineer that repaired the leak had laid new material to level out the flooring, which couldve
still been wet.
esure considered what Mr K said but maintained its position and referred to the terms and
conditions of the policy. As Mr K remained unhappy, he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked into this complaint. He didnt think the inspection carried out 
by esure reasonably demonstrated no damage was caused to the buildings due to the 
escape of water. He also said he didnt think the trace and access term esure had relied on 
to decline cover was clear in this case.
Our investigator said esure should cover the trace and access costs and pay Mr K £100 
compensation for the way it handled the claim. 
Mr K agreed with our investigators view, but esure didnt. It maintained that the policy terms
were clear and didnt agree that any damage had been caused as a result of the escape of
water.
On 10 August 2020 I issued a provisional decision outlining why I felt esure had declined the 
claim fairly. Ive included part of this. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached a different outcome to our investigator. And Im currently not
minded to say esure should do anything further here. I appreciate this will come to
disappoint Mr K as Ive seen how passionately hes argued his point of view. So Ill explain
why.
To keep things simple, Ive used sub-headings below to set out what I believe to be most
compelling here.
The policy terms
Ive carefully considered the terms and conditions of the policy which say under Trace and
access that If the buildings are damaged due to water escaping from water tanks, pipes,
equipment or fixed heating systems in the Home, We will pay for the reasonable cost of
removing and replacing any part of the Buildings necessary to find and repair the source of
the leak and making good the removed or replaced elements of the building.
Our investigator said he didnt think this term was clear, but I dont agree. This term is a
common term and similar to those Ive seen in other buildings insurance policies. I find that
this term is fair in principle, provided an insurer can demonstrate its applied it fairly and
reasonably.
In my view, the term clearly sets out that for trace and access cover to be met, damage
mustve occurred to the buildings as a result of the escape of water, and not trace and
access damage alone.
Its not in dispute that Mr K had to carry out trace and access type works to uncover the leak
underneath his laminate flooring. But the question I have to answer, is whether or not the
available evidence shows there was damage caused to Mr Ks buildings (in line with the term
above). And only if there was, I would expect esure to cover the related trace and access
costs, so Ill now consider the evidence provided in turn to decide this.
The photo Mr K provided once the leak was uncovered and repaired
Ive given the photo Mr K provided a lot of careful thought. I note Mr K said this photo was
taken by the engineer after the repair was completed and damaged material was removed.
Its unfortunate that we dont have a photo of the damaged material that was removed prior
to the repair being carried out.
I accept the photo does show some darker patches underneath the pipe where its said the
leak originated from. But I dont think esure acted unreasonably by saying the darker
patches didnt demonstrate that damage was caused to the buildings due to the escape of
water.
Mr K said there wasnt any visible damage to his flooring other than the dark patches shown
in the photo. From the information currently available to me, it appears the damage to Mr Kshome was due to the trace and access work carried out to repair the leak, and not the leak
itself. So this doesnt persuade me that esure should cover trace and access costs.
I also refer to my earlier point that its not in dispute that esure explained these requirements
to Mr K in June 2019. So Im persuaded esure did manage Mr Ks expectations about the
potential outcomes of the claim.
The surveyors visit
esure sent a surveyor to Mr Ks home given it couldnt be concluded whether damage was
caused as a result of the escape of water or not. The surveyor carried out a visual inspection
of the area the leak was uncovered, and a moisture test. Im satisfied these were reasonable
steps for it to take.
Mr K argued that the visual inspection took place after the engineer had repaired the leak
and removed the damaged material. Therefore, no damage was present at the time, other
than the dark patches underneath the pipe. He also didnt think it was fair for esure to rely on
the moisture reading given new material laid by the engineer was most likely still wet.
Following the inspection, the surveyors wrote to Mr K to say that When the surveyor
inspected the property, he did not find any damage that is resultant from the water leak
therefore is not something which is covered under your insurance policy. We therefore regret
to advise you that there is no cover under your policy in respect of this claim.
I appreciate Mr Ks point that the engineer had already removed the damaged material prior
to the surveyor attending. But its unclear to me what else esure couldve done in this
instance. I say this as it has considered all of the available evidence provided by Mr K,
including the photo, alongside its own surveyors findings.
And as Ive said above, I dont think the photo Mr K provided evidenced clear water damage
to his buildings. And it seems the cause of the damage was due to trace and access work,
rather than an escape of water. So Im satisfied esure has considered all of the available
evidence in reaching its decision, and its acted fairly and reasonably by declining the claim
for trace and access in this case.
The moisture reading, I understand, did form part of esures decision to decline cover for
trace and access. However, Im currently more persuaded on balance that there was no
water damage to Mr Ks buildings. I say this because I dont think Mr K has demonstrated
this to be the case here, for the reasons mentioned above.
Mr K turned off the water supply
Mr K has suggested that esure should cover the trace and access claim as his preventative
action avoided a potentially worse situation that it may have had to cover.
Mr K acted promptly and turned off his water supply to prevent any potential damage being
caused to his home. This is something Id expect any homeowner to do in order to mitigate
the risk of damage or further damage to their home. I agree Mr K took necessary steps to
prevent damage, but he also had a duty or care under the policy to take the action he did.
I dont think this means esure should agree to cover trace and access costs due to this as
its something Mr K was required to do, and ultimately did to protect his own home.
Summary
Overall, Im currently minded not to require esure to do anything further here. I say this asIm satisfied the policy terms are clear, and on balance I think esure has applied the term
fairly and reasonably. I dont think Mr K has demonstrated damage was caused to his
buildings as a result of the escape of water based on what Ive seen, or that esure has failed
to take his evidence into account.
I note our investigator also recommended esure pays Mr K £100 for the way it handled the
claim. But because I dont agree the claim was declined unfairly, I dont think esure treated
Mr K unreasonably and therefore caused him any unnecessary distress or inconvenience 
over and above whats reasonably expected following an escape of water claim. So, Im not
intending to direct esure to pay Mr K any compensation.
Responses to my provisional decision 
esure didnt respond to my provisional decision, but Mr K did. He raised several points which 
Ive summarised as follows: 
Mr K clarified he didnt appoint his own engineer to attend his home shortly after 
identifying the issue. Rather, an engineer was sent out to him under a different 
insurance cover he held;
The moisture reading was carried out to the new material rather than the old 
damaged material;
The discolouring present within the photo Mr K provided couldve only been caused 
by exposure to water rather than any work carried out under trace and access; and
The policy terms dont say the flooring underneath the laminate isnt covered as part 
of the buildings, or define how big the area of damage needs to be for trace and 
access costs to be covered
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the points made by Mr K following my provisional decision. But these points 
havent changed my view on the fair and reasonable outcome of this case. As Mr K raised 
several points, Ive addressed the points in turn.  
Mr K said the moisture reading should be considered as inconclusive as the surveyor took 
readings of the new material laid that couldve still been wet, rather than the old material. In 
my provisional decision I didnt place any evidence on this part of the surveyors report, or 
esures decision to rely on the moisture reading to decline the claim. So, this hasnt changed 
my mind. 
Ive carefully considered the photo Mr K provided and its still my view that damage was 
caused by the engineer gaining access by removing the laminate flooring and concrete 
below to gain access to the damaged area of pipework, rather than the escape of water 
here. 
Mr K has said the discolouring of the material seen within the photo he provided couldve 
only been caused by exposure to water, rather than any works carried out to trace and 
access the leak. I accept the flooring underneath the pipe was most likely exposed to water 
given the claim raised. But I also note its not disputed esure told Mr K if water was falling to the floor, trace and access costs wouldnt be covered. So I think Mr Ks expectations were 
reasonably managed from the outset given it had discussed potential outcomes of the claim. 
As I outlined in my provisional decision, for trace and access cover to be met, damage 
mustve occurred to the buildings as a result of the escape of water, and not trace and 
access damage alone. 
Based on everything available to me, on balance Im of the view the damage caused here 
was due to the engineer having to remove the laminate flooring and some concrete material 
to repair the leak. I dont think the darker patches in the photo taken after the repair is 
sufficient here to require esure to pay the costs of making good damage caused by trace 
and access. 
As Im not persuaded any damage was caused to the buildings, it follows Im satisfied esure 
fairly declined to cover the trace and access costs. 
Mr K said the policy doesnt define whether the flooring underneath the laminate forms part 
of the buildings, or the criteria of the area impacted by the escape of water. But I dont think 
the policy needs to do so here. I think esure has acted reasonably by declining to cover trace 
and access costs based on the information both it gathered and was presented by Mr K.  
Im satisfied it took reasonable steps to investigate the claim, managed Mr Ks expectations 
from the outset about trace and access cover and applied the policy terms fairly and 
reasonably here. So, Im not directing it t do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman