DRN-2499089
The complaint
 Miss D complains that Happy Customers Group Limited (HCG) wont refund the money she 
paid for poor quality vinyl. She would her agreement cancelled and a refund of any of the 
monies she has paid.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I agree with our investigator for the following reasons:-
Its clear from the photos provided that there are issues with the vinyl lifting. HCG has 
agreed to refund the cost of the kitchen vinyl but not the bathroom  vinyl as it says 
there havent been any issues with this.
I dont agree with HCGs view. When Miss D submitted her complaint, she provided 
photos of both the kitchen and bathroom vinyl. The kitchen vinyl has bubbled up and 
the bathroom vinyl doesnt seem to have been glued down at all since its completely 
loose.
The bathroom vinyl might be able to be glued back down which I believe was HCGs 
original preferred solution. However, I understand that the vinyl isnt suitable for Miss 
Ds  even though she checked it would be. So, I dont think repair is a suitable 
solution here.
As the bathroom vinyl clearly wasnt properly fitted, and it seems likely it is unsuitable 
for Miss Ds floor I think its reasonable to cancel Miss Ds agreement in full not just 
the portion that relates to the kitchen vinyl as HCG has already agreed
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement Happy Customers Group Limited should:-
Cancel Miss Ds agreement ensuring no negative information is shown relating to this 
agreement on her credit file.
Refund any monies Miss D has paid towards the finance agreement
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman