DRN-4014700
The complaint
Ms P complains that Euroins AD declined her claim against her travel insurance policy.  
Reference to Euroins includes its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Ms P planned a trip with departure and return dates of             
22 February 2022 and 27 February 2022 respectively. On 17 February 2022, Ms P 
bought an annual travel insurance policy underwritten by Euroins. The policy started on 
22 February 2022.
On 20 February 2022, Ms P tested positive for Covid-19 on a lateral flow test. On         
21 February 2022, Ms P received notification that shed tested positive for Covid-19 
following a PCR test. She contacted Euroins. Theres a dispute about what was said 
during that call, which Ill refer to in more detail below. 
Ms P cancelled her trip and made a claim on her policy. Euroins declined Ms Ps claim. It 
said that was because the incident leading to the claim occurred outside the period of 
cover. Ms P wants Euroins to settle her claim, an apology and compensation. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that Euroins had 
acted unfairly in declining Ms Ps claim. That was because the event leading to the claim 
 Ms P testing positive for Covid-19  was before the start date of the policy, so it wasnt 
covered. 
Ms P didnt agree with the investigator. She said that when she called Euroins on         
21 February 2022 she didnt say that she needed to cancel her trip but was seeking 
advice. Ms P says that Euroins misled her and acted in bad faith in that it told her to 
cancel her trip that day. She says that Euroins said that it had listened to the recording of 
the relevant phone call but then said that it couldnt in fact be found. Ms P said that the 
call recording would show that Euroins misled her. 
The investigator made some further enquiries. Euroins said that Ms Ps call on              
21 February 2022 was to another business who have ceased trading, so it doesnt have 
access to the call recording. It said that it had made a mistake in its final response to   
Ms P when it said that it had listened to the recording. 
The investigator considered the matter again. She said that, based on the available 
evidence, she couldnt say that Ms P had been given inaccurate information. The 
investigator remained of the view that Euroins hadnt treated Ms P unfairly.
Ms P didnt agree with the investigator. She said that she was left in an impossible 
position, as she couldnt cancel the trip on the day of departure as her flight left before 
the travel providers offices were open. Ms P says that Euroins advised her to cancel the 
trip and have lied about that and about listening to the recording of the relevant phone 
call. She says that she called the number provided for claims. Ms P asked that an 
ombudsman consider the complaint, so it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy. The insurance product 
information document includes the following:
When does the cover start and end?
[]
For Annual Multi-Trip policies your cover will start on the policy start date shown on 
your schedule of insurance. []
CANCELLATION AND CURTAILMENT
What you are covered for
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the summary of cover for the unused portion of 
your travel and accommodation costs that you have paid or contracted to pay and you 
suffer a financial loss because you cannot get a full refund if you cancel before the start of 
your trip or cut your trip short and return home early during the period of insurance 
because of the following:
1. []
2. you [] receive a diagnosis of coronavirus within 14 days of the start of the trip []
What you are NOT covered for
[]
16. any costs incurred by you which are recoverable from a tour operator, public transport 
operator, accommodation provider, holiday services provider or any other source, or for 
which you receive or are expected to receive compensation or other assistance.
[]
Period of insurance: [] Cancellation cover for Annual Multi-trip policy will not commence 
until the start date shown on your certificate of insurance even if the premium has been 
paid earlier.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Euroins has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Ive considerable 
sympathy for Ms P. She missed her trip through no fault of her own. But Im not upholding                
Ms Ps complaint because I dont think that Euroins treated her unfairly or unreasonably. I 
say that because:   
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that the 
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. If the event is 
covered in principle but is declined on the basis of an exclusion set out in the policy 
the onus shifts to the insurer to show how that exclusion applies.
The event which led to the cancellation of Ms Ps trip was her diagnosis of     
Covid-19. That occurred before the start date of Ms Ps policy. So, Euroins acted in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy in declining the claim and I 
dont think that it acted unfairly or unreasonably in doing so. The date Ms P 
cancelled the trip isnt the determining issue in this case.  
In addition, theres an exclusion in the policy which says that Euroins wont pay any 
costs which are recoverable from a public transport or accommodation provider. 
Ms P says that it was possible to change her flight and accommodation. So, her 
costs were recoverable elsewhere. Even if Ms Ps diagnosis of Covid-19 was within 
the policy term, I think Euroins could have relied on the exclusion to which Ive 
referred. 
Ms P say that Euroins misled her in a phone call on 21 February 2022 in that it told 
her to cancel her trip immediately and submit a claim. The recording of the relevant 
phone call is no longer available. Thats not particularly unusual. Insurers arent 
obliged to retain recordings of phone calls. In this case, Euroins says that Ms P 
phoned another business who dealt with emergency medical claims and that 
business is no longer trading, so it cant access the recording. Its explained that it 
previously referred incorrectly to having listened to the recording. 
In cases like this, when theres a dispute about what was said, I need to decide, on 
balance, what I think is most likely to have happened based on the available 
evidence and surrounding circumstances. Ms P says that she was told to cancel 
the trip and submit a claim. I think it would be unusual for an insurer to direct a 
policyholder to cancel a trip. The more unusual an event, the more evidence is 
required to show that it happened. In all the circumstances here, I dont think 
theres sufficient evidence to enable me to conclude that Euroins told Ms P to 
cancel her trip.
Even if I reached a different conclusion about what Ms P was told on                    
21 February 2022, it wouldnt alter the outcome here, as it remains the case that 
the event leading to the claim - Ms Ps diagnosis of Covid-19 - occurred before the 
policy start date. So, even if Ms P had cancelled her trip later than she did, her 
claim still wouldnt come within the policy terms and conditions.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ps complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman