DRN-2958069
The complaint
Mr S complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua (Aqua) lent to him irresponsibly. 
  
What happened
Mr Ss credit card account was opened in February 2013. Between 2013 and 2016 his credit 
limit was increased seven times with the final limit reaching £5,650. Aqua havent given 
consent for our service to look into the credit limit increases beyond the six years prior to   
Mr S bringing his complaint. Aqua say Mr S will have been aware of the account opening 
and credit limit increases at the time so he will have been aware he had cause for complaint. 
Mr Ss credit limit was £2,250 from May 2014. The following credit limit increases were 
applied within the six years prior to Mr S bringing his complaint:
Date October 2014 March 2015 August 2015 January 2016
Credit limit £3,400 £4,150 £4,900 £5,650
 
Mr S wasnt able to keep up repayments so Aqua defaulted his account and sold the debt to 
another company. Mr S complained to Aqua as he felt they had unfairly increased his credit 
limits. Aqua responded and explained they regularly review how customers are using their 
accounts as well as how theyre managing their other credit commitments to ensure they are 
lending appropriately. They said, prior to each of the increases (in the table above) they sent 
Mr S a letter allowing him 40 days to opt out of the increase but he didnt. Aqua said Mr S 
was managing his account well prior to each of the credit limit increases so they didnt have 
any cause for concern. Aqua said they consider a range of information which includes 
information from Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs), account behaviour with Aqua, if a 
customer already has an account with Aqua and information a customer has provided on 
their application.  
Our investigator looked into things for Mr S. He thought the complaint relating to the account 
opening and the credit limit increases prior to October 2014 were out of time. And, in relation 
to the credit limit increases after this date, he thought Aqua hadnt carried out sufficient 
checks and had lent irresponsibly. He recommended Aqua refund all interest and charges 
from October 2014 and remove any adverse information from Mr Ss credit file. Aqua 
disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.   
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation here is a fair way to resolve matters. 
I cant see Mr S has challenged the investigators view about the account opening and the 
pre-October 2014 credit increases being out of time. I can see Mr S accepts he couldve 
contacted us sooner about those parts of his complaint. Aqua have also told us, given the 
passage of time, they no longer hold information about the account opening. So, Ive 
focused on the area where there is a dispute  and thats the increases from October 2014. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Aqua needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that they didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that they shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr S could repay the credit in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. 
The first point Ive addressed is whether I think Aqua carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks. Section 5 of the Consumer Credit (CONC) sourcebook, in place at the 
time, outline that the assessment that Aqua needed to complete shouldve been dependent 
on, and proportionate to, a number of factors  including the amount and cost of the credit 
and the consumers borrowing history. CONC also provides guidance on the sources of 
information Aqua may have wanted to consider as part of making a proportionate 
assessment. It then gives examples of factors a firm must consider and refers to whether the 
information the firm has is sufficient and whether to obtain additional information from the 
customer and any other sources of information to use.    
   
Aqua is free to decide how to set their lending criteria but they should complete 
proportionate checks to ensure borrowing is sustainable. In this case, I can see that Aqua, 
when applying the credit limit increases between October 2014 to January 2016, consider 
information including how Mr S was managing his credit card account and information from a 
CRA which includes his external credit card debt. I think this information would generally 
help in building a financial profile of a customer but, in this particular case, I dont think these 
checks were sufficient. Ill explain why.  
Aqua offered Mr S a credit limit increase in October 2014 to £3,400  this being an increase 
of £1,150 from his previous credit limit. This represents a 51% increase in the credit limit 
made available to Mr S. The increases which followed, in order of sequence, brought the 
credit limit up by £750 (22%), £750 (18%) and £750 (15%). Looking at the first of these 
credit limit increases, Mr S is given an additional credit facility of £1,150 - taking the total 
amount of credit available to him to £3,400. In my view, this was a significant increase and 
Aqua needed to ensure Mr S could sustainably repay a balance of £3,400 within a 
reasonable period of time. Aquas correspondence suggests that their decision to increase 
the credit limit on Mr Ss account was based on his account conduct and management as 
well as information from a CRA. When I consider Mr Ss credit limit increased by 51%, I dont 
think these checks alone provide a complete picture of Mr Ss financial position and whether 
he can sustainably repay additional borrowing. Even if a borrower is able to successfully 
manage a given credit limit, I dont think this should mean they can then automatically be 
deemed, without further appropriate checks, to be able to successfully manage a higher 
limit.  
In this case, I think it wouldve been reasonable for Aqua to ask for a copy of Mr Ss bank 
statements to get a better and more complete picture of his incoming/outgoings and also the 
balance hes left with at the end of the month. This wouldve helped Aqua in assessing 
whether Mr S is left with sufficient balance to be able to sustainably repay any additional 
borrowing. 
Given that I dont think reasonable and proportionate checks were completed in this case, 
the next point Ive considered is, if reasonable and proportionate checks had been 
completed, would they more likely than not have shown that Mr S was more likely than not 
unable to sustainably repay what he was being lent. To help decide this, Ive looked at Mr Ss bank statements for the three months leading up to 
each credit limit increase. Leading up to the first increase, this shows that, apart from around 
two days, Mr S was in overdraft throughout the entire period between July to September. 
And, for a number of periods this was over £1,000 but largely it was over £500. The 
statements also show Mr S making monthly payments to debt collection agents. In addition 
to this, the statements show Mr S is going further into overdraft to repay other lenders. Its 
therefore clear Mr S was using his overdraft to service other debts  in this case, his account 
with other lenders. So, I feel if Aqua had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks it 
wouldve showed Mr S being in a difficult financial position and needing his overdraft facility 
to either meet other repayment liabilities or to otherwise make ends meet. This wouldve 
highlighted that Mr S wouldnt be able to repay the extra credit in a sustainable manner and 
without any undue difficulty. 
Looking at the three months leading up to the next increase, this shows that, apart from 
around four days, Mr S was in overdraft throughout the entire period between December 
2014 to February 2015. And, for a number of periods this was over £1,000 but largely it was 
over £500. The statements also show Mr S making monthly payments to debt collection 
agents. Theres a deposit of just over £1,750 in December which brings Mr Ss account 
balance into credit, but this is only for three days after which the account is again overdrawn. 
The statement for January 2015 shows a similar position although, following the deposit of 
£1,750, Mr Ss account goes from credit to overdrawn on the same day. Again, the 
statements show Mr S is going further into overdraft to repay other lenders which suggests 
Mr S was using his overdraft to service other debts. The external data obtained by Aqua 
from a CRA also shows, when this credit increase was applied in March 2015, Mr Ss credit 
card balance had increased by 65% since his last credit increase. In addition to this, Aquas 
own data showing how Mr S has used his card shows cash advances on his credit card in 
December 2014 and February 2015  the latter being for £940. So, taking this all into 
account, I think this again highlights financial difficulties and that Mr S wouldnt be able to 
repay any further borrowing in a sustainable manner.
Five months later, in August 2015, Mr Ss credit limit is increased again. Looking at the three 
months leading up to this increase, this shows that theres a combined period of around 
three weeks over the three months (between May to July 2015) where Mr S wasnt in 
overdraft. And, for a number of periods this was over £1,000 but largely it was over £500. 
The statements also show Mr S making monthly payments to debt collection agents. Again, 
the statements show Mr S is going further into overdraft to repay other lenders which 
suggests Mr S was using his overdraft to service other debts. The statements also show    
Mr S taking out a number of payday loans. He takes out three loans, for a combined amount 
of £2,000 in May. This does temporarily bring his account balance into credit, but only for 
three days after which his account is again overdrawn. The following month, Mr S takes out 
two further loans. And, on both of these occasions, when the loan arrives into Mr Ss 
account, it still remains in overdraft. I think this shows an increasing reliance on payday 
loans to reduce other liabilities and make ends meet. The external data obtained by Aqua 
from a CRA also shows, when this credit increase was applied, Mr Ss credit card balance 
had increased by 19% since his last credit increase. In addition to this, Aquas own data 
showing how Mr S has used his card shows a cash advance on his credit card in May 2015. 
So, taking this all into account, I think this again highlights financial difficulties and that Mr S 
wouldnt be able to repay any further borrowing in a sustainable manner.
The final increase takes place in January 2016. Looking at the three months leading up to 
this increase, this shows that theres a combined period of around one week over the three 
months (between October to December 2015) where Mr S wasnt in overdraft. And, for a 
number of periods this was over £1,000 but largely it was over £500. The statements also 
show Mr S making monthly payments to debt collection agents. Again, the statements show Mr S is going further into overdraft to repay other lenders which suggests Mr S was using his 
overdraft to service other debts. The statements also show Mr S taking out a payday loan of 
£750 in October 2015. And, hes still in overdraft even after this arrives into his account. I 
think this shows Mr S is still reliant on payday loans to reduce other liabilities and make ends 
meet. The external data obtained by Aqua from a CRA also shows, when this credit increase 
was applied, Mr Ss credit card balance had further increased since his last credit increase. 
So, taking this all into account, I think this again highlights financial difficulties and that Mr S 
wouldnt be able to repay any further borrowing in a sustainable manner.
 
Looking at the few months leading up to all credit limit increases, I think there are consistent 
themes here which I believe wouldve highlighted Mr S wouldnt be able to repay the 
additional credit in a sustainable manner. His bank account was consistently in overdraft 
throughout those periods, he was using his overdraft to service other debts, taking payday 
loans to service his overdraft and other liabilities, he was paying debt collection agents and 
even when large payments deposited in his account brought his account into credit, it wasnt 
long before the account went back into overdraft. Given the facts in this case, I think Aquas 
checks were limited. And, had they carried out reasonable and proportionate checks, I think 
they wouldve highlighted Mr S being in financial difficulty and unlikely to repay the additional 
borrowing without undue difficulty.    
Aqua say, whenever the credit limit was increased, they sent Mr S a letter in advance letting 
him know about it and giving him an opportunity to opt out  but Mr S never declined the 
increase. Aqua have provided a copy of the letters sent to Mr S prior to the credit limit 
increases. This says they would like to increase Mr Ss credit limit and ask Mr S to consider 
whether he can afford to pay back any borrowing and if his circumstances are likely to 
change which may impact his ability to pay back any money. They give Mr S three options, 
he can contact them to increase the limit immediately, make no contact in which case the 
limit will automatically increase in 40 days or he can contact Aqua and decline the credit limit 
increase and/or ask for his limit not to be increased in the future. So, I acknowledge the 
letters do give Mr S the option to decline the increase but Im not persuaded this means 
Aqua have done enough. The evidence I have referred to above clearly shows Mr S was 
relying on borrowing from one lender to service other debts with other lenders. I believe     
Mr Ss financial position meant he wouldnt have opted out of any credit increase regardless 
of the level of increase. And the fact that Mr S didnt opt out doesnt change the fact Aqua 
have a responsibility to make a fair lending decision.
  
I do acknowledge Aquas point about Mr Ss management of his credit card account and 
there being no late or over limit fees. Looking through his payment history, I agree it does 
generally show he makes payments above the monthly interest amount and I cant see he 
uses the additional credit facility immediately once it becomes available. But, as mentioned 
above, this only provides a limited picture of Mr Ss financial circumstances. And, given the 
amount of the first increase in October 2014, this shouldve led to further checks beyond 
those that were carried out by Aqua. I believe had that been done, then it wouldve shown a 
more accurate picture of Mr Ss financial circumstances. And, from what Aqua wouldve 
identified from those checks  in particular, the bank statements  I think it wouldve 
highlighted Mr S wouldnt be able to repay additional borrowing in a sustainable manner. 
Aqua say the rules which apply to the credit limit increases in this case are the CONC rules 
in place between April 2014 and November 2018. Aqua say theres no reference in those 
rules to a lender using multiple CRAs or to obtain bank statements so they say its unfair to 
apply rules retrospectively. I agree with Aqua about the CONC rules applicable at the time 
not having a specific requirement for those factors, but its important to remember CONC 
5.2.4 [G] in place at the time provides guidance on the sources of information a lender may want to consider as part of making a proportionate assessment. The rules do make it clear 
that a firm should consider what is appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent 
on, for example, the type and amount of the credit and the potential risks to the consumer. 
And, the risk of credit not being sustainable directly relates to the amount of credit granted. 
This is what Ive taken into account when looking at this complaint. I believe, given the level 
of credit increases, it was appropriate for Aqua to ask for Mr Ss bank statements. And, Ive 
then set out what those bank statements wouldve shown and how this demonstrated a risk 
of the credit not being sustainable. 
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Aqua lent irresponsibly to Mr S when they increased his credit limit 
from October 2014. I therefore consider this is irresponsible lending and Aqua should put 
this right. So, they should refund all interest, fees and charges accrued or incurred on Mr Ss 
account from October 2014 to the date the account was sold. This would put Mr S back in 
the position he would have been in were it not for the lending decisions taken by Aqua. 
Any refund should be paid direct to the company which is now the owner of the account so it 
can be used against the balance owing. 
If however, after the refund is deducted, this results in there being a credit balance in Mr Ss 
favour, Aqua must pay this amount to Mr S together with 8% simple interest, calculated from 
the dates of any overpayments to the date that the payment is made to Mr S. 
If the balance has already been cleared then Aqua should pay the refund to Mr S together 
with 8% simple interest, calculated from the dates of any overpayments to the date that the 
payment is made to Mr S.   
If there is such a refund, then Aqua should provide Mr S with a certificate showing any 
taxation deducted.
Aqua must also remove all adverse reporting from Mr Ss credit file for this account from 
October 2014 onwards.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua must take the 
steps in accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman