DRN-3151018
The complaint
Mr A complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax didnt provide the service it 
should have regarding his overseas payment. He says Halifaxs actions resulted in his 
payment being delayed and him incurring a penalty charge.
Mr A wants to be compensated for the cost of the penalty charge as well as the cost of the 
phone calls he had to make.
What happened
In March 2021, Mr A made an overseas payment. He says he contacted the overseas 
payment team to provide extra information which he thought could be asked for as part of 
the transaction, but it wouldnt take the information. After a week he contacted Halifax as the 
payment hadnt been received by the receiving bank. He called Halifax again and was given 
a reference number but says the receiving bank still couldnt locate the payment. He says 
Halifax then contacted the correspondent bank to get an update and says that more 
information had been requested (Mr A says this was the information he had previously tried 
to provide). Mr A then received a call to say the receiving bank had rejected the money due 
to the delay in the additional information being provided. Mr A says that Halifax didnt provide 
him with updates, and he had to make calls from overseas costing him money. He further 
says he had to pay a penalty clause because of the delay in making his overseas payment. 
Halifax issued its final response in April 2021. It said that the payment was sent as 
requested and was held for additional compliance by the beneficiary bank. It said the 
beneficiary bank requested further information from the correspondent bank with a deadline 
of 25 March 2021. But Halifax didnt receive the request until 29 March 2021. It said that 
another bank holding the payment for compliance is out of its control and that it wasnt its 
process to hold extra information for a premeditated check but instead would respond in a 
timely way to any compliance check request made to it. Halifax didnt accept it had made a 
mistake but as a gesture of goodwill offered to cover Mr As call costs of £150. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He didnt think that Halifax was responsible for 
the delay in providing the information which led to Mr As money being returned.
Mr A didnt agree with our investigators view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr A was upset that his payment was delayed and then returned, and 
I note the consequences this had in terms of a penalty charge and the costs of the calls he 
made in order to establish where his money was. However, this complaint is against Halifax 
and so to uphold it I would need to be satisfied that Halifax had done something wrong or not 
treated Mr A fairly.
Mr A made an international payment on 16 March which was processed by Halifax. I have 
looked at the evidence of this payment and there is nothing to suggest there were any issues 
with this. Mr A then called Halifax the following day to provide additional information which 
he had been asked for on previous transactions. I can see Mr A was trying to minimise the 
risk of delay in the transaction and note he has said other transactions had also suffered 
delays. However, Halifax has explained that it couldnt add information at that time but would 
respond to any information request received. While I can see this means there is a risk of 
delay while the information is sourced following a request, as Halifax followed its usual 
process regarding this and I cannot say that this resulted in Mr A being treated unfairly or 
being disadvantaged I do not find it did anything wrong in regard to this aspect of Mr As 
complaint.
The key issue relates to the delay in the payment and its subsequent return. I have looked at 
all the information provided, and I cannot see that the delay which resulted in the payment 
being returned was caused by Halifax. Our investigator has explained the role of a 
correspondent bank and this is relevant here as Halifax has explained the beneficiary bank 
used a correspondent bank. In this case, after the payment was sent by Halifax, further 
information was requested from the correspondent bank and a deadline given of 25 March 
2021 for the information to be received. However, Halifax didnt receive an information 
request until 29 March, after the deadline. 
While there was then a short delay in this being actioned, the deadline had already passed. 
Halifax provided the requested information on 7 April however the money was returned on 
this day. As the reason given for the funds being returned was the requested information not 
being provided and as Halifax was not made aware of this issue until after the deadline for 
the information had passed, I do not find I can say it was Halifaxs error that meant the funds 
were returned, or that it was responsible for any significant delays.
Because of this I do not find that I can uphold this complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman