DRN-4447162
The complaint
Mr P says that Oplo PL Ltd (who Ill call Oplo) unfairly declined his claims under the
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) in relation to a timeshare product he was sold in May
2019. He also says the loan wasnt affordable for him and that Oplo were therefore
irresponsible to extend the credit.
Mr P has been represented by a professional representative who Ill call PR and he entered
into the timeshare agreement with his partner, but as the finance agreement
was in his sole name, I will refer only to Mr P or his representatives in this decision.
I mean no disrespect to Mr Ps partner when doing so.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint earlier this year. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
In May 2019 Mr P relinquished a pre-existing timeshare agreement with a supplier Ill call
Az and exchanged it for points to be used towards a timeshare product with the same
supplier. He financed the balance of £11,950 through a fixed sum loan with a finance
provider Ill call H. That finance agreement was regulated by the CCA.
In August 2022 Oplo acquired Mr Ps account from H and assumed the obligations that H
had in respect of the account and also the investigation of any complaints relating to the
servicing of the account. Oplo are now, therefore, the correct respondent for this complaint.
As some of the actions and submissions have been taken/made by H, and some have been
taken by Oplo, to save confusion, I will simply refer to Oplo in this decision.
In March 2021 Mr P complained to Oplo about problems he had encountered with the
timeshare product. There were a number of allegations and its not practical to reproduce
them all here, but I have taken note of them. He said the nature of the timeshare had been
misrepresented to him as hed been told it would be an investment and would generate a
profit. He said he was therefore able to make a claim against the lender under section 75 of
the CCA. He also said that there was an unfair debtor-creditor-supplier-relationship under
section 140A of the CCA as commission paid had not been divulged to him, and he hadnt
been directed to any alternative credit suppliers. He also said thered been a breach of
contract as Az had been liquidated and were therefore unable to provide the service hed
been sold. He said Oplo had been irresponsible to provide him with credit he couldnt afford.
Our investigator disagreed. He didnt think thered been a misrepresentation or that there
was evidence of an unfair relationship, and he wasnt persuaded there was sufficient
evidence that the loan was unaffordable for Mr P. He explained that although Az had been
liquidated the management of the service had been transferred to another business and that
there hadnt been a breach of contract.
PR didnt think the investigator had provided sufficiently detailed reasoning about why the
claim should fail. They enlarged on their opinion that the timeshare product had been
misrepresented to Mr P as an investment, and they asked for a decision by an ombudsman.
So, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im issuing a provisional decision here as its been some time since the investigator provided
his view and I cant see weve responded to all of the issues in the case.
Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Handbook to take
into account the relevant, laws and regulations; regulators rules, guidance, and standards;
codes of practice and, when appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the relevant time.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is designed to be a quick and informal alternative to the
courts under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA). Given that, my role as an
ombudsman is not to address every single point that has been made. Instead, it is to decide
what is fair and reasonable given the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, I
am only going to refer to what I think are the most salient points. But I have read all of the
submissions from both sides in full and I keep in mind all of the points that have been made
when I set out my decision.
The Consumer Credit Act 1974
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a fixed sum loan, as was the
case here, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer
Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement
has a right to make the same claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if
there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have
been met.
Section 56 of the CCA is relevant in the context of section 140A of the CCA that Mr P also
relies on, as the pre-contractual acts or omissions of the credit broker or supplier will be
deemed to be the responsibility of the lender, and this may be taken into account by a court
in deciding whether an unfair relationship exists between Mr P and Oplo.
It's not for me to decide the outcome of a claim Mr P may have under sections 75 or 140A
but Im required to take the provisions into account when deciding whether Oplo were
reasonable to reject Mr Ps claims.
The claim under section 75 of the CCA
Misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party to
a contract to the other, which is untrue, and which materially influenced the other party to
enter into the contract.
Mr P says the timeshare was sold as an investment and that he anticipated a profit when it
was resold. I dont agree the product was sold as an investment as, other than Mr Ps
testimony, theres no supporting evidence to suggest Mr P was told he could make a profit
from any sale  or how this would be achieved. So, while I recognise that Mr P has concerns
about the way in which his timeshare was sold, Im not persuaded that a court would
consider Mr P had been mis-sold the product as an investment.Mr P also says that Az have breached their contract with him as they have been liquidated
and are therefore no longer able to provide the service he purchased. It seems that the
management of Azs products have been taken over by another company V and that
company continues to offer the same services provided under the timeshare agreement. Ive
not been presented with any evidence to suggest Mr P was unable to access his points or
receive the service he paid for. So, I dont agree the contract was breached and, as such, I
dont think Oplo were unreasonable to reject Mr Ps section 75 claim.
The claim under section 140A of the CCA
Section 140A CCA looks at the fairness of the relationship between a debtor and creditor
arising out of the credit agreement (taken together with any related agreement).
I do not consider it likely that a court would conclude that the lenders acts and/or omissions,
or those of the supplier or credit broker as agents of the lender, generated an unfair debtor 
creditor relationship.
Mr P relies upon a number of clauses in the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading
Regulations 2008 (CPUT Regulations) that his representatives suggest created an unfair
relationship between him and Az. We know it is common that these sales presentations
often lasted for a number of hours. Ive therefore considered whether there is evidence that
Mr Ps ability to exercise choice was significantly impaired by the pressure and aggressive
sales tactics he says he experienced.
Regulation 7 of the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008 (CPUT
Regulations) seems to expand on the everyday definition of pressure. At the time of sale,
Regulation 7 stated that a commercial practice was aggressive if, in its factual context and
taking account of all of its features and circumstances, it:
a. significantly impaired or was likely to significantly impair the average consumers freedom
of choice or conduct in relation to the product concerned through the use of harassment,
coercion, or undue influence; and b. caused or was likely to cause the consumer to take a
transactional decision they would not have taken otherwise as a result.
Regulation 7(2) went on to say that consideration must be given to the timing, location,
nature, and persistence of the practice. And when thinking about whether undue influence
was applied, Regulation 7(3) said that thought must be given as to whether the Supplier
exploited a position of power in relation to the consumer so as to apply pressure, even
without using or threatening to use physical force, in a way which significantly [limited] the
consumers ability to make an informed decision.
Mr P had already attended several presentations with the same supplier, so I think he would
have been likely to have had an understanding of the approach that would be taken. I dont
think Ive been provided with sufficient information to suggest Mr P didnt understand he
didnt have to say yes to the agreement or that he didnt understand he could walk away
without entering into it. He was also provided with a 14 day cooling off period and I think that
allowed him to reflect and withdraw from the agreement and the loan if he wished.
Overall, Im not persuaded that Mr Ps ability to exercise choice was  or was likely to have
been  significantly impaired contrary to Regulation 7 of the CPUT Regulations.
PR also claims that an unfair relationship existed because Mr P wasnt told about the
commission Az received from Oplo. Oplo have confirmed that no commission was paid in
this case so I think its unlikely a court would find there was an unfair relationship for that
reason.PR also say that Mr P wasnt offered a choice of lenders. Az wasnt acting as an agent of
Mr P and his partner but as the supplier of contractual rights they obtained under the
Purchase Agreement. And, in relation to the loan, it still doesnt look like it was the Suppliers
role to make an impartial or disinterested recommendation or to give Mr P and his partner
advice or information on that basis. However, even if its right to suggest that Mr P and his
partner should have been presented with a range of lenders to choose from, theres little to
nothing to demonstrate that they have suffered a financial loss because they entered into a
credit agreement with Oplo rather than another lender. And, for that reason, Im not
persuaded that created or contributed to an unfair relationship between Mr P and Oplo on
this occasion given the facts and circumstances of this complaint.
Was the loan irresponsible?
Mr P says that the lender was in breach of its obligations to carry out an adequate credit
assessment to determine whether he could afford to repay the loan. He says that they had
strict obligations to complete a creditworthiness check under the Financial Conduct
Authoritys Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) and failed to undertake those obligations.
However, when considering a complaint about unaffordable lending, a large consideration is
whether the borrowing was likely to prove unaffordable in practice and whether the
complainant has actually lost out due to any failings on the part of the lender. So even if I
was persuaded that the lender did not do appropriate checks (and I make no such finding),
for me to say it needed to do something to put things right, I would need to see that the
credit granted by them was likely to be unaffordable and that Mr P suffered a loss as a
result. Ive not been provided with sufficient evidence from Mr P to suggest he didnt have
enough disposable income to sustainably afford repayments against this loan, and I dont
therefore think it would be reasonable to suggest the lender was irresponsible when
providing the credit.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im not expecting to uphold this complaint.
Further comments and/or evidence
Oplo confirmed that they had no further comments they wished to make, but Mr Ps 
representatives provided detailed further submissions and an additional statement from 
Mr P.
Its not practical to list all of the submissions here, but Mr P enlarged upon what had 
happened in May 2019 when he purchased the timeshare product. He said:
It was suggested to us that we give up all of the apartments that we owned and transfer to 
the XP system as this would benefit us. We were told that having the XP system would 
improve our financial investment and allow us to make more money. sell these, to allow us to 
recoup the money that we had spent. With this purchase we were offered 4 years free
of maintenance fees, which would improve the financial situation. However, the meeting was 
lengthy. We had not been able to realise our investments on our previous purchases despite 
having listed them for re-sale and we were initially reluctant to commit to such a long-term 
product as the XP points. However, the sales rep went into great detail as to how this was 
the perfect product to recoup all our monies and effectively holiday for free (we had been 
struggling somewhat with all the maintenance fees we were required to pay annually which 
we had mentioned to the rep) by using the flexibility of the XP points products.Our initial position was that the level of XP points we required would only require to be
Level 1. It was our intention to start holidaying in the UK. (We were shown what looked
like a lovely hotel in England which would have been perfect. It was explained that by
trading in our existing timeshares we would be given a level 2 membership at the price of
a level 1and this would assist us in recovering our monies at a profit by selling the unused
points and also give us an exit strategy from the timeshare.
Basically, we were advised that the points we were not using annually would be sold to
other XP members who required additional points to access the premium products such as
supercars and yachts and our left-over points would be sold to them at a premium price.
We were advised that this could also include points above our maximum annual usage as
the selling price of these would more than cover the surcharge on using points earlier than
provided for in the contract. This would allow us to exit our timeshare early at a profit.
We would effectively be able to holiday for free as the monies we would make on selling
our points would cover our annual membership fee when we required to start paying it
after the 4 year grace period.
We were given the impression that Az (my edit) would handle all of this. We would
not have purchased the XP points if we had not believed there was a very real investment
element to them.
When the Azs (my edit) booking office re-opened on January 1st 2020 we attempted to 
book the hotel in England and were told it was unavailable. When we tried to find it on 
Google to see if we could book direct it didnt exist.
At no point did Az (my edit) contact us regarding the sale of our points despite that being our
understanding of what would happen at the point of sale.
PR therefore repeated their assertion that the timeshare was sold as an investment and the 
timeshare provider was prohibited from doing that. They insisted the timeshare had been 
misrepresented to Mr P as it would not have given him easy access to a specific holiday 
destination in England, and because Mr P had been led to believe he could sell his points 
and had only entered into the deal on that basis.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons Ive already set out I dont agree the product was sold as an investment as, 
other than Mr Ps testimony, theres no supporting evidence to suggest he was told he could 
make a profit. Im not persuaded that a court would, therefore, consider the product was mis-
sold as an investment.
I cant see that Mr P, or his representatives complained to Oplo about the English 
accommodation and potential misrepresentation. Its only fair for Oplo to have an opportunity 
to respond to any complaint points before this Service considers them and if Mr P wishes to 
pursue that aspect of his claim hell need to do that. Ive already explained why I dont think I 
have sufficient evidence to support the misrepresentation claim Mr P enlarged upon in his 
most recent submissions. Whilst I appreciate his additional testimony, I dont think theres 
sufficient evidence of misrepresentation, in particular, theres no supporting evidence to 
suggest Mr P was told he could make a profit from any sale  or how this would be achieved. Im not therefore persuaded to change my provisional decision and that provisional decision 
becomes my final decision on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman