DRN-4337291
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) unfairly turned down 
his claim made about something bought using his credit card.
What happened
In 2010, Mr A, alongside his wife, purchased holiday club membership from a business Ill 
call Business H. This was paid for by Mr and Mrs A making a payment of £300 using his 
Nationwide credit card and then transferring £3,650 from their joint bank account.1 But this 
credit card payment wasnt made directly to Business H, rather it went to a different business 
Ill call Business F.
Later that year, Mr and Mrs A upgraded their membership with Business H and paid a further 
£5,995 for this. Again, Mr A used his Nationwide credit card and the payment was made to 
Business F for £1,274.50  its not clear how the balance was paid, but I can see that in May 
2011, Business H wrote to Mr and Mrs A saying the balance was paid.
In 2016, using a professional representative (PR), Mr A made a claim to Nationwide under 
s.75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). In short, PR said Business H made 
misrepresentations at the times of the sales that, under s.75 CCA, Nationwide were jointly 
responsible to answer. It also said Business H had breached its agreements due to 
breaches in Spanish law. In the letter of complaint, it wasnt clear whether PR was 
complaining about the first or second sale, or both.2
Nationwide considered the claim, but didnt think there was enough to show either a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract. So it declined Mr As claim.
Unhappy with what Nationwide said, Mr A referred a complaint about the declined claim to 
our service. When doing so, PR also said there was an unfair debtor-creditor relationship 
under s.140A CCA due to the way the memberships were sold. After that, Nationwide also 
said that Mr A was too late in bringing a s.75 CCA under the provisions of the Limitation Act 
1980 (LA).
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but didnt think Nationwide needed to do 
anything further. She thought that the claim for misrepresentation had been made too late 
under the provisions of the LA. She thought the allegations of breaches of Spanish law were 
better dealt with under s.140A CCA, rather than as a claim for breach of contract, but she 
concluded that there wasnt enough to say there was an unfair debtor-creditor relationship 
arising out of the purchases. So she concluded that Nationwide didnt need to do anything 
more to resolve the complaint.
1 Although the holiday club membership was in the joint names of Mr and Mrs A, as the credit card 
used was in Mr As name only, the complaint is his alone to bring to our service.
2 In this decision, Ive considered the sale of both memberships. In my provisional decision, I 
explained that if Mr A disagreed and thought he was only claiming in respect of one of them, he could 
let me know. But he didnt respond to my provisional decision, and so I have considered the sale of 
both.
PR said that Mr A didnt agree with the view and asked for the matter to be looked at again 
by an ombudsman. It thought that Mr A had longer to bring the misrepresentation claim than 
our investigator found. So the matter was passed to me for a decision.
Having considered everything, I didnt think Mr As complaint should be upheld, but for 
different reasons to our investigator. So I issued a provisional decision and invited both 
parties to provide me anything further they wanted me to consider before I issued a final 
decision. 
In my provisional decision, I explained that I considered all the available evidence and 
arguments to decide what was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
And when doing so, I was required by DISP 3.6.4 R of the FCA Handbook to take into 
account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what [the ombudsman] considers to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
PR brought a claim on Mr As behalf under s.75 and s.140A CCA. So, I thought it was helpful 
to set out the relevant legal provisions.
s.75(1) CCA states:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) 
or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against 
the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a 
like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and 
severally liable to the debtor
s.12(b) CCA states that a debtor-creditor-supplier (D-C-S) agreement is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement being:
a restricted-use credit agreement which falls within section 11(1)(b) and is made by 
the creditor under pre-existing arrangements, or in contemplation of future 
arrangements, between himself and the supplier
An agreement is a s.11(1)(b) restricted-use credit agreement if it is a regulated CCA 
agreement used to finance a transaction between the debtor and a person (the supplier) 
other than the creditor.
s.140A CCA states:
(1)The court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it determines that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor 
arising out of the agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement) is 
unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following 
(a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of his rights 
under the agreement or any related agreement;(c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
(2) In deciding whether to make a determination under this section the court shall 
have regard to all matters it thinks relevant (including matters relating to the creditor 
and matters relating to the debtor).
(3) For the purposes of this section the court shall (except to the extent that it is not 
appropriate to do so) treat anything done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, or in 
relation to, an associate or a former associate of the creditor as if done (or not done) 
by, or on behalf of, or in relation to, the creditor.
Section 140C CCA says that the reference in s.140A CCA to a related agreement includes 
a linked transaction in relation to the main agreement, which is defined in s.19 CCA as:
(1) A transaction entered into by the debtor or hirer, or a relative of his, with any 
other person (the other party), except one for the provision of security, is a linked 
transaction in relation to an actual or prospective regulated agreement (the principal 
agreement) of which it does not form part if -

(b) the principal agreement is a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement and the 
transaction is financed, or to be financed, by the principal agreement
I thought that the upshot of this was that there needed to be a D-C-S agreement in place for 
the lender (here Nationwide) to be liable to the borrower (here Mr A) for the 
misrepresentations or breaches of contract of the supplier (here Business H). And a D-C-S 
agreement was also needed if the Suppliers acts and/or omissions were to be assessed as 
part of an assessment of unfairness under s.140A CCA. But, on the face of it, there were no 
such arrangements in place at the relevant times as Business H wasnt paid directly using 
the credit card, rather the payments were taken by Business F.
I said there are ways in which there can be a D-C-S agreement in place, even if the supplier 
wasnt paid directly using a credit card. But since our investigator issued their view, the law 
in this area had been clarified by the judgment in Steiner v. National Westminster Bank plc 
[2022] EWHC 2519 (KB) (Steiner). Steiner considered whether there was a D-C-S 
agreement in circumstances where Business F took payment on a credit card in relation to 
the purchase of timeshare membership from a business called C. The court considered the 
arrangements between the parties and concluded that, as the payment to C was made 
outside of the credit card network, in that instance there wasnt a D-C-S agreement in place. 
I thought the circumstances of Mr As case were very similar. Here, the same business 
(Business F) took payment for Mr As purchase of Business H holiday club memberships. 
So, based on the judgment in Steiner, I thought a court would come to a similar conclusion 
and say that there was no D-C-S agreement in place and, in turn, no valid s.75 CCA claim.
I also considered whether there might be an unfair debtor-creditor relationship between Mr A 
and Nationwide arising out of the purchases. But again, I could only consider how the 
agreements between Mr A and Business H affected the fairness of the debtor-creditor 
relationship if there was a valid D-C-S agreement in place. And, for the same reasons, I 
didnt think such an arrangement was in place, nor had Mr A suggested there was an unfair 
relationship for any other reason.
Under the rules set out above, I explained that I must take into account the law, but come to my own determination of what is fair and reasonable in any given complaint. Here, I didnt 
think it would be fair to make Nationwide responsible for Business Hs failures when the law 
didnt impose such a liability. Further, I couldnt see that Nationwide and Business H were 
connected in any way, nor was there any other reason to say Nationwide should be 
responsible for Business Hs failings.
I follows, therefore, that I didnt think Nationwide needed to answer the claims made. 
I didnt comment on whether the claim made under s.75 CCA had been made too late under 
the provisions of the LA as, even if it hadnt, I didnt think Nationwide needed to answer the 
claim as there was no D-C-S agreement in place.
Nationwide responded to say it had nothing further to add. Neither PR nor Mr A responded 
to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given me anything further to consider, I see no reason to depart from 
my provisional findings.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint against Nationwide Building 
Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman