DRN-3420864
The complaint
Miss L complains that the service Barclays Bank UK PLC provided when she ordered a new 
cheque book was appalling.
What happened
Miss L called Barclays to order a new cheque book on 26 July 2021. She was told it would 
take 5 to 7 working days to be delivered, but it took nearly two weeks. To chase it up she 
called and tried to use the online chat. But the bank repeatedly failed to call her back as 
promised, or called back without knowing what the issue was and the web chat either 
disconnected, had long wait times, wasnt available or didnt address her concerns. When 
she tried to use the online complaint form it didnt work and displayed error messages. 
Miss L was waiting for a cheque so she could renew her driving licence and so the delay and 
poor service caused her a lot of stress and inconvenience. She asks for compensation to 
recognise this.  
Barclays acknowledged Miss L had tried to contact it several times. It apologised for the 
upset caused and credited Miss Ls account with £25. Unhappy with this resolution Miss L 
brought her complaint to this service. Barclays then made an offer to increase the 
compensation by a further £75 saying it could see it had provided contradictory information 
about delivery timescales and it had missed a call back. Miss L rejected this offer saying it in 
no way recognised the level of stress and inconvenience she had suffered.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Ls complaint. In summary, she said whilst she 
appreciated that it was urgent for Miss L to receive her new cheque book, and that Barclays 
had not provided accurate or responsive service at times, the cheque book was not 
unreasonably late. She felt the total payment of £100 that Barclays was now offering was fair 
and reasonable.
Miss L disagreed with this assessment. She felt it didnt consider all the stress and anxiety 
the bank had caused when it made it so hard for her to get answers on the phone or online. 
She had wanted to know if she could collect the cheque book in a branch to speed things up, 
but no-one answered this, or if she could collect a single cheque. She desperately needed 
the cheque book so enable her to renew her driving licence and explained why it was so 
hard not being able to drive. She thought she asked for new one prior to 26 July 2022, so it 
maybe took 3 to 4 weeks to arrive. She asked why hadnt the bank sent a new cheque book 
with her new debit card to avoid all this.
Our investigator issued a second assessment. She remained of the view that Miss Ls 
complaint should not be upheld. She said Miss L was initially told the cheque book would be 
sent out in 5-7 working days and it arrived only shortly after this timeframe.  Deliveries to 
branches take longer (12-15 working days) and are only for exceptional circumstances such 
as students or accountholders living overseas. There is no facility to issue single cheques in 
branches either. And whilst there is an automatic trigger for re-issue when a customer is 
near the end of a cheque book, one is not sent with new debit cards. Finally, Barclays has 
searched its contact notes back to the start of 2021 and there is nothing to show Miss L 
ordered a new cheque book before 26 July 2021.
Miss L said this assessment still does not address all her complaint points or show that we 
have properly understood how the delay in receiving the cheque book impacted her. As an 
agreement could not be reached the complaint was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Miss Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
I can see that Miss L found the interactions she had with the bank when she was trying to 
chase up her cheque book frustrating and stressful. And I understand that she urgently 
wanted a cheque to renew her driving licence, and that not driving restricted her life 
significantly. 
I asked the bank why a new cheque book was not automatically sent to Miss L. It sent us 
records that show her last cheque book was issued in 2012 and explained that it cant see 
that any of the cheques from that last book debited Miss Ls account, nor had she reported 
the book lost or stolen. This means the system would think she still had a whole book in use, 
and therefore the automatic re-issue trigger would not be activated. This is reasonable and 
rational.
The evidence shows Miss L ordered a new cheque book on 26 July 2021 and she has said it 
arrived nearly two weeks later. This falls outside the 5-7 working days she was initially 
advised, but the banks records show it was issued on 27 July 2021 so it seems there was a 
delay in the post. I cant fairly hold the bank liable for this, and so I cant conclude the bank 
made any errors when it issued the cheque book. 
Where I have found failings however is in the service Barclays provided when Miss L tried to 
chase up the cheque book. I note she didnt allow the full 7 working days before following up, 
but nevertheless she should not have had to experience the missed call back, 
unavailable/incomplete web chats and inconsistent and inaccurate information about the 
likely delivery date on different calls. 
I think however the banks offer to increase the total compensation to £100 to recognise this 
is fair and reasonable. To reach this decision I have thought carefully about everything    
Miss L has told us, and also about how long the issue lasted. I note it would have been 
possible for Miss L to send the DVLA a postal order and whilst I appreciate this may have 
caused some inconvenience and a minimal cost, it was an option she had to mitigate against 
the delay  and I can see from one of the transcripts I have reviewed that she did say she 
would have to do this. I find the £100 payment is sufficient to also cover minimal cost this 
may have involved if Miss L did indeed use this option. 
My final decision
I am not upholding Miss Ls complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC should now pay Miss L the 
additional £75 compensation it offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman