DRN-1383252
The complaint
Mr M complains that Ageas Insurance Limited declined his furniture warranty claim for 
damage to his sofa and cancelled his policy. 
What happened
Mr M bought some upholstered furniture from a national retailer in September 2016. At the 
same time, he bought a five-year extended warranty which provided cover for accidental 
staining and structural defects that occurred outside the manufacturers guarantee period. 
Mr M claimed on the warranty in July 2019. He reported to Ageas that thered been sudden 
ripping to the stitching/seams on the sofa and that the back cushions were sagging. Ageas 
arranged for one of its technicians to attend and inspect damage a few days later. 
The technician reported to Ageas that the seam had ripped and was fraying. He said the 
stitching was intact but there was fraying into the panel. He thought the cover itself had been 
pulled and ripped and was now frayed. He thought the sagging to the back cushions was 
regular settlement on account of them not being regularly dressed (plumped). He said the 
fill hadnt migrated into the cavity and there was no stitching fault. The technician concluded 
there was no cover under the warranty for the damage hed seen. 
Ageas wrote to Mr M the next day to say that the stitching hadnt failed and was still in place 
and there were no structural defects present such as were required by the policy terms. It 
said that unfortunately Mr Ms claim wasnt covered by the warranty terms. 
Mr M called Ageas to complain. He said the fabric had frayed next to the stitching as a result 
of it being stitched too tightly to the seam. He said the seam was coming loose so it was the 
seam thatd failed not the fabric. Ageas said that fraying wasnt covered by the warranty.    
Mr M said he was unhappy because the retailer had told him when he bought the furniture 
that the warranty covered everything except dye transfer. He said the damage was a defect 
caused by the stitching or the framework and he was going to complain to the retailer. 
Ageas looked into Mr Ms complaint. During the course of its investigation it thought it hadnt 
reached the wrong decision about its liability for Mr Ms claim. It noted its technician had said 
the seam stitching hadnt failed but the fabric had pulled away from the seam and frayed and 
that fraying wasnt covered by the warranty. Whilst it was looking into Mr Ms complaint Mr M 
phoned the claim administrator and made some threatening and abusive comments about a 
staff member at the retailer. 
Ageas emailed Mr M to say due to the content of the conversation hed had with the claim 
administrator, it no longer wished to deal with him so it was cancelling his warranty. Mr M 
said he was unhappy with the action taken by Ageas and he said he wanted a premium 
refund. 
Ageas issued its final response on Mr Ms complaint a few days later. It set out why the 
damage Mr M had claimed for wasnt covered by the warranty and that the threats hed 
made about the retailers staff member went beyond acceptable behaviour. It said section 8 
of the warranty allowed it to cancel the warranty for threatening and abuse behaviour. Ageas 
made Mr M a pro-rated return of his warranty premium (£130).
Unhappy with Ageas findings, Mr M complained to this service. Our investigator looked into 
his complaint but didnt think Ageas had treated him unfairly or unreasonably so didnt 
recommend that it was upheld. Mr M disagreed with our investigators findings and said he 
would get an independent inspection report into the damage. Our investigator asked Mr M 
on 5 occasions to send the report if he wanted it considered but he didnt do so. 
The complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like all insurance policies, Mr Ms warranty only covers him for damage caused by the 
certain events listed in it. In Mr Ms case, his warranty covered him for accidental staining 
and structural defects. 
Structural defects are defined as: 
Faults found outside of the manufacturers guarantee period that have occurred due to faulty 
or defective components, specificallybreakage or separation of frame components, 
breaking or bending of metal mechanisms,warping, broken zipsunstitching of buttons or 
failure of any stitching. [my emphasis].
Damage caused by anything else such as wear and tear or fraying isnt covered because it 
isnt mentioned. The only potential cause of damage that can be said to possibly apply to the 
damage Mr M reported is the failure of any stitching.
When Mr M first reported the claim he said thered been a sudden ripping of the 
stitching/seams. That sounds to me like the damage was accidental and unintended. It 
doesnt sound like it was the result of a structural defect. Mr M didnt report the stitching had 
failed. Ageas technician reported the seam had ripped then frayed but the stitching was 
intact. In other words, the stitching hadnt failed. 
Ive thought about Mr Ms comments that the fabric had frayed next to the stitching as a 
result of it being stitched too tightly to the seam and that the seam was coming loose but 
hes not said the stitching itself has failed. And I cant ignore what he first reported  that the 
damage had been a sudden ripping of the seams  nor that the technician said the same, 
namely that the seam had ripped but the stitching was intact. Ive also watched the video of 
the damage that Mr M sent us and looked at the photographs. And I cant say it shows 
theres been a failure of any stitching such that would allow me to reasonably conclude that 
Ageas had unfairly declined his claim. 
Theres no cover under the warranty for sagging cushions so I cant reasonably require 
Ageas to accept Mr Ms claim for them. 
Section 8 of the warranty says; The insurermay at any time cancel any insurance 
document by giving 14 days notice in writing where there is a valid reason for doing 
soValid reasons may include but are not limited to:c) Threatening and abusive 
behaviourProvided the premium has been paid in full You will be entitled to a 
proportionate rebate of premium in respect of the unexpired period on the insurance.I wont repeat what was said here but Ive noted the comments Mr M made to the claims 
administrator and I dont think, given their nature, Ageas has unreasonably decided to cancel 
his warranty. I think the comments were threatening and abusive and the warranty terms 
permit Ageas to cancel the policy in such circumstances. I dont think Ageas treated Mr M 
unfairly by doing so. I can see it has refunded Mr M £130 which represents a pro-rated 
rebate of his premium in respect of the remainder of the term of his warranty. That seems 
fair to me and is in line with the warranty terms and conditions. 
Following our investigators follow up view sent to Mr M in October 2019, he said he would 
obtain an independent inspection report into the damage and send it to us. I can see that our 
investigator has contacted Mr M on no less than 5 occasions asking that he send us the 
report. Unfortunately, no report has been forthcoming. I have to treat both parties to a 
complaint fairly. That means I cant give one party an unlimited amount of time to send in 
evidence it/they want considered. To do so wouldnt be fair on the other party as it would 
leave the complaint unfinished and unresolved indefinitely. Thats not reasonable. Mr M has 
had a reasonably long time in which to obtain an independent report and send it to us should 
he have wished to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman