DRN-2851065
The complaint
Mr A complains that Hastings Insurance Services Limited cancelled his motor insurance 
policy before it started.
 
What happened
Mr A took out a policy through Hastings. But Hastings cancelled it five days later because it 
said Mr A had taken out multiple quotes using different details. Mr A said hes had to pay 
more for his policy as a result of the cancellation. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Hastings 
wasnt entitled to cancel the policy by its terms and conditions because Mr A had taken out 
multiple quotes. 
So he looked to see whether Mr A had made a qualifying misrepresentation under the 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) that would allow 
Hastings to avoid the policy. And he thought Hastings hadnt shown that Mr A hadnt taken 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation and so it had unfairly cancelled the policy. 
Mr A had taken out a more expensive policy elsewhere. So the investigator thought Hastings 
should reimburse the extra costs Mr A had paid for his premium because of the cancellation 
and its £20 arrangement fee and remove records of the cancellation. 
Hastings didnt respond to the investigators view, so the complaint has come to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A said hed searched online though comparison sites for quotes for new insurance using 
different details as he intended to move and wanted to check the prices of cover. He then 
moved to his new address and took out a policy at this address the next day. Hastings 
charged him £20 for arranging the policy. The policy was due to start the following week, but 
Hastings cancelled it before it started. 
Hastings said it had exercised its right to cancel the policy. And so Ive looked at the policys 
terms and conditions to verify this. There is a cancellation right under the fraud section of the 
policy. But Hastings hasnt accused Mr A of fraud. So I think it would be unfair for it to rely on 
this section to cancel his policy.  
In the section Our rights to cancel your policy, Hastings sets out the only seven reasons 
why it or the insurer would cancel the policy. These dont include making multiple 
applications using different details. So I think it would be unfair for Hastings to cancel the 
policy for these reasons. 
The section then explains that a policy may also be avoided (treated as if it never existed) 
because of deliberate or reckless misrepresentation.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
Hastings said Mr A had entered different details for multiple quotes and it was unable to 
prove which were correct. I can see that Mr A varied his address, his No Claims Discount 
(NCD) years, his annual mileage, and his intended use of his car. But I cant see that 
Hastings asked Mr A for any explanation of his actions. 
Mr A told us that his circumstances had changed, and he wanted to compare costs at 
different locations. Mr A has provided evidence of his new address and the date his tenancy 
started. I can see that the address is the same as that on his policy documents. And the 
tenancy started the day before he took out his policy with Hastings. 
Mr A explained that he varied the NCD years because he had NCD proof for a company car 
and some businesses asked for this. He provided us with evidence that showed that he had 
several NCD years earned for a company car. But Hastings didnt ask to see this. 
And I think Mr A has explained that he wanted to look at costs which accounts for his varying 
the class of use and expected mileage. 
So I think Mr A has provided a reasonable explanation for why he took out multiple quotes 
for his cover using different details. Mr A then took out his policy at his new address using 
the NCD years he had accumulated for his company car. So Im not satisfied that Hastings 
has shown that Mr A didnt take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
took out his policy. 
Therefore, Im not satisfied Hastings was entitled to avoid Mr As policy in accordance with 
CIDRA. And  as CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, 
I think not allowing Hastings to rely on it to avoid Mr As policy produces the fair and 
reasonable outcome in this complaint. 
Mr A said he has had to pay much for his cover following the cancellation. So I think 
Hastings should reasonably compensate him for this. He also paid Hastings a £20 
arrangement fee, which it said was non-refundable. But I think Hastings should refund this to 
compensate Mr A for the inconvenience of having to find cover elsewhere. And I think 
Hastings should remove any records of the cancellation so that it doesnt affect Mr A in the 
future. 
Putting things right
I require Hastings Insurance Services Limited to do the following:
1. Refund Mr A its £20 arrangement fee.
2. Reimburse Mr A for the extra costs of his premium for his new policy, subject to the provision of reasonable evidence of this cost. 
3. Remove any records of the cancellation from any internal or external databases where 
its been recorded. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Hastings Insurance Services Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman