The complaint
Mr R is unhappy about charges applied to an investment he holds with Standard Life 
Assurance Limited. He is concerned about the level and transparency of the charges and 
overall, the impact theyve had on his investment. 
What happened
In 1999, Mr R opened a versatile investment plan with Standard Life. He took advice from an 
IFA and paid £75 a month into his investment for the 20 years it was set to run. 
Last year, Standard Life sent Mr R some information about the charges he was paying. Mr R 
was surprised to see this, and asked for more detail around any charges hed paid in the 
prior years as he didnt think hed been charged before. He was also concerned about how 
much of his premiums appeared to go towards charges. 
Standard Life explained the charges werent new and had been taken throughout the 
investment lifetime. But there had been regulatory changes about how they should be 
reported. Standard Life werent able to detail exactly what Mr R had previously been charged 
as the deductions had been made to the with-profits fund rather than to him directly. 
Mr R was also unhappy about how Standard Life handled his requests for information and 
subsequently his complaint. He didnt get the call backs as promised and had to repeat his 
questions too.
Standard Life looked into Mr Rs concerns. They explained what charges applied to his 
investment and how these were broken down. But agreed theyd fallen short on the 
customer service theyd provided given Mr R had been put on hold for long durations, that he 
didnt get a call back when promised and for the general answers about charges on with-
profits funds as opposed to answers about charges they could identify on his plan. So they 
paid £150 compensation to apologise. 
But Mr R remained unhappy  he wanted to know what charges hed paid over the years 
and didnt think hed been told about these before. He withdrew the money remaining with 
Standard Life, something he felt was unduly delayed, and asked for our help. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Rs concerns but didnt agree Standard Life had 
done anything wrong. She reviewed the charges but pointed out that new regulations 
required the disclosure, which is why historical charging information wasnt available. She 
thought the charges had been explained, save for those incurred within the fund itself. She 
also said she didnt think there had been any delays in actioning the final withdrawal as this 
took four days and that the compensation paid was enough to recognise the frustration. 
DRN-1631677Mr R remained unhappy. He thought his request was a simple one  and if Standard Life 
couldnt tell him what hed been charged then how could his IFA ever have known and told 
him. He also likened the situation to buying an item in a shop  as there you would be told 
exactly how much it cost. He thought there would be a way of Standard Life illustrating this 
as they will have to file accounts around what they are charging. Because an agreement 
wasnt reached, the case was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In January 2018, the second EU Markets in Financial Instruments Directive, otherwise 
known as MiFID II, and the Packaged Retail and Insurance-based Investment Products 
Regulation (PRIIPs) took effect in the UK. The legislation had a wide remit, but one of the 
requirements that is relevant here was that any costs or charges associated with investing 
needed to be clearly set out. For this reason, Standard Life had to begin disclosing the 
charges Mr Rs investment was incurring. 
Ive seen a copy of Mr Rs September 2019 summary document which reported on 
August 2018 to August 2019. In part, it said:
We are providing you with the charges that you have paid for your planCharges have 
always applied to your planThe charges that apply to your plan have already been 
accounted for in your plan value 
It then detailed the total charge incurred by Mr R. Before going onto explain how additional 
charges applied for his with-profits fund  in short, that charges are taken from the fund itself 
as opposed to being individually charged to each investor.
Mr Rs charges for the year were £91.26. Through further correspondence about the 
complaint, this was broken down as service charges of £1 a month, allocation rates of 96% 
and a bid offer spread of 5% of each premium. 
Its important to note that these charges were not new  these, or similar, were always 
associated with Mr Rs plan. As well as charges incurred within his fund. But Standard Life 
didnt have to report them in the way they are required to now. This doesnt mean they did 
anything wrong before, instead, they are adhering to new regulations as they evolve. 
From what I have seen, the charges are quite usual and will always vary from provider to 
provider. I appreciate Mr R thinks the charges are too high and he had moved his money 
away from Standard Life as a result  but this isnt something we would involve ourselves 
with. Lower charges of course sound more appealing, but they dont necessarily mean a 
fund will perform better as a result. Regardless of how much the charges were, it appears 
Standard Life did what they needed to do in order to follow the reporting requirements for 
Mr Rs plan. 
Mr R has asked to see what these charges have historically been, at least for the last six 
years. But as there was no requirement to disclose the breakdowns in this way before, this is 
not something Standard Life have readily available to share with him now. Ive seen what the 
key features and terms for Mr Rs plan said from the outset  they both mentioned the 
charges that apply now and made reference to the personal illustration which his adviser 
would have seen. In addition, more recently Standard Life have set out the charges in 
monetary terms so Mr R was able to consider them from a monthly and annual perspective. But I am satisfied Standard Life need not do anything further here as the regulations were 
not retrospective. 
So from all that I have seen, Mr Rs investment has always incurred costs and charges but 
only more recently have Standard Life had to disclose them in this way. All investors in 
Mr Rs fund paid very similar charges which were reflected in the daily share price  Ive 
seen Standard Life provided an example of what these might amount to too. 
I am pleased that Standard Life have recognised their customer service could have been 
better here, but I think the £150 offer was a fair reflection of the trouble Mr R was put to in 
having to chase things up and for the confusion caused by some of the less specific 
explanations he was given around the charges. 
While I appreciate Mr R will remain unhappy and thinks the charges were too high, from all 
that I have seen I cant see Standard Life has done anything wrong here, so I wont be 
asking them to do anything differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 
23 July 2020.
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman