DRN-2054656
The complaint
Mr R complains about American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) (Amex) and 
the way it managed his credit card account.
What happened
Mr R took out a credit card with Amex in November 2010 with a credit limit of £1,500. 
Between 2011 and 2018, there have been five credit limit changes taking it from £1,500 to 
£15,500.
Mr R is unhappy with Amexs decision to increase his credit limit and feels it was 
irresponsible of it when he says it was clear that he was experiencing financial difficulties. Mr 
R has explained that during this time he was and continues to suffer with his mental health 
and was in a vulnerable position.  He feels that the interest he paid alone shows the card 
was unaffordable for him.
Amex didnt agree. It says it increased Mr Rs limits fairly and in line with its terms and 
conditions. It explains it does a series of checks before it will make a credit limit increase. 
These checks didnt show Mr R to be a high risk to lend to. It also said it wrote to Mr R 
before and after an increase giving him an opportunity to decline it, Amex didnt think it had 
done anything wrong. Amex also said it wasnt aware that Mr R was suffering with his mental 
health or struggling with financial difficulties until he told it in his complaint letter in December 
2019. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought Amex had acted responsibly. He 
thought theyd conducted the relevant checks wed expect to see. And as theyd wrote to Mr 
R before the increase giving him the chance to opt out, he thought theyd acted in line with 
the terms and conditions. He also didnt think it would be fair to expect Amex to assume Mr 
R was suffering with his mental health without being told this was the case. So, he didnt 
think Amex needed to do anything further. Mr R didnt agree with this view, so the complaint 
has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator.
Mr R says he has been suffering with his mental health over the last 4-5 years. And he 
thinks Amex should have done more to help him. I acknowledge what hes said here but for 
me to agree that Amex has done something wrong, Id need to be sure the actions it took 
when increasing Mr Rs credit limit, it had failed to adhere to the terms and conditions or 
were unfair and unreasonable. And, in this situation I dont think they were, Ill explain why.
Credit increase 2017
In March 2017, Amex increased Mr Rs credit limit from £9,600 to £11,500.  Ive looked at Mr 
Rs statements in the lead up to the increase and his annual credit card statement for the 
period November 2015 - November 2016. I can see Mr R had charges for four missed /late 
payments and two charges for being over his credit limit. However, in January 2017 Mr R 
paid £9888.09 off the card bringing the balance back down to £254.30. This type of account 
activity isnt unusual and from what Ive seen Im not persuaded this would alert Amex that 
Mr R was in financial difficulty. 
In February 2017 Mr Rs closing balance was up to £4,390.42. So, although there is some 
considerable spend in this month Mr R was still well within his £9,600 credit limit. And the 
point of a credit card account is to allow customers the opportunity to spend up to the limit 
should they wish to. So, I dont think the spending in this month meant that Amex shouldve 
been aware of any financial difficulty Mr R had, or that he was suffering with his mental 
health. So, I dont think Amex did anything wrong in offering Mr R an increase to his credit 
limit in March 2017.
Credit increase 2018
In March 2018, Amex increased Mr Rs credit limit from £11,500 to £15,500. Again, Ive 
looked at Mr Rs statements in the lead up to the increase. Mr Rs annual credit card 
statement for the period November 2016 - November 2017, shows he had one missed/late 
payment charge and two charges for being over his credit limit. However, I dont think Mr Rs 
account activity appears out of line with how many credit cards are managed.  Between the 
annual statement and the increase Mr R was paying more than the required minimum 
payments and I cant see anything that would alert or raise concern to Amex. So, I dont 
think Amex did anything wrong in offering Mr R an increase to his credit limit in March 2018.
Prior to both these increases, I can see Amex completed the required checks before offering 
Mr R increases to his limits. If the checks dont flag any issues, then it will be up to Mr R to 
decline the increased limit as per the terms and conditions of the account. Its not for me to 
criticise Amex internal processes on how it calculates it decisions to lend to customers. Its 
my role to decide if the checks it completed were proportionate to the level of increase and 
that the decision was made fairly. From what Ive seen Mr R hasnt been treated differently 
to other customers that are in the same position, the checks were proportionate and Mr Rs 
risk score was low. 
Credit increases between 2011 and 2013
Due to General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), Amex are not obliged to hold records 
for more than 6 years so its unable to provide evidence of what information was sent to Mr R 
in 2011, 2012 and 2013 regarding the credit increases. In the absence of that information I 
must base my decision on what I think is most likely to have happened and to consider that 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the account and what happened with the latter 
credit increases - from 2017 onwards. 
Amex have shown that it wrote to Mr R prior to the increases in 2017 and 2018 and that 
gave him 30 days to opt out of the increase. It also gave details how Mr R if he chose to, 
could opt out of receiving future automatic credit limit increases. It also wrote to him after the 
increases to confirm his limit had been increased and invited him to contact it if he had any 
queries. Mr R was of course free to ask Amex to not increase his limit and he could have 
asked at any time to decrease the limit if he was struggling with managing his payments and 
he could have engaged with it to discuss his financial situation, but he chose not to. Im satisfied from what Ive seen that I think it more likely than not that the earlier credit 
increases are likely to have followed the same procedure in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. 
Having reviewed Mr Rs credit card statements from January 2014 through to December 
2019. I can see after the limit increase in 2013, Mr R had a period towards the end of 2014 
and the beginning of 2015, where he was consistently over his credit limit. However, he was 
making his minimum payments regularly, so again I don't think this would have been enough 
to alert Amex that Mr R might have been struggling with managing payments. 
Amex has shown that it wrote to Mr R in March 2015 to explain the impact of making 
minimum payments on his account and to contact it if he is worried about managing his 
finances. From what Ive seen Mr R chose not to contact it and shortly after, he brought his 
account back within his credit limit.
I understand Mr R feels that Amex shouldnt have increased his credit limits. And it shouldve 
known he wasnt managing his account by the amount of interest he was paying. But from 
what Ive seen although there were times of erratic spending and paying minimum 
payments, I dont think this was enough to alert Amex that Mr R was struggling with his 
personal and financial situation without him telling it.
I've also reviewed the terms and conditions of the account, to make sure Amex have
acted accordingly. It says Amex can increase or decrease the limit, if it gives the customer 
notice, and the option to decline it. I'm satisfied that it did, so Im persuaded Amex has 
adhered with the terms and conditions. 
So, although I do appreciate the difficulties Mr R has faced personally and financially, I dont
think Amex has acted unfairly or unreasonably when it offered the unsolicited increases to 
Mr Rs credit limit. The rules set out in the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) handbook says 
a business should assume a consumer has mental capacity, unless told otherwise. It says 
the following:
"A firm should assume a consumer has mental capacity at the time the decision has to
be made, unless the firm knows, or is told by a person it reasonably believes should
know, or reasonably suspects, that the consumer lacks capacity"
From what I can see, Mr R didn't make Amex aware of his personal circumstances until he 
contacted it in December 2019 and raised a complaint. I therefore dont think Amex had 
enough information that wouldve allowed it to recognise Mr R as a vulnerable customer and 
offer any additional support before he made it aware of his circumstances. 
Now that Amex is aware, we expect businesses to act positively and sympathetically. There 
are many ways it can do this, for example breathing space, repayment plans, additional 
support and so on. However, these options are only available once a business knows about 
a consumers circumstances. Im satisfied since Amex has learnt of Mr Rs circumstances it 
has offered to help Mr R and asked him to contact its financial difficulties department to 
arrange a payment plan or discuss other debt relief solutions. 
So, in summary, I wont be asking Amex to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman