DRN-3782738
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that St Andrews Insurance Plc has made an unfair claim decision on 
their buildings insurance claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C have insured their home with St Andrews for a number of years. In May 2022 
Mr and Mrs C contacted St Andrews to make a claim for damage to their roof. They 
explained theyd had a roofer come out on a number of occasions to make repairs but that 
he felt the roof needed to be replaced because of the level of damage.
St Andrews initially declined the claim and explained that damage as a result of general 
wear and tear isnt something that was covered under the policy.
Mr and Mrs C contacted St Andrews again and explained that they felt the damage had been 
caused by storms. Theyd tried to get through to register the claim at the time the damage 
occurred but were unable to. And Mr C had been unwell and in hospital which had added to 
the difficulty of them being able to focus on the claim.
St Andrews sent out its loss adjuster in July 2022 to assess Mr and Mrs Cs roof and 
determine whether they agreed the damage was as a result of storm conditions. The loss 
assessor was advised by Mr and Mrs C that tiles had been dislodged as a result of storm 
Eunice and these had been refitted by a roofer.
The loss assessor didnt agree the damage was the result of storm conditions and 
St Andrews maintained its position to decline the claim. It said it would be happy to consider 
any other evidence provided by Mr and Mrs C to support the claim. But based on what it had 
seen, it didnt think there was evidence to show the damage had been caused as the result 
of a one off storm event and deterioration over time and wear and tear was the cause of the 
damage.
Our investigator looked at Mr and Mrs Cs complaint and explained that he didnt think 
St Andrews had acted unfairly. He set out how this service looks at complaints about storm 
damage with three key questions that are considered:
1. Were there storm conditions on or around the time of the claim?
2. Is the damage consistent with storm damage?
3. Were storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
If the answer to any of these was a no, the claim wouldnt succeed.
He agreed there had been storm conditions in February and although this was before Mr and 
Mrs C spoke with St Andrews about the claim, he accepted that they said they had tried to 
contact them before. 
He felt some damage was consistent with storm damage. But he didnt believe this was the 
main or primary cause of the damage. So he was unable to answer yes to all questions and 
he felt St Andrews had made a fair claim decision.
Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the outcome. They dont agree the damage is because of wear 
and tear and feel it is all the result of storm damage. They didnt have anything else to 
provide in support of this but asked that the complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our investigator. I 
know this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs C, but Ill explain why Ive reached this 
decision.
As Ive set out above, there is three key questions this service considers when looking at 
complaints about storm damage. If the answer to each is yes, we think it is fair that the 
business covers the claim. But if the answer to any is no, the business will have acted fairly 
in declining the claim.
The answer to questions one and two is a yes. There was storm conditions around the time 
Mr and Mrs C say the damage occurred and the damage identified is consistent with the 
damage expected as a result of storm conditions.
The final question is, whether the storm was the main reason for the damage?
St Andrews doesnt think the storm conditions are the main cause of damage. Theyve 
highlighted concerns about the general wear and tear of Mr and Mrs Cs roof and they feel 
the storm conditions have highlighted the condition of the roof. And they feel but for this, the 
damage would not have occurred. St Andrews loss assessor has said the following when 
describing the damage to the roof:
No damage externally can be attributed to storm but a breakdown of material over a period 
of time
There was little other detail within the report but it was clear the assessor didnt believe the 
damage was the result of storm conditions.
Mr and Mrs C have provided a report from their own roofer who has attended the property a 
number of times and completed repairs. The report explains that the roofer feels damage 
was caused by the storm. But it also highlights that the general condition of the roof isnt 
great. 
The ridge tiles I have done repairs on them myself but the remainder are in the condition 
that they should be as they are starting to lift slightly from the mortar allowing wind to get 
underneath.
The felt thats on thee roof is also not breathable so when this problem does happen and 
causes the loft area to get damp it doesnt allow the roof to breath and air itself out resulting 
in damp ingress. 
The roof is 60 years old and while it is clear that Mr and Mrs C have taken steps to have 
some maintenance completed on it, the overall condition reflects the age of the roof.  The 
roofer has identified issues with the felt and the mortar on the ridge tiles is starting to fail. And so I think it is fair to say that there is signs of wear and tear highlighted by Mr and 
Mrs Cs roofer too.  
Tiles lifting in the wind is damage consistent with storm conditions but with there being 
indications that the roof needs more general repairs, with the mortar on the ridge tiles 
coming away. I dont think it is unreasonable to say that the storm was not the main cause of 
the damage.
The roofer has recommended that the roof needs the felt and batten replacing. This 
correlates with his comments that the felt itself is not in good condition and with it not being 
breathable, needs replacing to reduce the risk of further damage if water does ingress. But 
this work is not required because of the storm conditions and wear and tear or general 
maintenance is not covered under the policy.
I understand that Mr and Mrs C are disappointed that their insurance will not cover the repair 
works claimed for. But I dont think St Andrews has acted unfairly when making this decision 
based on the information available.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman