DRN-4435665
The complaint
Mr P is complaining that Ageas Insurance Limited has reduced a claim he made on his 
commercial property insurance policy.
Ageas has used a number of agents to handle the claim and complaint on its behalf. But, for 
ease of reference, I shall refer to anything the agent did or said to have been done or said by 
Ageas.
What happened
In July 2022 Mr Ps property, along with a number of other propertys adjacent to his, were 
significantly damaged by an extreme fire to the extent they required demolishing and 
rebuilding. Mr P contacted Ageas to claim for the damage from his insurance policy.
As part of its investigation, Ageas estimated the rebuild cost to be around £225,000, but it 
said Mr Ps sum insured was around £181,000. So it said Mr P was underinsured and it said 
it wouldnt pay the claim in full and Mr P would have to cover any shortfall personally. Mr P 
thought this was unfair as he said hed initially declared the sum insured based on the 
rebuild cost he was advised when he bought the policy in 2017. He said he made a claim in 
March 2020, which was declined. But the surveyor advised Mr P that the property was 
underinsured and estimated the rebuild cost to be at least £161,000. So Mr P said he 
contacted Ageas to update the sum insured. The sum insured index-linked increased year 
on year thereafter  leading to the sum insured of £181,000 at the start of the policy term.
Ageas maintained its stance so Mr P referred his concerns to this Service to investigate.
Following this, Ageas acknowledged it should have index linked the sum insured to reflect 
increased costs over the policy term. In doing so it updated the sum insured to £205,000. 
Initially Ageas advised this Service and Mr P that the updated sum insured was within its 
tolerance so it would deal with the claim in full. But it later said it meant that it would deal 
with the claim in full up to the sum insured  i.e. it said it wouldnt pay more than the sum 
insured. So Mr P was still liable for the shortfall.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. In summary he thought Mr Ps estimate of the sum 
insured was reasonable at the time, based on what he knew then  which the investigator 
said included credible and reputable estimates of the rebuild cost. He didnt think Mr P could 
have been expected to do more than that. So, he didnt think it was fair to limit the claim 
settlement. By Ageas limiting the claim, he said it left Mr P in a very difficult situation where 
hes unable to afford to rebuild his house. He set out that Mr P had followed Ageas 
instructions when setting the sum insured (on the advice of a professional surveyor, 
appointed by Ageas). And he thought that, if the sum insured was no longer adequate, its 
likely to be due to inflation rather than anything Mr P has done wrong. So he thought Mr P 
being left with a huge proportion of the bill wasnt fair.
The investigator recommended that Ageas dealt with the claim in full and paid Mr P £850 in 
compensation.
Ageas didnt agree with the investigators opinion as it maintained it wasnt required to pay 
more than the index-linked sum insured under the terms of the insurance policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
Ageas has set out that its not required to pay more than the index-linked sum insured on the 
claim  regardless of what the claim cost is. In essence, its relying upon the following term 
in the policy:
What We will pay
The most We will pay under paragraphs A-E, G, H and L for loss or damage arising out of 
one incident is the Buildings Sum Insured shown in the Schedule.
Ageas has said that Mr P is underinsured based on information he provided when renewing 
the policy in 2021. So I think thats the relevant issue I need to think about. In doing so I will 
take account the relevant law as well as think about whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. Mr Ps policy was a commercial policy so the law that applies here is the 
Insurance Act 2015 (the Act).
When considering a complaint where underinsurance is alleged, before considering the 
policy terms, I must first consider the Act. Under the Act, a commercial customer has a duty 
to make a fair presentation of the risk to the insurer. In order to fulfil a fair presentation of 
risk, the Act says a commercial policyholder must disclose everything they know, or ought to 
know, that would influence the judgment of an insurer in deciding whether to insure the risk 
and on what terms. If the insurer can show that the policyholder didnt fulfil this duty then, in 
order to say there has been a qualifying breach, the insurer needs to show that it would have 
either not offered the policy at all, or offered it on different terms.
So, Ive first considered whether Mr P made a fair presentation of the risk when declaring the 
sum insured. Mr P has told us that he correctly understood that this meant the rebuild cost of 
the property. So, I think Mr P needed to provide a reasonable estimate of the cost of 
rebuilding the property. And hes given a detailed explanation of why he declared the sum 
insured he did. It needs to be noted that Mr P is not a buildings expert. So I think its fair that 
he took into account any expert opinions he was given about the estimated rebuild costs. 
Mr P has told us that he was first given an estimated rebuild cost by his mortgage company 
of £127,000 and this is what he declared as his sum insured. I cant say that this was 
unreasonable. Following this, Ageass own appointed surveyor advised Mr P in March 2020 
a more accurate sum insured was £161,000 and I can see that Mr P advised Ageas 
accordingly and the sum insured was updated. Ultimately Mr P has relied upon expert 
opinions in presenting his estimated sum insured throughout  particularly an expert 
appointed by Ageas. And I havent seen anything to show that Mr P has acted unreasonably. 
Ageas has index-linked increased the sum insured year on year in line with its contractual 
requirements. As I said, Mr Ps sum insured presentation was based upon guidance by 
Ageass own appointed surveyor. So it seems to me that any issue with the property being 
underinsured after that may stem from Ageas not adequately index-link increasing the sum 
insured. But, regardless of this, the simple fact is that Ageas hasnt given me anything to 
show that Mr P acted unreasonably in presenting a fair sum insured. So, when taking everything into consideration I think Mr P made a fair presentation of the 
risk. I think he told Ageas everything he knew, or ought to know, that would influence Ageas 
judgment in deciding whether to insure the risk and on what terms. As Im satisfied that Mr P 
made a fair presentation of the risk, Ageas doesnt have any remedies to reduce the value of 
the claim under the Act.
I dont think Ageas has ever reasonably engaged on this point and has simply referred to the 
fact that the policy limits its liability to the sum insured. But, I think the Act supersedes any 
term of an insurance policy, unless Ageas can show that it contracted out of the Act, which 
the Act allows an insurer to do so. But, Section 17 of the Act lays out the requirements for 
insurers to present this clearly if it wants to contract out of the Act. Ill now set them out.
The transparency requirements
1) In this section, the disadvantageous term means such a term as is mentioned in 
section 16(2).
2) The insurer must take sufficient steps to draw the disadvantageous term to the insureds 
attention before the contract is entered into or the variation agreed.
3) The disadvantageous term must be clear and unambiguous as to its effect.
16(2) as referred above states:
16(2)  A term of a non-consumer insurance contract, or of any other contract, which would 
put the insured in a worse position as respects any of the other matters provided for 
in Part 2, 3 or 4 of this Act than the insured would be in by virtue of the provisions of 
those Parts (so far as relating to non-consumer insurance contracts) is to that extent 
of no effect, unless the requirements of section 17 have been satisfied in relation to 
the term.)
Ageas hasnt indicated that it thinks its contracted out of the Act. But I think this is because it 
hasnt fairly and reasonably considered the law when considering the circumstances of 
Mr Ps claim. Clearly the limitation clause is disadvantageous because it put Mr P in a worse 
position than he would have been in under the Act. Crucially, the explanatory notes of 
the Act specifies that such terms will only be valid if the insurer has complied with the 
transparency requirements.
Ive looked at the policy, but I dont think Ageas did enough to meet the requirements for 
contracting out as laid out in the Act. I havent seen anything to show that it specifically 
highlighted its departure from the law and the possible disadvantage this would have to 
Mr P.
So, as I dont think Ageas did enough to draw the disadvantageous limitation term to Mr Ps 
attention before the policy started, I dont think it can rely upon it. It follows, therefore, that I 
think Ageas should settle the claim in full without making any deduction for underinsurance.
I also think Ageass handling has caused Mr P a lot of distress and inconvenience. In 
particular, I note the following:
Hes had the worry for around a year that he may have to contribute over £40,000 
towards the claim, due to no fault of his own.
Ageas told Mr P and this Service that it would pay the claim in full, but then later 
retracted that offer to say it was once again limiting the liability to the sum insured. I note 
it says it always intended to limit the liability to the sum insured, but it didnt explain this. 
Ultimately, after a prolonged period of unfair worry, Mr P was relieved to find he was no longer liable for the shortfall, only to be told that this was incorrect.
Mr P has told us that this matter has caused him high levels of distress and worry. He 
said he went to the doctor in March 2023, as he was experiencing chest pains and high 
blood pressure which he said was a direct result of the insurance claim. He also 
highlighted his brother has been diagnosed with incurable cancer, but he hasnt been 
able to spend as much time with him due to the fact he needed to spend so much time 
managing this claim. I dont think I can reasonably attribute all of this distress to Ageas 
actions, but I have no doubt it added to his distress. 
Ultimately, its clear and understandable that this matter has had a significant amount of 
avoidable distress and inconvenience to Mr P. The investigator recommended that Ageas 
pay £850 in compensation for this and I think thats fair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require Ageas Insurance Limited to:
1. settle the claim in full without making any deduction for underinsurance; and
2. pay £850 in compensation for the avoidable distress and inconvenience this matter has 
caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman