DRN-2667342
The complaint
Miss P complains that Experian Limited included information on her credit file about 
accounts not belonging to her. Miss P says this impacted her credit score and led to her 
being declined finance.
Miss P wants Experian to remove any declined credit offers and pay more than the £250 it 
has offered so far.
What happened
Miss P discovered that data about her siblings appeared on her credit file. Miss P says this 
has had a negative impact on her ability to obtain reasonably priced credit for many years. 
However, she only recently became aware of the problem.
Miss P complained to Experian and it took steps to remove the third-party data from her 
credit file. However, Miss P says that she had to take out a different type of credit that 
means she wont own the car she has financed unless she pays a large lump sum at the 
end. And the interest rate is double the rate indicated to Miss P when she carried out soft 
credit searches.
The investigator agreed that Experian had made a mistake, but she couldnt say the interest 
rate wouldve changed had the third-party data not appeared on Miss Ps credit file. The 
investigator couldnt be sure the incorrect information was the only reason for the higher rate 
of interest. Overall, she thought the offer of £250 was fair.
Miss P is unhappy with the investigators recommendation. She doesnt think that it reflects 
the financial loss shes suffered together with the stress and anxiety she has felt. Miss P 
says shes tried to get further evidence of the loss shes sustained but hasnt been able to. 
Miss P says that Experian acknowledges that she wouldve been better off had her siblings 
data not appeared on her credit file. Miss P said that the wrong information still appears on 
her credit file. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should first say that although Miss P is unhappy about the impact the mistakes have had on 
her siblings, I can only consider how Miss P has been affected. It would be for her siblings to 
bring complaints in their own name.
There isnt any dispute that Experian made a mistake as part of its data matching process. I 
understand that this happened because the siblings have the same surname, date of birth 
and one shares an initial. My decision will focus on whether Experian has already done 
enough to put things right for Miss P. 
This service isnt a regulator, so I cant impose any penalties on Experian. I appreciate that 
this might be frustrating for Miss P as she is keen for Experian not to make the same 
mistakes in future. 
I want to reassure Miss P that Ive considered everything shes given to us  including the 
lenders responses. The car finance company B that automatically declined Miss Ps 
application in early 2020 said that when it looked at her information, it couldnt see any other 
data relating to her siblings. 
The lender that went on to approve Miss Ps car finance application says that the 
information received from Experian at the point of salecorrelates with your comments in 
your email to us. I assume this means that the lender could see details about Miss Ps 
siblings on the information provided by Experian. However, it goes on to say there were no 
defaults and no credit card utilisation displayed. So, the lender cant confirm that it would 
have offered Miss P a lower rate of interest had the information supplied been different.
Lenders dont see Experians credit scores  they are just an indication of how a potential 
lender may view someones credit rating rather than a formal assessment. Instead, lenders 
rely on their own criteria and assessment when deciding to lend. And an early indication of a 
likely rate of interest, may change once a full lending assessment is carried out.
I can see that Miss P has gone to a great deal of effort to try and show the financial impact 
Experians mistake has had on her. Understandably it is difficult to get this kind of proof but 
without evidence that the appearance of third-party data on Miss Ps Experian credit file was 
the only reason why she was declined credit or offered a higher rate of interest, its difficult 
for me to require Experian to remove declined credit entries or pay more than its offered so 
far.
I understand that Experian previously sent Miss P a cheque in the sum of £250. If Miss P no 
longer has the cheque, she should let Experian know so that it can reissue the payment.
Miss P told the investigator that her siblings details still appear on her credit report but the 
information she supplied to us came from a third-party business not Experian. This means I 
cant say that Experian is responsible for the incorrect information. If in future the wrong 
information appears on Miss Ps Experian credit file, she can of course raise another 
complaint. 
I am sorry that my decision is likely to disappoint Miss P but overall, Im satisfied that 
Experian has done enough to put things right.
My final decision
Experian Limited has already made an offer to pay £250 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances. On the basis that the £250 has been paid to Miss P, 
I make no other award against Experian. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman