DRN-3808597
The complaint
Mr F complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard unfairly passed his 
account to a third-party company for collection following a default.
What happened
Mr F held a credit card account with Barclaycard for some years. Unfortunately, in January 
2018 Mr F suffered a change in his financial circumstances and was unable to maintain his 
payments to his Barclaycard account. He contacted Barclaycard and explained the position. 
Mr F says it was agreed that his account would be put on hold for a total of six months and 
then defaulted so that no interest or charges would be added to the balance.
Mr Fs account was subject to a number of 30-day holds until July 2018 when a default 
notice was issued. Due to the number of missed payments, the account was defaulted in 
August 2018 and closed. 
Mr F contacted Barclaycard and his account was passed to the special collection team. 
Following a review of his income and expenses, Mr F says that he was informed by 
Barclaycard that his account would be put on permanent hold and that he was promised the 
debt wouldnt be passed to a third-party for collection. Mr F also says he was told to ignore 
any letters that may be sent to him as these would be automatically generated.
Mr F says that in December 2021 he was informed by Barclaycard that his account had been 
transferred to a third-party company. He also received a letter from this company confirming 
they had been assigned his account by Barclaycard. Mr F says he contacted this company 
to explain that Barclaycard had agreed to put his account on an indefinite hold but was told 
that they knew nothing of such an arrangement.
Mr F complained to Barclaycard. Barclaycard said that the account had been subject to a 
number of temporary holds prior to the default notice. And that once the account had been 
defaulted then it had the right to transfer ownership to a debt collection agency. However, 
Barclaycard said that it had, at that time, made a business decision not to transfer the 
accounts of its vulnerable customers, but this didnt mean it wouldnt do so in the future. 
Barclaycard said that as the third-party company now had their own specialist team to deal 
with vulnerable customers it had decided to transfer ownership of Mr Fs account.
Barclaycard offered Mr F £25 compensation for the confusion caused over any misleading 
advice that he had been given though it said it had acted correctly in deciding to transfer the 
account.
Mr F was unhappy at Barclaycards response and complained to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend Mr Fs complaint should be upheld. He said that he didnt 
think Barclaycard had acted unfairly in transferring the account to a third-party company for 
collection as this was in line with the credit agreements terms and conditions following a 
default. 
Our investigator said he didnt think Barclaycard had offered a permanent hold on the 
account to Mr F though it had put the account repeatedly on 30 day holds. He said a 
permanent hold wasnt something Barclaycard offered, and as Mr F was unable to offer to 
clear the debt within a reasonable period, then action by Barclaycard had been inevitable. 
Mr F disagreed with the view of our investigator. He said it had been agreed that his account 
would be placed on a permanent hold and that it required his agreement for this to be 
changed. Mr F said this agreement would override the terms and conditions of the credit 
card.
As the parties have been unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt disputed that Mr F experienced financial difficulties in January 2018 and was unable 
to make the contractual payments on his credit card account with Barclaycard. Its also 
agreed that his account was placed on a series of 30 day holds before being defaulted in 
August 2018. This meant that Mr Fs account didnt incur interest and charges during that 
time.
Ive seen that after the account was defaulted Barclaycard again put it on hold. This means 
that no action was taken about the debt. Barclaycard says that at this time it had made a 
business decision not to transfer ownership of accounts of vulnerable customers to third-
party companies for collection but that it had retained the right to do so. Mr F was considered 
vulnerable by Barclaycard due to his personal circumstances.
Mr F says he was originally dealt with by the financial difficulties team and moved to the 
specialist support team after the default. He says it was the specialist support team which 
agreed to put his account on to permanent hold. However, Barclaycard disputes this as it 
says this isnt an option it offers its customers. It says the only hold it uses is one for 30 
days. 
Barclaycard says that it reviewed its business decision about not transferring ownership 
when the third-party company set up their own specialist team to deal with vulnerable 
people. It had therefore decided it was appropriate in the circumstances to transfer the 
ownership of Mr Fs account in 2021.  
While Barclaycard has been able to provide some recordings of the phone calls between 
itself and Mr F these appear to be at the time Mr F was dealing with the financial difficulties 
team rather than the specialist support team which happened later. Listening to these calls, I 
havent heard that he was told there would be a permanent hold placed on his account. 
Barclaycard says it isnt able to provide any other calls due to the amount of time that now 
passed, and Im not surprised by that as many businesses will only keep call recordings for a 
set period of time. So, I havent been able to listen to any calls that were made at the time Mr 
F says his account was put on to a permanent hold.
Mr F says that although he asked for a letter confirming his account was on permanent hold 
this wasnt forthcoming. However, he says the position of his account is supported by a letter 
he received from Barclaycard in April 2019 which asks that he gets in touch and states his 
account wont be taken off hold until he is ready.Im sorry to disappoint Mr F, but I dont think its likely that Barclaycard would have offered to 
put his account on permanent hold. Ive seen this isnt an option that it gives its customers 
and I accept that. Barclaycard would need to decide about this account at some point. I think 
the letters that were sent out to Mr F informed him that the situation was being reviewed.
I also think Barclaycard has acted fairly by repeatedly placing a 30-day hold on the account 
and not taking action after defaulting the agreement in August 2018 up until it made the 
decision to transfer the account in December 2021. Im aware Mr F hasnt made any 
payments towards the outstanding balance, and I think this shows Barclaycard was mindful 
of Mr Fs individual circumstances. I think Barclaycard was entitled to take the action that did 
in December 2021, as this was in line with credit cards terms and conditions and it had 
retained the right to take this action following Mr Fs defaulting of the account. 
Ive also seen this decision was made by Barclaycard once it was satisfied the third-party 
company had the necessary skills to deal with vulnerable customers. It wasnt transferred 
over just because of the amount of time that had passed.
And even if Barclaycard had made reference to putting the account on hold until Mr F was 
ready, I disagree that this offer would override Barclaycard being entitled to pass a debt on 
to a third-party company once it has been defaulted. The terms and conditions still applied, 
and I think its reasonable to expect a business to review decisions regarding not to acting 
on defaulted accounts at some point. This account had been on hold for around six months 
prior to the default and then a further two years or more after, so I cant say Barclaycard 
hadnt given Mr F reasonable time.
So, as I disagree any offer to place the account on hold bound Barclaycard for an indefinite 
period then I think its offer of £25 compensation for any misleading information given to Mr F 
was a fair in the circumstances. 
While I appreciate it may have been fairer for Barclaycard to have informed Mr F that his 
account was no longer on hold, I cant reasonably say there would have been a different 
outcome in regard to the account being passed on to a third-party company for collection. I 
havent seen that Mr F has been in a position where he could have cleared the outstanding 
amount.
For the reasons given, and while Im sorry to disappoint Mr F, Im not upholding his 
complaint.
My final decision
As set out above, Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman