DRN-4497889
The complaint
Miss B and Mr P complaint about incorrect information given to them by Nationwide Building 
Society in relation to the borrow back facility on their mortgage.
What happened
Miss B and Mr P have a mortgage with Nationwide which was taken out in 2018. Theyve 
made overpayments since having the mortgage.
In February 2022, Mr P phoned Nationwide. He was looking to switch the mortgage to a 
fixed rate and wanted to know whether he was able to borrow back overpayments if he took 
a new rate. He was told that he was, subject to an application and affordability checks. 
Miss B and Mr P took a new fixed rate shortly after which was applied for online.
In October 2022, Mr P contacted Nationwide to discuss borrowing back some of the 
overpaid amount. He was told this wasnt a feature on their mortgage.
Mr P complained to Nationwide about this. Nationwide responded agreeing he was given 
incorrect information in the call of February 2022. However, it didnt agree that Miss B and 
Mr P should be allowed to borrow back the overpayments. Nationwide paid £50 
compensation for the incorrect information.
Unhappy with this response, Mr P referred the complaint to our Service. One of our 
Investigators looked into things. He agreed that Mr P had been given incorrect information.
But he said that an overpayment feature wasnt a part of Miss B and Mr Ps mortgage. He 
thought that £50 compensation was fair in the circumstances.
Mr P didnt accept this. He said if hed been given correct information during the call in 
February 2022, he wouldve applied to borrow more money at the time of changing his 
mortgage rate. Mr P asked that the complaint be considered by an Ombudsman. So, its 
been passed to me to review and make a decision.
I reviewed the complaint and issued a provisional decision on 21 November 2023. In this 
decision, I said:
Its not disputed that Mr P was given incorrect information by Nationwide in the call of 
February 2022. Ive been provided with a recording of that call which Ive listened to.
Within that call, Mr P says he understands he can reborrow his overpayments at any time. 
Hes told that its not as simple as that and that hed need to apply for it and go through an 
affordability assessment. Hes also told that he can have additional borrowing at any time 
and that his overpayments wont be affected if he switches products.
I agree this information is misleading and incomplete. Borrow back wasnt a feature of Mr Ps 
mortgage. And had been removed from Nationwide mortgages taken after 2010. Mr P 
couldve borrowed further funds. However, this wouldve needed to be done as a further 
advance and at a rate available at the time.
I do note within this call though that Mr P wasnt assured that any further borrowing wouldve 
been at the rate of the new product he was switching. I can see why he mayve thought this. 
But I think he couldve sought further clarification had he been looking to actively use this 
facility.
Mr P says he wouldve borrowed more money at the time had he known he couldnt borrow 
back. I do need to think about whether Mr P wouldve acted differently had he been given 
complete information. But having done so, I dont think I can safely say he wouldve 
borrowed additional funds had he been given clearer information at the time. I say this 
because, during the call to Nationwide, theres no indication Mr P is looking to utilise this 
facility in the short term or that he has plans to borrow back soon. And he didnt get in touch 
to use this facility for another eight months.
Mr P has said he couldve easily achieved more through investment rates had he borrowed 
additional money at the time. But I think this was unlikely to have been that case at the time 
Mr P switched products. I say this as, Mr P switched products, interest rates were still very 
low. So, interest rates offered to savers at the time were much lower than they are now. 
Whilst theyd risen a small amount, they were yet to start rising in the way weve seen them 
rise in the past 18 months. I dont think Mr P couldve known at the time that rates would be 
as high as they are now. And whilst he could now be getting rates higher than that of the 
mortgage fixed rate he took, this is using the benefit of hindsight.
Ive also considered the fact that the mortgage offer didnt make any reference to a borrow 
back facility. Taking all of this into account, I dont intend to ask Nationwide to allow Mr P to 
borrow back funds at the fixed rate he took in February 2022. This was never a feature of 
this mortgage.
Ive considered the compensation of £50 Nationwide has paid to Miss B and Mr P. Having 
done so, I dont think this amount is sufficient. Whilst borrow back was never a feature of 
Miss B and Mr Ps mortgage, the misinformation did lead him to believe he could borrow 
back the funds, and he assumed this would be at the fixed rate. Hes since discovered this is 
not the case. This mustve been upsetting for Mr P. He thought he could access funds at 
what is now a very competitive rate, only to find out he couldnt. And if he does now decide 
he wishes to borrow additional funds, he will need to pay a higher rate than he was 
expecting. Based on this, Im minded to tell Nationwide to pay Miss B and Mr P an additional 
£200 compensation.
I invited both parties to provide any further comments or submissions they had before 
5 December 2023. Nationwide accepted my provisional decision. But Miss B and Mr P didnt. 
Mr P responded in detail setting out why he disagreed.
The complaint has now been passed back to me to review and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied that the outcome within my provisional decision is a fair one, 
and for the same reasons. But Ill address some of the points in Mr Ps response. The 
findings within my provisional decision (set out above) should be considered part of this final 
decision. 
Firstly, I want to acknowledge that Mr P has responded in great detail to my provisional 
decision. And I understand he feels very strongly about this matter. I want to reassure him 
that Ive read everything hes said and thought about all of the points that hes raised within 
his response to my provisional decision. I may not respond to each and every point. Nor will I 
respond in the level of detail in which Mr P has set out his response. I hope that Mr P realises I mean no disrespect by this. But this simply reflects the informal nature of our 
Service. Instead, Ill respond to what I consider the key points of Mr Ps response to my 
provisional decision.
The crux of Mr Ps response is that he always intended to borrow back the funds at a later 
stage and that he wouldve acted differently had he been given correct information. Hes said 
that many economists expected rates to increase, and his decision was based in part on 
this. Furthermore, he was also considering home improvements which he couldve used this 
money for at a competitive rate.
Ive accepted that Mr P was given mis-leading information. And Im willing to accept that he 
may well have wanted to borrow back these funds at a later stage. But, put simply, this was 
never an option to Mr P. Borrow back was no longer a facility on mortgages with Nationwide 
after 2010 and had never been a feature of Miss B and Mr Ps mortgage. 
This means that, had Miss B and Mr P wanted to access funds he wouldve needed to 
actually borrow additional money at the time of the product switch. They couldnt just apply 
for it and have it as a reserve. So, I need to consider whether I think it more likely than not 
that Miss B and Mr P wouldve taken this action at the time had they been given correct 
information. 
When making a decision such as this, where I cant know what wouldve happened. I need to 
make my decision on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely given the 
information I do have.
I accept that many economists did think that rates were likely to increase. However, I also 
note that this was many months before the mini budget which had the most significant 
effect on interest rates, and I dont think this had been foreseen within the markets at this 
time. So, I dont think Mr P was likely making plans based on an assumptions of interest 
rates being as high as they are now.
Had Miss B and Mr P applied for additional borrowing at the time of the product switch, this 
wouldve meant that they wouldve been paying interest on this money which they had no 
firm plans for at the time. And its for this reason that I dont think I can say that, on balance 
that Miss B and Mr P wouldve borrowed additional funds and paid interest on these funds at 
the time of the product switch had they been given correct information. 
As I said within my provisional decision, with the benefit of hindsight, having taken additional 
funds at this time would now seem a wise decision. But, for the reasons given above Im not 
persuaded that Miss B and Mr P wouldve decided to take the additional borrowing, and paid 
interest at the time without any firm plans of how or when they might use it, even if they had 
been given complete information during the time of their application.
Putting things right
As explained within my provisional decision, I agree this matter has caused some distress 
and inconvenience to Miss B and Mr P. And for that reasons, Nationwide Building Society 
should pay Miss B and Mr P a further £200 compensation. Im not going to ask it to do 
anything more.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Nationwide Building Society to put matters right as set 
out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman