DRN-4245155
Complaint
Mr S has complained about loans Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely Loans) 
provided to him. 
He says he was in financial difficulty and shouldnt have been provided with these loans.
Background
Likely Loans provided Mr S with a first loan for £500 in December 2019. This loan was due 
to be repaid in 12 monthly instalments of £57.98. This loan was settled early in January 
2020.
In June 2021, Mr S was provided with a second loan for £1,000.00. This loan also had a 12-
month term and had monthly repayments of £106.41. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr S and Likely Loans had told us. And he thought 
that Likely Loans hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr S unfairly when providing either 
of his loans. So he didnt recommend that Mr S complaint be upheld. 
Mr S disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr S complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, Ive not been persuaded to uphold Mr S 
complaint. Ill explain why in a bit more detail.
Likely Loans needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Likely Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr S could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Likely Loans provided Mr S with loans for £500 in December 2019 and £1,000.00 in               
June 2021. These loans were due to be repaid in 12 instalments of £57.98, and £106.41 
respectively. Likely Loans says it agreed to Mr S applications after he provided details of his 
monthly income and some information on his expenditure. 
It says it cross-checked this against information on credit searches it carried out and all of 
this information showed Mr S could to comfortably make the repayments he was committing 
to. On the other hand, Mr S has said these loans were unaffordable.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr S and Likely Loans have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Likely Loans has an indication of what it saw about          
Mr S debts at the time of his applications. Crucially, Mr S debt total at the time of the 
applications was reasonable in comparison to his income and they appeared to be relatively 
well managed. 
Ive also kept in mind that loan 1 was settled early and loan 2 wasnt taken until almost a 
year and a half after loan 1 had been settled. So I dont think that it was immediately obvious 
that Mr S might have been taking loan 2 because of the effect his previous Likely Loans loan 
had left on his finances. And there isnt anything else obvious in either of these applications 
which lead me to think that further checks would have been reasonable and proportionate.
I accept that Mr S actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the information Likely Loans obtained. Equally I accept that if 
Likely Loans had gone into the depth of checks Mr S appears to be saying it should have  
such as obtaining bank statements in the same way a mortgage provider would  it may 
have reached a different answer. 
But the key here is that Likely Loans wasnt providing Mr S with a mortgage. It was providing 
loans for small sums with relatively low repayments. Its only fair and reasonable for me to 
uphold a complaint in circumstances where a lender did something wrong. 
Given the circumstances here, and the lack of obvious inconsistencies, I dont think that 
reasonable and proportionate checks would have extended further. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Likely Loans did anything wrong when deciding to lend 
to Mr S - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable. And the second loan was provided in 
circumstances where Mr S indebtedness, at least to it, didnt appear to be increasing 
unsustainably. 
So overall I dont think that Likely Loans treated Mr S unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with his loans. And Im not upholding Mr S complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr S. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr S complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman