DRN-2960744
The complaint
Mr G says The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) has not provided 
sufficient redress (and compensation for trouble and inconvenience) for mismanaging the 
transfer of his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) to Aegon in 2020, and for the delay it 
caused to the transfer. 
Prudential accepts that it caused a delay to the transfer but it says Mr G incurred no resulting 
financial loss and that it has paid him £300 for the trouble and inconvenience caused by the 
delay.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should be upheld. 
Both parties disagreed, for their respective reasons, with her conclusions and the matter was 
referred to an ombudsman.
Overall, the investigator mainly found as follows:
Mr Gs financial adviser led the transfer request on his behalf. 
The transfer request was activated in the Origo electronic transfer service on 15 April 
2020, based on a transfer value of £107,605.44; the adviser sought an update on 27 
April and Prudential responded on 29 April to say the request had been rejected 
because only one SIPP plan number had been given in the application, but Mr G had 
seven fund plans and a cash plan within his SIPP, so individual transfer requests 
were required for each; in response, and on the same date, the adviser submitted an 
updated letter of authority for all eight SIPP plans but Prudential limited his access to 
only six of them; on 29 April, and again on 6 May, Prudential also wrongly confirmed 
a transfer value of £218,256.91, which it corrected (in May) to £110,000; on 13 May 
the adviser raised concerns about Prudentials management of the transfer process 
and on 15 May Aegon submitted a fresh inward transfer request through Origo; the 
transfer had an expected completion date of 27 May but a disinvestment delay meant 
it was completed on 8 June; and the total of £110,681.96 was transferred to Mr Gs 
Aegon SIPP on this date.
Prudential was not wrong to reject the first application, its process needed 
confirmation on whether a full or partial transfer of the SIPP was requested, so its 
request for resubmission of the application for each and every plan within it was not 
unreasonable. However, had Prudential given the correct information to the adviser 
when it should have the transfer would have been completed sooner than 8 June.
Had Prudential given the correct valuation, on 29 April and 6 May, the fresh transfer 
request could have been submitted earlier. Instead, and up to 13 May, the adviser 
had to pursue clarification of the incorrect valuation and had to amend his advice to 
Mr G, so the request was not resubmitted until 13 May. But for Prudentials incorrect 
valuation, an earlier resubmission would have led to completion of the transfer by 20 
May.
Prudential should calculate and pay Mr G redress based on the finding that the 
transfer should have been completed by 20 May 2020  in the context of any 
resulting loss in transfer value and in the context of investment value in the Aegon 
SIPP. Prudentials payment of £300 to him for the trouble and inconvenience caused 
is reasonable. He says a comparator complainant received more and so should he, 
but his case is to be viewed on its circumstances and Prudential appears to have 
highlighted and corrected its valuation error fairly quickly. What it paid Mr G is fair in 
these circumstances.
Mr G, with supporting submissions from his adviser, says the basis for redress should be a 
date earlier than 20 May and should be a date in late April because, primarily, Prudential 
was unreasonable in rejecting the first request of 15 April. 
His adviser presented a comparison between his case and the advisers experience in other 
Prudential related transfers. Their argument is that Prudential has processed transfers in 
other cases based, only, on citation of the lead plan within a SIPP; it had the same (or 
something comparable) in Mr Gs case and the request that was submitted made it clear that 
the subject of transfer was the entire SIPP; it did not need to have all eight plans set out in 
the request so it did not need to decline the initial request; that request should have been 
accepted; it was based on the transfer request to Aegon on 10 April and the Origo activation 
date of 15 April (either of which should be regarded as the transfer process start date) and 
the transfer should therefore have been completed by late April 2020.
Mr G also shared evidence about what Prudentials stance was in what he considers to be a 
comparable case. The investigator repeated that each case will be considered on its 
circumstances. Mr G understood this but said a point that he wishes to be noted is that 
Prudential adopted a conceding approach in that case, yet it disputes his.
Prudentials key disagreement with the investigators view is that it believes, but for its 
valuation error and the delay it caused, the transfer would indeed have been completed 
earlier than 8 June but not as early as 20 May (which is what the investigator found). 
Instead, it says the transfer would have been completed by 26 May, based on a likely 
resubmission on 8 May. It stresses that the 8 June transfer value was around £3,000 more 
than what it would have been on 26 May, so there is no loss in this respect; and that it tried 
its best to obtain information from Aegon about any potential investment loss in the context 
of the Aegon SIPP but, contrary to Aegons claims, it never received a response (despite 
chasing one). It maintains that it did no wrong in rejecting the initial application  because it 
required specific and procedural clarity on the plans subject to the transfer request. It also 
made enquiries, through the investigator, about the source and background of information 
used in the requests (and letters of authority) submitted by Mr Gs adviser.
The investigator said she made no finding of wrongdoing by Prudential with regards to its 
rejection of the initial application and that in terms of the hypothetical timeline on which it has 
based its argument, it failed to reflect the fact that submission of the second request would 
not have been delayed if the wrong valuation information had not been given. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The fact that Prudential issued incorrect transfer valuation information, on 29 April (and, it 
appears, 7 May) is not disputed. The timeline of events shows that time was consumed, up 
to 13 May (with regards to clarifying this information) when the second transfer request was submitted, which eventually resulted in completion of the transfer of Mr Gs SIPP on 8 June. 
Prudential essentially concedes the substance of Mr Gs complaint, it accepts responsibility 
for the incorrect transfer valuation information and for the delay that caused to the transfer 
process, but disputed issues remain in terms of the redress due to Mr G.
Those issues are about whether (or not) redress has been fairly calculated (especially in 
terms of the date(s) on which the calculation rests) and whether (or not) Mr G should be 
awarded more than the £300 he has received for trouble and inconvenience. With regards to 
the former, the questions are whether (or not) the second transfer request should have been 
required  if not, Mr G says redress should be calculated on the basis that the transfer, 
through the first transfer request, should have been completed in late April; if the second 
request was reasonably required, the question that arises is when the transfer would have 
been completed, but for Prudentials valuation information error and the delay it caused  the 
investigator concluded on 20 May but Prudential says it would have been 26 May. 
I have noted Prudentials submissions about its efforts to obtain information from Aegon on 
potential investment loss and its queries about how Mr Gs adviser submitted the initial 
transfer request. On balance, I do not consider that either needs to be determined in order to 
resolve the complaint. It does not appear to be disputed that redress to Mr G reasonably 
extends to considerations in the context of the receiving Aegon SIPP. This is fair because 
that SIPP was the destination of the transfer, so it (and any potential investment loss in this 
respect) is not remote to the delayed completion of the transfer. With regards to Prudentials 
queries about the input behind the advisers initial transfer request, my first finding directly 
below is that, on balance, Prudential was not wrong to request a resubmission of the 
request. The implication is that the output of the advisers first submission did not meet what 
was required. On balance, I consider that this  and not necessarily the input leading to that 
submission  is what needs to be determined and is what I determine below.
I understand Mr Gs advisers arguments about his experience in previous transfers involving 
Prudential and in which all that was required was citation of a lead plan number; and about 
there being enough information in the initial request to make clear that the entire SIPP was 
subject to the transfer request. Nevertheless, it does not automatically follow that Prudential 
was obliged to proceed as he has argued. I have not seen evidence of a definitive policy that 
says such an obligation existed at the time. It was also not automatically unreasonable for it 
to seek clarification and confirmation of the precise plans within the SIPP that the transfer 
request wanted to transfer. Such clarity benefited both sides  it helped Prudential to be 
certain about what it was being instructed to do and it catered to Mr Gs interest in terms of 
ensuring the plans within his SIPP were transferred only upon his explicit instruction (for 
each plan) to do so.
Origo documentation that has been shared with us shows that the advisers initial transfer 
request was made on 13 April and activated in the system on 15 April, and that on 29 April 
Prudential updated the system with notice that included the following  
Please request all 8 plans individually if the full SIPP is to be transferred. If this is just a 
partial transfer please re-request as a partial transfer quoting the amount to be transferred. 
We re [sic] unable to proceed with the transfer until we receive the correct requests
The adviser was also sent an email, by Prudential, on 29 April conveying the same message 
(with details of all eight SIPP plans). He appears to have shared this notice with Mr G, 
because there is an email from him (Mr G) to Prudential  sent the next day (30 April)  in 
which he said I'm hoping you will be able to help, my IFA is struggling to withdraw funds as 
Prudential have said there are 8 policies and they require individual transfer requests, I'm 
only aware of 2 policies (below), is there others ? The suggestion, or fact, that Mr G was not aware of the total number of plans within his SIPP 
appears to show even further justification for  and benefit of  Prudential declining the initial 
request and querying which plans were subject to the request. Had it not done that, it could 
have transferred all eight plans whilst Mr G held the belief that only two existed and were to 
be transferred. Due to Prudentials actions, it appears that Mr G was rightly put into a fully 
informed position, from which he instructed the transfer of all eight plans within his SIPP.
Overall, on balance and for the above reasons, I do not consider that Prudential was 
unreasonable in declining the first transfer request. I consider that resubmission of Mr Gs 
transfer request was reasonably requested.
The documentation then shows that the resubmitted transfer request was made on 13 May 
and activated in the system on 15 May. 
Mr Gs adviser replied immediately to Prudentials email of 29 April by forwarding it a revised 
letter of authority for the transfer of all eight SIPP plans. However, the valuation information 
provided directly by Prudential created an issue that required clarification and resolution 
before any further step towards resubmission could be taken. 
The SIPPs transfer value on 29 April was stated on the Origo system as around £107,607. 
However, on the same date (29 April) and then on 7 May Prudential wrote to Mr Gs adviser 
referring to a total transfer value that was around double this figure. This is the erroneous 
valuation that Prudential accepts responsibility for. The adviser tried to clarify the conflict by 
accessing the plans online but he found that he had access to only six of the eight plans 
(which also showed higher valuations)  there is evidence that he began this pursuit before 7 
May as he wrote to Mr G on 4 May with an update on the six plans he had found. He 
engaged with Prudential to try to resolve this limited access issue (and the need for full 
access). By 13 May he felt compelled to resubmit the transfer request with the information 
he had available to him  and, separately, to submit a complaint to Prudential on the same 
date. Prudential replied the following day (14 May) with an apology for the incorrect 
valuation(s) and confirmation that the total SIPP transfer value at the time was £110,684.94.
The transfer value misinformation from Prudential to the adviser from 29 April and up to 
when it was corrected on 14 May is a pivotal event that delayed resubmission of the transfer 
request. That delay was contributed to by the fact that, despite the revised letter of authority 
that was given to Prudential, the advisers online access to the SIPP was limited to only six 
of the eight plans and the online valuation information was also incorrect. Prudentials 
correction did not happen until the day after the transfer request was resubmitted, and a day 
before the resubmission was activated in Origo.
But for the above sequence of events  that is, if the correct, and consistent, valuation 
information was provided on 29 April and if the adviser had full access to the SIPP online 
(and/or did not need to investigate the individual plan values online because the 
correct/consistent value had been given)  I consider that the adviser would probably have 
resubmitted the transfer request around 29 April. 
There is enough evidence to show that, overall, he (the adviser) undertook the transfer 
pursuit in an efficient and time conscious manner, and I have referred to some of this 
evidence above. He updated and sent Prudential the revised letter of authority on 29 April. If 
there was nothing of concern or conflict about information (including valuation information) 
on the eight SIPP plans it is more likely (than not) that he would have resubmitted the 
transfer request promptly around this date. In the alternative timeline that Prudential has 
presented, it appears to accept that it should have issued its rejection of the first request and 
confirmation of the correct valuation on 22 April  seven days earlier that its letter of 29 April. In that case, it could be argued that the second request would have been submitted by the 
adviser even earlier than 29 April.
For the above reasons, I do not accept Prudentials argument that, but for its valuation error 
and delay, the second request would have been made on 8 May. Without cause for concern 
and further investigation, I have not seen reason why the adviser would have delayed the 
resubmission between 22 April (or even 29 April) and 8 May. Instead, a resubmission of the 
request between 22 April and around the end of April is more likely (than not) to have 
happened. 
Prudentials alternative timeline also concedes that it should have completed the transfer 
within 18 days of the resubmission. On this basis and in the context that resubmission of    
Mr Gs transfer request would have happened between 22 April and around the end of April, 
the transfer should have been completed by 20 May as the investigator concluded. 
Of course, the above cannot be concluded with precision because it is a consideration, in 
retrospect, of what would probably have happened if Mr Gs resubmitted transfer request 
had progressed as it ought to have. Overall, on balance and for the reasons I have 
addressed, I am persuaded that the resubmitted transfer request would have led to 
completion of the transfer on 20 May 2020.
Putting things right
My aim is to put Mr G as close as possible to the position he would now be in if the transfer 
of his SIPP from Prudential had been completed on 20 May 2020. In order to do so, I order 
Prudential to do the following: 
Calculate the total transfer value Mr Gs SIPP would have had if the transfer was 
completed on 20 May 2020. (A)
Calculate the total transfer value of his SIPP when it was transferred on 8 June 2020. 
(B)
If A is greater than B, pay the difference to Mr G in compensation for loss of transfer 
value. If B is greater than A, no such compensation is due.
Contact Aegon and obtain the notional value of Mr Gs pension on the basis that the 
value of A had been received by Aegon on 20 May 2020; and obtain the current 
value of his Aegon pension. [Mr G is ordered to engage meaningfully and co-
operatively with Prudential to provide it with information and/or consent, which it does 
not already have and reasonably needs for this purpose.] If the notional value is 
greater than the current value the difference is compensation for SIPP investment 
loss that is due to Mr G. If the current value is greater than the notional value, no 
such compensation is due.
Pay due compensation into Mr Gs pension plan, if possible, to increase its value by 
the amount of the compensation. The payment should allow for the effect of charges 
and any available tax relief. The compensation should not be paid into his pension 
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. If the compensation 
cannot be paid into his pension plan, pay it directly to him. Had it been possible to 
pay it into the plan, it would have provided a taxable income, so the compensation 
should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have 
been paid. The notional allowance should be calculated using his actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. For example, if he is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the 
current basic rate of tax. If he would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the 
reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
I share the investigators findings on Mr Gs claim for more compensation for trouble and 
inconvenience. I understand the comparison he has drawn with the other case he referred 
to, but my task is to consider an award for such compensation in the circumstances of his 
case. Prudential has paid him £300 for the trouble and inconvenience the matter caused 
him. His transfer pursuit was unreasonably set back by around a fortnight, but the error 
caused by Prudential was resolved during this period and the resubmitted transfer request 
then progressed to a conclusion without any major additional delays. Overall, on balance 
and in these circumstances, I am not persuaded that there is a call to make an award for 
trouble and inconvenience beyond the £300 that Mr G has already received.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Gs complaint. I order The Prudential Assurance 
Company Limited to calculate and pay him compensation as set out above, and to provide 
him with a calculation of the compensation in a clear and simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman