DRN-4049499
The complaint
Mr P complains about Society of Lloyds (SoL)s handling of his caravan insurance claim.
Mr P is being represented by Mr P2 and Ms P.
For ease I shall simply refer to Mr P in my provisional findings.
All references to SoL also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What I cant consider in my decision
A key part of Mr Ps submission concerns what was discussed during a call between himself 
and the policy broker in September 2021. I understand Mr P feels strongly about this and the 
consequential impact he said it later had when the caravan was stolen.
However, the underwriter of the policy, SoL, is not the broker of the policy and so I cannot 
consider the actions of the broker in answering this complaint. I may refer to the call below, 
however this in the context of providing my initial findings in the complaint against SoL.
Ive discussed this with Ms P and informed her of the option to raise a separate complaint 
with the broker, which has now been done. If she remains unhappy with its response, she 
can consider if she wishes our service to investigate that complaint.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 9 March 2023. In my provisional findings, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not intending to uphold this complaint for these reasons:
Ive not seen any evidence to show SoL was made aware the storage address had
been changed - or it confirmed it would provide cover at the new address.
As the caravan was stored in a different location to what was recorded on the policy,
theres been a qualifying misrepresentation. Under the terms of the policy
Mr P has an ongoing duty to disclose any significant changes Ive reviewed SoL
Underwriting criteria and Im satisfied if it had been made aware of the change to the
new location, it wouldnt have offered cover as the appropriate security wasnt in
place.
Im also satisfied the new location didnt meet the security conditions set out in the
policy. In particular, during the call, Mr P said he believed the location he was moving
the caravan to had locked gates and it later transpired it didnt.
SoL has treated Mr Ps misrepresentation as careless rather than deliberate. And I
agree this is fair in circumstances, as Im not persuaded Mr Ps intention was to
deliberate mislead anyone. SoL has therefore offered to refund Mr P his premiums
back to around September 2021, when the storage location changed. Which is in line
with what our service would expect it to do.
SoL accepted it could have provided better service and communication throughout its
handling of the claim. In recognition of this, it has offered Mr P £350 to recognise the
inconvenience caused.
Having reviewed matters, I agree SoL could have provided better service and
communication. And I think it added further unnecessary stress to what was already
a stressful situation by nature. However, I think SoL have fairly recognised this in its
compensation offer to Mr P  which is in line with what our service would
   recommend. So, I do not intend to direct SoL to increase this.
Responses to my provisional decision
Ms P acknowledged my provisional findings and had no further points for me to consider. 
However, she did highlight SoL said the new storage location didnt have locked gates. 
She explained it did, they just were left open around the time of the theft.
SoL didnt provide any further comments for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered everything again, but my decision and reasoning hasnt changed.
I acknowledge what Ms P said about the gates. But from SoL reports I can see its noted the 
compound is open for vehicles to come and go freely (so while it may have lockable gates, 
the gates are not locked due to the nature of how the compound appears to be used). 
I also explained to Ms P the issue with locked gates wasnt the only reason SoL wouldve 
declined to provide cover at that location had it been aware. 
So, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman