DRN-3302070
The complaint
Mr L and Miss V complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) reduced its mortgage 
offer the day before completion of their property purchase  meaning they had to source the 
additional funds elsewhere at very short notice.
What happened
I provided my provisional findings on this complaint in January 2022 in which I explained that 
I was minded to uphold the complaint, and how Barclays needed to put things right. Ive 
included an extract of my provisional decision below, so I wont repeat it here. 
I gave both parties the opportunity to respond to my provisional findings before issuing my 
final decision. Barclays responded and accepted my findings and Mr L and Miss V replied 
providing some further comments, which Ill address below.
In my provisional decision I said:
What happened
The facts of this complaint are well-known to all parties, so I dont intend to repeat everything here. 
But Ill give a summary of whats happened so far, and then Ill focus on giving my provisional 
thoughts. 
Mr L and Miss V found a property and had an offer accepted at a purchase price of £362,500. 
Following a mortgage application, Barclays provided a mortgage offer for £290,999 to Mr L and Miss 
V on 11 January 2021. 
Contracts were exchanged on 8 March 2021 and the completion date was set for 12 March 2021. 
On 11 March 2021 Mr L called Barclays to discuss completion. At that point Barclays let Mr L know 
that the property valuation had down valued the property, so Barclays was no longer willing to lend 
the amount it had previously offered. The same day it issued a revised offer of £264,999  £26,000 
less than the initial offer. 
As the completion date was set for the next day, Mr L and Miss V felt unable to pull out of the 
purchase. Theyve explained theyd have been charged a penalty of 10% of the purchase price, plus 
around 4% more for the other partys costs. So theyve explained they used their savings, which were 
intended for their wedding, as well as borrowing from family and friends, to make up the £26,000 
shortfall so that the purchase could go ahead. 
Mr L and Miss V complained to Barclays about this. Barclays accepted that it shouldve reviewed the 
valuation report before issuing its offer. It offered £300 compensation, but Mr L and Miss V brought 
their complaint to this service as they did think this went far enough to put things right.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and agreed it should be upheld. But she said that the 
impact of Barclays error had been greater than what was reflected by Barclays offer of £300. She 
recommended Barclays increase its offer to £1,000. Barclays didnt agree, but it increased its offer to 
£500. Mr L and Miss V also didnt agree with the £1000 recommended by the investigator, so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
I should explain that Ive looked into Barclays actions, but not the actual valuation of the property, 
although I do acknowledge that Mr L and Miss V dont agree with that. If Mr L and Miss V remain 
unhappy with the valuation, they should contact the surveyor, or ultimately, the Royal Institute of 
Chartered Surveyors (RICS).  
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I currently agree that the complaint should be upheld  but I think Barclays needs to 
do more to put things right. Ill explain why.
-Barclays sent the mortgage offer to Mr L and Miss V on 11 January 2021, the same day as it 
instructed the valuation. Without the valuation having been completed, its unclear on what basis 
Barclays produced its offer. But Barclays accepts this was a mistake on its part.
-The notes Ive seen suggest Barclays received the valuation report on 14 January 2021 but didnt 
review it until Mr L contacted Barclays on 11 March, the day before completion. Had Barclays 
reviewed the valuation report when it was received, whilst inconvenient, it wouldve given Mr L 
and Miss V adequate time to decide what action to take following the down valuation. At this 
point they mayve chosen to discuss other options with Barclays, to borrow from elsewhere, or 
not to proceed with the purchase without incurring the penalties Ive already mentioned.
-Following the new valuation of £330,000, instead of the £362,500 initially stated by Mr L and 
Miss V, I havent seen anything to suggest that Barclays discussed other options such as an 
alternative mortgage product with Mr L and Miss V. Considering their application form shows 
they had a deposit of around £72,500, it seems likely that Barclays might still have been able to 
lend to them, albeit at a higher loan-to-value, even despite the lower valuation of £330,000. 
Barclays hasnt explained why this option wasnt discussed with Mr L and Miss V or their solicitor, 
nor have I seen anything to suggest it was considered.
-Barclays contact records show that it made a call to Mr L and Miss Vs solicitor on 11 March 
2021, to advise them of the down valuation and revised offer. The note suggests the call started 
but wasnt successfully completed, but further notes on the same day show that Barclays 
decided to proceed with releasing the funds  despite not attempting to contact the solicitor 
again, or Mr L and Miss V directly.  
-Im mindful that the very short succession in which these events occurred didnt give Mr L and 
Miss V much time to think about their options. Buying a property and dealing with solicitors is 
stressful at any time, and I can only imagine how much additional stress and anxiety this last 
minute change caused Mr L and Miss V. I dont think Barclays has adequately recognised this  
nor the fact that Mr L and Miss V were effectively backed into a corner  because cancelling the 
purchase wouldve cost them the 10% penalty, plus costs. Mr L and Miss V have explained they 
had to use money saved for their wedding, as well as borrowing from family and friends at very 
short notice, and with no guarantee on how and when theyd repay them. Whilst Barclays seems 
to have acknowledged the situation was inconvenient, it has focussed on the down valuation of 
the property when answering the complaint, which whilst part of their initial complaint, isnt the 
crux of it. 
-I should add that had this error not occurred, Mr L and Miss V would still have borrowed the 
additional £26,000 if theyd decided to go ahead with the mortgage. So I wont be telling Barclays 
to write off this amount from the mortgage. But I do need to keep in mind that Mr L and Miss V 
wouldve been able to repay the additional £26,000 alongside their mortgage, at the same 
interest rate, on the same terms, and wouldnt owe it to friends and family.
For the reasons Ive explained above I currently intend to uphold Mr L and Miss Vs complaint. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I firstly note that Mr L and Miss V say theyve never received the £300 they were initially 
offered. Im unsure of whether this has been paid, but as I set out in my provisional decision, 
I expect Barclays to pay £1,500 compensation inclusive of the £300. So if Barclays hasnt 
paid this it should pay Mr L and Miss V the full £1,500. If it has, and it can prove this to Mr L 
and Miss V, it can deduct the £300 from the £1,500. 
I also note that Mr L and Miss V have provided further comments around them delaying 
home renovation plans they had as theyd already used their savings to fund their house 
deposit. Whilst Ive thought about this very carefully, and I do acknowledge how upsetting 
this will have been for them, the resolution I set out in my provisional decision does take into 
account the significant inconvenience that theyve faced  and the award Ive made covers 
what Mr L and Miss V have described. 
Finally, Mr L and Miss V have explained that theyve since taken a further advance on their 
mortgage to repay some family and friends, and consequently they have several different 
end dates for the different deals included with their mortgage. But I cant tell Barclays to 
further put things right that Mr L and Miss V have done since the complaint was referred to 
this service; that wouldnt be fair as these things didnt happen a result of anything else that 
Barclays had done since I issued my provisional findings. So I havent departed from the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. 
Ive thought carefully about all the additional comments that Mr L and Miss V have provided 
but I havent changed the outcome Ive reached, or the way Im asking Barclays to put things 
right. 
It follows that I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
To put things right I require Barclays to do the following:
- Barclays should pay Mr L and Miss V £1,500 compensation in recognition of the fact 
that its mistake has caused substantial distress and worry to Mr L and Miss V, with 
them being put in a situation where they werent able to take any further action to 
mitigate the impact. I also consider a substantial award to be appropriate as Barclays 
has failed to recognise this impact despite several opportunities. Barclays can deduct 
the £300 it has already paid from this amount.
- Barclays should work with Mr L and Miss V to offer lending, subject to a successful 
application, of up to £26,000 to allow them to repay their friends and family. This may 
be secured or unsecured lending, but Barclays must ensure the repayments are 
sustainable and Mr L and Miss V are not in a worse financial position than they 
wouldve been in if the additional £26,000 had been lent as part of the mortgage. 
Barclays can lend at a different interest rate if a different LTV wouldve been 
applicable, as long as it clearly explains this to Mr L and Miss V. 
- Barclays should contact Mr L and Miss V to work with them and ensure this is put in 
place, if Mr L and Miss V accept it.My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to put things right by doing what 
Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Miss V to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Sam Wade
Ombudsman