The complaint
Mr J complains about the service he received from National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) in one of their branches and when he was opening an account. 
What happened
Mr J says the staff in the branch refused to accept his identification documents and were   
rude to him. He says he felt discriminated against and so raised a complaint. But he did not 
receive a telephone call back about his complaint within two hours which he had been 
promised.   
NatWest says that Mr J provided an expired passport which was not an acceptable form of 
identification. It says Mr J disagreed with its representative, but it was ultimately explained 
to  Mr J what was acceptable. And that Mr J later returned with the correct identification 
documents and the account was opened. It apologised to Mr J for not calling him within the 
two hour timeframe hed expected, but it did contact him by phone and in writing in response 
to his complaint.  
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Js complaint. He said he could understand the frustration 
Mr J felt when he was told the identification documents werent acceptable, but he didnt 
think NatWest had done anything significantly wrong.
Mr J didnt accept the investigators opinion and he asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint. And so the complaint has been passed to me. Since then Mr J has also asked us 
to listen to some telephone conversations he subsequently had with NatWest. But having 
obtained the call recordings from NatWest, the issues raised in those calls relate to other 
issues Mr J experienced after the account was opened. So its been explained to Mr J that 
these issues with be considered under a separate complaint. And so for clarity, this decision 
solely relates to the service Mr J received during the account opening process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having looked into everything fully, I 
agree with our investigator in that NatWest hasnt acted incorrectly. I know this will come as 
a disappointment to Mr J, so Ill explain why.
Mr J went into the branch as hed already had problems opening the account on-line. As our 
investigator explained, banks follow set procedures relating to acceptable forms of ID. And 
here NatWest has provided its procedures outlining the forms of ID that it will accept.  
DRN-1099416Having considered these procedures, I accept that an expired passport is not an acceptable 
form of ID. Like the investigator, I do appreciate the frustration Mr J felt when he had to go 
home and return with alternative ID. But I dont think NatWest acted incorrectly in explaining 
what was required or refusing the expired passport. 
Mr J has said this made him feel discriminated against. But from what Ive seen, Im satisfied 
that NatWests procedures apply to all customers applying for a new account regardless of 
their ethnicity. Because of this, I dont think NatWest treated Mr J unfairly or differently to any 
new customer opening an account. He was given the correct information about what he 
needed to provide and when he provided that information the account was opened for him.
I understand that when Mr J raised his complaint with NatWest he was promised a call back 
within two hours. But I can see that NatWest has apologised for not calling him back within 
the promised timescale and explained the reason why. So Im not going to ask NatWest to 
take any further action in this respect.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2020.
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman