DRN-4056640
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance policy and that it later failed to act on their request to cancel it.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B arranged their original mortgage in 1987 and didnt take out PPI at that time. 
They subsequently arranged a number of further advances. They were first sold PPI in 
December 2002 at the time that they were arranging their third further advance. This 
provided cover for the original mortgage, further advances in 1990 and 2001, and then the 
2002 loan. This was PPI policy number ending 179620 and provided cover for Mrs B only. 
They were then sold another policy when arranging more borrowing in 2009. This was policy 
number ending 5264 and provided cover for that loan and was set up to cover Mr B only.
In 2015 Lloyds upheld Mr and Mrs Bs mis-sale complaint in relation to policy number 5264 
and so that PPI policy was cancelled at that time. But policy number 179620 continued to 
run and that is the subject of this complaint.
Although Lloyds maintained its stance that policy 179620 hadnt been mis-sold, it did write to 
Mr and Mrs B in December 2019 to offer an unfair commission refund.
In February 2020 Mr and Mrs B wrote back to Lloyds, continuing to dispute the outcome of 
the mis-sale complaint but also saying that they wished to cancel the policy. However, the 
policy continued until the mortgage was redeemed in 2021.
Our adjudicator didnt think that the policy had been mis-sold. However, she did think that 
Lloyds should refund the policy premiums from the point that Mr and Mrs B made the 
request to cancel. Lloyds hasnt responded to the adjudicators view and so the complaint 
has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B say that were led to believe that the PPI was necessary for the mortgage to be 
agreed. However, as they didnt take out PPI with the original mortgage or the first two 
further advances, I think its more likely than not that they would have known that the PPI 
was not a condition of the lending.
From what we know of Lloyds sales processes at the time, the policy would normally have 
been presented as optional and I havent seen anything that would lead me to conclude that 
something different happened in this case. I have no doubt that Mr and Mrs B have provided 
their genuine recollection of events. But the sale was a long time ago and so it wouldnt be 
surprising if their memories have faded. On balance, I consider that they probably decided to 
buy the policy, knowing that they didnt have to, even if they no longer remember doing so.
Lloyds advised Mr and Mrs B to buy the PPI. Therefore, in recommending the policy to them, 
it needed to ensure that it met their needs. And from what I know of Mr and Mrs Bs 
circumstances at the time, the policy was suitable for them.
Mr B wasnt working at the time, so it was appropriate that it was just set up to cover Mrs B. 
Mrs B would have received some sick pay from her employer. But the policy would have 
paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than Mrs B would have received 
full pay for. The couple had some savings but having the PPI would have allowed them to 
retain any savings or use them to cover other outgoings. Mrs B has provided evidence of 
another insurance policy. But this provided life and critical illness cover.  So the PPI was not 
duplicating her existing insurance. Overall, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs B had a need for the 
cover and could have benefitted from it at what would have been a difficult time.
Its possible that Lloyds could have provided more information about the policy, particularly 
about the things that it didnt cover. But Mrs B wasnt affected by any of those things. For 
example, she did not have a pre-existing medical condition that might have been excluded 
under the policy terms.
As I consider that Mr and Mrs B had an interest in the PPI and decided to buy it, I dont think 
that further information would have caused them to change their minds. So they are no 
worse off as a result of anything Lloyds may have done wrong during the sale.
This means that Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B. 
But it has paid back some of the cost to them because:
When the policy was sold, Lloyds expected to get a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs B about 
that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr and Mrs B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
For the reasons stated above, I do not uphold the mis-sale part of the complaint. Ill now look 
at the issue of whether Lloyds should have cancelled the policy sooner.
On 28 February 2020 Mr and Mrs B sent Lloyds a letter which said that theyd asked for all 
PPI premiums to be cancelled when they made their initial complaint. They said that Lloyds 
had now indicated that a PPI policy was still in place and so they were asking for 
confirmation that all PPI payments had now been cancelled. 
Lloyds said it didnt receive this letter. However, Mr and Mrs B have proof of delivery from 
the Post Office and so Im satisfied that Lloyds did receive it. Following further phone calls 
and letters (enclosing the original letter of 28 February 2020) from Mr and Mrs B, Lloyds did 
send a response on 26 January 2021. However, this failed to address the issue of cancelling 
the policy.
Lloyds then sent another letter on 28 January 2021 to say that it had miscalculated the unfair 
commission redress. This letter does mention that, if theyd like to cancel the policy that they 
should get in touch. But it seems clear that this letter from Lloyds was produced from a 
separate tranche of work in relation to unfair commission redress and was not in direct 
response to Mr and Mrs Bs correspondence.
The policy was finally cancelled automatically as a result of the mortgage being redeemed in 
June 2021. Mr and Mrs B have provided a statement showing that the July 2021 premium was also taken. Its not unusual for an extra premium to be taken, due to the timing of the 
mortgage closure. This is usually refunded at the time although Mr and Mrs B say that it was 
not.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs Bs letter of 28 February 2020 states that they have been 
asking to cancel the PPI from the point of their initial complaint. They have also reiterated to 
this service that they have been asking to cancel the policy since 2015. However, neither 
party has been able to provide any evidence of this. I understand what Mr and Mrs B have 
said about most of these requests having been made by phone or in branch. Ive thought 
very carefully about what they have said but, on balance, I dont have enough evidence to 
conclude that they asked to cancel the PPI prior to 2020. Therefore, I agree with our 
adjudicator that Lloyds should refund all premiums paid after Mr and Mrs Bs letter of 28 
February 2020.
Putting things right
Lloyds should put Mr and Mrs B in the financial position theyd be in now if the policy had 
been cancelled on request on 28 February 2020. So Lloyds should:
Pay Mr and Mrs B the amount they paid each month for the PPI from March 2020 
until the date of the last premium in July 2021.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Mr and Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
As set out above, I do not uphold the mis-sale complaint. However, I do uphold the 
complaint relating to the policy not being cancelled on request and require Lloyds Bank PLC 
to pay fair compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman