DRN-3625189
The complaint
Mr K complains about how Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) handled his 
claim on his home insurance. 
What happened
Mr K had home insurance with LV. In 2015 he made a claim after a crack in a shower tray 
caused a water leak and damage to a number of rooms in his home. LV accepted the claim 
but it took a long time to complete all the necessary repairs, due to delays caused by both 
sides. In 2021 work resumed but Mr K was unhappy with how it had progressed and some 
issues that he felt hadnt been resolved, so he made a complaint. 
In January 2022 LV responded to Mr Ks complaint but didnt uphold it. It said it didnt agree 
with his comments that it had caused damage to his wooden staircase as this was present 
before the claim. And it offered to pay for repairs to vinyl flooring and a clean of the carpets 
to remove a sticky residue that had been left due to a plastic covering it used. It also 
confirmed that items damaged in storage could be French polished and that it would repair 
damage to the ceiling that was caused by the leak.
Mr K was unhappy with this response as he didnt agree LV had done enough. In particular 
he wanted compensation for the delays it had caused and for them to rectify the damage it 
had caused to his stairs and carpet. He brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He 
said he was satisfied LV had settled his claim fairly. Mr K didnt agree and asked for it to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigators outcome for the following reasons:
While I can see there is damage to the wooden staircase from the videos provided by Mr 
K, LV has provided photos from before the work commenced and the same damage is 
visible in these. I therefore am not persuaded this damage is claim related so think its 
reasonable that LV havent contributed to this.
I agree that the sticky covering that was applied to the stair carpet may have caused 
some discolouring, however LVs contractor has advised that this would just be residue 
that could be easily removed. And before it was able to inspect it Mr K removed the 
carpets and replaced them. As LV hasnt had the opportunity to inspect the carpets and 
try to repair them, I dont think it reasonable that it should pay for a full replacement, 
especially considering the damage appears minor. LV has offered Mr K £125 as a 
goodwill gesture as this is the most it considers it would cost to have had the carpets 
cleaned and I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr K has also said he is unhappy with damage to the ceiling that hadnt been repaired, 
the vinyl floor covering in the bathroom which needed re-doing and some damaged items 
that came back from storage. LV agreed to fix the ceiling and to French polish the 
damaged furniture, which I understand has now been completed. And its said it will 
consider an invoice for the flooring or pay Mr K £200 to cover it instead. As LV has 
provided fixes to rectify these issues, I think this is fair and wont ask it to take any further 
action. 
Ive considered the timeline of the claim and the correspondence provided and while I 
agree the claim has taken far longer to settle than I would expect, I dont agree LV has 
caused all of these delays. There have been long periods of time when it has been 
unable to contact Mr K and there have been issues with contractors due to a breakdown 
in relationships, which arent solely the fault of LVs contractors. And LV has moved the 
claim on promptly once these issues had been addressed. Further it has responded to 
Mr Ks snagging issues promptly and effectively as theyve been highlighted. I therefore 
dont think LV has delayed the claim unnecessarily and wont ask it to pay any 
compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman