DRN-2911537
The complaint
Mrs S and Mr S (the complainants) are represented. Their representative says Barclays 
Bank UK PLC (Barclays) recommended an unsuitable Barclays Personal Investment 
Management (BPIM) portfolio to them in 2001, into which they jointly invested £100,000. 
The complaint was first made in 2018, potentially out of time, but Barclays has consented to 
this service addressing its merits.
What happened
One of our investigators initially took the view that the complaint should be upheld. The 
complainants representative argued that the BPIM investment was too risky for them, given 
their risk profile and inexperience in investments, and the investigator was persuaded that 
this could have been the case. However, she investigated further and issued a revised view 
in which she concluded that the complaint should not be upheld. The investigator found, 
mainly, as follows:
At the time of the investment the complainants were in their mid-to-late forties and in 
good health; they had three young adult dependent children; neither of the 
complainants was employed; Mr S was considering his employment options at the 
time; their home was mortgage free; they had no debts and had joint monthly living 
expenses of £700; they held £135,000 in cash, and they also appear to have held an 
Individual Savings Account (ISA) which was not disclosed to Barclays at the time; 
they wanted to invest £100,000; and they wanted to retain £35,000 (£8,000 for a 
planned expenditure and £25,000 as a cash reserve).
The complainants sought to invest for income and long-term capital growth, they had 
a medium risk profile and the preferred level of investment income they wanted was 
£2,900 per year.
Barclays recommended a balanced portfolio, which invested 44% of the capital in 
fixed interest securities and cash, and invested 56% of the capital in equities (mainly 
UK equities). It also agreed with the total cash and cash reserve the complainants 
wanted to retain, even though the cash reserve it would have recommended in line 
with their risk profile was less, at around £16,000.
There is evidence that Mr S was not a novice to investments, contrary to how his 
representative has presented him. He had some investment experience and he (and 
Mrs S) needed to take the level of risk agreed in order to stand a chance of achieving 
the income and capital growth (above what they could receive in a deposit account) 
that they were looking for. The recommended portfolio suited their objective and it 
contained a spread of assets that suited their risk profile. In addition, they retained 
the cash they wanted to retain, even though it was more than the cash reserve 
amount recommended by Barclays. Overall, the investment was not unsuitable for 
them.
The investigator also noted that Barclays had paid the complainants £200 for the 
inconvenience caused to them by the time it took to investigate their complaint.
The complainants representative conveyed their disagreement with this outcome, and they 
asked for an ombudsmans decision. They said it is inconceivable that the complainants 
could have been advised to invest £100,000 of their capital at an uncertain time in their lives 
when neither of them was employed, so neither had any income, and that no consideration 
was given by Barclays to this and to how long those circumstances would continue before 
Mr S returned to earning an income. They said a similar lack of consideration applies to the 
impending planned expenditure the complainants had at the time, and that the complainants 
minimum annual income requirement of £8,900 mismatched the advice to invest for £2,900 
per year income. They also disputed the investigators perception of the evidence she 
referred to about Mr S investment experience.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not consider that the BPIM portfolio recommendation was unsuitable for the 
complainants.
In broad terms, there are a handful of key elements related to the suitability (or otherwise) of 
an investment. In the main, a suitable investment should match the combination of  an 
investors affordability status (in terms of an investors financial standing and his/her capacity 
for capital loss); an investors objective; an investors attitude to risk (ATR); and an 
investors investment experience. In addition, it is also important to consider evidence on 
whether (or not) the investors objective, ATR and experience were properly established; and 
evidence that the investor was properly informed about the investment.
Affordability
I acknowledge the complainants representatives point(s) about the fact that neither of them 
was employed at the time of the recommendation (and investment) and that, as such, 
neither of them was in receipt of an income at that time. It is indeed a point to note. 
However, given the circumstances of their case, it is not the only point to note and it is not 
the most important point to note.
My consideration has gone beyond the complainants unemployed status at the time of their 
investment. It has extended to the facts that they were mortgage free, so they had no 
housing related costs to bear; they were debt free, so they had no indebtedness to service; 
the bulk of their responsibility for their dependents appears to have passed at the time [in 
order to safeguard their identities, and because this decision will be published, I will not 
elaborate on this, but it is sufficient to say this responsibility was arguably limited at the time 
of advice]; they were in good health and I have not seen evidence that their employment 
prospects, especially Mr S, was hopeless; they had monthly living expenses of £700 and 
they had £135,000 in capital.
Where the complainants lacked income to support an investment, they certainly had capital 
to do so. Their representatives argument is that the idea of them investing from such capital 
whilst they were without income was fundamentally wrong. I understand the argument, but I 
consider that it omits consideration of the potential risk in doing nothing with the capital 
whilst also having no income. In such a scenario, the capital will be compromised, because it 
will be used in place of income. If, as the representative argues, the complainants 
circumstances were uncertain and if the end of their period of unemployment could not be 
foreseen at the time, the implication is they would have continued to compromise their 
capital for an uncertain or indefinite period. Over time, part of the capital would be depleted and that could have had a significant impact on their financial standing. In this context, the 
idea of investing some of the complainants capital in order to provide income and capital 
growth does not appear to have been unreasonable.
£100,000 of the complainants capital was invested. They were left with £35,000, £8,000 of 
which was earmarked for their planned expenditure. The remaining £27,000 potentially 
covered around 38 months of living expenses for the complainants (at the rate of £700 per 
month, as they declared) in the event that they remained without income for the same period 
after the investment  which amounts to arguably substantial coverage. Even if unplanned 
expenditure halved this capacity, they would still have been left with potential coverage for 
around 19 months of living expenses (if they remained without income for the same period)  
which amounts to arguably decent coverage. 
In the overall context set out above, I am not persuaded that the BPIM investment was 
unaffordable for the complainants. I do not suggest that a loss of £100,000 would not have 
had an impact upon them. It would. However, on balance and given their circumstances, I 
consider that they had the capacity to put that amount at risk (of loss) for an investment that 
was also suitable in terms of the other elements I consider below.
Objective and ATR
Evidence that the complainants objective and ATR were properly established exists in the 
fact find related documentation that appears to have been signed by both the adviser and 
the complainants on 8 February 2001. The documentation states that they had a balanced 
income and capital growth objective for the investment, and that they wanted annual income 
of £2,900 from their investment. The documentation also confirms their agreement to a 
medium ATR for their investment.
The documentation was also used to record the recommendation made to the complainants 
and their agreements. It shows that the BPIM matched their wish for a professionally 
managed portfolio with exposure to equities. As the investigator said, the portfolio was split 
between fixed interest securities and equities. A roughly equal split, which is also similar to 
this services approach towards suitable investments for a medium ATR profile. Such a mix 
gave the portfolio a chance to remain sufficiently exposed to the potential for growth in its 
equities element, but also a chance for some relative safety (and for some more certainty in 
terms of income) in its fixed interest securities element. Overall and on balance, I do not 
consider that the portfolio mismatched the complainants objective and ATR.
Given the passage of time, not all the documents from 2001 appear to have been available. 
In terms of the complainants being informed about the advice they were given and about the 
investment, I consider that there is enough evidence to establish this. The signed and dated 
fact find documentation includes explanations about the advice and how it met their 
circumstances and objectives, and it also includes areas in which they expressly confirmed 
their agreement to what was stated. It also confirms that documentation about the BPIM was 
given to them at the time  and some of that documentation has also been disclosed in the 
course of the complaint. Overall and on balance, I consider that the complainants were 
informed about the advice they received and about the investment they made.
Investment Experience
Debate over, and enquiries about, Mr S investment experience at the time of advice 
featured as part of the investigators consideration of the complaint. I am not inclined to 
engage in the same debate because it appears to have developed into the consideration of 
information and evidence that was not available or disclosed at the time of advice; and my 
task is to consider suitability at the time of advice and not with the benefit of hindsight. There is enough evidence to conclude that at the time of advice Barclays considered the 
complainants to be inexperienced in investments. They declared no past personal or 
pension investments to Barclays and I have not seen anything in the documentation 
compiled by Barclays at the time from which they could have been viewed as experienced 
investors. Whether (or not) this was accurate at the time is arguably irrelevant, what matters 
is how they presented themselves to Barclays (based on which, they were advised by 
Barclays).
The next consideration is about the suitability (or otherwise) of recommending the BPIM 
portfolio to inexperienced investors. Ideally, it could be argued that a low risk product would 
have been suitable for such investors. However, that does not automatically mean 
something else was unsuitable, and I am mindful that the complainants had somewhat 
special circumstances in terms of having no income between them and in terms of having a 
significant lump sum capital from which they sought both income and growth. Part of that 
capital had to be exposed to a certain degree of risk in order to stand the chance of making 
returns that could aid growth (which would also have been needed to sustain income 
withdrawals); and part of it had to be kept relatively safe, and safe enough to aid the 
prospect of having reliable income. In this context, and on balance, I am not persuaded that 
the BPIM (as it was constituted in this case) was unsuitable for the complainants, despite 
their inexperience at the time.
Conclusion
Overall, on balance and for the reasons addressed above, I do not consider that the BPIM 
portfolio recommendation was unsuitable for the complainants.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold the complaint from Mrs S and Mr S.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman