DRN-3340521
The complaint
Mr S complains about the market rate adjustment (MRA) Zopa Limited has applied to loans 
he has sold from his crowdfunding accounts. He doesnt think it was fair to apply an MRA on 
his loan sales. 
What happened
Mr S holds crowdfunding accounts on Zopas peer to peer (P2P) lending platform. Zopas 
platform allows investors to lend money to prospective borrowers in return for interest 
payments. An investor agrees to lend a proportion of the total loan a borrower is looking to 
borrow, and in return an investor receives interest on their loan part. At the time of Mr Ss 
complaint, Zopa provided a secondary market for investors to access their funds early by 
selling their loan parts to other investors.
In November 2020, Mr S complained to Zopa as he was unhappy with being charged a 5% 
MRA for loans he wanted to sell. He didnt think this was fair because his loans had been 
performing well compared to the average returns on the platform - based on monthly emails 
he received from Zopa. So, he didnt think an MRA was justified. 
Zopa didnt uphold the complaint. In summary it said:
- It made some changes to the way it calculates MRAs in March 2020 to ensure the 
price of historic loans accounted for the uncertainty caused by the global pandemic.
- It does not take any cut of the MRAs and the entire adjustment is passed on to the 
investor purchasing the loan so as to compensate for the difference in current rates 
compared to rates on historic loans available on the secondary market.
- Looking at Mr Ss overall loan book, the average APR on his loans before the sale 
requests was roughly 7%, whereas the average APR on loans disbursed after April 
2020 was 13%. This explains where a large part of the MRA comes from and is in 
place to ensure investors who are still lending within the platform are not 
disadvantaged by picking up historic lower rate loans. 
Mr S wasnt happy with the response he received from Zopa, so he referred his complaint to 
this service for an independent review. 
One of investigators looked into the complaint. She didnt think it should be upheld. In short, 
she said:
- She was satisfied the terms of the agreement between Mr S and Zopa included the 
potential for an MRA to be applied to loan sales on the secondary market. 
- The regulator (the FCA) provided guidance on how P2P platforms should determine 
price based on a valuation appropriate to the types and risk profiles of the loans, and 
in line with market conditions  including ensuring a fair price when facilitating an exit 
for a lender before the maturity date. 
- The MRAs Mr S paid reflected the difference in price (interest rate) of existing loans 
compared to new comparable loans.
- Zopa confirmed that in April 2020 the interest rates it charged increased for new 
loans as a result of the impact of the pandemic (due to an increase in risk caused by 
volatility in the market and increased likelihood of loans defaulting). The 
implementing of a 5% MRA was a reflection of the market Mr S was trying to sell his 
loan parts in.
- It was Mr Ss choice to use the secondary market to sell his loan parts in order to exit 
the platform - if he didnt like or agree with the MRA, he could have stayed
invested until each loan term ended. 
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators assessment. In summary he said: 
Zopa has the right to implement an MRA as they see fit by abiding by the rules the 
FCAs have in place for pricing P2P agreements and principles of acting with due 
skill, care and diligence, while treating customers fairly.   
The decision should be based on Zopas definition, description, and example of MRA 
set out in Zopas investor principles, not preconceived ideas.
Calculating the value of secondary loans involves risk. Comparing it to a contractual 
new loan percentage without risk is totally unfair. Therefore, to comply with COBS 
18.12.17 R to be fair and appropriate, the comparison of projected rates between 
new loans and secondary loans both have to involve calculations which includes risk. 
The projected rates on weekly emails against the projected rate Zopa uses for 
secondary loans both involve a risk.
The calculation of risk on his secondary loans would also be different because no 
defaulting loans would be included in the sale and Zopa have said in the past that 
most loans default in the first 3 months. Therefore, there is justification in saying his 
secondary loans were less risk than new loans as both would be going through the 
same time (i.e. Covid-19) period.
Zopa says it considers the term of the loan when calculating an MRA. What actually 
happened after (Mr Ss loans were sold with an MRA applied) was loan terms were 
cut short because Zopa decided to buy back its P2P loans. That made the amount of 
the MRAs charged unfair due to the term being changed. 
As no agreement could be reached, Mr S asked for an ombudsman to reach a decision on 
his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is not in dispute that Zopa included as part of its investor terms the potential for an MRA to 
apply to loans sold on the secondary market. What is in dispute is whether it has fairly 
applied to the loans that Mr S sold. 
The application of the MRA is a re-pricing instrument applied to loans which are sold on the 
secondary market. I say this as Zopa has confirmed it doesnt receive any money from the 
transfer payment. Instead its paid directly to investors who acquire loan parts via the 
secondary market. It acts as discount incentive to those acquiring loans into their account. 
In June 2019 the regulator, the FCA, published its policy statement on Loan-based (peer-to-
peer) and investment-based crowdfunding platforms: Feedback to CP18/20 and final rules. 
In this, the FCA provided clarity around when and how often crowdfunding platforms should 
re-price loans. It implemented this by way of introducing new rules into COBS (Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook) which came into force in December 2019.COBS 18.12.16 R explains that:
Where a firm determines the price of a P2P agreement it must review the valuation of each 
P2P agreement in at least the following circumstances:
[]
(4) where the firm is facilitating an exit for a lender before the maturity date of
the P2P agreement.
And COBS 18.12.17 R goes on to explain that:
Where a firm that determines the price of P2P agreements is facilitating an exit for a lender 
before the maturity date of a P2P agreement, the firm must ensure that the price offered for 
exiting the P2P agreement is fair and appropriate.
The FCA added that this is a non-exhaustive list as the frequency of re-pricing will depend
on a platforms business model. It is therefore for each individual platform to determine in
light of its business model and the offer it is making to investors.
Mr S has also referred to the wider principles placed upon Zopa. These include that it must 
act with due skill, care and diligence and have regards for the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly. These are both relevant consideration for his complaint. 
In Mr Ss case, Zopa is facilitating an exit for him by way of selling his loan parts on the 
secondary market prior to them maturing. So, its clear that Zopa has a regulatory 
requirement to ensure that the price for Mr Ss loan parts are fair and appropriate on the 
secondary market. In order to determine whether this is fair and appropriate, its important to 
understand what considerations Zopa made before introducing this.
Zopa has provided information to explain how the global pandemic started to have an impact 
on the market conditions for P2P lending  and explained this was a key factor in how it 
applied MRAs from March/April 2020. It was after this change in market conditions that Mr S 
was seeking to sell loans that had an MRA applied. Zopa says interest rates for newly 
originated loans went up by roughly 5% for a period, this was to reflect the uncertainty in the 
market, and also the possibility that more loans would fall into arrears and default. It has 
provided details of the average interest rates paid to lenders for new loans during the period 
from the start of 2019 to the end of 2020. This shows a starting point of an average rate that 
broadly stays between 7 and 8% through 2019 and at the start of 2020, then in April 2020 
this jumps to 11% and increases further over the next few months hitting a peak of over 12% 
in July 2020 before staying around 11% for the rest of the year. This information is relevant 
to how Zopa calculated the MRA.  
Mr S says that calculating the value of secondary loans involves risk. So, he thinks 
comparing it to a contractual new loan percentage without risk is unfair  and Zopa needed 
to compare projected rates between new loans and secondary loans involving calculations 
which include risk. I acknowledge what Mr S says but I dont agree that Zopa didnt involve 
risk calculations when applying an MRA. It is important to recognise an MRA is applied to 
the loan being sold  so when re-pricing it is the risk to this loan that is being assessed. By 
using a comparison for newly originated loans to help understand the sale price of an 
existing loan is reasonable. Zopa has confirmed that new loans were priced using current 
market conditions. It says new loans went through tighter underwriting controls due to a 
need to lend responsibly given the prevailing market conditions. It gave an example of not 
lending to borrowers in industries it had previously (pre-April 2020) because they were now 
considered at risk industries. We know from the information provided by Zopa that there was 
a difference in the level of interest being paid to lenders on newly originated loans compared 
to existing loans. Zopa says was a result of the impact of the pandemic as the risk increased 
due to the volatility in the market and increased likelihood of loans defaulting. What cant be 
assessed as part of a risk factor for newly originated loans is the whether the payment history increases the risk, because they dont have a history to consider. But the payment 
history for the loan that is being sold can be used to factor into the re-pricing calculation 
through an MRA. 
Mr S says there is justification that his secondary loans were less risk than new loans. He 
points to the fact that defaulted loans cannot be sold and Zopa has said in the past that most 
loans default in the first three months. This has led him to conclude that as the loans he 
placed for sale were non-defaulted there wasnt an increased risk  and both his existing 
loans and new loans faced the same market conditions as a result of the pandemic. It is 
correct that defaulted loans couldnt be sold on the secondary market, but it doesnt 
automatically mean all non-defaulted loans have a clean payment history (i.e. no missed 
payments or late payments). Zopa has explained in the period from March 2020, the impact 
of the pandemic meant that some borrowers were on payment plans and loan freezes. It 
says Mr Ss loan portfolio hadnt been adjusted for this impact  and at the time he made his   
complaint payment plans were beginning to come to an end. So, I dont agree that the fact 
Mr S was selling loans that hadnt been formally defaulted means that there cant possibly 
have been any increased risk.  It is true that the wider market conditions caused by the 
pandemic were the same going forward for new loans and Mr Ss exiting loans. But the key 
difference being the new loans were paying a higher interest rate  Zopa explained the use 
of an MRA sought to redress this difference when repricing loans put up for sale.     
Mr S has explained that the information he received from Zopa about the performance of his   
loan portfolio indicated that his   loans were preforming better that the projected rates for the 
platform. He says this supports the argument that an MRA discount shouldnt have been 
applied because the new investor would be better off acquiring his loan compared to the 
projected rates  and they still got a 5% discount. Zopa says the projected returns it quoted 
are by definition forward looking based on expected performance of new loans. And Mr S is 
comparing this to the actual performance of his portfolio of loans which he historically 
acquired during times where the environment was more stable.
 
Ive considered the points Mr S makes about projected returns compared to the performance 
of his loans. When providing a projected return, Zopa makes assumptions on performance in 
the future. But this wasnt the criteria used by Zopa to calculate the repricing of Mr Ss loans 
that he sold. Mr S believes his existing loans didnt carry a higher risk  so Zopa didnt need 
to apply MRA to them. But where his loans performed well (and risks didnt materialise) it 
doesnt mean there wasnt more risk. Generally speaking, default risk did increase as a 
result of the circumstances surrounding the pandemic, so interest rates on new loans 
increased to reflect that. So, Im not persuaded that the information provided about Mr Ss 
existing loan portfolio and projected return supports that he has been treated unfairly when 
an MRA was applied to his loan sales. 
Mr S says Zopa considers the term of the loan when calculating an MRA on a loan sale. He 
raises a point that after his loans were sold (with an MRA applied) the terms of those loans 
were actually cut short because Zopa decided to buy back all of its P2P loans. And that 
made the amount of the MRAs charged unfair due to the term being changed. I understand 
the point Mr S makes  but this is with the benefit of hindsight as the loans were bought back 
around 18 months after Mr S complained. The repricing of the loan can only be completed at 
the time of sale. I havent seen anything to suggest that there is a link to how Zopa applied 
the MRAs and its later commercial decision to exit the P2P market. So, I dont agree that this 
is evidence that the repricing was unfair. 
Having considered all of the evidence provided, Im satisfied the purpose of applying an 
MRA was to increase liquidity in the secondary market at a time where the market conditions 
had made it more difficult to sell loan parts. Ive seen nothing to suggest that Zopa took a cut 
of the MRA, and rather it was a discount for the acquiring investor. If Mr S believed that Zopa had miscalculate the risk of his loan and the repricing was incorrect  he had a choice of 
whether to remain invested or accept the MRA. I appreciate there may be other factors in 
him needing to sell, but on a purely pricing point there was a choice to be made. So, Mr S 
was able to avoid an MRA by cancelling any requests to transfer loan parts and keeping the 
loan parts until they mature and withdrawing his monthly repayments.
Overall, I havent found that Mr S has been treated unfairly and Zopa has met the obligations 
placed upon it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint against Zopa Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022. 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman