DRN-3917115
The complaint
Mr M complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc trading as M&S Bank
(M&S Bank) irresponsibly gave him a credit card that he couldnt afford.
What happened
18 May 2011 Mr M applied for a credit card online with M&S Bank. He was given an initial 
credit limit of £4,000. 
In 2022, Mr M complained to M&S Bank to say that the credit card shouldnt have been 
opened for him because it wasnt affordable and that M&S Bank ought to have made a 
better effort to understand his financial circumstances before providing him with credit. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr M didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
M&S Bank will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Our investigators assessment provided a detailed account of the dates and amounts of 
all the increases and reductions of the credit limit. Neither party has called the specifics 
into question, so, I dont intend to cover them off here.
Mr Ms complaint is that M&S Bank made credit available that was unaffordable. Its 
possible that M&S Bank failed to make adequate checks before providing Mr M with 
credit. But even if thats true, I have seen insufficient evidence to think better enquiries 
would have caused M&S Bank to think the loans were unaffordable. I explain why I say 
that below.
It is not straightforward trying to determine affordability because Mr M has not been able 
to provide any bank statements from the times in question. So, I have no way of knowing 
how Mr M was managing his finances at the time of the lending decisions. And whilst I 
have seen a credit report, there is insufficient evidence in it that would have made the 
credit increases unreasonable. 
I have considered the limited information that M&S Bank has been able to provide. They 
agreed to increase Mr Ms credit limits when he had a good credit record in the preceding 
six month period; no CCJs or defaults. And Mr M had a history of not using the credit up 
to his limit. So, M&S saw no reason not to agree the increases to the credit limit at the 
times they did. And they also reviewed Mr Ms situation regularly and that lead to the 
credit limit being decreased at times. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Mr M to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that 
more thorough affordability checks would have led M&S Bank to think that the credit it 
provided Mr M was unreasonable. 
I have not found sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman