DRN-3557921
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined a claim they made on 
their travel insurance policy.
What happened
On 11 March 2020 the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 to be a global 
pandemic. A few days later on 14 March 2020 Mr and Mrs S went on a package holiday 
which was booked through their travel provider. They were due to come home on
27 March 2020.
The travel provider is a member of a travel insurance industry arbitration scheme. They 
had paid approximately £5900 for the holiday. Before travelling they checked with their 
travel provider that the holiday would still go ahead due to the circumstances and were 
reassured that it would.
Mr and Mrs S arrived at their destination as planned but on 19 March 2020 their travel 
provider cut short the holiday due to the change in Foreign and Commonwealth 
Development Officer (FCDO) advice. The FCDO advised against all but essential travel 
abroad. So, they were only on holiday for six days out of the fourteen days theyd planned 
to be away and missed eight days of their holiday.
Mr and Mrs S received a refund from the travel provider for around £1600. They made a 
claim on their travel insurance policy, as they didnt think the £1600 represented an 
accurate refund for the portion of their holiday which theyd lost. The claim was rejected on 
the basis that they had received a refund from their pack d the provider had
also repatriated Mr and Mrs S back to the UK.
Mr and Mrs S made a complaint. But Great Lakes maintained their decision to decline the 
claim. They said that the circumstances of the claim werent covered under the policy. 
And, in their final response letter Great Lakes recommended Mr and Mrs S contacted their 
travel provider and referred them to the Package Travel Regulations 2018 (PTR). 
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs S complained to our service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld Mr and Mrs Ss complaint on 
the basis that they werent covered for claims in a country that the FCDO had advised 
against travel to, but also not covered if they cancelled. However, following further 
representations from Great Lakes she thought that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. In 
summary she said that the travel provider appeared to have provided a refund in line with 
the PTR 2018 and that if Mr and Mrs S disputed the amount of the refund theyd need to 
refer the matter to their travel provider.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. They said 
that they were covered for abandonment of their trip and it was a clear breach of the 
purpose of insurance if they werent covered. They said that the travel provider said they 
werent able to provide a breakdown of the costs of the package and she felt that the insurer 
and the travel provider were in cahoots. She pointed out that the holiday cost was around 
£5900 and although theyd missed over half of it, theyd only had a refund of £1600.
In May 2022 I issued a provisional decision explaining that I was intending to uphold the 
complaint. I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Great Lakes has a responsibility 
to handle claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim 
unreasonably.
The policy terms and conditions
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) 
says: What is not insured?
Any trips when travelling against the advice of the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office
In the section of the policy entitled, Important information for customers it says:
If you or any travelling companion(s) have/has to cut short your/their holiday 
and return home to the UK due to one of the reasons contained in this 
policy, you/they are entitled to be reimbursed for a proportion of the cost of 
the holiday you/they have lost. Reimbursement will be calculated either from 
the time you/they return home to the UK or from the time of admission to 
hospital (full details of how this will be assessed are shown in Section 2  
Curtailment)
Section 2 of the policy says:
We will reimburse you in respect of loss of travel and accommodation 
expenses or contracted to be paid consequent on your holiday
being necessarily and unavoidable (sic) curtailed by:
a) Abandonment of your holiday by return to home in the UK; or
b) Admission to hospital as an in-patient for more than 48 hours due to 
any causes listed below, commencing and occurring during your 
holiday, provided such expenses are not recoverable from any other 
source
1. Accidental injury, illness or death of:
a) You or any person with whom you had arranged to travel;
b) Your close relative or business associate;
c) Any person with whom you had arranged temporarily to reside 
during your holiday.
2. Accidental damage to your home rendering it unhabitable or the policy 
requesting your home rendering it uninhabitable or the police requesting your 
presence following theft at your home during your holiday.Note: curtailment means returning home prior to the scheduled return date 
or being admitted to hospital as an in-patient for at least 48 hours. A 
proportionate refund will be made of the pre-paid charges. The refund for 
accommodation will be based on each complete day of the holiday you have 
lost. A proportionate refund of travel expenses will be paid only if you cannot 
use your return ticket, and you are not claiming travel expenses under 
another section of this policy.
There are general exclusions for:
Any costs recoverable elsewhere
Any claim arising in a country to which the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office has advised against travelling.
Finally, there is a general condition in the policy which says that:
We are entitled to take over and carry out in your name the defence or 
settlement of any legal action. We may also take proceedings at our own 
expense and for our own benefit, but in your name, to recover any payment 
we have made under this policy to anyone else.
Is the claim covered under the curtailment section of the policy?
Great Lakes say that there is only cover under the policy for cutting a trip short in 
two circumstances - accidental injury, illness or death or accidental damage to your 
home. Mr and Mrs S argue that the policy covers them under section 2, clause (a) 
as they had to abandon their holiday and return to the UK.
Looking at the policy term it says:
We will reimburse you in respect of loss of travel and accommodation 
expenses (including excursions) paid or contracted to be paid consequent on 
your holiday being neccessarily and unavoidable (sic) curtailed by 
abandonment of your holiday by return to home in the UK
I think the way the policy is worded isnt very clear. In particular, I dont think its 
clear that clause (a) only applies in the event of injury, illness or death or 
accidental damage to the home. The way the term is structured does indicate its 
most likely that Mr and Mrs S would be covered if they had to come home before 
their planned return date. And theres no clear link made in clause (a) with the two 
situations set out in bullet points one and two. So, I can see why Mr and Mrs S 
thought they were covered because they cut short their trip and returned to the UK 
for reasons which were necessary and unavoidable.
Overall, I think theres ambiguity in the policy wording as it relates to curtailment 
cover, so the wording should be interpreted in Mr and Mrs Ss favour.
In any event, even if I thought the policy didnt cover the situation which Mr and Mrs 
S found themselves in, I think there are other reasons to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss 
complaint. Ill explain why.
What is the impact of the FCDO exclusion?The policy doesnt cover any claim arising in a country to which the FCDO has 
advised against travelling. On 17 March 2020 the FCDO advised against all travel 
abroad. Mr and Mrs S returned home.
Returning home because of a change in FCDO advice isnt an event which is 
specifically set out in the policy as triggering curtailment cover (although, as Ive 
already mentioned, I think theres an element of ambiguity in the wording of Mr and 
Mrs Ss policy in this regard).
However, taking into account the relevant law and industry guidelines, I dont think 
applying a strict interpretation of the policy terms and conditions leads to a fair and 
reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this case for the reasons Ill go on to 
explain.
The exclusion for claims arising in a country to which the FCDO has advised 
against travelling means that if Mr and Mrs S had remained abroad theyd have not 
been covered by the policy terms and conditions at all - because they were in a 
country which the Foreign and Commonwealth Office had advised against travelling 
to. But, under a strict application of the terms and conditions of the policy, curtailing 
a trip due to changes in FCDO guidance also isnt covered by the policy. I dont 
think that was made sufficiently clear to Mr and Mrs S.
Mr and Mrs S would have needed to read the full policy terms and conditions in 
order to understand that this set of circumstances wasnt covered. And, I dont 
think that this information was brought to their attention in a prominent and 
transparent way. So, I dont think the combined effect of the policy terms was 
made sufficiently clear to Mr and Mrs S.
I think this has created a significant imbalance in the rights and interests of Mr and 
Mrs S and Great Lakes. I think its unlikely that Mr and Mrs S would have 
purchased the policy if they had realised that there was no cover under the policy if 
the FCDO guidance changed after theyd bought the policy. I think its more likely 
theyd have taken out another policy which would have offered cover in such 
circumstances. At the time they took out this policy in January 2020 such policies 
were widely available.
So, this means I think it would be fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to treat Mr and 
Mrs Ss claim as covered under the curtailment section of their policy  subject to the 
losses they are claiming for not being reasonably recoverable from elsewhere, which 
Ill now go on to address.
Have Mr and Mrs S taken reasonable steps to recover their losses?
As I outlined above Mr and Mrs S approached their travel provider to try and 
recover their losses from their travel provider. They received a total of £1600 
which they say was a gesture of goodwill. Theyve tried, unsuccessfully, to get a 
breakdown of the costs and how the travel provider calculated that figure. Great 
Lakes says that if Mr and Mrs S were unhappy with this its a matter between them 
and the travel provider.
However, based on all the information Ive seen, I think that Mr and Mrs S have 
taken reasonable steps to recover their losses from the provider. The provider said 
in their letter to Mr and Mrs S that theyve taken into account the number of days 
and the cost of the flights, and it hasnt been possible to get an accurate breakdown of the way in which the travel provider calculated the figure. In my experience of 
dealing with complaints of this type, its not particularly unusual for the travel 
provider to be unable to provide an accurate breakdown of each element of a 
package holiday. Generally, in the absence of such a breakdown, Id usually 
consider it fair and reasonable for a travel insurer to pay a proportionate refund of 
the unused costs in the event of a successful claim.
Ive also considered that Mr and Mrs S had the option to refer their complaint to the 
relevant travel industry arbitrator. But based on my experience of similar complaints, 
I think they are unlikely to have been able to recover any further costs as the 
provider had already offered a partial refund and paid for the repatriation flights. 
Thats because the application of the PTR 2018 to curtailment cases is relatively 
untested in the civil courts. Based on the evidence Ive seen I think its likely Mr and 
Mrs Ss only further recourse is to take legal action to recover their outstanding 
costs.
Ive noted that in October 2020, the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) issued guidance to insurers in dealing with policyholders who 
havent been able to obtain a refund from their travel provider. This guidance is 
called Finalised guidance: Cancellations and refunds: helping consumers with rights 
and routes to refunds. The guidance was extended in April 2021 and is effective 
until revoked or until the exceptional circumstances regarding Covid-19 have ended.
The FCA guidance acknowledges that insurance claims are governed by the 
policy terms and then goes on to provide an indication of how the FCA expects 
the terms of travel insurance policies to be interpreted. In particular, theres 
relevant guidance relating to the interpretation of policy terms which require 
policyholders to mitigate their loss set out in sections 3.5 and 3.6 of the April 
2021 document. These say:
3.5 Any potential claim on an insurance policy will depend on the terms of the 
policy. However, where an insurance provider requires policyholders to 
demonstrate or take reasonable steps to mitigate a financial loss under the 
terms of the policy, consumers should not have to go to unreasonable lengths 
to do this. For example, where a travel provider is resisting a refund, and the 
consumer is unlikely to have a valid section 75 claim, a consumer should not 
be expected to take more than reasonable steps to pursue the refund. What 
is reasonable will depend on the circumstances in each case.
3.6 For example, a consumer might be seeking a refund after a hotel has 
cancelled their booking. We think it could be reasonable to expect a 
consumer to have pursued a claim up to a point where it appears from the 
correspondence (including the absence of replies) that a refund is unlikely to 
be forthcoming, or there is insufficient indication of when it may be expected 
so as to give rise to sufficient uncertainty as to whether there may be a 
refund. This will depend on the facts and circumstances  but where 
customer can demonstrate that they have made several unsuccessful 
attempts to obtain refund from the hotel, it might be unreasonable to expect 
them to do more. We would generally view it as unreasonable to expect that 
a consumer would need to go to court to recover their money.
So, it seems to me that the FCA has given a clear indication that insurers shouldnt 
require policyholders to go to unreasonable lengths to mitigate their losses. And in 
this case, given the travel provider has declined to cover any further remaining financial loss. I think it would be unreasonable to expect Mr and Mrs S to take 
further action to recover their losses.
And if Great Lakes considers theres a good legal chance of recovering a refund 
from the provider the terms of the policy mean its open to Great Lakes to attempt 
legal recovery itself, to recover the monies it will have paid out to Mr and Mrs S in 
settlement of this claim.
Taking into account the overall circumstances of this case I dont think declining 
the claim leaves Mr and Mrs S in a fair position. The terms of this policy provide for 
a pro-rata refund in the event of a trip being cut short.
Mr and Mrs S lost out on nine days of their holiday, including their return flights 
home. Each day of their trip cost around £421 so they were out of pocket for nine 
days of their trip (£3789 in total). Theyve received a refund of £1600 so they remain 
out of pocket for £2189. I think its fair and reasonable that Great Lakes cover the 
difference of £2189. In reaching this conclusion Ive taken into account that its open 
to Great Lakes to take steps to recover any loss from the provider directly, in line 
with the policy terms.
What do Great Lakes need to do to put things right?
Im intending to direct Great Lakes to consider the claim as covered under the 
curtailment section of the policy and pay Mr and Mrs S £2189.
Taking into account the facts of this particular case I think the fairest way to 
calculate the financial loss is as Ive outlined above, bearing in mind the policy 
terms, the available evidence and the opportunity for Great Lakes to recover any 
loss from the provider directly.
In reaching this decision Ive carefully considered what Great Lakes has said about 
the breakdown of costs. But I think its highly unlikely Mr and Mrs S are going to be
obtain this and that theyve now taken reasonable steps to recover their losses.
Mr and Mrs S accepted my provisional decision. Great Lakes responded with a number of 
points. In summary, they said: 
There was no evidence that the refund of £1600 was a gesture of goodwill. The 
calculation from the provider was the most accurate as they have explained how it 
was calculated, taking into account the actual costs of the holiday. 
My calculation of the holiday costs was very simplistic and convenient  it didnt 
reflect how holidays were costed 
My calculation of the costs gave Mr and Mrs S a percentage of the used flights and 
insurance back  this wasnt fair and reasonable. I should take a closer look at the 
cost of the holiday. They suggested an alternative calculation for the holiday which 
led to a settlement of around £550. 
So, I need to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key point that Great Lakes has disagreed with is how Ive calculated the value of Mr and 
Mrs Ss holiday. It hasnt disputed my other findings.
Whilst Great Lakes takes the view my calculations are very simplistic and convenient, I 
remain persuaded that its a fair and reasonable way to settle this complaint for the reasons 
Ill explain. 
As I said in my provisional decision it hasnt been possible to get a detailed breakdown of the 
costs of the trip. Great Lakes referred me to the information from the holiday provider which 
says: 
We have now been able to review your booking and having taken into account the 
number of days you were on holiday with us and the cost of the flights, I can confirm 
that we will be issuing you with a refund of £1607.69, as reimbursement for the 
unused portion of your holiday. 
But theres no further detail about why that figure was reached, despite a number of attempts 
to obtain it. I dont agree with Great Lakes that this constitutes an accurate calculation from 
the travel provider as it doesnt correspond with the overall cost of the holiday. In reaching 
that conclusion Ive taken into account that there were a number of different aspects to Mr 
and Mrs Ss holiday as it included various flights, transfers, accommodation and excursions. 
So, I still think that, overall, calculating the total cost and dividing by the number of days of 
the holiday to reach a daily figure is fair.  
Ive taken into account what Great Lakes has said about the insurance premiums being part 
of the holiday cost as it was purchased from the travel provider. I agree its fair that the 
premium is deducted because Mr and Mrs S will have the benefit of the cover as their claim 
is being settled under the curtailment section of the policy. 
For the reasons Ive outlined above, and in my provisional decision, Im upholding this 
complaint.
Putting things right
Great Lakes needs to pay Mr and Mrs S a total of £2189 but it can deduct the cost of the 
policy premiums and any applicable excess.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ss complaint against Great Lakes Insurance SE and direct them 
to put things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman