DRN-3236102
The complaint
Mr B has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) trading as Green Flag unfairly 
cancelled his breakdown cover policy and charged him for an outstanding premium.
  
Provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 13 December 2021. For ease I've copied the relevant 
extract below. I said:
What happened
Mr B had a UKI policy which he was due to pay for in monthly instalments on the first day of 
each month starting on 1 September 2020. In October 2020 UKI couldn't collect Mr Bs 
payment. It successfully collected the next instalment due in November but again couldn't 
collect payment in December. It wrote to Mr B advising that it would cancel his policy if he 
didn't make payment. Mr B contacted UKI later that month and paid the outstanding amount.
Mr Bs direct debit failed again in January 2021 and UKI sent him a letter saying that he 
needed to pay the outstanding amount or it would cancel his policy. Mr B said he didn't 
receive the letter. On 3 February 2021 UKI cancelled Mr Bs policy. It backdated the 
cancellation to 1 January 2021, when Mr Bs premium had been due. It then told Mr B he still 
owed it £19.08.
Mr B brought his complaint about that to us. One of our investigators looked into it. She 
thought that UKI had actually cancelled the policy from 3 February 2021, not 1 January. 
She's said that was something it was entitled to do. She also said that UKI had waived a 
£10.08 cancellation fee that it was entitled to collect. And she didn't think UKI needed to do 
anything else.
Mr B didn't agree with our investigator's assessment of the complaint so its been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs policy was an annual one. And, in order to pay the annual premium in monthly 
instalments he had a credit agreement with UKI. That agreement said that if he missed 
payments then his credit agreement could be ended and his policy cancelled. Similarly 
Mr Bs policy said that if he didn't pay his premium instalments then UKI could write to him 
giving him notification of its intention to cancel the policy.
Mr B missed payments in October and December 2020. But he did bring those up to date in 
late December after UKI had warned him that it might cancel his policy. He then missed 
another payment in January 2021. His payment was actually due on 1 January 2021 but as 
that was a bank holiday UKI didn't apply for the payment until 4 January. It noted that the 
payment had been missed on 7 January 2021. Then, on 13 January 2021, it wrote to Mr B to 
say that if he didn't make payment within 20 days it would cancel his policy.
I understand Mr B didn't receive that letter. But UKIs shown us that it was sent. So I don't 
think it was its fault if he didn't receive it. Also, regardless of whether or not he received the 
letter he didn't make the payment in January that hed agreed to pay. Hed missed payments 
previously and UKI had warned him that it could cancel his policy if he didn't make payment. 
But Mr B hadn't ensured that he had enough funds in his account to pay his direct debit. UKI 
couldn't have known that Mr B didn't receive its letter warning of the potential cancellation. In 
those circumstances, I don't think UKI needed to send him further letters warning that it 
intended to cancel his policy. So I don't think UKI did anything wrong in deciding to cancel 
the policy as it did.
UKI cancelled Mr Bs policy and backdated the cancellation to 1 January 2021, which was 
the date Mr B had missed a payment from. That was a reasonable thing for it to do but its 
letters to Mr B, dated 4 February 2021, telling him about its decision were somewhat 
confusing. First, it sent him a letter thanking him for telling it he wanted to cancel his policy. 
But he hadn't asked UKI to cancel the policy, that was a decision UKI took without Mr Bs 
involvement. At that time, Mr B hadn't received the cancellation warning letter and didn't 
know that UKI had cancelled the policy. So UKIs letter clearly wasn't helpful.
Second UKI sent Mr B another letter with a breakdown of what it said he owed. But that 
seemed to indicate that the cancellation was effective from February and not January 2021. 
But that wasn't the case as it had backdated the cancellation to 1 January. Its letter also 
didn't include reference to a £10.08 cancellation charge it had applied, which is why our 
investigator didn't think UKI had added this figure. But it's apparent from the file that UKI had 
applied this charge. But its figures were difficult to follow and I don't think its letters to Mr B 
about the cancellation and the amount outstanding were clear.
Also, the figures UKI quoted don't seem to be quite right. It said Mr B still owed £19.08. We 
asked it for some information about its figures and it told us that it had charged Mr B £56, for 
the 142 days his policy was active for before cancellation. But, by my calculations, the 
correct figure for Mr Bs time on cover, was £55.78 not £56. And, after adding its cancellation 
charge and deducting the amounts Mr B had paid to UKI, that leaves a balance outstanding 
of £18.86 and not £19.08, which UKI had asked him to pay. I appreciate that the difference 
between the two sums is small, only 22p, but that doesn't stop the figure from being wrong.
Ill add that, when replying to our request for clarity on its calculations, UKI told us that it had 
waived  that is decided not to collect  the outstanding amount. But if thats the case then 
it hadnt previously made us aware of that. And I note it sent Mr B a letter chasing the 
outstanding sum in May 2021. So it's not clear at what point it decided not to collect the 
outstanding sum or if it had let Mr B know of that.
So, although I think it was reasonable for UKI to cancel Mr Bs policy, I don't think UKIs 
communication with Mr B about what it had done and why was helpful. And I think this would 
have added to his frustration unnecessarily. But UKI has now told us that it has waived 
collection of the outstanding sum. I think thats an appropriate response in the 
circumstances.
For completeness Ill add that Mr B has told us about other concerns he has about UKIs 
service including chasing him for the outstanding sum. But as those are events that 
happened after hed already complained to us, and UKI hasnt addressed those formally, it's 
not appropriate for me to comment on those here.Developments
UKI accepted my provisional decision. Of relevance to this complaint Mr B said, amongst 
other things, that my provisional decision shows no evidence that UKI could prove he 
received UKIs letter warning of cancellation. He said UKI had his email address and phone 
number and could have used those to contact him about his missed payment. He said when 
he had spoken with UKI previously it hadn't told him that if he missed another payment it 
would cancel his policy.
Mr B added that any payment UKI tried to take after 1 January 2021 would be void and a 
unlawful attempt for funds because UKI had cancelled his direct debit. 
Mr B said that the fact UKI had submitted false information in response to our requests 
had been swept under the carpet and was little more than a slap on the wrists. And he 
confirmed he'd been previously unaware that UKI had waived collection of the outstanding 
sum. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to depart from my provisional decision. 
I accept that UKI can't prove that Mr B received its letter warning him that it would cancel his 
policy if he didn't make payment. But I addressed this in my provisional decision, where 
I said that it was Mr Bs responsibility to make sure he had enough funds in his account to 
make payment. But he didn't do that, And UKI had previously warned him that if he missed 
payment then it would cancel his policy. So I don't think it needed to send a second 
cancellation letter or to contact him by other means. It follows that I don't think UKI did 
anything wrong in cancelling Mr Bs policy.
Mr B now seems to suggest that in attempting to take payment after 1 January 2021 UKI 
was acting unlawfully. But, if thats what he meant I don't think hes right. I think most people 
would be aware that banks might not be able to make direct debit payments on bank 
holidays, which is why UKI applied for the payment shortly after that date. And, at that time, 
UKI hadn't cancelled Mr Bs policy and his direct debit was still in place. So I don't think UKI 
did anything wrong in trying to request the payment that was due shortly after 1 January. 
Mr Bs referred to UKI providing us with false information. I assume hes referring to the 
anomalies in its balance owing calculations I pointed out in my provisional decision. But, 
while this certainly wasn't helpful, I don't see it as any attempt to deliberately mislead. 
Instead I think it was possibly somewhat carelessly attempting to explain the situation when 
UKIs file wasn't entirely clear. 
Also, Mr Bs referred to UKI receiving a slap on the wrists. But were not the industry 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) is. That means its not our job to fine or 
punish a business for any mistakes it might make, instead we look to ensure that, where a 
business has let a customer down, it does enough to put things right. So the fact that UKI 
made some mistakes when responding to our enquiries wouldn't necessarily result in us 
taking any further action. 
I think UKI should have let Mr B know earlier that it had decided to waive the balance owing 
to it. But, as its decided not to collect those sums, I'm not going to instruct it to do anything 
more, other than to confirm to Mr B that its done so.      My final decision
For the reasons set out above I partly uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance Limited 
to notify Mr B that it has waived any sums outstanding following the cancellation of this 
policy and to ensure it has ceased to pursue him for those sums.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman