DRN-3680753
The complaint
This complaints about an interest-only mortgage Mrs and Mr B hold with Bank of Scotland 
plc trading as Halifax. Theyre unhappy that Halifax hasnt allowed them access to the lowest 
interest rates available over the years. They would like redress for the extra interest the say 
they have overpaid as a result, and to be placed on a better rate now.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so Ill merely summarise them 
here.
Since 2008, Mrs and Mr Bs mortgage has been charged interest at its variable rate from 
time to time, less a discount of 0.05%. The mortgage term was initially due to expire in 2010, 
but an extension was agreed until 1 February 2020.
Mrs and Mr B didnt repay the mortgage when it fell due in February 2020; a construction 
project they were relying on to provide the funds to do so had been delayed. In January 
2021, they asked for a lower rate, which Halifax refused saying they were in breach of 
contract as a result of not having repaid the debt when it was due. Mrs and Mr B complained 
that their interest rate was too high, not just since the term ended in 2020, but going all the 
way back to 2005 when the mortgage started.
Halifax didnt uphold the complaint, and when it came to us, our investigator took the view 
that our power to consider the complaint was restricted to events since January 2015. When 
she looked at what had happened since then, she wasnt persuaded Halifax had done 
anything wrong. Mrs and Mr B asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill make some general observations before dealing with the substance of the complaint.
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority.
We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we
dont replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides
instructions on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our
conclusions without interference from anyone else.
We revisit jurisdiction at every stage of our case-handling process, so whilst Mrs and Mr B 
havent expressly contested the point, Ive looked at what our investigator said about the 
time-limits in our rules. Having done so, Im satisfied we can only consider what has 
happened since January 2015. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its a matter for a borrower to choose whether or not to apply for a new rate, and make the 
application if they want one  including making sure they know when to do so. Here the 
available evidence doesnt point to Mrs and Mr B having submitted a formal request for a 
better rate between January 2015 and January 2021. 
Its worth pointing out that no borrower is entitled to a lower rate; lenders have to consider 
context and individual circumstances in all cases. They also have their individual lending 
criteria and appetite for risk. Its not the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to say 
what those criteria should be, or to second-guess lenders judgement on risk. 
I now turn to the request for a new rate that was made in January 2021. I cant fairly say 
Barclays was under any obligation to offer a new deal given that, by then, the mortgage term 
had expired, the capital balance was overdue for repayment, and by not having repaid the 
capital when it was due, Mrs and Mr B were in breach of their mortgage contract. 
Mrs and Mr B say their strategy for repaying the capital  the completion of a major 
construction project  was impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. However, the mortgage 
term ended on 1 February 2020, approximately one month before the pandemic broke in this 
country. 
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a material effect on 
the outcome. I can see from their submissions how important this is to Mrs and Mr B. Thats 
a natural reaction, and entirely understandable when youre as close to a situation as they 
are here. 
But I have a different remit. I have to be objective, and impartial, and sometimes that means 
stepping back from the fine detail, taking an overview and deciding what is fair, reasonable 
and pragmatic in all the overall circumstances of the case. It also means that Im not 
required to provide answers to every specific question that comes up if I dont consider doing 
so will affect the overall outcome. Having done that, and having considered everything that 
both parties have said and provided, I dont find that Halifax has treated Mrs and Mr B 
unfairly. 
Mrs and Mr B dont have to accept my conclusions, and if they dont, then neither they nor 
Barclays will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a 
court might impose, Mrs and Mr Bs right to take legal action against Barclays over the 
subject matter of this complaint wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of it. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint or make any order or award against Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, 
which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 December 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman