DRN-3630641
The complaint
Mr A complains about the delays, fees, and financial loss he says he suffered in connection 
with purchasing part of a commercial property through a Self-Invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP) set up by Barnett Waddingham LLP (Barnett Waddingham). 
Mr As brother has also complained about similar issues in connection with his SIPP. Ive 
considered that complaint under a separate final decision.
What happened
The events leading up to this complaint were set out in detail by our investigator in her 
assessment which she provided to both Mr A and Barnett Waddingham. I dont intend to 
repeat here what our investigator stated but will instead provide a summary.
Mr A and his brother were directors of a limited company that owned a commercial property.  
The property had surplus rooms that were let out which generated rental income. Mr A 
owned the issued share capital of the limited company and was therefore the ultimate 
beneficial owner of the business and property. The property was encumbered with a 
commercial mortgage. The brothers wanted to investigate the possibility of restructuring the 
business. The overarching objective was to use their accumulated private pension savings to 
purchase part of the property from the limited company to release capital to repay the 
mortgage  which would then result in the limited company, Mr As SIPP and his brothers 
SIPP jointly owning the property.
In August 2019, Mr As brother contacted Barnett Waddingham to discuss the objective. This 
led to an exchange of information. Based on the information provided by Barnett 
Waddingham, Mr A agreed to set up a SIPP to achieve his objective. He agreed with Barnett 
Waddinghams terms and conditions which included its schedule of fees relating to carrying 
out various administrative activities.
Barnett Waddingham wasnt authorised to provide regulated financial advice and so didnt 
advise Mr A on the merits or otherwise of setting up a SIPP for the purpose of achieving his 
objective. It recommended that he obtain financial advice. After a delay, the SIPP was 
established on an execution-only basis in March 2020. Once the SIPP had been set up, the 
process of splitting ownership of the property started. This was completed in October 2020. 
The outcome was that the mortgage was repaid and ownership of the property split between 
the limited company, Mr As SIPP and his brothers SIPP in different proportions.
This complaint
Mr A was unhappy with the service provided by Barnett Waddingham. He complained about 
several points. In summary, he said that Barnett Waddingham:
charged administration fees about four times greater than was initially quoted; and
caused several delays which led to additional financial losses relating to mortgage 
interest, investment loss and the cost of restructuring several leases into a master 
lease.
To put things right, Mr A wanted compensation to account for all the excess fees charged 
and additional financial loss he said he had suffered.
Barnett Waddingham accepted that it had caused delays of about nine weeks. In response, 
it offered to refund to Mr A the SIPP establishment fee and annual administration fee for the 
year. This totalled £1,140 including VAT. Mr A didnt accept that offer.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint be upheld in part. She concluded that 
Barnett Waddinghams offer of £1,140 for the delays it had caused was reasonable. She 
also said that Barnett Waddingham had acted in accordance with the terms and conditions 
agreed with Mr A at the outset regarding fees except for the fee charged for the property 
purchase  she thought it had failed to inform Mr A that the fee would be higher than was 
initially quoted. So, in addition to the £1,140 previously offered by Barnett Waddingham, she 
said that it should also refund to Mr A the difference between what shouldve been charged 
and what he was actually charged, which would result in a refund of £1,413.88 including 
VAT. Our investigator didnt uphold the elements of Mr As complaint about mortgage 
interest, investment loss or the cost of restructuring several leases into a master lease since 
she didnt think that these were matters for which Barnett Waddingham could be held 
responsible. 
Barnett Waddingham accepted our investigators assessment and agreed to refund 
£1,413.88 including VAT. It also offered to cap its fees for restructuring the leases at two 
hours which would be £320.00 plus VAT rather than on a time cost basis, as per the terms 
and conditions agreed with Mr A. It said that its agreement to refund the amount of 
£1,413.88 including VAT and capping its fees for the lease work was conditional on Mr A 
understanding that:
it remains his responsibility how to structure investment in his SIPP;
there will be additional costs for any professional fees charged by a solicitor for 
drawing up the lease and for a RICS qualified surveyor to complete a rental valuation 
on the property;
the annual property fee includes holding the property within the SIPP, maintaining 
records, and carrying out reporting requirements to HMRC and the FCA; and
any other work in relation to the property falls under additional property related work 
which is carried out on a time cost basis. This may include such items as rent 
reviews, lease renewals, paying property expenses, queries from tenants or member, 
EPC, appointing professionals such as surveyors or solicitors to act on behalf of the 
SIPP.
Mr A didnt accept Barnett Waddinghams offer. He still felt it had treated him unfairly 
regarding fees and that he was trapped in an expensive arrangement which prevented him 
from switching to an alternative provider. He said that he wanted Barnett Waddingham to 
cover the full cost of restructuring the leases in connection with the property. Our investigator 
considered Mr As additional comments but wasnt persuaded to change her opinion. Since 
agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint has been referred to me for review.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services
and Markets Act 2000 and the Dispute Resolution section in the FCAs handbook, I need to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards,
and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
Id like to clarify that the purpose of this final decision isnt to repeat or address every single
point raised by Mr A and Barnett Waddingham. If I havent commented on any specific point, 
its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. Ive considered all 
the evidence afresh including Mr As comments in response to our investigators 
assessment. Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator for these 
reasons:
Its not in dispute that there were some delays in setting up Mr As SIPP and 
completing the property purchase. This was due to a combination of factors including 
additional approval being required because Mr As SIPP opening value was below 
Barnett Waddinghams stated £50,000 internal minimum fund value, additional 
identification being required for anti-money laundering checks and administration 
delays in processing the application. I think Barnett Waddinghams previous offer to 
refund the SIPP establishment and annual administration fee for the first year in 
recognition of the delays is reasonable redress in the circumstances.
I understand that Mr A is dissatisfied with the fees charged by Barnett Waddingham 
but, as far as I can see, it charged fees in accordance with what was agreed with him 
except in respect of the property purchase fee  Mr A was charged a greater amount 
than he was initially quoted. In response to our investigators assessment, Barnett 
Waddingham agreed to refund the difference between what it initially quoted (and 
accepted by Mr A) and what it charged. This amounts to £1,413.88 including VAT. I 
think this is a fair offer. Ive taken account what wouldve likely happened to this 
money had it been available in the SIPP. Given the relatively low amount, I think its 
likely it wouldve remained in cash and achieved negligible growth since 2020. So I 
dont think its necessary for me to consider applying an uplift to this figure to account 
for any investment loss.
Mr A wants Barnett Waddingham to waive its fees in connection with restructuring 
the several leases into a master lease for the property. But the terms and conditions 
he agreed to at the outset stated that Barnett Waddingham would charge for its work 
for this on a time cost basis. I cannot compel it to depart from what was agreed. In 
any event, I dont think its reasonable to expect Barnett Waddingham to carry out 
administrative work free of charge. In response to our investigators assessment, 
Barnett Waddingham offered to cap its fees for restructuring the leases at two hours 
which would be £320.00 plus VAT rather than on a time cost basis, as per the terms 
and conditions agreed with Mr A. I think this is a fair offer.
Mr A wants Barnett Waddingham to provide compensation because his money was 
out of the market after he liquidated his pension savings ahead of the switch to the 
SIPP. The transaction was carried out on an execution-only basis. It wasnt Barnett 
Waddinghams role to advise Mr A on the suitability or timing of when he should 
liquidate his pension savings. Therefore, I dont think Barnett Waddingham should be 
held accountable for the investment financial loss Mr A says he suffered as a result of being out of the market between the period when he liquidated his pension savings 
and the property purchase being completed. 
Mr A says that hes trapped in an expensive SIPP and will incur additional costs if he 
switches to an alternative provider. He says that it isnt fair that Barnett Waddingham 
should charge a fee for restructuring the lease. As noted above, Mr A agreed with 
Barnett Waddinghams schedule of fees at the outset. I understand Mr As 
frustrations, but I cannot direct Barnett Waddingham to waive any fees that he 
agreed to pay.
This complaint is between Mr A and Barnett Waddingham about his SIPP. This 
means that under this final decision I cannot consider the complaint point relating to 
mortgage interest. This is because the legal charge for the commercial mortgage was 
in the limited companys name rather than Mr As name. Any complaint about the 
mortgage interest would need to be raised under a separate complaint between the 
limited company and Barnett Waddingham. Therefore, Im unable to make any 
finding on this point.
I sympathise with Mr A. Its clear that Barnett Waddingham was responsible for some 
delays and made a mistake regarding the property fee charged. But, overall, Im 
satisfied that what Barnett Waddinghams offered to do in response to remedy the 
matter is reasonable in the circumstances.
Putting things right
1. If it hasnt already done so and in line with its previous offer, Barnett Waddingham 
should refund to Mr As SIPP an amount of £1,140, representing the SIPP 
establishment fee and annual administration fee for the year;
2. In addition, if it hasnt already done so and in line with its previous offer, Barnett 
Waddingham should cap its fees for restructuring the leases at two hours which 
would be £320.00 plus VAT; and
3. In addition, in line with our investigators recommendation, Barnett Waddingham 
should refund to Mr As SIPP an amount of £1,413.88 which is the difference 
between what Mr A shouldve been charged and what he was actually charged for 
the property purchase fee.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Barnett Waddingham LLP must redress Mr A as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2022.  
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman