DRN-3683833
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain National House-Building Council (NHBC) hasnt treated them fairly 
following a claim on their building warranty policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W made a claim on their building warranty policy for dropped flooring in areas of 
their home. NHBC accepted the claim in August 2021. 
Mr and Mrs W complained about the delays that followed, and NHBC accepted there were 
about two months of delay before a contractor attended. In October 2021, NHBC issued a 
final response and paid Mr and Mrs W £200 compensation.
Mr and Mrs W went on to make further complaints. They complained NHBC hadnt provided 
alternative accommodation for their family during the repairs; about the communication 
between NHBC and its appointed parties; and about outstanding work.
In February 2022, NHBC issued a second final response. NHBC accepted it should have 
provided alternative accommodation and there were communication issues during the 
repairs. NHBC said it would assess the outstanding work and it offered a further £550 
compensation. Mr and Mrs W remained unhappy, so in April 2022, they referred their 
complaint to our service. 
In June 2022, NHBC told our service the inspections for the outstanding work had now been 
completed, and some of the issues raised were found valid. NHBC advised further repairs 
were scheduled in July 2022, and it noted no further complaints had been raised since its 
second final response in February 2022. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint. She thought £750 was fair compensation 
for the issues that had arisen up to February 2022. Because Mr and Mrs W disagreed, their 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
NHBC has confirmed its second compensation offer, of £550, hasnt been paid. This is 
because the second offer wasnt accepted by Mr and Mrs W.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive only considered events up to 15 February 2022, i.e. the date of NHBCs second final 
response. If Mr and Mr W are unhappy about events since February 2022, they need to 
make a further complaint to NHBC before our service can become involved.
When Mr and Mrs W referred their complaint to this service, they noted they had been left 
with a house that was damaged and poorly repaired, and the original issues all remained. 
However, I find NHBCs proposal of visiting their property to assess the outstanding work 
to be fair and reasonable. 
NHBC has now carried out its proposed inspections. So, if Mr and Mrs W consider further 
compensation is due for the issues NHBC found valid, or if they consider issues remain 
unresolved, they need to put that complaint to NHBC first. 
Its not disputed there were two-months of initial delay and poor communication during the 
repairs, or that alternative accommodation should have been provided whilst the property 
wasnt safe for young children. So, what I need to decide here, is whether £750 is fair 
compensation for the impact of those issues on Mr and Mrs W. 
In respect of Mr and Mrs Ws living arrangements during the repairs, Ive seen they emailed 
NHBC on 6 December 2021. They explained, now the work had started, it was evident the 
property was unsafe for their two young children. 
NHBC replied on 13 December 2021. NHBC said it would consider Mr and Mrs Ws costs if 
they had decided to move out whilst their property wasnt safe. Mr and Mrs W noted they 
hadnt incurred costs as Mrs W and their children had moved in with family until their 
property was safe on 10 December 2021, but the matter had caused disruption and 
inconvenience.
As I understand it, Mr and Mrs Ws home wasnt safe for their children for a period of five 
days, and they had to make last minute arrangements and rely on the goodwill of family. 
I accept the situation was inconvenient for Mr and Mrs W, and likely caused them some 
upset, particularly as Mr W was separated from Mrs W and their children. I accept the 
situation could have been avoided had NHBC considered the need for alternative 
accommodation from the outset. 
Turning to the other issues, I accept the initial two-month delay and the poor communication 
during the repairs led to Mr and Mrs W having to chase matters. Mr and Mrs W have referred 
to a lack of clarity on the schedule of work and incorrect work being carried out. They have 
noted they have spent over 20 hours dealing with the issues and its been very stressful. 
I dont doubt the delays and communication issues have caused inconvenience and 
frustration that could have been avoided.
However, Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs W, but for the inconvenience and upset Ive 
described, and for the periods involved, I find £750 to be fair compensation. We havent 
been made aware of any circumstances, or impact, that would lead me to increase the 
award.
As explained above, if Mr and Mrs W consider further compensation is due following NHBCs 
inspections, or if they are unhappy with events since February 2022, they need to complain 
to NHBC about those matters first.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
My final decision is National House-Building Council should pay Mr and Mrs W a further 
£550 compensation (if it hasnt yet been paid).Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman