DRN-1749279
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the way Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited has 
settled a claim made under his pet insurance policy.
What happened
In June 2019 Mr B made a claim under his pet insurance policy, after needing to 
seek treatment for his dog. Red Sands accepted the claim and offered Mr B an amount of 
£720.80 in settlement of his loss.
Mr B didnt think this settlement amount was fair. He said the cost of the treatment 
was £1,413.24 in total. He knew there was a condition limit on his policy of £1,000. So, whilst 
he knew he couldnt claim for the full loss he suffered, he said he should be paid up to 
the £1,000 limit the policy provided, per condition claimed for.
Red Sands disagreed. It said there was an excess payable on Mr Bs policy of £99. 
And because Mr Bs dog was over eight years old, there was also a co-payment Mr B 
needed to pay. It said Mr Bs policy documents did explain the excess and co-payment 
would be deducted from the condition limit of £1,000. So, it was satisfied that the payment it 
had provided Mr B with was correct. It provided a breakdown of the claim settlement offered 
to Mr B as follows;
Claim amount - £1,413.24
Condition limit - £1,000
Less policy excess; £99
Less 20% co-payment; £180.20
Settlement to be paid; £720.80.
 
Mr B remained in disagreement with this. He said applying the excess and co-payment 
as above meant that whilst there was a £1,000 condition limit on the policy, it was 
never possible to actually claim for the full condition limit. Mr B felt this was mis-leading.
Because Mr B remained unhappy, he referred his complaint to this service for 
an independent review.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and said he thought Red Sands had acted 
unfairly. He thought Red Sands had made it clear the excess and co-payment would be 
deducted from the condition limit in Mr Bs policy documents. But, he still felt settling the 
claim in this way was unreasonable  because Mr B could never claim for the £1,000 the 
policy said it offered.
Red Sands didnt agree. It said the terms and conditions of the policy were made clear to Mr 
B when the policy was purchased online, and at renewal. And it said Mr B had 
made previous claims where the excess and co-payment were deducted from the condition 
limit as above. And Mr B hadnt raised concerns about this before.Because Red Sands didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
I sent a provisional decision to Mr B and Red Sands, setting out my thoughts on this 
complaint. In this I said;
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I intend on upholding this complaint. I've explained my reasoning for this 
below.
Mr B took out a super lifetime policy with Red Sands, to provide cover for his dog. The 
policy provided cover for medical treatment  up to a condition limit of £1,000. This meant Mr 
B could claim up to a maximum amount of £1,000 in vet fees for each condition he needed 
to claim for, during the relevant policy year.
The policy also had an excess payment of £99. And because Mr Bs dog is over eight 
years of age a co-payment of 20% was payable on every claim. Both parties accept these 
terms of the policy. So, I havent considered this any further.
But what is in dispute is how the excess and co-payment are applied to the claim 
settlement. And therefore, whether the settlement of £720.80 offered in this case is fair.
From looking at the policy booklet for Mr Bs policy, I accept that it explains the excess 
and co-payment will be deducted from the £1,000 condition limit. This is what Red Sands 
has done in Mr Bs case by paying Mr B £720.80. So, Im aware Red Sands has acted in 
line with the terms and conditions of Mr Bs policy.
But I also need to think about whether Mr B has been treated fairly here. And I dont think 
he has. I say this because I think deducting the excess and the co-payment from the 
condition limit is unreasonable in the circumstances.
Red Sands has put a condition limit of £1,000 on the policy. It explained this is the 
maximum a policyholder could claim for, per condition, per year. On the aggregator website 
Mr B purchased the policy through it said unlimited claims for the lifetime of your pet with up 
to £1,000 for each condition, every year.
Given this I think its reasonable that Mr B would think he could receive £1,000 as 
a maximum, if he needed to make a claim. But because of the way Red Sands is 
deducting the policy excess and co-payment to the condition limit, it is never actually 
possible to receive that amount. So, I think its mis-leading to tell Mr B this is the limit 
payable under the policy. Mr B wouldnt ever have been able to claim more than £720.80.
Red Sands has said it was made clear to Mr B that the excess and co-payment would 
be deducted from the condition limit  both when it sold the policy to Mr B online, and in 
the policy documents he received each year. So, Ive thought about this too. And I dont think 
the sales process Ive seen  or the policy documents provided, make the above 
sufficiently clear. I dont think Red Sands has really explained to Mr B in any of the 
documents, that the most he could claim was £720.80
Mr B bought the policy in 2017 through an aggregator site. Ive seen screen shots of 
the application process Mr B wouldve gone through when purchasing the policy. During 
this process I cant see any explanation to tell Mr B that the £99 excess payable would 
be deducted from the £1,000 condition limit. So, at the point of sale I dont think it was 
made clear to Mr B that he would never receive the full £1,000 limit, should he need to claim.During the sales process Mr B was told that when your pet reaches 8, a co-payment 
will become payable. This co-payment is a fixed percentage of the claim for which you are 
liable.This will be deducted from your overall annual policy limits.
So, Im aware some information was given to Mr B about the co-payment at this time. But 
I still dont think this was clear enough to alert Mr B to the fact that not only will the excess 
be deducted from the condition limit, but that the co-payment would be too. So, further 
limiting the benefits he could receive from the policy.
I accept that Mr B was sent policy documents each year. Ive focused on the 
policy documents provided to Mr B in 2019 in this decision  because Mr Bs claim was 
made in June 2019.
The policy schedule provided to him for this policy did tell him the excess was £99, and 
the co-payment was set at 20%. But it wasnt made clear on the schedule that these 
amounts would both be deducted from the condition limit.
Red Sands did also send an insurance information product document telling Mr B the 
excess and co-payment would be payable. But it didnt explain these would be deducted 
from the claim limit either.
Information provided to customers must be clear, fair and not misleading. And I would 
expect an insurer to highlight key terms of the policy.
Red Sands did explain that the excess and co-payment would be deducted from 
the condition limit in Mr Bs policy booklet. And it provided examples of how this applies in 
thefrequently asked questions section of the document. But Im not satisfied putting these 
key details in the booklet, was clear enough to highlight the true limit of the policy. Id 
have expected such a key element of the policy to have been detailed in a prominent place  
such as the policy schedule, or cover letter, and explained in such a way that a consumer 
would be able to sufficiently understand what this would mean for any claim they made in 
practice - it would need to be really clear to them that, even though the policy limit is said to 
be £1,000, they will never actually be able to claim that amount.
Red Sands has explained Mr B has made claims under its policies before, and the 
excess and co-payment were deducted from the condition limit, as it has done in this case. 
So, it feels Mr B should have been aware how the policy worked in this respect. I understand 
the point Red Sands is making here. But Mr B just may not have decided to pursue a 
complaint about this previously. And regardless of whether Mr B had made claims before, I 
need to consider whether Mr B has been treated fairly in this case. And, for the reasons 
above, I dont think he has been.
Given the above reasoning, I dont think the settlement offer Red Sands provided Mr B 
was fair. Instead, I think it would be reasonable for Red Sands to provide settlement up to 
the £1,000 condition limit it detailed could be claimed. As Red Sands has already offered Mr 
B an amount of £720.80, I intend on requiring it to pay a further £279.80.
Because Mr B has been without the £279.80 he should have reasonably received I 
also intend on requiring Red Sands to pay an amount of 8% interest, simple per annum on 
the £279.20, from the date of loss, to the date of settlement, less any tax properly 
deductible.
Both parties confirmed receiving my provisional decision. Mr B wanted to clarify a point 
made by Red Sands. He confirmed he made claims on his policies before. But these hadnt 
been for an amount over the £1,000 limit relevant in this case. So, he said this was the only claim he had made in which it had become clear he could never claim for the £1,000 
condition limit he had on the policy.
Red Sands responded to my provisional decision  disagreeing. It said;
it was satisfied it had made it clear that the excess and co-payment would be 
deducted from the £1,000 condition limit. Red Sands noted this was explained in the 
terms and conditions of the policy, as well as in the frequently asked questions 
section  where it had specifically detailed an example, to show this was how the 
policy worked. 
it had discussions in relation to this before and was aware it needed to make how the 
excess and co-payment applied clear. So, it had added the example of how this 
works in its policy  under the frequently asked questions section. 
In other types of insurance policy, an excess was would deducted from a claim 
payment. So, it said it could pay the full claim, and then bill a policyholder for the cost 
of the excess and the co-payment. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my decision remains the same as that noted in my provisional decision  
and for the same reasons. 
As detailed in my provisional decision, I do agree Red Sands acted in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy, in deducting the excess and co-payment from the condition limit in 
this case. But I explained that I didnt think this was fair. And I still think thats the case.
I noted that during the sale of the policy I didnt think it had been made clear enough to Mr B 
that when purchasing a policy with the £1,000 condition limit, it wasnt every possible to 
actually receive up to that limit. And I also didnt think the policy documents had made this 
clear to Mr B either.
Red Sands has reiterated its position that it considers Mr Bs policy documents to be clear. It 
has again highlighted where this is explained within the policy booklet. And it said it has had 
discussions about the clarity of its policy documents before. That was why it had added an 
example of how the excess and the co-payment would be applied to the condition limit in the 
frequently asked questions section of the document.
I dont dispute what Red Sands is saying about adding a working example into the policy 
document, to help with clarity. I can see there is an example of how this works within the 
frequently asked questions document. And I am aware there is a table within the policy 
booklet that explains how the excess and co -payment apply. But, as explained in my 
provisional decision, I dont think this information was made clear enough. 
An insurer must ensure information to provides to its policyholders it clear, fair and not 
misleading. And to ensure this is done, I would expect such a key term, which effectively 
reduces the settlement Mr B can receive under the policy, to be highlighted in a prominent 
place. Therefore, drawing his attention to this. The policy schedule provided to Mr B clearly 
said the policy had an £1,000 condition limit. But it didnt explain this would effectively be 
unclaimable because of the excess and co-payment. So, I can understand why Mr B would 
have thought that he could actually receive the £1,000 limit he purchased.Red Sands has also mentioned other types of insurance, and how an excess can be 
deducted from any claim payment made. And it suggested that in respect of its policies, a 
claim could be paid, and then it could bill the policyholder for the excess and co-payment. 
Im only looking at Mr Bs case here  and have considered whether I think what has 
happened in Mr Bs case is fair. In Mr Bs case, his loss was more than the £1,000 limit on 
his policy. And because it wasnt made clear enough that the excess and co-payment would 
be deducted from the limit, I dont think it would be fair to do this. He would never have been 
able to receive the limit he was told he had.  
Mr B has mentioned the previous claims made, and that the cost of these didnt come up to 
the condition limit. So, he didnt realise he couldnt claim and receive the £1,000. Ive taken 
note of what Mr B has said. I dont know the details of the previous claims Mr B made. But 
Im satisfied I dont need to. It doesnt affect the outcome of this case. Mr B has made a 
complaint in respect of this claim, and the settlement provided, and Ive needed to consider 
whether Red Sands has acted fairly here. And I dont think it did  for the reasons explained 
above. 
Putting things right
Given the above reasoning, Im satisfied the settlement offer Red Sands provided Mr B with 
was unfair. Instead, I think it would be reasonable for Red Sands to provide settlement up to 
the £1,000 condition limit it detailed could be claimed. As Red Sands has already offered Mr 
B an amount of £720.80, I intend on requiring it to pay a further £279.80.
Because Mr B has been without the £279.80 he should have reasonably received I 
also intend on requiring Red Sands to pay an amount of 8% interest, simple per annum on 
the £279.20, from the date of loss, to the date of settlement, less any tax properly deductible.
 
My final decision
In light of the above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Red Sands 
Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to;
to provide settlement up to the £1,000 condition limit it detailed could be claimed. As 
Red Sands has already offered Mr B an amount of £720.80, I require it to pay a 
further £279.80.
Because Mr B has been without the £279.80 he should have reasonably received I 
also intend on requiring Red Sands to pay an amount of 8% interest, simple per 
annum on the £279.20, from the date of loss, to the date of settlement, less any tax 
properly deductible. 
If Red Sands (Europe) Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr B how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mr B a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so 
they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2020.
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman