DRN-4325789
The complaint
Mr M complains Barclays Bank UK PLC mishandled his re-mortgage application. He says 
that, as a result, he had to re-mortgage with his existing lender on a higher interest rate. And 
he couldnt borrow the additional amount he wanted for works he planned to carry out.
What happened
Mr M applied to Barclays Bank UK PLC to re-mortgage his buy to let property through a 
broker. A mortgage illustration was issued in early August 2022 for borrowing of £264,295 
over 25 years at a rate of interest fixed at 3.30% for five years.
Barclays surveyors valued the property at £325,000 subject to a satisfactory external wall 
system survey and associated report, which Ill call jointly the EWS1, being provided. Based 
on the valuation, Barclays would only lend £243,750 given the loan to value (LTV) ratio. 
Although Mr M felt the property had been down valued, he went ahead with the application 
for that amount. It gave him around £16,000 to carry out works.
Mr M provided the EWS1 on around 13 September 2022. Barclays sent it to their valuers for 
consideration on around 21 September. On 23 September Barclays told Mr M the application 
couldnt proceed since the construction of the property was unsuitable. A few days later      
Mr Ms broker pointed out Barclays had made a mistake about the property construction. But 
by then Mr M had decided to re-mortgage with his existing lender and his broker cancelled 
the application.
Mr M complained to Barclays that their delays in handling his application and mistake about 
the construction of the property had caused him to re-mortgage with his existing lender. He 
said hed needed to secure a rate elsewhere since interest rates were going up quickly and 
before his existing rate ran out. The rate he got was higher than the Barclays rate hed 
applied for. And due to changes in lending criteria, he was unable to borrow the additional 
amount hed wanted.
To put things right Mr M wanted Barclays to pay him the difference between the rate he 
secured with his existing lender and the rate hed applied for with Barclays, the additional 
borrowing he missed out on and compensation.
Since Barclays failed to respond substantively to his complaint within the relevant time limits, 
he brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator thought 
Barclays would have agreed Mr Ms application if they hadnt made a mistake about the 
property construction and reviewed the surveyors report correctly; it wasnt unreasonable for 
Mr M to apply elsewhere given the housing market at the time and the fact that Barclays had 
told him the property wasnt suitable security; Barclays should pay Mr M the difference 
between the interest hed pay at 4.99% over the two year period hed fixed his rate for with 
his existing lender and the 3.30% rate he would have paid Barclays over the same period; 
and Barclays should pay Mr M £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Neither party accepted our investigators view. Mr M said Barclays should also pay him the 
additional amount theyd originally agreed to lend him. And he thought the compensation of 
£200 was too low. Barclays asked for evidence of Mr Ms new mortgage. But they didnt say 
whether they accepted our investigators view. Since the complaint wasnt resolved, it was 
passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties have provided additional information since our investigator issued her view. And 
Ive come to a different outcome based on what Ive seen so far. Im therefore issuing a 
provisional decision to give the parties the chance to make further comments before I come 
to a final decision.
The timeline of events is important here. There are some slight variations in the information 
Ive seen about what happened when at the end of September 2022. But I dont think that 
affects things substantively. The key dates are broadly as follows:
Mr M made his application in early August 2022 and Barclays underwriters began to 
consider it shortly afterwards.
Between around 5 and 22 August 2022, the underwriters were requesting financial 
information from Mr Ms broker to support the application.
Barclays received the valuation on around 19 August 2022. They let Mr Ms broker 
know on around 24 August 2022 that the LTV was too high and to go ahead with the 
application Mr M would have to borrow less. They were chasing a response about 
that as of 6 September 2022.
On 13 September 2022 Barclays told Mr Ms broker theyd require a satisfactory 
EWS1 given the contents of the valuation report. Mr M provided this the following 
day. It was passed to the valuers for consideration on 21 September 2022.
On 23 September 2022 Barclays told Mr Ms broker the property wasnt of suitable 
construction and fell outside their lending policy; if Mr M could find a new property, 
the details could be updated on-line. Otherwise, the application would close after 30 
days.
On around 26 September 2022 the broker pointed out Barclays had made a mistake 
about the construction of the property and said it had been mortgaged with other 
lenders previously.
On 28 September 2022 Mr M got a product switch offer from his existing lender. His 
broker cancelled the application with Barclays.
I dont think there were any avoidable delays up to 22 August when Barclays were waiting 
for financial information from Mr M.
It took Barclays around five days between receiving the valuation and letting Mr Ms brokers 
know they wouldnt lend the full amount hed asked for given the LTV. Thats not 
unreasonable. And, from what I understand, Mr M hadnt confirmed he wanted to go ahead 
at the lower figure until some time between 6 and 13 September. So, I dont think Barclays 
were responsible for any delay there. It took a week for Barclays to pass the EWS1 to their valuers to consider. They could 
probably have dealt with that aspect more quickly. I can understand Mr M and his broker 
would have been surprised to be told shortly afterwards that the property was of unsuitable 
construction when the valuation had said it was of standard construction. And it suggested 
Barclays had misunderstood the application Mr M was making to re-mortgage an existing 
property when they advised he find an alternative property to buy.
Barclays have confirmed they would have made an offer if the application hadnt been 
cancelled. I acknowledge Mr M wouldnt have known that at the time. And I can appreciate 
he was concerned about interest rates increasing and that he wanted to secure a rate before 
they went up further. But his existing deal didnt run out until November 2022. And I dont 
think it was reasonable for him to have cancelled the application before Barclays had the 
chance to respond when the broker pointed out their mistake about the construction of the 
property.
Ive noted Barclays could probably have given the EWS1 and associated report to the 
valuers more quickly. But they didnt cause significant delays. And the overall time taken 
between the application starting in early August and Mr M cancelling it at the point where the 
valuers had been asked to check the EWS1 was around two months. Thats not 
unreasonable bearing in mind the steps required before an offer could be issued were 
almost complete.
The broker was quick to point out Barclays mistake about the construction of the property. 
And from what Mr Ms told us, the mistake was also evident to him. Hes suggested Barclays 
had him confused with another customer. And hes told us he was aware that the report said 
something different to Barclays about the property construction. Mr M had the option of 
clarifying things with Barclays. But he felt he couldnt spend any more time on the application 
with them. And he chose instead to re-mortgage with his existing lender at a higher rate.
Im aware Mr M feels Barclays communication was poor. But, from what Ive seen, they 
were in regular email communication with Mr Ms broker as the application progressed. I 
think its more likely than not that if Barclays had had the chance to review things once the 
valuer had pointed out their mistake, the application would have gone through once the 
valuers had considered the EWS1. The EWS1 confirmed no remedial works were needed to 
the property. And Barclays have confirmed the application would have succeeded.
In the circumstances, I dont think its fair to ask Barclays to compensate Mr M for the 
additional interest hell pay or for missing out on borrowing the additional sum he wanted. 
I acknowledge Mr Ms strength of feeling about his complaint. I can understand he was 
concerned about interest rates going up quickly. And I appreciate it was frustrating for Mr M 
to end up on a higher rate and to lose out on the additional borrowing. But I dont think its 
fair to hold Barclays responsible for that. Whilst they made a mistake about the construction 
of the property, it could have been clarified. It was reasonable to give Barclays some time to 
do that. Mr M chose to go ahead with his existing lenders before Barclays had the chance. If 
they had reviewed things, its likely Mr Ms application would have gone through. Bearing 
everything in mind, I dont think Barclays treated Mr M unfairly or acted unreasonably. And, 
based on what Ive seen so far, I dont intend to uphold his complaint.We dont generally consider complaints about complaint handling. I can see Barclays failed 
to provide a substantive response to Mr Ms complaint within the timescales set down by the 
Financial Conduct Authority. But they told him he could bring his complaint to us, which he 
did. So, he hasnt missed out on his complaint being considered.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Developments
Barclays had no comments to make on my provisional decision. 
Mr M was unhappy with my proposed outcome. He explained his broker had chased 
Barclays several times and didnt get suitable responses. He noted Barclays had got 
confused about whether Mr M was buying a new property or re-mortgaging. And he was 
unhappy with delays by Barclays, including during the complaints process.
Mr M questioned why, if Barclays were prepared to make an offer, they hadnt contacted his 
broker to discuss that. He explained that, for regulatory reasons, his broker couldnt keep the 
application with Barclays open when he applied to another lender. And he said he was under 
time pressure to avoid going onto his existing lenders standard variable rate. 
Ive considered Mr Ms comments in coming to my final decision below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr M feels strongly Barclays treated him unfairly. I understand Mr M wanted to 
avoid moving to his existing lenders standard variable rate. And I can understand he wanted 
to secure a favourable interest rate when rates were going up. However, the points hes 
made in response to my provisional decision arent substantively new. 
I note what Mr Ms said about his brokers experience of dealing with Barclays. But, 
considering the timeline, I dont think it was unreasonable overall - as I explained in my 
provisional decision.
Ive taken into account Barclays mistakenly writing to him as if he was buying a new property 
rather than re-mortgaging when they said the property was of unsuitable construction. That 
misunderstanding was corrected by Mr Ms broker within a few days. But Barclays didnt 
have the opportunity to reconsider the application since Mr M applied instead for a product 
switch with his existing lender. I wouldnt expect them to have contacted Mr Ms broker once 
that had happened. And Ive no reason to doubt Barclays when they say they would have 
issued Mr M with an offer had his application with them gone ahead. 
Considering everything, I see no reason to change my outcome. For the reasons Ive 
explained, whilst I understand hell be disappointed, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman