DRN-2697128
The complaint
Mr N complains National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) gave him false information about 
what a payment holiday would mean for the interest on his loan.
What happened
Mr N had a loan with NatWest which hed taken out in January 2020. He was expected to 
make payments of about £344 per month towards it. When the Covid-19 pandemic took hold 
in the UK Mr N suffered a drop in income and considered taking a payment holiday. He 
began the process of applying for one online, and then rang NatWest on 21 April 2020 to ask 
after not hearing anything from the bank.
On the phone call with NatWest, Mr N says he was told he wouldnt be charged interest on 
the loan while he was on a payment holiday. He decided to go ahead with it (and made 
reduced payments of £80 per month) for a few months, but he found he was still being 
charged interest, which he wasnt expecting.
Mr N complained that he had been lied to. The bank sent him a letter saying it hadnt been 
able to find and listen to the call in question but it didnt doubt what hed said hed been told. 
It apologised for providing incorrect information and gave him £50 compensation, but said it 
would continue to charge interest as normal, and would only refund any extra interest 
charged as a result of Mr N making lower repayments than normal. 
Dissatisfied with this response, Mr N brought his complaint to this service, where it was 
looked into by an investigator. 
Our investigator was able to obtain and listen to a recording of Mr Ns call with the bank, and 
he concluded the bank hadnt given very clear information about the payment holiday, and 
had said no interest would be applied, which had been wrong. 
However, our investigator thought Mr N would have seen a message on NatWests website 
as part of the online application process which said that interest would continue to be 
charged. And he also thought Mr N would have gone ahead with a payment holiday even if 
hed been correctly informed, as this was the best option for him in his financial situation at 
the time. He didnt think NatWest needed to do anything more to resolve the matter.
Mr N disagreed. He said he had not seen anything on the banks website and the message 
must have been added later on. He said the bank had treated him in a disgusting way and 
he felt he had been conned and lied to. Mr N asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The questions I have to answer here are fairly straightforward. Firstly, did NatWest give Mr N 
incorrect information about the interest which would accrue on his loan when he took a 
payment holiday? Secondly, if the bank did provide incorrect information, did this cause Mr N 
to lose out in some way?
Was Mr N provided incorrect information?
Ive listened to the phone call Mr N had with the bank, in which the payment holiday and the 
question of interest were discussed. Having done so, I dont think Mr N was lied to, or given 
obviously incorrect information. Unfortunately, what the banks member of staff said was 
open to interpretation. He said: the arrears on the loan is just going to be the missed 
payments its not going to be any further interest applied. Mr N appears to have interpreted 
this to mean that all interest on the loan would be frozen during the payment holiday. What 
the member of staff actually meant was that any extra interest which would accrue on the 
loan because Mr N was making lower or no repayments, would be refunded. This was made 
a little clearer when he went on to say the following:
It may not be credited to your account every month, it may be done at the end of the three 
month deferral because its a processing team whos doing it, but if you start to see a credit 
every month into the account it should have the title interest and obviously it should be a 
credit into the account, thats us refunding the interest basically.
In my opinion there was no intention by NatWest to mislead Mr N here  it was an 
unfortunate misunderstanding which wasnt helped by some not very precise choices of 
wording by the banks member of staff, and some rather muffled audio on the call.
I accept Mr Ns point that the message on the banks website might not have been there 
when he first went online to start the application process. During the first few months of the 
pandemic things changed very quickly and individuals and organisations were adapting to an 
unfamiliar and unprecedented situation. Ive checked historic versions of the webpage where 
the message would have appeared, and I can see the message only began to appear from 
9 April 2020, so I think its quite likely Mr N wouldnt have seen it.
Overall however, Im not convinced Mr N was given incorrect information, rather there was a 
lack of clarity in the information given which led to a misunderstanding. 
What was the impact on Mr N?
Mr N hasnt been charged any more interest than he would have been charged had he not 
taken a payment holiday. Hes just expected to make up the parts of the repayments he 
missed at a later date, which I think is a reasonable expectation. I understand negative 
information hasnt been recorded on his credit file either. So I dont see how he is worse off 
as a result of whats happened. 
Ive considered Mr Ns arguments carefully about why he would have done something 
differently, but they dont change my view. If anything, it sounds like Mr N might have ended 
up worse off if he hadnt taken the payment holiday. 
Conclusions
While Mr N clearly feels strongly that NatWest has tried to deceive him, I dont think thats 
the case. The bank could have given him clearer information, but I dont think hes out of 
pocket at a result. If he had been given clearer information he might have been saved some 
frustration and hassle, but I note the bank has already paid him £50 compensation and I 
wont be asking it to increase this.
My final decisionI dont uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman