DRN-2654755
The complaint
Ms S and Mr H are unhappy with Nationwide Building Societys decision to not refund 
£4,000 lost to a scam.
Nationwide said it had made attempts to recover the money but very little remained in the 
receiving account. It said there was nothing more it could do and that Ms S and Mr H were 
liable for the loss as the payment out of their account was authorised.
It is Ms S that took the call from the scammer and raised the complaint with Nationwide. So 
Ill mostly refer to her throughout the decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Upon doing so, I have concluded that the fair and reasonable outcome would be to uphold 
this complaint for the following reasons:
1. It is common ground that Ms S authorised the scam payment of £4,000. She was duped 
by the scammers into transferring that sum to an account controlled by them. They 
deceived her over the phone, spoofing the societys genuine number, and tricked her 
into thinking that her account was at risk of attack from an unknown fraudster. She was 
told spending against her account had been attempted in Aberdeen, where Ms S had 
recently been, and that she needed to transfer her money to a new account to protect it.
2. Ms S was told all of her Nationwide holdings were under threat. And so she moved 
money from her sole account into one held jointly with Mr H. She then transferred £4,000 
out of that account, leaving a balance of around £400. The fraudster had told her to 
leave that in the account to cover any imminent Direct Debits. It is the transfer out of the 
joint account that has led to Ms S and Mr Hs loss.
  
3. I accept that this was an authorised payment even though Ms S was the victim of a 
sophisticated scam. She used her security credentials and card reader to request the 
payment through her online banking. So, although she did not intend the money to go to 
the scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and 
conditions of her account, Ms S and Mr H are presumed liable for the loss in the first 
instance.
 
4. However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Nationwide should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
5. Im satisfied the £4,000 out of the joint account was sufficiently unusual that it ought to 
have prompted questions from the bank; it ought to have been concerned that Ms S and 
Mr H might be at risk of financial harm. A transaction as large as £4,000 was very much 
irregular activity on the account, particularly as it was being sent to a new payee (as it 
seems very uncommon for new payees to be set up on the account or for this type of 
payment to be made). There had been no comparable legitimate payments in well over 
six months prior. The closest comparable transaction is a regular Direct Debit of 
£1,194.21 for a mortgage payment. Not only is this significantly less than the scam 
payment, its a regular and trusted form of payment, backed by the Direct Debit 
guarantee. And so it offers no grounds on which to establish the £4,000 as an ordinary 
transaction.
6. Nationwide hasnt provided any information or evidence to say why it didnt find this 
payment to be unusual or suspicious in nature. Although the complaint was originally not 
upheld by an investigator, that outcome was overturned upon later review. The later 
findings concluded that the payment was unusual and that Nationwide ought to have 
acted. But weve not had a response from the society. 
7. Nationwides position on holding Ms S and Mr H responsible for the transaction is based 
on the fact that the transaction was authorised, with the correct credentials and card 
reader being used. Ive already explained that I agree the transaction was authorised. 
And whilst the measures the society has in place here may help to prevent unauthorised 
transactions, they do little to prevent customers falling victim to authorised scams, as 
Ms S and Mr H have here. And there are obligations on the society beyond only 
confirming that a transaction is properly authorised.
8. Nationwide ought to have recognised the transaction was unusual and therefore 
represented a scam risk. The next steps would then have been to stop the payment until 
Ms S or Mr H could be questioned about it. That might have meant Nationwide 
contacting Ms S and/or Mr H directly or awaiting contact from them. 
9. Id expect the society to then have questioned the purpose of the payment. It doesnt 
appear Ms S was given a cover story by the fraudster, to use in the event of genuine 
contact from Nationwide. And so it seems more likely than not she would have revealed  
what she believed to be the true purpose of the payment and the scam would have been 
revealed. Even if Ms S had initially hidden the true purpose it seems there was enough 
going on that Nationwide, with its expertise in how these scams work, would have been 
able to find out the truth through suitable questioning. I see no reason why the scam 
wouldnt have been revealed and so prevented.
 
10. As the scam ought to have prevented it stands that Ms S and Mr Hs lost ought to be 
refunded by Nationwide.  
 11. In light of my conclusions above, it is not necessary in this case to consider whether the 
society also exercised enough care and urgency in trying to recover the stolen funds 
from the payee bank before they were irretrievably removed by the scammers. But for 
completeness, I will say that, it does appear that the society acted quickly to try and 
recover funds. But it had already been over a week since the scam had taken place and 
so the likelihood of funds being recovered was always going to be small. And it then 
appears to have been the receiving bank that delayed in providing an answer, and 
ultimately a refund of £3.73, to Nationwide. So there doesnt seem to be fault here as far 
as the attempted recovery of funds is concerned.
.
12. I have also considered whether Ms A should bear some responsibility by way of 
contributory negligence. And in doing so Ive taken account of what Nationwide has said 
about warnings Ms S would have been presented with at the time she was making the 
payment. However, it is clear that up to and including the time of authorising the 
payment, she was still totally in the dark and simply did not appreciate what she was 
doing or the consequences of her actions. She had been contacted on what appeared to 
be the societys genuine number. The fraudsters had employed a technique known as 
spoofing, where an incoming call is made to look as though it is coming from the genuine 
organisation. That doubtless gave Ms S significant confidence that she was talking to 
Nationwide, particularly as the caller already knew some information about her. 
13. Ms S has said she doesnt recall seeing any warnings, possibly because she was in such 
a panic. Fraudsters typically create such feelings in these situations in order to have 
victims act quickly. And there were details about the alleged attack on Ms S account that 
made the situation sound more plausible: shed recently visited Aberdeen (where the 
caller said the attempted fraud was taking place), and her partner had also recently had 
fraud attempted on his account (again in Aberdeen). The call also sounded convincing 
because of the fraudsters apparent knowledge of Nationwides processes and the 
involvement of his manager to assist with the call.
 
14. I am satisfied there was no contributory negligence on this occasion, Ms S was simply 
the unwitting and blameless victim of a clever fraudster. The bank was the professional 
in financial matters.
 
15. In the circumstances I am satisfied Nationwide should fairly and reasonably reimburse 
Ms S for the loss she suffered, without any reduction, together with interest to 
compensate her for being deprived of the money she lost.  I am satisfied that had the 
fraudster not taken the money from Ms S she would likely have used it elsewhere and so 
the society should pay interest at 8% simple per year, from the date of loss to the date of 
settlement. 
  
Putting things right
Nationwide Building Society should:
Pay Ms S and Mr H £3,996.27 within 28 days of receiving notification of her 
acceptance of my final decision; plus
Pay interest on that sum at 8% simple from the date of loss to the date of refund1.
My final decision
1 If Nationwide is legally required to deduct tax from the interest should send MS S a tax deduction 
certificate so she can claim it back from HMRC is appropriate.I uphold this complaint against Nationwide Building Society.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman