DRN-3885161
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the settlement he received from Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited 
following a claim under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ps vehicle was damaged when a wall from a neighbouring property collapsed onto it in a 
storm, so he made a claim to Admiral, his motor insurer.
Admiral declared the vehicle as uneconomical to repair and therefore a total loss. Ultimately, 
following some discussion, Admiral offered a final settlement of £16,900 before excess 
deduction (they also added 8% interest to the additional amount that was later paid).
Mr P is unhappy with the amount offered, as he says the cost to replace the vehicle is in the 
region of £19-20,000. So, he brought a complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ps complaint but she didnt uphold it. She said the 
settlement offered by Admiral fairly reflects the market value of Mr Ps car and is in line with 
the terms and conditions of his policy.
Mr P didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I note in the early stages of the claim when doing validation checks, Admiral 
discovered a previous speeding offence which hadnt been disclosed. 
This resulted in Admiral saying they would only be proportionately settling Mr Ps claim by 
75.78%, based on how much the policy premium should have been had the speeding 
offence been disclosed. However, following discussion with Mr P, Admiral no longer 
maintained that position or proportionate settlement. So, I dont need to consider that point 
further as no reduction to the settlement has been made on this basis.
Ultimately Admiral reached a final offer of settlement totalling £16,900. They also added 8% 
simple interest for the difference which the settlement was later increased by. I need to 
decide whether Admirals offer of £16,900 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr Ps policy terms and conditions explain he is covered for the market value of his vehicle 
in the event of a total loss. 
If we give you a cash sum, the most we will pay is the market value of the vehicle.
Market value is defined in the policy terms as:
The cost of replacing your vehicle, with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage 
and condition based on market prices immediately before the loss happened. Use of 
the term market refers to where your vehicle was purchased. This value is based on 
research from industry recognised motor trade guides.
Admiral determined the market value of Mr Ps vehicle using valuations obtained through 
industry trade guides. Ive seen the valuations and they were based on the correct vehicle 
and mileage at the time of loss. These resulted in valuations of:
Glasss £16,860
CAP £15,900
Admiral ultimately offered £16,900, less the policy excess. So, the amount they have offered 
is in line with the highest of the trade guide valuations they obtained.
Our investigator also checked additional trade guides Autotrader and Cazoo. The valuation 
from Autotrader was in line with (slightly lower than) the ultimate settlement offer made by 
Admiral, Cazoo was significantly lower so this was discounted as an outlier.
Therefore, Im satisfied the settlement offered by Admiral is in line with the valuations 
produced by the trade guides.
Mr P says that the trade guides arent reflective of the cost of replacing his vehicle and he 
has provided adverts for similar vehicles advertised at higher amounts, ranging from 
£19-20,000.
As outlined to Mr P by our investigator, this services typical approach when considering 
complaints about the fair market value of a vehicle is to take into account what the market 
leading motor trade guides say the market value is.
The guides are independent of the insurance industry, and from one another. As a service, 
we find these guides to be particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are 
based on nationwide research and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account 
regional variations. We are confident these guides give a good reflection of the true market 
value of a vehicle.
I should also point out that this service generally finds these motor trade guides to be more 
persuasive than sales adverts. This is because advertised prices are often the starting point 
of a negotiation and what the seller would like to achieve, rather than the final price it sells 
for after negotiation.
I also note that the adverts provided by Mr P are for similar vehicles, but with lower mileage 
and some are slightly different models and specifications, which is likely to have an impact 
on the overall price.
Mr P has also said he notes that this is our approach, but he argues that he is needing to 
buy a vehicle, rather than sell one. So, he says basing the market value on the sales price 
isnt reflective. However, like our investigator, Im of the view that they go hand in hand, as a 
sales price would be what a seller would be looking to achieve from a sale, whilst taking into 
account some negotiation from a buyer. 
Admiral has used the same industry guides our service typically relies on, and additional 
trade guides also show the settlement amount already offered by Admiral is in line with the market value. Ive considered the additional information and points Mr P has provided, but 
this isnt sufficient to persuade me the valuation reached by Admiral was unfair or 
unreasonable. Therefore, I wont be directing Admiral to increase the settlement amount.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman