DRN-1819852
Complaint 
Mrs B complains that AXA France IARD mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to her 
in January 2001.
Although the PPI was sold by another business AXA France IARD has taken responsibility 
for this complaint. For ease of reference, I will refer to AXA throughout this decision.
Background
Mrs B took out the PPI over the telephone in 2001 some years after her store card was 
opened. This policy covered her if she became unemployed or was off work because of 
accident or sickness and it cost £1.00 for every £100.00 of the outstanding balance owed on 
the card. On a successful claim, it would have covered Mrs B for 15% of that balance, until 
the balance had been repaid or Mrs B returned to work.
Our adjudicator said he didn't think this was a case that should be upheld. Mrs B disagreed 
with our adjudicators view and asked that the matter be referred to an ombudsman for a 
final decision. So, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in deciding 
this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. I will explain why below.
I can see that this policy was taken out over the telephone. AXA has said this was after the 
card account had been set up. Mrs B says that she has asked for copies of the call recording 
and the paperwork which she was told would have been sent to her after she had taken out 
the cover. But AXA is unable to provide this evidence - so she says this does not support the 
case that the policy was fairly sold. 
The PPI was sold over nineteen years ago and its understandable and not unusual that the 
information Mrs B has requested is unavailable, as businesses aren't required to keep its 
records indefinitely. Mrs B also doesn't clearly remember all the details about the sale- which 
is also understandable after such a long time. But where the evidence is incomplete, I will 
make my decision on the balance of probabilities. That is the standard I will use to decide 
what is more likely to have happened considering what the parties have told us, the 
paperwork that is available and taking into consideration what we know about how this 
business sold these types of policies at the time.
Mrs B has said she does not recall taking out the PPI. I have seen a copy of the card 
account application form in 1991. I also note that at that time Mrs B did not opt for PPI. This 
section on the form is ticked no to indicate Mrs B did not require the cover. So, I dont think 
this was when Mrs B took out the PPI and I think this is probably what she remembers. Instead it looks like Mrs B took out the cover during a telephone conversation in 2001 and I 
accept that this is when Mrs B chose to take out the PPI. As Ive explained above, there is 
no call recording from the time. So, to help me decide whether Mrs B was given a choice 
about buying the PPI, or not taking it out during that call, I have thought about what we know 
about these types of sales. Based on what we know about how the business conducted 
sales at that time over the telephone, I think the representative would more likely have given 
Mrs B a choice about buying the PPI and the optional nature of the policy was more likely 
made clear. I have also taken into account when making my decision that the PPI was taken 
out many years after the store card was applied for and that indicates to me that Mrs B 
wouldn't have thought she had to take it out to get the card. In addition, I also think the PPI 
would have appeared on Mrs Bs card statements so if she didn't want the policy or 
didn't know she had it she could have questioned it at the time - I havent seen evidence she 
did so.
Taking everything into account, on balance, I think its more likely that she agreed to take it 
out at the time knowing she could refuse it if she didn't want it even if its understandable if 
she cant remember that now after such a long time. 
Theres nothing that makes me think a tailored recommendation was made to Mrs B. So, I 
dont think AXA advised Mrs B to take out the policy. That means AXA didnt need to check 
whether the policy was the right fit for her circumstances. Even so, it still had to give her 
enough clear information, so she could make an informed choice and decide for herself 
whether she wanted to take it out.
I cant say all the information was as clear as it could have been. For example, I cant say 
what information Mrs B was given about the terms of the policy or the cost. But even if the 
information could have been clearer, I still think Mrs B would have bought the cover.
I say this as Mrs B has told us that she would have received sick pay from her employer  of 
at least six months full pay - and although she has told us that she wouldn't have taken it 
out, this policy would have paid out in addition to and for longer than any sick pay she 
received. If Mrs B couldn't work then her income would have reduced, and in that case I 
think she might have welcomed the cover. The policy would have meant she could use any 
sick pay she got for other important expenses. So, I still think the policy would have been 
useful at what no doubt would have been a stressful time for Mrs B.
I can also see at that time she was working and didn't have any pre-existing medical 
conditions. So, even if she received more information about the terms and conditions of the 
policy, I dont think she would have changed her mind about buying it. This is because she 
wouldn't likely have been affected by any of the main exclusions and limitations set out in the 
terms of the policy which might have made it more difficult to make a successful claim.
So, for the reasons Ive given above I still think the PPI could have been useful if Mrs B lost 
her job or couldn't work. As Ive explained it looks like Mrs B opted to take out the policy over 
the telephone and that she wanted this type of cover at the time. I also havent seen 
anything to suggest the premiums were unaffordable. With that in mind, I dont think Mrs B 
would have acted differently even if AXA had given her more or better information about the 
policy. 
I am sorry to disappoint Mrs B, but after taking everything into account, it follows that I 
havent upheld her complaint. 
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint about AXA France IARD. I dont 
require AXA France IARD to take any further action in respect of it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2020.
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman