DRN-3410612
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy because Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt refunded a fair proportion of the 
premium, hed paid for his travel insurance policy. Hes also unhappy that he didnt get a 
cash refund, just a voucher. 
All reference to Great Lakes includes its agents. 
What happened
Mr J bought a single trip, comprehensive, travel insurance policy, underwritten by Great 
Lakes (the policy). The policy was taken out to cover a trip abroad which had been booked 
for 21 April 2020. 
Mr J paid around £785 for the policy which included cruise plus cover costing around £50, 
insurance premium tax (IPT) - charged at 20% - and a discount of around £49. 
Due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic Mr Js trip didnt go ahead. He wrote to Great 
Lakes in mid-April 2020 to cancel the policy. 
Great Lakes ultimately offered Mr J a pro rata voucher refund - valid for 36 months (until 
June 2023) - that he could use against a new travel insurance policy in the sum of around 
£193.
Mr J didnt think that was fair so complained to our Service. One of our investigators looked 
at what had happened. She set out the details of the relevant cancellation rights and how 
they applied in the circumstances of this case. Our investigator also explained that its a 
fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started to bear risk  for 
however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. That means its not unreasonable 
for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. 
Our investigator also explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of 
insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started at the start of March 2020 
and the policy covered various risks during that time. 
Our investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
And having considered everything she partially upheld. She recommended Great Lakes pay 
a pro-rata refund of the premium paid for the policy from 16 April 2020 (by way of voucher). 
Mr J didnt agree with our investigator. He wanted a cash refund of the premium hed paid for 
the policy. Great Lakes didnt object to our investigators view. And, in light of her 
recommendation, it calculated that it would pay a voucher to Mr J for the increased sum of 
around £290 (representing 21 unused days). 
This complaint has now been passed to me to decide to look at everything afresh to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I partially uphold this complaint and direct Great Lakes to issue a voucher 
to Mr J but, in the sum of around £290, to represent a pro-rata refund of the premium he paid 
for the policy rather than the amount originally offered by Great Lakes. Ill explain why. 
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
Is Mr J entitled to a refund of the premium paid for the policy? 
The terms and conditions of the policy set out Mr Js cancellation rights under the contract. 
These say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of your 
documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, less 
any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a claim. 
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14-day cooling off period no premium will 
be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as 
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions. 
Ive taken on board Mr Js point that given a choice he wouldve cancelled the policy within 
14 days but didnt. Ultimately, the policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so 
theres no requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for Great Lakes to 
offer a full refund to Mr J. As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that where 
cancellation is more than 14 days after payment of the premium, no premium will be 
refunded except in exceptional circumstances. But I dont think it would be fair to ask Great 
Lakes to exercise the discretion it has, under the terms of the policy, in the circumstances of 
this case to refund the premium Mr J paid for the policy. 
Im not persuaded that the Covid-19 global pandemic amounts to exceptional 
circumstances akin to two examples in the policy term referred to above. And I dont think 
the impact of the global pandemic, which affected many of Great Lakes policyholders, is one 
which this term is intended to cover. 
But Im conscious that Mr Js need for the policy changed due to circumstances outside of 
his control; because the trip didnt go ahead as a result of Covid-19. So, Ive considered 
whether it would still be fair and reasonable to ask Great Lakes to depart from industry rules 
and the policy terms in the circumstances of this case  particularly given the extraordinary 
and unexpected circumstances surrounding the pandemic. 
I know Mr J says that Great Lakes shouldve offered a full monetary refund of the policy 
premium. But Covid-19  and its global impact - couldnt have been anticipated and 
foreseen. And whilst it was outside of the control of Mr J, it was also outside of Great Lakes 
control. 
Further, Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for Mr Js contract with Great Lakes to be 
performed  or for him to have benefitted from the policy. Thats because Mr J wasnt just 
insured for the dates of travel. Cover started at the start of March 2020. And, subject to the 
remaining terms of the policy, Im satisfied that the price Great Lakes charged Mr J for the 
policy also covered him from the start of the policy should he have needed to cancel his trip 
for any number of the insured events under the policy. So, Great Lakes had assumed the risk of Mr J making such a claim from the date the policy 
started until his trip was cancelled; which Mr J says was around 16 April 2020. And, as also 
explained by our investigator, its a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer 
had started to bear the risk concerned  for however short amount of time  the premium 
paid is not returnable. 
Im therefore not persuaded that its unfair for Great Lakes to retain any premiums relating to 
the risk it covered up until the point his trip was cancelled. But once the trip was cancelled 
due to the pandemic, Great Lakes was no longer carrying the risk of the trip being cancelled 
for any of the other insured reasons set out in the policy, before the start of trip. And Great 
Lakes hasnt paid a claim in relation to Mr Js trip being cancelled; the cost of the trip was 
refunded by a third party. 
Also, as the trip was no longer going ahead, Great Lakes was no longer carrying the risk of 
any claim being made while Mr J was abroad. So, in light of this, and based on the unique 
and unprecedented circumstances surrounding the Covid-19 pandemic, Im persuaded its 
fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to provide Mr J with a pro-rata refund of the premium he 
paid for the policy from 16 April 2020. 
The offer of a voucher 
When considering whether Great Lakes shouldve offered a pro-rata monetary refund of the 
premium or by way of voucher, Ive considered what would be fair and reasonable to both 
parties. 
Mr J paid a premium in return for Great Lakes acceptance of the risk of a valid claim 
occurring under the policy during the period of cover. Offering a refund by way of a voucher 
means the risk Great Lakes had agreed to accept is simply moved to a future date. And I 
think its reasonable for Great Lakes to offer a voucher as an alternative to a monetary 
refund in such circumstances - so long as the terms of the voucher offered are fair and 
reasonable. 
I dont think the terms of the voucher in this case are overly restrictive. The voucher is valid 
for 36 months and can also be used to buy a single trip or annual, multi-trip, travel insurance 
policy. 
Ive taken into account Mr Js age and his comments that he has done all the long-haul 
bucket trips I want to. But that doesnt mean that he wont travel again and its possible the 
voucher will be of some use to him. Further, even if he doesnt travel abroad again, Great 
Lakes has confirmed that the voucher is also fully transferrable. So, although Mr J says he 
wouldnt recommend Great Lakes, if the voucher isnt used by Mr J within the 36 months 
timeframe for which its valid, it can be used by someone else  if Mr J chose to gift the 
voucher to a friend or family member, for example. So, in the circumstances of this particular 
case, Im not persuaded Great Lakes should pay a pro-rata monetary refund to Mr J instead 
of a voucher. 
The vouchers value 
When calculating the policy premium Great Lakes doesnt distinguish between pre-travel 
cancellation and post-departure cover. Rather, the premium charged is split equally across 
the whole period of cover. As our investigator explained, an insurer is entitled to decide the 
way in which it calculates policy premiums, considering factors such as its previous claims 
experience, its assessment of the likelihood of claims arising and its own commercial 
interests. Thats if it treats each customer fairly when doing so. Given Great Lakes explanation, Im satisfied there isnt a material unevenness in the 
prevalence of risk across the life of its single travel insurance policies. Im also persuaded 
that Great Lakes hasnt treated Mr J unfairly, or any differently, to other customers in similar 
circumstances by calculating the premium in this way. 
The value of the voucher offered to Mr J has been calculated considering his unused period 
of standard travel insurance cover. The policy covered Mr J for around 67 days from the date 
the policy started to the date it was due to expire. And the premium he paid for the policy 
was representative of the time cover was in place for. 
Great Lakes wasnt covering any further risk under the policy from the date Mr Js holiday 
was cancelled on or around 16 April 2020. So, Im satisfied Great Lakes should recalculate 
the value of Mr Js voucher from that date to 6 May 2020 (21 days in total) based on the 
standard premium paid and then add on the amount paid for cruise plus cover (plus 
insurance premium tax of 20% on that amount). 
Mr J was given a discount at the point of sale. However, I think the way Great Lakes has 
applied the discount to the calculation of the voucher has unfairly disadvantaged Mr J.
Based on everything provided to me, in simple terms, Great Lakes should recalculate the 
refund by dividing the actual price paid for the policy by the total cover length (in days) 
multiplied by days not on risk. Ive seen the refund calculation formula originally used by 
Great Lakes before the date of our investigators view and I dont agree this leads to a fair 
and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Putting things right
Within 28 days from our Service confirming to Great Lakes that Mr J accepts my final 
decision, I direct Great Lakes calculate the value of Mr Js voucher based on a pro-rata 
refund of the premium paid for the policy from 16 April 2020. 
Based on everything provided to me, in simple terms, Great Lakes should calculate the 
refund by dividing the actual price paid for the policy by the total cover length (in days) 
multiplied by days not on risk and then adding on £60.43 which is the amount paid for cruise 
plus cover including IPT. 
Alternatively, if Great Lakes has already issued Mr J a voucher to the value of around £193 it 
initially offered after he first complained to Great Lakes, I direct it to issue Mr J with a further 
voucher for the difference between the value of that voucher and the recalculated amount 
(which I understand is around £290).
My final decision
I partially uphold Mr Js complaint. And I direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to put things right 
by doing what Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman