DRN-4086176
The complaint
Mr M complains that he placed a trade based on incorrect information about the price of a 
fund provided by Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited, causing him to sell his holding at a loss. 
What happened
On 11 February 2022 at 6.13am Mr M placed an order to buy around 7,800 units of the 
iShares North American Equity Index fund, and the trade was placed at midday for around 
£46,000. At 5.55pm on the same day he placed an order to sell the units, and says he was 
given a value of around £47,000. As that was a Friday, the order was filled on the following 
Monday, at which point the units were sold for around £45,000. Mr M made a complaint 
about the difference in value  he felt he hadnt been sufficiently warned that the price would 
change so much. 
Aviva explained that funds are priced once a day  the price he saw when he placed the 
order to sell on 11 February was actually the price from 10 February. They said the price is 
not guaranteed and that when he placed the order, he would have seen a warning saying 
Your funds will be purchased at the next available dealing point. Mr M disagreed, saying 
that they ought to have been much more transparent around the prices quoted, so he 
brought the complaint to our service. 
An investigator at our service looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She said that the 
terms clearly explained how the trade would be placed and that the values could change. 
She explained the funds are forward-priced and so he wouldnt have been entitled to the 
amount he was originally quoted. Mr M disagreed, saying that as he traded after the end of 
the business day, the price ought to have been updated to the newest valuation. The 
investigator wasnt persuaded to change her mind and so the complaint has been passed to 
me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator, for largely the same 
reasons. 
Mr M placed this trade on an execution only basis  this is important because it means the 
responsibility lies with him to understand what asset he was buying and selling and how they 
would be traded. Avivas responsibility is to ensure that any information given to Mr M is 
clear, fair and not misleading. 
The iShares fund is a single priced fund  which means that the buy and sell price are the 
same each day, so it doesnt have a spread. Aviva has explained that the fund price is 
updated on their website at around 6am each morning, based on information received from 
the fund manager. 
Mr M placed the order to buy units in the iShares fund at 6.13am on 11 February. As this is 
around the same time as the fund manager updates the price, when he did so, the price will 
have been one of the following two prices:
If the price had already been updated, then hell have seen the new price, based on 
the Net Asset Value (NAV) of the fund from 10 February, of £6.03; or
If the price hadnt yet been updated, then it will have been the price displayed the day 
before, of £5.97, which was based on the NAV from 9 February.
Once they received his order to buy, I understand Aviva then aggregated his order with 
others, and it was transacted at the next dealing point - 11 February at 12 noon. As the fund 
is forward-priced, the price Mr M got for the deal on that day was the price declared after 
close of business on 11 February of £5.90. He wouldnt have known the exact price hed 
received when he bought the shares until the following week, when he received the contract 
note after that trade had settled. The price move was in Mr Ms favour, as it meant he 
received more units than he would have if the deal had been based on the NAV from either 
the 9 or 10 February, i.e. if the fund wasnt forward-priced. 
Once he brought the complaint to our service, Mr M said that when he placed the sell order 
at 5.55pm, he saw the fund price of £6.03, so thought hed profited compared to the price of 
the fund when he bought earlier that day. He didnt receive the contract notes confirming the 
price hed received for either trade until the following week. So, taking Mr M at his word, 
when he brought the shares that morning, the price showing was likely the 9 February price 
of £5.97, as this is the only way he would have thought hed profited. However, neither the 
buy or sell price was guaranteed and Mr M would have gotten different prices for both trades 
than he expected, due to forward pricing.  
Ive taken into consideration the terms and conditions of Mr Ms account with Aviva. These 
say, under the title of Valuations:
We will value Funds at the end of each Business Day using the most recent price available 
from the Fund manager.
You should be aware that if You want to buy or sell holdings in a Fund, these prices will not 
necessarily be the dealing prices as most Funds are priced on a forward basis
This means that the price for a sale or purchase transaction is that calculated at the 
valuation point after the transaction has been placed with the Fund manager.
Based on this, Im satisfied that Aviva acted in line with the terms and conditions when 
carrying out Mr Ms instructions to sell (and buy). I know Mr M feels that as he placed his 
trade after close of business the price ought to have already been updated. However, Aviva 
are reliant on the information being received from fund managers prior to them being able to 
update the fund price on their own website. In the terms, they dont guarantee the time at 
which they would receive that information from the fund manager.
Aviva has confirmed that the information would have been received in order for the price to 
be updated by around 6am. I dont think its unreasonable that it takes Aviva a while to 
receive and update this price  its imaginable that the NAV could take a little time for the 
fund manager themselves to calculate, and then time must be allowed for the information to 
be passed to and processed by Aviva. So, I dont think Mr M has been treated unfairly 
because the price hadnt been updated to reflect the 11 February NAV by 5.55pm on 11 
February. Mr M has said that he thinks stronger warnings ought to be given that the price may be 
different when investors are purchasing or selling funds. Ive seen sample screenshots of the 
current journey Aviva customers go through when selling holdings and switching into new 
funds, as Mr M did here. However, Aviva hasnt been able to provide screenshots of what Mr 
M would have seen in 2022. The current journey does include a warning prior to placing the 
order, but I have no proof of whether Mr M would have seen different information in 2022. 
Ive considered whether I think Aviva would be at fault for not providing a warning in 2022  if 
in fact they didnt. Im not persuaded they would have been at fault, primarily because this 
was an execution only trade. As Ive said above, Mr M is responsible for understanding the 
assets he is buying or selling, and this includes understanding how they are priced and how 
the trade is processed. If Mr M was unsure about an asset or how it was priced, and if the 
information available on Avivas website didnt answer his questions, then Id have expected 
Aviva to do what they could to help him, if asked. However, theres no evidence here of 
Aviva giving unclear, unfair or misleading information to Mr M about the way funds in 
general, or this fund in particular, are priced and would trade. 
Im satisfied that Aviva has overall given Mr M enough information for him to know that the 
price he saw when he placed the trade wouldnt necessarily be the price he received when 
the trade settled. Aviva wouldnt themselves have known how much the price would move  
either in Mr Ms favour or against it  for them to warn him specifically that large moves 
would be likely happen. 
I appreciate Mr M will be disappointed with this as he feels strongly about this issue. 
However overall, Im satisfied that Aviva has treated Mr M fairly and reasonably in the way 
they handled his trades placed on 11 February 2022.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, for the reasons set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Katie Haywood
Ombudsman