DRN-4279136
The complaint
Mr M complains that Metro Bank PLC trading as RateSetter (Metro) irresponsibly arranged 
a loan for him.
What happened
Mr M entered into a peer-to-peer loan agreement arranged by RateSetter in February 2019. 
The loan amount was £2,500 to be repaid over four years at £68.33 a month. Mr M met his 
repayments for the loan on time.
RateSetter later became part of Metro Bank PLC and Mr M went on to take out another two 
loans with the bank. Mr M used some of these funds to fully repay his RateSetter loan in 
September 2021. 
Ive only considered the 2019 loan in this decision and havent made any findings or decision 
about whether or not Mr Ms later loans were irresponsibly agreed as these are the subject 
of another complaint with us. 
Mr M complained to Metro in early 2023 that it had been irresponsible to facilitate his 2019 
loan. He said that Metro hadnt properly assessed the affordability of the loan for him, and 
that he had a high level of existing debt and a poor credit score. Mr M said that the loan 
wasnt sustainable for him as he had to take out further credit. 
Metro said that it took into account the affordability of the loan for Mr M, his credit score, his 
credit history and other factors before deciding to enter into the agreement. It said that Mr M 
met its minimum criteria and so it hadnt been irresponsible in accepting his application. 
Mr M referred his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint and 
didnt recommended that it be upheld. They found that Metros checks were reasonable and 
that it made a fair decision. Mr M didnt agree with this recommendation and asked for his 
complaint to come to an ombudsman for a review and its come to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also had regard to the regulators rules and guidance on responsible lending (set out in 
its consumer credit handbook  CONC) which firms, such as Metro, need to abide by. Metro 
will be aware of these, and our approach to this type of complaint is set out on our website, 
so I wont refer to the regulations in detail here but will summarise them. 
Before entering into the credit agreement, Metro needed to check that Mr M could afford to 
meet his repayments out of his usual means for the term of the loan, without having to 
borrow further and without experiencing financial difficulty or other adverse consequences. 
The checks needed to be proportionate to the nature of the credit (the amount borrowed, for 
example) and to Mr Ms circumstances. 
With this in mind, my main considerations are did Metro complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ms application to satisfy itself that he would be 
able to make his repayments without experiencing adverse consequences? If not, what 
would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown and, ultimately, did Metro make a 
fair decision? 
Metro provided the information it relied on which included Mr Ms application and a copy of 
his credit file from the time. Mr M said his salary was £60,000 (approximately £3,500 a 
month net) and he was paying £925 a month towards his mortgage. Mr Ms credit file 
showed he owed a total of £14,452 on two loans with a combined monthly repayment of 
£300 and his credit card balance was £4,105. There was no adverse information such as 
defaulted accounts or court judgements shown on Mr Ms credit record. Altogether, I dont 
think there was anything in the information Metro had about Mr Ms circumstances that 
should have led it to decline his application or prompted it to complete further checks before 
entering into the agreement. 
Mr M said that he was in a cycle of unsustainable debt at that point and that Metro should 
have declined his loan application because of the level of existing debts he had. Ive noted 
that Mr Ms loans had been taken out in the previous six months but I dont think this alone 
should have raised concerns for Metro. Mr Ms existing credit repayments along with his 
payment for this new loan werent so large relative to his means that there was an obvious 
risk of him not being able to meet his repayments without difficulty. In this context and 
considering the amount he was borrowing, Ive concluded that the checks Metro carried out 
on this occasion were reasonable and proportionate, and it didnt do anything wrong by 
entering into the agreement with Mr M on the basis of the information it had. 
I appreciate that this will be disappointing news for Mr M but, having considered everything 
carefully, I have concluded that Metro wasnt irresponsible on this occasion. It follows that I 
am not upholding his complaint.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I am not upholding Mr Ms complaint about Metro Bank PLC 
trading as RateSetter and dont require it to pay him compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman