DRN-3305706
The complaint
Mr L complains about the service he received from Openwork Limited (Openwork) when 
transferring the proceeds of his Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) pension to a 
Personal Pension Plan (PPP). Hed like compensation for what happened.
What happened
In early July 2019, having decided to transfer out of his OPS, Mr L approached his long-
standing financial adviser (Mr W) for advice. Mr W is an appointed representative of 
Openwork. As Mr W didnt have the necessary permissions to give transfer advice, he 
referred Mr L to Openworks Defined Benefit Scheme Advice Service (transfer service), 
which would eventually put him in touch with one of its transfer specialists, whod make a 
formal recommendation.
On 12 July 2019, Openworks transfer team invited Mr L to watch several educational 
videos. Once these were watched, it emailed Mr W on 15 July 2019, outlining the 
documentation required to take Mr Ls case forward for the transfer services initial 
assessment. 
Mr W requested a statement of Mr Ls entitlement under his OPS from the scheme 
administrator on 22 July 2019, and this was provided on 15 November 2019. Amongst other 
things, the statement confirmed that to secure the Cash Equivalent Transfer Value (CETV) 
quoted Mr L needed to be more than 12 months away from his Schemes Normal Pension 
Age (NPA), age 65; have applied to transfer within 3 months of the guarantee date; and 
have provided evidence of having received appropriate advice within 3 months of his 
statement of entitlement. 
On 15 December 2019, Mr W wrote to Mr L, asking for a copy of his state pension forecast. 
Mr L provided this the following day. 
Following the COVID-19 outbreak, Mr L contacted Mr W on 10 June 2020, asking to discuss 
his pension arrangements. He said he thought hed have been able to take benefits via 
income drawdown by this point and wanted to know where he stood. Mr L asked that if Mr W 
couldnt provide advice due to personal circumstances, hed appreciate one of his 
colleagues temporarily doing so. Mr W replied two days later with an update on the 
circumstances surrounding his familys health and the pressures associated with it. He 
explained that after 4 months away, hed be returning to his desk and would review Mr Ls 
case the following week.
On 24 June 2020, Mr W confirmed that his report for Mr Ls transfer was up to date and 
ready to be reviewed by someone in the transfer team to see if further information was 
required before the case was taken forward. Mr W emailed the transfer team on the same 
day, confirming that hed uploaded documents for Mr Ls case onto its system.
On 26 June 2020, the transfer team contacted Mr W. It noted that two expenditure 
questionnaires were missing from Mr Ls case and asked for these to be returned. Mr W 
contacted Mr L on the same day, asking for the questionnaires to be completed. The 
questionnaires were returned by Mr L on 28 June 2020 and forwarded to the transfer team 
the following day. The transfer team responded, saying that once its analysis was finalised, it 
would contact Mr L directly. 
Between 22 and 28 July 2020, Mr W discussed Mr Ls case with the transfer team. He also 
had further discussions with Mr L who repeated that he wished to transfer out of his OPS by 
his 65th birthday.
On 3 August 2020, the transfer team concluded that Mr Ls case was ready for referral to a 
pension transfer specialist. It later identified that some information was missing from Mr Ls 
case, however once this was resolved, the case was allocated to a specialist on 11 August 
2020.
The transfer specialist requested a transfer value analysis (TVAS) and new CETV for Mr L 
on 13 August 2020. However, on 28 October 2020, the OPS administrator informed the 
transfer specialist that it wouldnt be issuing a new CETV. It explained that as Mr L was 
within 12 months of the schemes NPA, hed lost his right to transfer.
Having been informed of the situation, Mr L complained about the service hed received from 
Openwork. He said it hadnt acted quickly enough to enable the transfer to go ahead when it 
couldve. 
Mr L later contacted his OPS administrator and after several discussions he was, as an 
exception, allowed to transfer.
Openwork provided its final response to Mr Ls complaint and in summary said:
Mr W wasnt a transfer specialist with an intimate knowledge of the technical matters 
applying to OPS transfers. So, he wasnt expected to assess the details of Mr Ls 
pension statement. Indeed, he was discouraged from doing so to avoid the risk of 
straying into giving advice. Mr Ws role was to collate sufficient documentation to 
enable the transfer specialist to give advice.
Even if, having reviewed Mr Ls pension statement, Mr W had recognised that Mr L 
might not have been able to transfer beyond 15 January 2020, there wasnt enough 
time to analyse the transfer and, if the advice was to transfer, to get the application to 
the scheme administrators.  
There was no guarantee Openwork wouldve advised Mr L to transfer. In fact, its 
transfer specialist said it was unlikely that hed have supported such action.
In terms of how long things took, it pointed out that Mr Ws wife had almost died in 
January 2020 and since then shielding her had been Mr Ws focus.
OPS transfers were often a protracted process and while it appreciated Mr Ls 
frustration at not being able to transfer, it didnt think it was at fault for this.
Mr L disagreed. He said Mr W had known before July 2019 that he intended to transfer and 
having received his pension statement in November 2019, he shouldve acted on the 
information contained therein about the transfer deadline. Had Mr W done so, Mr L said the 
transfer wouldve been completed before the 15 January 2020 deadline. Mr L said Mr W had 
presented himself as a financial adviser and hed trusted him. If he wasnt qualified to assess 
information received from his OPS, Mr W shouldve passed his case onto someone who 
couldve identified the issue, taken immediate action, and set the transfer in motion. 
As he remained unhappy, Mr L referred his complaint to our service. One of our investigators 
considered the matter and, in summary, concluded that:The way Openwork was organised meant that Mr Ls pension statement wasnt 
reviewed until it was passed to a transfer specialist. It wasnt fair that this led to a 
delay in information about the transfer deadline being shared with Mr L.
Allowing time for Openwork to review Mr Ls pension statement upon receiving it, it 
was reasonable to have expected it to let Mr L know about the transfer deadline by 
December 2019 the latest. However, this wouldve left just six weeks until the 
deadline expired, so it was unlikely that Mr L wouldve had sufficient time to find 
another adviser and complete the transfer process before the deadline.
As Mr L had ultimately been able to transfer, he hadnt been prevented from doing as 
he wished or suffered a financial loss. However, he wouldve experienced 
inconvenience and stress due to Openworks delays, so it should pay him £300 in 
recognition of this.
Openwork accepted the investigators recommendation, but Mr L disagreed. He explained 
that it was through his own perseverance that hed managed to persuade the trustees of his 
OPS that, due to Openworks poor handling of the situation, the transfer should be allowed 
to go through. He asked for a higher level of compensation so Openwork would appreciate 
the seriousness of the situation. Finally, Mr L noted that the adviser hed ultimately used to 
transfer only took 35 working days to complete the process, so he disagreed with the 
investigators finding that the transfer couldnt have been completed before the deadline if 
Openwork had acted in a timely fashion.
As no agreement could be reached, the matter was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to partially uphold Mr Ls complaint. Ill explain why. But before I 
do, I should emphasise that while Ive taken note of all the arguments made by both parties, 
Ive limited my response to the issues I consider to be central to this complaint. Thats to say:
Whether Openwork made Mr L aware of the transfer deadline when it shouldve.
Whether Openworks acts or omissions caused Mr L to miss the transfer deadline.
What, if any, compensation is due to Mr L from Openwork for what happened. 
Overall, I have sympathy for Mr L. Its clear to me that in deciding to transfer and seeking Mr 
Ws advice, he was looking to take specific and deliberate action to try to ensure his needs in 
retirement were met and that his children were provided for when he passed away. As his 
long-standing adviser, Mr L understandably relied on Mr W to act in his best interests. 
And while Mr W didnt have the necessary permissions to provide the transfer advice he was 
seeking, I think Mr L wouldve reasonably expected that alongside Openworks transfer 
service, the advice and transfer process would be smooth and managed with the appropriate 
level of care.
Mr L feels strongly that Mr W shouldve alerted him to the transfer deadline provided in his 
November 2019 CETV statement sooner than it did. Essentially, the statement said that a 
transfer would only be processed and paid if Mr L was more than 12 months away from the 
schemes NPA. So, if he wanted to transfer, the latest he could do so was before 15 January 
2020.
Openworks position is that Mr Ws role was limited to collating documents needed for the 
transfer specialist to provide Mr L with advice. It says he wasnt expected to notice the deadline in the CETV statement and says that Mr L was told about the deadline as soon as 
this was possible.
Like our investigator, I agree that the way Openwork provides its transfer service is a 
legitimate exercise of its commercial decision. But Im also mindful of its obligation to be 
organised in such a way that it conducts its business effectively, with diligence and regard 
for the information needs of its customers. Given that the transfer deadline determined 
whether Mr L would retain the right to move his pension elsewhere, I consider it to be a key 
piece of information which Openwork had a duty to share with Mr L at the earliest possible 
stage. 
Its logical that Openwork discourages advisers in its network without the appropriate 
transfer advice permission from analysing the details of CETV statements. However, I dont 
think that Mr W sharing the transfer deadline with Mr L soon after the statement was 
received wouldve amounted to ana analysis or come close to straying into advice. If this 
was a genuine concern, Openwork couldve arranged for the CETV statement  arguably 
one of the most significant documents in the advice and transfer process  to be passed to a 
transfer specialist which, based on what Ive seen, Mr W had direct contact with. The 
transfer specialist couldve quickly identified the significance of the deadline  including 
whether the deadline was likely to be met and the implications of missing it  and shared this 
with Mr L directly. Alternatively, he couldve explained the situation to Mr W so he could pass 
the information onto Mr L. Had this happened, I think Mr L couldve been told about the 
transfer deadline shortly after the CETV statement was received on 15 November 2019. 
Given the circumstances, I believe this couldve reasonably been sometime between the end 
of November 2019 and early December 2019. 
I dont agree that waiting almost eleven months  from when the CETV statement was 
received  to share the transfer deadline with Mr L demonstrates that Openwork was acting 
in Mr Ls best interests in this respect and with the level of care the situation warranted. As a 
result, Openwork missed an opportunity to manage Mr Ls expectations about the transfer he 
was seeking. 
Its worth noting that the CETV statement was only sent to Mr W, so Mr L had no sight of it or 
any way of knowing about the deadline it contained. He was wholly reliant on Openwork 
sharing relevant information with him and advising him accordingly. On this occasion, I think 
Openwork failed to do so. So, I can appreciate Mr Ls disappointment and frustration with 
what happened.
Mr L feels that, but for Openwork and Mr Ws actions, he wouldve been able to transfer 
before the deadline, avoiding the time and effort he says he later had to put in to persuade 
the trustee of his OPS to allow him to transfer, despite the deadline having passed. Hes also 
mentioned that the adviser he ultimately used to transfer took only 35 working days to 
complete the process.
Further to what Ive said about when I believe Openwork shouldve told Mr L about the 
transfer deadline, Ive considered when Mr L thinks the transfer couldve been completed. 
Having done so, Im not persuaded it couldve been finalised by 15 January 2020.
If Mr L had been made aware of the transfer deadline, at the earliest, by the last working day 
in November 2019 - 29 November 2019  this wouldve only left 31 working days for the 
transfer to be completed. Given the number of steps that needed to be completed to get to 
this point  including, an assessment of all the documentation collated, the production of a 
transfer value analysis (TVAS) report, the finalisation of a formal recommendation and, 
assuming the advice was to transfer, the completion and return of transfer forms for the OPS 
and receiving scheme  I think its unlikely the transfer couldve been completed before the 
deadline.Im aware of how Mr L strongly feels that transferring was his best option based on his 
objectives. And I note what hes said about having made Mr W aware of his intention to 
transfer long before approaching him for advice. However, this doesnt mean that it was 
inevitable Openwork would advise him to transfer or that the transfer would go ahead. 
Im mindful of Openworks role during the transfer process. It had an overarching duty to act 
in Mr Ls best interests. And given the valuable benefits and guarantees Mr L would be 
giving up by transferring, Openworks role wasnt to simply justify and make the transfer 
happen before the deadline. Its significant and overriding responsibility was to assess Mr Ls 
objectives against his overall circumstances. It needed to determine what course of action 
would help him meet his objectives and, above all, place him in the best possible position in 
retirement. The recommendation also needed to be robust and clearly demonstrate through 
evidence that it was suitable. 
I cant comment on how long another firm was able to advise on and facilitate the transfer of 
Mr Ls pension. However, I would say that pension transfers are generally rather drawn-out 
processes and its common for them to take up to 6 months, sometimes longer. The 
document Mr W gave to Mr L, providing information about Openworks transfer service 
confirmed this.
Notwithstanding what Ive said about where I think Openwork ought to have acted differently 
and sooner, I acknowledge that other factors, some beyond Openworks control, also 
contributed to how long things took overall. For example, from what Ive seen, Mr Ls OPS 
took almost 3 months to provide the CETV statement after it was requested. This wasnt an 
insignificant period of time bearing in mind the limited time available before the transfer 
deadline. 
There was also a period of almost six months (between December 2019 and June 2020) 
where very little appeared to happen on Mr Ls transfer case while it was with Mr W. But as 
this was happening around the same time as the COVID-19 outbreak and Mr Ws wife was 
extremely vulnerable at the time, its somewhat understandable. 
But I dont think these circumstances altered Openworks duty to keep Mr L informed and 
manage his expectations. If anything, I think it had a greater responsibility to be proactive 
about its communications with Mr L during this time.
Once Openwork told Mr L that as the deadline had passed almost eleven months prior, hed 
lost the right to transfer, Mr L was understandably shocked, disappointed, and concerned. 
After all, it appeared that the long-standing plans hed had for his retirement and provision 
for his children, much of which of depended on him accessing the proceeds of his OPS 
pension flexibly, were now impossible. I can appreciate this mustve been a stressful time for 
Mr L, especially while he was trying to find alternative ways to achieve his objectives. 
Mr L was eventually able to transfer. But he says he only managed to achieve this by 
persuading the trustee of his OPS to make an exception because of Openworks poor 
handling of the matter. Other than Mr Ls testimony, I havent seen anything which confirms 
that Openworks actions were the reason the trustee changed its position on the transfer 
deadline. However, its clear to me that in having to liaise with his OPS trustee directly to 
transfer, Mr L will have had to put time and effort in to get the resolution he was seeking. But 
Im not persuaded that, but for Openworks actions, Mr L wouldve wholly avoided this. As 
Ive said, even without Openworks failings, I dont think it wouldve been possible to 
complete the transfer before the deadline. It seems to me that Mr L was always going to 
have to liaise with his OPS to try to secure the transfer, albeit I believe his conversations with the OPS trustee couldve occurred sooner if Openwork had told him about the transfer 
deadline when it shouldve.
As Mr L was ultimately able to transfer, he says he understands that he hasnt suffered a 
financial loss. Instead, hes said hes seeking compensation that reflects Openworks inept 
handling of his case, and which makes it realise that it shouldnt mess around with peoples 
livelihoods. I dont underestimate Mr Ls strength of feeling regarding this matter, however 
this service isnt intended to punish a business for its conduct. Instead, if we decide a 
business has done something wrong, our role is to say how the business should put things 
right, bearing in mind the impact of its mistake. In Mr Ls case, I think the impact has been 
the distress and inconvenience Openworks actions caused. 
Its entirely reasonable for Mr L to have expected Openwork to act with more care in the 
circumstances. And its unfortunate that this didnt happen at every stage. In my view, 
Openwork wasnt as proactive as it shouldve been while handling Mr Ls case. Specifically, I 
find that it shouldve communicated more effectively with Mr L, especially in terms of sharing 
the transfer deadline earlier than it did. By not doing so, Mr Ls expectations about the 
transfer of his pension werent managed as well as they ought to have been. As a result, 
Openwork caused Mr L avoidable stress and disappointment, for which I think he should be 
compensated. Like our investigator, I think Openwork should pay Mr L £300 in recognition of 
trouble and upset caused. I consider this to be fair and reasonable bearing in mind what 
Openwork couldve done better.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold Mr Ls complaint and direct Openwork Limited to 
pay Mr L £300 compensation for trouble and upset caused by its service.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Chillel Bailey
Ombudsman