DRN-4309077
The complaint
Mrs L complains about Yoga Insurance Services Limited referring her to an accident
management company when she called to claim on her car insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs L was involved in an accident in her car with a third party, so she called Yoga, who are
her broker, to report the claim. The call was answered by another company who, as well as
handling these calls, are also an accident management company (AMC). For ease of
reading Ill refer to them as E.
Rather than claiming on her motor insurance policy, Mrs L agreed to E carrying out the
repairs to her car and claiming the money back from the third partys insurer. E also
arranged a hire car for Mrs L, which was also charged to the third party involved in the
accident. After Mrs Ls car was assessed, it was deemed to be whats known as a total 
loss. Because of this E then requested the market value from the at fault driver, and paid 
the total loss amount to Mrs L. Unfortunately, this didnt happen promptly, and Mrs L had 
several months of issues with E. She said she it took too long to pay her the market value, 
had conflicting information provided, received a part payment which wasnt clear what it was 
for and also received penalty charge notices for her car after it had been deemed a total 
loss. 
As Mrs L wasnt happy with how E was handling her claim she complained. E upheld her 
complaint and paid her £350 compensation. Mrs E didnt think this was good enough 
because she was still in a hire car and worried about how long it was all taking. So, she 
referred her complaint here. Our Investigator explained that Mrs E had been referred outside 
of her insurance policy to an AMC. Mrs E wasnt happy with this. She said it hadnt been 
clearly explained and she was worried she could be liable for thousands of pounds of hire 
car costs. So, she complained to Yoga about the referral to the AMC. 
Yoga reviewed the complaint and upheld it. It offered £100 compensation for the poor 
referral. Mrs S didnt think this was enough and asked this service to look into her complaint 
about Yogas referral. 
Our investigator reviewed the referral and didnt think Yoga had clearly explained Mrs Ls 
options to her when she called up to claim. She thought this had caused Mrs L unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience when she was made aware shed stepped outside of her 
regulated insurance contract and had been in a hire car that she could be liable for. Because 
of this, our investigator recommended Yoga increase its compensation to £300. 
Yoga didnt agree. It said the actions of E were outside of its control and thought its offer of 
£100 was fair compensation. 
As Yoga didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I address the merits of this complaint, I think its first important to set out the different
parties involved and Yogas responsibilities, to make clear what I can and cannot look at in
this decision.
When Mrs L called Yoga to report the damage to her car, she was automatically transferred
to E to handle the call on Yogas behalf. This means E was acting as Yogas agent and
Yoga is responsible for the actions or omissions during this call when it discussed Mrs Ls
claim options and referred her to the AMC for credit hire and repair.
However, Yogas responsibility for E is limited to when it was acting on Yogas behalf - and it 
is not directly responsible for any actions or omissions of E when acting on its own behalf. In 
other words, E was acting in its own capacity when handling Mrs Ls claim  not on behalf of 
Yoga. And I dont have the jurisdiction to consider the actions of the E.
So, to be clear, Ill only be considering what happened during the call between Mrs L and
E (acting on Yogas behalf) when she was referred to E for credit hire and repair, and 
whether E, as Yogas agent, met the required standards.
As Mrs Ls insurance broker, Yoga was obliged to provide Mrs L with information that was
clear, fair and not misleading, in line with their obligations under Principle 7 of the FCA
Handbook: Communications with clients (see PRIN 2.1 The Principles) and ICOBS 2.2.2R
(Clear, fair and not misleading rule). In the circumstances of this case, this means that when
Mrs L contacted Yoga via her representative to tell it about her non-fault claim for damage 
to her car, Yoga ought to have provided her with clear information about her options, so she 
could decide how best to proceed with getting her car repaired.
I appreciate Yoga appointed E to fulfil this task on its behalf, and I dont think theres 
anything wrong in appointing a third party to do this. But, in line with ICOBS 2.5.3G, a firm 
cannot delegate its responsibility under the regulatory system when relying on others  it
retains regulatory responsibility for achieving the outcome required. This means Yoga is
ultimately still responsible for making sure its regulatory obligations are met by any third
parties acting on its behalf.
Ive listened to the recording of the call where Mrs L was referred to E for credit
hire and repair (the referral call) and its not disputed that E didnt provide Mrs L with
enough information to make an informed choice on how to have her car repaired. So, Ive
looked at the impact the poor referral had on Mrs L.
Mrs L has explained that her claim has taken several months and meant shes been in a hire 
car for a long time. Shes explained E hasnt communicated well and her car has also 
incurred penalty charges after it was deemed a total loss. E has also had to refer this claim 
to solicitors to pursue the third party for its liability. Mrs E has explained in detail how 
distressing shes found this experience of using E. As explained above Im unable to 
consider the actions of E when acting in its own capacity in this decision, however I am able 
to consider the actions of Yoga and the impact those had. 
In the referral call Mrs L was keen to have the easiest/most straight forward claim 
experience and while Yoga isnt responsible for the actions of E. The poor referral by Yoga 
has caused Mrs L a lot of unnecessary distress and inconvenience, which she wouldnt have 
had but for the poor referral. Our investigator recommended £300 compensation and Im satisfied that is a fair and reasonable amount in this case. Therefore, Yoga needs to pay Mrs 
L £300 for the distress and inconvenience its caused Mrs L by the poor referral.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Yoga Insurance Services Limited to pay Mrs L £300 for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman