DRN-3107354
The complaint
Mrs T complains on behalf of Ms Ts estate (her mothers estate). 
Mrs Ts unhappy that Pembroke Financial Services Ltd (Pembroke), failed to notify the bond 
provider  within a reasonable period  that her mother had passed away and that it should 
have frozen the investment. 
She says that Pembrokes failure to do so has resulted in a significant financial loss to her 
mothers estate.  
What happened
On 14 February 2020, Ms T sadly passed away. On 2 March 2020 Mrs T notified Pembroke, 
and in due course she was asked to provide the death certificate and Will.
I understand that Mrs T may have also got in touch with the bond provider and/or was 
subsequently told that it needed notification of her mothers death from Pembroke.
On 11 March 2020, Pembroke received a copy of Ms Ts death certificate. On 12 March 
2020, it forwarded a copy to the bond provider. 
I understand that the value of the bond during this period fluctuated as follows:
- £99,183.77 on 14 February 2020. 
- £95,529.63 on 2 March 2020.
- £96,579.68 on 5 March 2020.
- £88,430.44 on 13 March 2020. 
Mrs T complained that Pembroke shouldve notified the bond provider on 2 March 2020, as 
soon it was notified of her mothers death and shouldnt have waited to receive the death 
certificate before doing so. 
Shes very unhappy about the drop in value of the bond over this period and wants 
Pembroke to pay the difference (£8,149) plus £750 she paid to obtain legal advice. 
Pembroke rejected the complaint. In short, it said that it notified the bond provider of Ms Ts 
death within a reasonable period.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
As part of its process, Pembroke required documentation to confirm the news of Ms 
Ts death which isnt unreasonable in the circumstances. 
Were not the industry regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  therefore 
we cant tell a business to change its system/process or punish it for not doing so.  
Pembroke also needed the death certificate to ensure that Mrs T was able to act on 
Ms Ts behalf. And more importantly it needed the death certificate to ensure that it 
was acting correctly.
Mrs T calling Pembroke to notify it of her mothers death wasnt enough, and it wasnt 
obliged to act on the call alone.
Its unfortunate that the bond value decreased, but its important to note that it 
couldve gone either way and so couldve increased in value during this period. 
According to Pembroke the claim value is usually calculated from the date of death, 
but in this case the bond provider used the date of notification to freeze the 
investment  which is different to other businesses. Pembroke wasnt aware of its 
different process. But she cant hold Pembroke responsible for the date that the bond 
provider used to freeze the account. 
Mrs T disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
short, she said that Pembroke ought to know its procedures and use them. Shes also 
perplexed as to why Pembroke wanted her mothers will. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mrs T says, in the circumstances 
I cant safely say that Pembroke behaved unreasonably. 
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mrs Ts strength of feeling about this matter. Im also very sorry for the relatively 
recent loss of her mother. I appreciate it must be a difficult time for her and the family. 
Mrs T has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope that she wont take the fact my findings focus on what 
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by her, and Pembroke, and reach what I think is an independent, fair 
and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the available information Ive been 
given, whats more likely than not to have happened. 
I dont think that Pembroke behaved unreasonably by asking Mrs T to supply a copy of her 
mothers death certificate and Will, before notifying the bond provider. 
Im aware that financial businesses (such as Pembroke) generally follow a process in order 
authenticate the news of the death of one of its customers, before notifying any third-parties, 
(such as bond providers), which are reliant upon the business to provide correct and up to 
date information. 
What Pembroke did is a common industry practice, and a safety measure  not in any way a 
reflection on Mrs T  just in case theres been a misunderstanding or someone purporting to 
be a family member has maliciously reported false news.Like the investigator, I agree that in the circumstances Mrs T simply calling Pembroke to 
verbally notify it of her mothers death wasnt enough for it to be able to legitimately notify the 
bond provider.   
If Pembroke had notified the bond provider, without receiving documentation to officially 
confirm that Ms T had passed away, on balance I think it wouldve done so prematurely and 
without proper authority. 
Its possible that the bond provider mightve frozen the account if it had been notified of Ms 
Ts death on 2 March 2020, but in the circumstances, I cant blame Pembroke for not 
informing the bond provider at that time. On balance, Im not persuaded that it wouldve been 
the right thing to do before receiving the death certificate.     
I appreciate Mrs T was perplexed about being asked to provide a copy of her mothers Will, 
but I think Pembroke was only trying to make sure that it was acting in line with Ms Ts 
instructions in respect of this bond.  
  
I appreciate Mrs T will be thoroughly unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. Whilst I appreciate her frustration, Im not going to ask the business to do 
anything. 
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint 
and give her what she wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms T 
to accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman