DRN-3661694
The complaint
Mr L complains about the quality of a van he has been financing through an agreement with
Billing Finance Ltd (Billing Finance).
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in July this year. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
I know it will disappoint Billing Finance, but I dont currently agree with the investigators
opinion and Im expecting to uphold this complaint. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr L acquired his van under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says, amongst other things,
that the van should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Billing
Finance, who are also the supplier of the van, are responsible. The relevant law also says
the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the
other relevant circumstances.
In a case like this which involves a van the other relevant circumstances would include
things like the age and mileage at the time the van was supplied to Mr L. The van here was
nearly six years old and had already covered about 106,000 miles when supplied so I think a
reasonable person would expect quite a bit of wear and tear to be present.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to
assume it was present at the point of supply when Billing Finance were responsible for the
vans quality unless they can demonstrate otherwise.
I think there is evidence there was a fault with this van when it was supplied to Mr L. I say
that because Mr L has explained that on the day he took receipt of the van the brake service
warning message had illuminated. Hes explained that the dealership suggested it may
simply be a sensor and to come back to them if it reoccurred.
When the fault did reoccur after Mr L had driven the van for about 3,000 miles Billing
Finance and Mr L have explained that the van was returned to the dealership. Billing
Finance have explained that the brakes, discs and calipers were replaced.
Whilst some brake issues can reasonably be attributed to wear and tear I dont think it would
be fair to say that was the case here. The van was MOTd shortly before collection. No
advisories were reported and yet Mr L has explained the brake service light was illuminated.
Billing Finance havent disputed that, and I think the dealership wouldnt have repaired the
van if it had been a wear and tear issue. So, I dont think this van was supplied in a
satisfactory condition.
In those circumstances the relevant legislation gives the business one opportunity to repair
the goods. I think Billing Finance had that opportunity when they replaced the discs and
calipers.
Mr L returned the van to the dealership again in July 2021 because he said the fault hadnt
gone away. Hes provided date stamped photographs of the dashboard that demonstrate the
same warning message was being displayed before (in May 2021) and after (in July 2021)
the first repair was completed.
So, I dont accept Billing Finances suggestion this was a new fault. I think its more likely the
initial fault hadnt been resolved.
At that point the business replaced the master cylinder but the report from the third-party
garage and the independent inspection report both suggest this repair wasnt completed
properly. The independent engineer said he would consider the faults to be related to
unsuccessful repairs and requires the vehicle being returned to the selling agent, in order
to have the failed repairs amended.
The relevant legislation explains that if the business fails in its one attempt to repair the
goods they can be rejected by the consumer.
So, I think Billing Finance should have allowed Mr L to reject them when the initial repair
failed in July 2021.
I note that the van has subsequently been sold back to the dealership and that Mr L is being
held responsible for the balance on the account. I dont think thats reasonable. I think its 
only fair that Mr L pays for the use he had from the van. Hed travelled about 5,500
miles in it by the time the independent inspector looked at the van in July 2021 and I think
thats reasonable usage for the 5 months hed had it. But, thereafter, Mr L had no use of the
van and as Ive found it was of unsatisfactory quality Billing Finance should refund, or waive,
any finance instalments he paid or that were due under the agreement.
If that means theres a refund of instalments then Billing Finance will need to add interest to
that refund.
The finance agreement suggests a deposit was paid and this will also need to be refunded to
Mr L with interest as hes been deprived of that money.
Mr L has clearly experienced distress and inconvenience as a result of this issue. Hes
explained the really negative impact this has had on his life and has provided a medical note
to explain he was under great stress even before Billing Finance rejected his claim. I can see
that he also explained to Billing Finance that hed lost his business and his home and whilst
it would be unfair to suggest it was this issue that led to that situation, it clearly wouldnt have
helped Mr L to find he now owed over £10,000 as a result of the problems with his van. Mr L
has also had to take the van back for repairs on several occasions and hes had to arrange
his own diagnostic. Hes had to escalate his complaint to this service when I think it could
have been resolved earlier. Taking all of those circumstances into account a think there isevidence of significant distress and inconvenience over quite a prolonged period and Im
therefore expecting to tell Billing Finance to pay Mr L £500 in compensation.
Mr L paid £96.60 to have the fault diagnosed at a third-party garage. Ive seen the receipt for
that work and its clear the cost was incurred as a consequence of the van being of
unsatisfactory quality. So, Billing Finance should refund that, adding interest.
Theyll also need to remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ls credit file in
relation to this matter.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell Billing
Finance Ltd to:
Refund, or waive, any finance instalments paid, or due, from 19 July 2021. Add 8%
simple interest per year to any refund from the date of payment to the date of
settlement.
Refund any deposit that Mr L paid and add 8% simple interest per year to any refund
from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr L £500 compensation in respect of the distress and inconvenience caused.
Refund the £96.60 Mr L paid to have the fault diagnosed at a third-party garage. Add
8% simple interest per year to any refund from the date of payment to the date of
settlement.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to his credit file in relation to this
issue.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Billing Finance had nothing further to add but Mr L did provide some additional comments. 
He said he was upset with the garage who sold the van as theyd sold him an unroadworthy 
vehicle and had bodged repairs on it. He said the garage should have noticed those 
issues as the car had an MOT and a service on the day he picked it up. He was also upset 
at the way hed been treated by Billing Finance. He said the fact theyd sold the van back to 
the supplying garage suggested there was something dodgy and he was upset hed paid 
so much for a van only to experience these problems and to have it taken off the road.
I understand Mr Ls concerns and I think Ive tried to put those issues right for him. Whilst I 
think he should pay for the use he had from the van Ive explained that he shouldnt be 
responsible for instalments after the inspector looked at it as I think at that point a rejection 
of the vehicle should have been approved. Ive also tried to refund any costs Mr L incurred 
as a consequence of the failure and Ive ensured he gets his deposit back as hell need that 
to fund a replacement vehicle. I understand Mr L has concerns about business practices, but 
I dont think I have evidence of any dodgy dealings. It was for Billing Finance to decide 
what to do with the car and they were free to sell it to the dealership if they chose. 
Putting things right
Ive not seen any evidence that has led me to change my provisional decision and that 
provisional decision therefore becomes my final decision on this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Billing Finance Ltd to:
Refund, or waive, any finance instalments paid, or due, from 19 July 2021. Add 8%
simple interest per year to any refund from the date of payment to the date of
settlement.
Refund any deposit that Mr L paid and add 8% simple interest per year to any refund
from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr L £500 compensation in respect of the distress and inconvenience caused.
Refund the £96.60 Mr L paid to have the fault diagnosed at a third-party garage. Add
8% simple interest per year to any refund from the date of payment to the date of
settlement.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to his credit file in relation to this
issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman