DRN-2572887
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complained that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them 
payment protection insurance (PPI).
Mr and Mrs C were sold a single premium PPI policy with three different loans. The first loan 
was in 1998 and the second and third (top up loans) were in 1999 and 2001. In each case, 
Mr N was insured against being unable to work or becoming unemployed. Mrs N wasnt 
named on any of the PPI policies.
Mr and Mrs C took out the first two policies over the phone, whilst the third one was applied 
for by way of making a postal application. 
Single premium PPI was a type of insurance that was paid for up front in one single 
payment. So, the cost of the cover was generally added to the overall borrowing taken 
out. Interest was added to both the loan and the PPI part of the loan and paid back 
monthly.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C say the PPI was added to each of their loans without their knowledge.
Our adjudicator in this case said the complaint shouldnt be upheld, but Mr and Mrs C 
disagreed and asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a decision.
But Nationwide did pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was above 
50% of Mr and Mrs Cs PPI premiums for the 2001 loan. It did this because it didnt tell them 
about the high level of commission and profit share hed pay  which was unfair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Mr and Mrs Cs main allegation is that they were told the PPI was something they needed to 
buy and they werent given any option about it. When looking to see if these policies may 
have been mis-sold, Ive kept in mind that each sale took place over twenty years ago. So, 
based on the evidence and information Ive seen, plus what Mr and Mrs C have told us, Ive 
looked to see what I think is more likely to have happened at the time of each sale.
Ive seen a copy of the details Mr and Mrs C provided over the phone when they arranged 
the 1998 loan. These confirm that Mr C had agreed to take out PPI in his name. Ive also 
seen that on the 2001 postal loan application Mr and Mrs C had ticked a box to show they 
wanted PPI cover with their loan. If they didnt want it there was a separate box for them to 
tick. 
Ive also seen copies of all three credit agreements. On each one Mr and Mrs Cs PPI was 
described as optional credit insurance. Taking into account that Mr and Mrs C had in each 
sale already made a decision about taking PPI, I think the optional nature of the policy 
shown on each agreement would have shown them they had a choice about whether or not 
to take the cover. Ive also seen nothing that implies the PPI cover was something they 
needed to have.
 
On the basis of what Ive seen, I think Mr and Mrs Cs consent for the PPI was properly 
obtained. Nationwide says these werent advised sales, which fits in with them being sold 
over the phone and by post. Nationwides responsibility was therefore limited to providing 
enough information to enable Mr and Mrs C to make their own decision about what they 
wanted to do. I obviously cant say that Mr and Mrs C were told everything they should have 
been. However, the cost of the PPI was set out on each agreement. In each case the cost of 
the loan, the PPI part of the loan, the interest and the total amounts were shown. So, I think 
they had enough information on which to make an informed decision.
Its certainly possible that Nationwide could have done things differently or provided more 
information. But I dont think this would have changed what happened.
This is because I think Mr N was eligible for the cover and I dont think hed have been 
caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these types of policies. He told 
us he had some sickness protection already through his job, being six months at full pay 
followed by six months at half pay. He also told us about pension and death in service 
benefit. But given that these are different products to PPI intended for different 
circumstances, theyre not something Id expect Nationwide to take into account when 
looking at ways to meet the loan repayments. And whilst I can fully understand why Mr C 
has told us about his work benefits it doesnt necessarily mean he didnt have a use for 
the policy. The PPI could have paid out a monthly benefit in the event of him being unable 
to work through illness or losing his job completely and this would have been in addition 
to any other means he and Mrs N already had in place.
If any of the three loans had been cancelled early, broadly speaking Mr and Mrs C would 
have received a proportionate sum back in comparison with how long into the loan period 
they were at that particular time. From what Ive seen that happened for both the first and 
second loans when they were cancelled early, the third loan having ended at the end of 
the loan term. 
As I mentioned earlier, Nationwide does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs C any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium for the 
2001 loan. Ive seen this has already been paid. 
Ive also carefully considered the detailed points that Mr and Mrs C have made in response 
to our adjudicators finding. Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs C, 
they do not affect my finding. 
It follows that I dont think these policies were mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. And I dont direct 
Nationwide Building Society to do anything to put any matters right.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2021. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman