DRN-2706465
The complaint
Mr B complains that Suffolk Life Pensions Limited trading as Curtis Banks Pensions 
unfairly changed its terms and conditions and applied an Unadvised Client Fee to his self-
invested personal pension (SIPP). For ease of reference, Ill refer to the business as Curtis 
Banks in this decision.
What happened
Mr B opened his SIPP with Suffolk Life in 2013. Curtis Banks Limited acquired Suffolk Life 
in 2016. In August 2019, Curtis Banks wrote to Mr B enclosing a guide setting out some 
changes it was making to the administration of its SIPPs. It said it was making these 
changes from 1 October 2019. 
One of the new charges being applied was an Unadvised Client fee of £120 per annum. 
Curtis Banks reasoning for applying this fee was because it said it had become increasingly 
expensive to deal with clients directly. It said it was producing a regular newsletter for 
unadvised clients, to provide updates on changes to pensions and share a view of the
investment markets. 
As Mr B was under the impression he had a financial adviser, he believed this new annual 
charge for clients without a financial adviser would not apply to him.
In November 2019, Mr B wrote to Curtis Banks to dispute the £120 Unadvised Client 
Fee that had been applied to his SIPP and to confirm that it would not be applying this 
future. Mr B also said that Curtis Banks had unfairly changed the terms and conditions to 
include this fee. He said he had an execution only SIPP, and so it was unreasonable for 
Curtis Banks to require him to have an adviser.
Curtis Banks replied in early January 2020. It explained that Mr B did not have an adviser 
of the description required under the terms and conditions, so the Unadvised Client Fee 
applied in his case. This was because the advisers Mr B said he was using were not on the 
FCA register and neither had permission to provide regulated financial advice. This meant 
they were unable to meet the requirements for adviser purposes in relation to his SIPP.
Curtis Banks said it was allowed under its terms and conditions to make this change 
provided it gave policy holders enough notification of it.
Mr B referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into it and concluded that 
Mr Bs complaint should not be upheld. Our investigator concluded that Curtis Banks had 
not done anything wrong by amending its terms and conditions to include the Unadvised 
Client Fee and by applying that fee to Mr Bs SIPP account.
The investigator concluded that section 26 of the Suffolk Life Master SIPP Terms and 
Conditions document that Mr B signed in 2013 enabled Curtis Banks to amend the terms 
and conditions and that the notification Curtis Banks sent about making the amendment 
met with its terms and conditions.
The investigator found that Curtis Banks had fairly concluded that Mr B did not have a 
current financial adviser as the financial adviser he had when he took out the SIPP was 
terminated as soon as the SIPP was set up. The two current advisers Mr B had mentioned, 
didnt meet the requirements of being an adviser for the purposes of the SIPP, as they are 
unregulated. It seems also that Curtis Banks had no knowledge of these other two 
advisers prior to Mr Bs complaint. 
Our investigator concluded that Curtis Banks had also fairly reviewed whether the 
Unadvised Client Fee would be applied in future and concluded that as the two advisers 
were unregulated, they did not meet the criteria to be appointed as an adviser.
Mr B didnt accept our investigators view. Mr B also pointed out that although Curtis 
Banks had originally agreed to extend the offer for him to transfer his SIPP to an alternate 
provider with no exit charges, it had since withdrawn this offer. 
As agreement couldnt be reached Mr Bs complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have seen the application form Mr C signed to open his MasterSIPP account in 2013. 
Mr B signed to say that:
Before signing the declaration for your own benefit and protection you should read 
carefully the following:
 this declaration;
 the Suffolk Life Master SIPP Key Features;
 Schedule of Fees;
 Terms and Conditions; and
 Schedule of Allowable Investments.
These documents together form the agreement upon which we intend to rely.
So I think it likely that Mr B was aware of the Terms and Conditions that applied and the 
Schedule of Fees.
Section 19 of these Terms and Conditions set out the fees, charges and expenses that 
applied to his SIPP originally.
Section 26 of these Terms and Conditions, as referred to by our investigator, did, in my 
view, give Curtis Banks scope to make the amendment Mr B complains about. 
I asked Curtis Banks for a copy of the Terms and Conditions that applied at the time of the 
amendment in 2019. It seems the Terms and Conditions for the MasterSIPP were replaced 
at some point between when Mr B took out his SIPP and the 2019 changes Mr B 
complains about here. The relevant section in these later Terms and Conditions is Section 
25. Section 25 said that Curtis Banks may amend the terms by written notice for any of the 
following reasons, two of which were:
- to reflect a proportionate response to legitimate cost increases or reductions 
associated with providing the scheme and the SIPP; or
to provide for the introduction of new or improved systems, methods of operation, 
services or facilities associated with providing the Suffolk Life MasterSIPP.Whichever set of Terms and Conditions I look at therefore, I think Curtis Bank was entitled 
to introduce the Unadvised Client Fee. Ive listened to what Mr B has had to say about the 
amendment being generally unfair because this was an execution only SIPP and the terms 
and conditions now effectively require him to have an adviser. However, as I see it, there 
was no requirement to appoint an adviser. The extra cost was for providing additional 
information direct, to keep unadvised customers appraised of pension developments.
Both sets of terms and conditions, in summary, stated that at least 30 days written notice 
would be provided of changes. Both mentioned transfer charges being waived in some 
circumstances if the transfer proceeded within a specified time frame. Mr B didnt elect to 
transfer within this time frame.
Ive also looked at the Terms and Conditions document and can see under the definition 
of Adviser it states: 
Adviser a financial adviser who is authorised and regulated by the FSA and is 
appointed by you to receive communications in respect of your SIPP and to 
give instructions on your behalf on all matters concerning your SIPP 
including buying and selling investments.
I understand that neither of the advisers Mr B mentioned were regulated to provide 
financial advice. So, I cant see that Curtis Banks acted in an unfair way when it treated   
Mr B as an unadvised client, In the circumstances. I cant see that the Unadvised Client 
Fee was inappropriately applied.
So, taking everything into account, I cant reasonably uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Mr Bs said that Curtis Banks has withdrawn its offer to allow him to transfer after an 
extended deadline without paying exit charges. Having not upheld his complaint and found 
that Curtis Banks didnt do anything wrong, I cant reasonably require Curtis Banks to 
waive any exit charges now.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman