DRN-3336056
The complaint
Mrs A is unhappy Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Skoda Financial 
Services (VWFS), declined her request for a payment deferral and then terminated her 
agreement when she experienced financial difficulties due to Covid-19.
What happened
In January 2020 Mrs A entered a 48 month hire purchase agreement with VWFS for a new 
car. The agreement was for £14,505.36, with an advance payment of £883.70, Mrs A was 
required to make monthly contractual payments of £224.33. There was also a final optional 
payment of £5,715 if she wanted to keep the car.
 
In March 2020 Mrs A emailed VWFS to let it know she was unable to meet her contractual 
payments because her income was impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic. She missed the 
contractual payments due in March, April and May 2020. Mrs A said she tried to call VWFS 
but found it difficult to get through. In May 2020 Mrs A contacted VWFS to discuss the 
arrears on her account and she requested a payment deferral, VWFS declined her request.
Mrs A began making her contractual payments again in June 2020 and she maintained 
those payments until April 2021, when VWFS terminated the agreement for non-payment of 
the £672.99 arrears for March, April, and May 2020 rentals.
Mrs A complained to VWFS, she said she didnt receive any letters prior to the termination, 
she didnt think VWFS had treated her fairly. VWFS didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had 
attempted to contact Mrs A by phone, by email, sent the required arrears letters and the 
default notice. As it had no response from Mrs A, it terminated the agreement and placed a 
default on her credit file.  
Unhappy with VWFS response, Mrs A referred her complaint to our service. In January 
2022 VWFS confirmed the car had been collected and sold at auction. The outstanding 
balance on the account is £2,032.69. Our investigator didnt think VWFS had treated Mrs A 
fairly. He said it shouldve granted a payment deferral to cover the three missing instalments, 
in line with the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) guidance and had this been done, he 
didnt think her agreement would have been terminated. He recommended that VWFS 
refund Mrs As deposit (less the £672.99 arrears), clear the outstanding balance with nothing 
further to pay, remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs As credit file and pay her 
£350 compensation to reflect the stress and inconvenience caused. 
VWFS disagreed, it detailed the processes it had implemented in response to the FCA 
guidance. VWFS said Mrs A failed to get in touch with it about repaying the arrears, in the 
circumstances it said it was correct in terminating her agreement.
The complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Mrs A was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement, so Im satisfied I can consider Mrs As complaint against VWFS.
I need to consider whether VWFS acted fairly when it declined Mrs As request for a 
payment deferral. If it didnt, I need to think about what should have happened and what if 
anything it needs to do to put things right.
Mrs A sent an online form to VWFS on 25 March 2020 to advise she was facing financial 
difficulties due to the Covid-19 pandemic. At this time the FCA had not yet released any 
specific Covid-19 guidance, but the relevant guidance at the time was FCA handbook 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) which says A firm must treat customers in default or 
in arrears difficulties with forbearance and due consideration. I appreciate that due to 
Covid-19 businesses were dealing with an unprecedented situation at this point. But I cant 
see that VWFS initially took any action other than sending Mrs A an automatic reply to her 
email and an income and expenditure form. The email included details of potential support 
available, but I cant see that VWFS considered any specific support for Mrs A or gave any 
information on how she could access support. 
Mrs A told us she repeatedly tried to call VWFS as she was concerned about the arrears 
building up on her account but was unable to get through to anyone until 13 May 2020. The 
system notes show that during this call Mrs A informed VWFS she had to close her business 
in line with the governments lockdown restrictions. She said it was likely that she could clear 
the arrears once she was able to reopen her business and she requested a payment 
deferral. On 18 May 2020 VWFS advised Mrs A that her request for a payment deferral had 
been declined. The reason given in the system notes is unsuitable for payment deferral due 
to arrears position.
At the time of Mrs As payment deferral request in May 2020, the FCA had already released 
its Motor finance agreements and coronavirus: temporary guidance for firms, which came 
into effect on 27 April 2020 which explained;
Where a customer is already experiencing or reasonably expects to experience temporary 
payment difficulties as a result of circumstances relating to coronavirus, and wishes to 
receive a payment deferral, a firm should grant the customer a payment deferral for three 
months unless the firm determines (acting reasonably) that it is obviously not in the 
customers interests to do so.
Having considered the FCAs temporary guidance, I dont think VWFS responded fairly to 
Mrs As deferral request nor did it consider the reason for her arrears. Mrs As account was 
up to date prior to the pandemic and she informed VWFS as early as March 2020 that she 
was experiencing financial difficulties due to the Covid-19 pandemic. I think the purpose and 
spirit of the FCAs guidance was to help consumers just like Mrs A, who required temporary 
relief due to the pandemic.  
I want to assure VWFS that I have read its response to our investigators view. However, the 
points raised relate to VWFS general approach to payment deferrals and its general 
response to the FCA guidance. It hasnt addressed anything specific about Mrs As situation. 
And it hasnt mentioned anything to persuade me that it was not in Mrs As interests to grant 
a payment deferral. And whilst I appreciate that VWFS were dealing with an unprecedent 
situation and increased demand on its service, I think the decision to decline Mrs As deferral 
request was a mistake. Im satisfied Mrs A shouldve been given a three-month deferral to 
cover the March, April and May 2020 instalments in line with the FCA guidance.
Mrs A has told us about the difficulties she experienced getting in touch with VWFS to 
discuss the missed payments. Understandably the business was experiencing an increased demand on its services due to the impact of the pandemic, and this would have been outside 
their control. I can see that she contacted it on 2 June 2020 when she advised that she was 
expecting to return to work, and she reinstated her direct debits. Mrs A completed another 
online financial difficulties form on 18 June 2020. 
Mrs A said she was waiting for someone from VWFS to contact her about the arrears and I 
can see why. In VWFS automatic response dated 6 July 2020 it said  if you have fallen into 
arrears or are concerned that you may fall into financial difficulties as a result of COVID-19 
please do not be alarmed, we are taking exceptional steps to support customers impacted 
by COVID-19. You may still receive our standard letters informing you of these arrears 
however we are here to work with you to find a suitable solution and keep you in your 
vehicle.
Mrs A reinstated her payments in June 2020 and continued to maintain them until April 2021, 
when VWFS terminated her agreement. VWFS said it attempted to speak to Mrs A, sent her 
an email and had sent several arrears and a default letter to Mrs A, but she didnt get in 
touch with it regarding her arrears. Mrs A says she didnt receive any letters and the email 
sent went into her junk mail. I appreciate VWFS isnt responsible for this as it had correctly 
addressed the letters and email, but I think it would have been reasonable for VWFS to 
attempt to call Mrs A more than once, before it terminated her agreement. 
And whilst I accept Mrs A could have got in touch with VWFS about the arrears, given she 
was aware the payment deferral had been declined. Im satisfied that VWFS made a mistake 
when it didnt grant the three-month deferral. And I think that if the deferral was granted, the 
three missing instalments would not have been treated as arrears. Ive not seen anything to 
indicate Mrs A would not be able to maintain a payment arrangement to clear the arrears, so 
I think its unlikely the agreement would have been terminated and the car subsequently sold 
at auction, if the deferral had been granted.  
Putting things right
Mrs A wanted to keep the car, continue to maintain her monthly instalments, and come to an 
arrangement to repay the arrears. As VWFS terminated the agreement and the car was sold, 
its no longer possible for the agreement to be reinstated. 
I think its likely that Mrs A would have still been in possession of the car, had she been 
granted the payment deferral, but now she has to get a replacement car. In the 
circumstances, I think its fair for Mrs A to pay for the time she had the car, so VWFS should 
refund Mrs As deposit, after deducting the £672.99 arrears and it should write off the 
remaining £2,032.69 outstanding balance. VWFS should also remove any adverse 
information recorded on Mrs As credit file, in respect of the agreement. 
Finally, I think it would have been very distressing for Mrs A to not have been granted the 
payment deferral, during what was a difficult and uncertain time. She has also told us about 
the difficulties she had with getting a replacement car, due to adverse information VWFS has 
recorded on her credit file. In the circumstances, I think VWFS should also pay Mrs A £350 
compensation to reflect the distress, and inconvenience caused.
 My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited trading as Skoda Financial Services to;
 
write off the outstanding balance from Mrs As account;
refund Mrs A £210.71 from her deposit (£883.70 deposit less £672.99 arrears for the 
three missed payments), * applying 8% simple yearly interest to the refund, calculated from the date Mrs A made the deposit to the date of the refund;
remove any adverse information relating to the agreement from Mrs As credit file, 
including the termination marker, and
pay Mrs A £350 to reflect the stress and inconvenience caused.
 
*If VWFS believes HM Revenue & Customs requires it to take off tax from this interest 
payment. VWFS must give Mrs A a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if she 
asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Karen Dennis-Barry
Ombudsman