DRN-2576450
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy with the charges shes being asked to pay when she returned a car at the 
end of her hire purchase agreement with Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited 
(VWFS). She feels some of these are unfair and would like them removed.
What happened
Mrs S took out a hire purchase agreement with VWFS in November 2015 for a used car. The 
price of the car was £12,868. The agreement was for this amount less an advance payment 
of £731.49. It was to be repaid over four years at £215.53 a month, with a final payment of 
£4,725. The car was just under two and a half years old and had covered 13,235 miles.
 
At the end of 2019, as the agreement came to an end, Mrs S chose to return the car to 
VWFS rather than make the final payment. It arranged for the car to be collected from her. It 
was inspected by VWFS at the same time. Mrs S then received an invoice from VWFS for 
various items it thought were outside its fair wear and tear policy. The invoice totalled 
£846.28.
 
When Mrs S complained to VWFS, it explained the damage had been assessed in line with 
guidelines on fair wear and tear published by the trade body, the British Vehicle Rental & 
Leasing Association (BVRLA). VWFS reviewed the invoice and removed a charge for chips 
to the bonnet. This reduced the invoice to £780.04. 
Mrs S wasnt happy with this, so she brought her complaint to our service. She told us she 
believed the charges for damage to three of the alloy wheels should also be removed. Mrs S 
was also unhappy that VWFS was charging £18.84 to replace each of the wheel centre caps 
when shed seen them advertised on-line for less. Mrs S was also unhappy that VWFS had 
referred to the BVRLA guidelines, but these arent readily available to its customers.
 
One of our investigators looked into this. In brief, she thought while the BVRLA guidance 
should be considered, the guidance is intended for new cars being returned and these were 
usually less than five years old  so it should be factored in that Mrs S car was six and a half 
years old when it was returned.
 
Taking this into account, our investigator thought VWFS shouldnt charge Mrs S for the 
damage to three of the alloy wheels. She also didnt think it should charge for scratches to 
the front bumper and scratches to two of the doors. Our investigator thought the rest of the 
items, including those for the wheel centre caps, were chargeable. She also thought VWFS 
should pay £100 to Mrs S for the distress and inconvenience shed been caused.
 
VWFS didnt agree with this. In summary, it said it had considered the mileage covered and 
the age of the car when it assessed what charges were fair. As the matter remains 
unresolved, its been passed to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision in January 2021. In it, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
Having done so, Ive reached a slightly different outcome to our investigator. Ill explain why. 
But first. Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint very briefly, in far less detail 
than has been provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, 
Ive focussed on what I think is the heart of the matter here: are the charges VWFS is asking 
Mrs S to pay fair and reasonable?
 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied 
I dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I 
think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal 
nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. 
The terms of the agreement Mrs S had with VWFS allowed it to charge for any damage 
caused by her not taking reasonable care of the car. The crux of the complaint is if its fair 
and reasonable for VWFS to follow the BVRLA guidance or, given the age of the car and the 
miles its covered, should it be more lenient? The BVRLA guidance is just that, guidance. 
While I take it into consideration, I also need to think about whats fair and reasonable in the 
individual circumstances here. 
Our investigator is quite right in pointing out the BVRLA guidance is intended for new cars. 
But its also used for older cars where, as above, the age of a car and number of miles its 
covered are taken into account. VWFS told us it did take these factors into account when 
assessing the damage to Mrs S car. 
Ive done the same, When Mrs S got the car it was just under two and a half years old. It had 
only covered 13,235 at this point which wasnt a substantial amount of mileage. When she 
returned the car to VWFS four years later, it had covered 40,740 in total. I dont think this 
was significant mileage for a car of that age. 
Ive also looked at what the charges relate to. In the main, they relate to missing wheel caps, 
scuffs to the alloy wheels and scratches to the bodywork. Im satisfied these are the types of 
issues that wouldnt be dependent on the age of the car. For example, a 25mm scratch to 
the car door wouldnt get any longer or deeper with the passage of time. I would also point 
out that no one is suggesting any of the issues were present at the point of sale. 
Taking all the above into account, Im satisfied it wasnt unreasonable for VWFS to assess 
the wear and tear to Mrs S car in line with the BVRLA guidance. So Ive also looked at the 
charges VWFS is asking Mrs S to pay and assessed them against the guidance. Not all the 
charges are being disputed. But for completeness, Ive looked at them all. After VWFS 
removed the charge for chips to the bonnet, it invoiced Mrs S for the following:
Location Cost Details
1 Front Alloy Centre Cap Left £18.84Missing and needs replacing, outside of 
BVRLA Fair Wear and Tear Guidelines
2 Front Alloy Centre Cap Right £18.84Missing and needs replacing, outside of 
BVRLA Fair Wear and Tear Guidelines
3 Front Alloy Left £36.00Scratches exceed 50mm and therefore 
outside of BVRLA Fair Wear and Tear 
Guidelines
4 Front Alloy Right £36.00Scratches exceed 50mm and therefore 
outside of BVRLA Fair Wear and Tear 
Guidelines5 Front Bumper £55.20Multiple scratch exceeds 25mm and outside 
of BVRLA Fair Wear and Tear Guidelines
6Door Handle Right Hand 
Front£25.07Broken and needs replacing, as per BVRLA 
guidelines all interior fittings must be 
present and free from damage
7 Door Left Hand front £110.40Scratch exceeds 25mm with paint surface 
broken and therefore outside of BVRLA 
Fair Wear and Tear Guidelines
8 Front Wing £110.40Scratch exceeds 25mm with paint surface 
broken and therefore outside of BVRLA 
Fair Wear and Tear Guidelines
9 Rear Alloy Centre Cap Left £18.84Missing and needs replacing, outside of 
BVRLA Fair Wear and Tear Guidelines
10 Rear Alloy Centre Cap Right £18.84Missing and needs replacing, outside of 
BVRLA Fair Wear and Tear Guidelines
11 Rear Alloy Left £36.00Scratches exceed 50mm and therefore 
outside of BVRLA Fair Wear and Tear 
Guidelines
12 Rear Bumper £110.40Multiples scratches exceeds 25mm and
outside of BVRLA Fair Wear and Tear
Guidelines
13 Rear Door Left £55.20Scratch exceeds 25mm with paint surface
broken and therefore outside of BVRLA Fair
Wear and Tear Guidelines
Sub Total £650.03
Total Cost with VAT £780.04
After looking at all the above issues, Im satisfied they all exceed fair wear and tear as set 
out in the BVRLA guidance. Items 6, 8 and 12 arent in dispute so I wont comment further 
on these, other than to say I think its reasonable for VWFS to charge for them as theyre 
beyond reasonable wear and tear. Ill comment on the rest below.
 
Items 1,2,9 and 10 all relate to missing centre caps for the alloy wheels. While its not 
disputed the caps were missing, I know Mrs S is unhappy with the amount VWFS is charging 
her for these when shes seen them advertised on-line for less. I accept Mrs S may well 
have seen these caps for less. But this doesnt mean they were available from VWFS at a 
lower price, or that it is required to obtain the cheapest quote possible. Also, Mrs S had the 
opportunity to replace the caps before she returned the car. She didnt. So Im satisfied its 
fair and reasonable for VWFS to charge for this.
 
Items 3,4 and 11 relate to damage to three of the alloy wheels. Mrs S has disputed the 
scratches on these wheels saying the inspection photos dont support the charges VWFS 
are making. I can see that VWFS listed these charges as being for scratches exceeding 
50mm. But the BVRLA guidance only mentions the 50mm limit in relation to the wheel rim 
circumference.
 
The above description of the damage to the alloy wheels isnt correct. VWFS told our 
investigator the charges relate to damage on the alloy spokes. I can clearly see from the 
inspection photos the damage to these three alloys is indeed on the spokes, not the 
circumference of the wheel rim. The BVRLA guidance states any damage to the spokes is 
unacceptable. As the wheels are damaged, even though the damage was incorrectly 
described, Im satisfied its fair and reasonable for VWFS to charge for this.
 Item 5 relates to damage on the front bumper. I can see from the inspection photo that there 
are numerous scratches to the bumper which exceeds whats permitted in the BVRLA 
guidance. Again, Im satisfied its reasonable for VWFS to charge for this.
 
Items 7 and 13 relate to scratches to the front left and rear left doors respectively. The 
scratch to the front door is just over 30mm long.  The scratch to the rear door is quite a way 
over 30mm long. Both clearly exceed the 25mm limit set out in the BVRLA guidance. Once 
more, Im satisfied its reasonable for VWFS to charge for these items.
 
I can see Mrs S also stated on her complaint form that VWFS refers to the BVRLA guidance 
but doesnt have this readily available. I dont agree. In VWFSs complaint response, it set 
out how Mrs S could access the guidance by going to its website and following the link for 
Financing you vehicle. I did this and was quickly able to access the guidance.
 
In summary, I think VWFS acted fairly and reasonable by removing the charge for the 
bonnet damage. As above, Im also satisfied its fair and reasonable for VWFS to charge 
Mrs S for the other items listed above. Given this, theres no basis for me to make any other 
award.
 
VWFS accepted my provisional decision.
 
Mrs S told us shed received my provisional decision but had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no new arguments or evidence has been provided to me, Im satisfied theres no reason
to depart from the findings I made in my provisional decision outlined above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
John Miles
Ombudsman