DRN-1584055
The complaint
 Mr W complains that MotoNovo Finance Limited refused to let him reject a faulty car.
What happened
In January 2018 Mr W acquired a second-hand car costing £25,995 funded by a deposit of 
£14,000 and the balance with a hire purchase agreement. The car was some six years old 
and had covered 39,500 miles. In late 2018 the timing chain skipped causing serious 
damage to the engine. It was off the road while Mr W raised the funds for the repair. The 
approved dealer to which the car was taken identified that the engine had been remapped. 
The car was repaired at a cost of £7,555, but the timing chain snapped again. The dealer 
explained that due to the remapping the parts were not covered under warranty. The car 
also required repairs to the catalyst which cost £888. Mr W complained to MotoNovo and it 
asked for evidence that the car had been altered. Mr W contacted the previous owners and 
obtained the remap certificate from January 2014. 
However, despite providing this evidence MotoNovo rejected Mr Ws claim and he brought 
the matter to this service where it was considered by one of our investigators who 
recommended it be upheld. Mr W obtained an independent report and this stated, 'the 
engine has failed because the timing chain has snapped, due to the modifications to the 
engine ECU.'
Our investigator concluded that although the car had been fault free for a year or so the 
modifications had been the main cause of the failure. He didnt think Mr W had been made 
aware of the modifications. He noted an email exchange with the dealer which suggested 
the remapping should have been dealt with at the time the initial repairs were carried out.  
MotoNovo didnt agree with the investigators conclusions and said the car had been 
advertised with a Spires sports exhaust and this alters the gas flow from the engine. It said 
the car had been sold to another costumer who returned it due to health reasons and they 
had not encountered any issues. It also noted the report referred to Mr Ws driving style 
contributing to the problem. 
The business explained that the dealer had no means of knowing the car had been 
remapped and the seller wasnt obliged to tell the buyer. It noted Mr W worked for the dealer 
which repaired the car and it wondered why the engine hadnt been remapped back to 
standard before the reconditioned engine was fitted. It thought this had contributed to the 
second failure. MotoNovo also noted that the dealer hadnt been told about the initial fault 
and hadnt been given the chance to deal with it.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded that his original view was wrong and MotoNovo asked 
that the complaint be considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
MotoNovo is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for 
a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
I have given considerable thought to this complaint and although I have sympathy with 
MotoNovos arguments I have decided that the complaint should be upheld. I will explain 
why.
I think the key issue is the fact the car was modified and Mr W was not made aware of this. I 
appreciate that the dealer didnt know either and this has put it in a difficult position, but I 
dont consider that means Mr W should bear the unexpected costs which have landed on 
him.
The independent report makes it clear that the prime cause of the engine failure was the 
remapping of the engine. The inspector stated: In my opinion the engine has failed because 
the timing chain has snapped, due to the modifications to the engine ECU. The engine has 
been over revved, the throttle position at failure indicates this, therefore driving style has 
contributed to the engine failure.
The parts from the previous repair are consistent with the same issue, over revving and 
driving style. The camshaft sprockets have broken/cracked due to the timing chain jumping 
the sprockets. The timing chain on this occasion did not snap.
It would seem that if the engine hadnt been remapped this fault would not have occurred. I 
have noted the comments about the effect of driving style on the engine and while this may 
have been a contributory factor the report does not suggest it was the main cause.  Nor does 
it say this alone would have resulted in the engine failure.
The report was done after the second failure, but it makes clear that the findings apply to the 
original damage. I have noted the arguments that the repairing garage ought to have dealt 
with the remapping when repairing the car and if it had the second failure may not have 
occurred. That may be so, but I consider the original fault to be enough to allow me to 
conclude that the car wasnt fit for purpose at the point of sale.
I agree that Mr W was able to cover a reasonable mileage before the first fault occurred and that the previous owner didnt encounter the same issue. However, the remapping clearly 
had an impact on the engine over time and it was unfortunate that the catastrophic damage 
happened after Mr W acquired the car. I consider it had an impact on the durability of the car 
and as the remapping was present at the point of sale and it was the main cause of the fault 
then it follows that Mr W should be allowed to reject it.
MotoNovo has raised the point that Mr W didnt take the car back to the dealer and while it 
would have been better if he had done at that point he had assumed he would be 
responsible for the repairs. It was only after the work had been done was he made aware of 
the remapping.
Putting things right
I can only conclude that Mr W should be allowed to reject the car.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct MotoNovo Finance Limited to:
Take the car back at no cost.
Refund Mr W's deposit with 8% simple annual interest from the date paid until 
settlement.
Refund Mr W's premiums since the second failure, as he hasn't been able to use the 
car.
Refund the repair costs not covered by warranty for the first timing chain failure, 
subject to Mr W providing receipts.
Refund the cost of the independent inspection subject to Mr W providing a receipt.
Pay £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Remove any adverse entries it has placed on his credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman