DRN-2149542
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out in or around 1990. The policy was 
probably taken out in one of the banks branches and provided Mr N with cover for accident, 
sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs N didnt 
agree. Mr N said, in summary, that:
He was pushed into taking out the policy as he was led to believe taking PPI would make 
it easier to get a loan. He thinks it was sold to him merely to make commission for the 
bank.
The policy wasnt in his best interests because he would have received generous sick 
pay and redundancy pay from his employer and he had savings.
It was never made clear that the policy would pay out on top of any benefits he received 
from his employment.
Other PPI complaints he has made against Halifax about PPI have been upheld.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ns complaint.
Halifax doesnt have any paperwork from the time of the sale so doesnt have a record of 
what took place. This isnt unreasonable or unsurprising given this took place so long ago. In 
cases like this, where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, I have to make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, to decide what is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint for the following reasons:
I havent seen anything to show that Halifax didnt make it clear that the PPI was a separate 
product. It was taken out after the mortgage had been in place for several years and Mr N 
cancelled the policy a couple of years after he took it out. Overall, I think it more likely than 
not that Halifax made Mr and Mrs N aware that the PPI was optional and that they chose to 
take it.
Mr N told us that he took the PPI during a meeting with Halifax when he and his wife were 
applying for a further secured advance for home improvements. He says Halifax told him 
that, if he took the PPI, it was more likely that his loan application would be successful. Ive 
considered this very carefully and accept that what hes told us is possible. But I have to take 
into account how long ago the sale was and how this might affect what he recalls. He took 
out other PPI policies on other occasions and its possible the discussions which took place 
have become confused with one another over time. Without stronger evidence to show 
Halifax put pressure on Mr and Mrs N to take the policy, I cant fairly uphold the complaint on 
this point.
Halifax says that this was likely to have been an advised sale. This means that, in 
recommending the policy, it needed to ensure that it suited Mr and Mrs Ns needs. Halifax 
says the policy was taken out in Mr Ns name only, which seems most likely as Mrs N wasnt 
working at the time. It doesnt look like the PPI was unsuitable for them based on what Ive 
seen of their circumstances at the time. I say this because:
Mr N was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the terms and 
conditions.
Mr N told us he would have received very generous sick pay from his employer if he 
couldnt work due to sickness or an accident. He says he would have received 12 
months full pay, followed by 12 months half pay. Whilst this level of pay is unusual, it 
is possible. But this didn't mean he couldn't claim under the terms of the PPI - it 
would have paid out for up to 24 months in the event of a successful claim for 
accident or sickness in addition to his sick pay. It also covered him if hed become 
unemployed. The mortgage was a significant long term financial commitment and Mr 
and Mrs Ns home was at risk if they didnt keep up with the repayments. So I think 
the PPI couldve been a useful benefit, in addition to Mr Ns existing arrangements.
Ive taken into account that Mr and Mrs N did have some savings. But I think its likely 
these could have been earmarked for other reasons and the PPI would have allowed 
them to continue to meet their mortgage payments without the need to use their 
savings. 
Mr N wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits such 
as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical 
conditions. As he couldve benefitted from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely 
he needed better advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
Its not clear whether cost of the policy was clearly communicated to Mr and Mrs N 
before they agreed to purchase it. Its possible they werent told it would cost £20 
each month until after the mortgage had started. For this reason I have considered 
whether clearer information about the cost would have affected Mr and Mrs Ns 
decision to purchase the policy. I've found that theyd chosen to take out the policy 
and would have known they would have to pay something for it. The policy was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely they would have 
made a different decision if better information about the cost had been provided. 
Its possible the information the bank gave Mr and Mrs N about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Halifaxs recommendation 
was unsuitable and I dont think Mr and Mrs N would have made a different decision about 
taking out the policy if better information had been provided to them  overall, I think they 
would still have taken out the policy.I appreciate Mr N will be disappointed by my decision. He says hed forgotten that he had 
this policy and it was Halifax who brought it to his attention and said it would investigate it. 
So I can see why he thought from that communication that the outcome was likely to be in 
his favour. And hes also told us that he took out other PPI policies in similar circumstances 
and that his complaints about these have been upheld. But I have looked at the individual 
circumstances surrounding this PPI policy when it was sold in 1990 and, based on 
everything I've seen, I'm not able to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman