DRN-3188459
The complaint
Mr K has complained that XL Catlin Insurance Company UK Limited (Catlin) has delayed 
dealing with a claim on his fine art and antique collectors insurance policy.
Reference to Catlin includes its agents who have assisted in handling the claim.
What happened
Mr K took out a policy to insure a specific painting. In October 2020 he reported that the 
painting had been damaged and claimed on his policy. Catlin appointed an independent 
valuer to look into it. She provided a report of her findings to Catlin. Catlin didnt give Mr K a 
decision on whether or not his claim was covered and if so for how much. 
Mr K brought his complaint about Catlins delays to us. One of our investigators looked into 
it. He didnt think Catlin had dealt with Mr K fairly. So he said Catlin should give Mr K an 
outcome for his claim. He also said it should pay him £200 compensation to address his 
distress and inconvenience caused by Catlins delays.
Catlin paid Mr K the recommended £200 compensation but didnt tell him what its decision is 
on his claim. As the complaint remained unresolved, it was passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm going to uphold it.
As I understand it, Mr Ks policy covers him for accident damage to his painting. And the 
policy says that if a claim is covered Catlin will pay the costs of repair or replacement up to 
the value of the painting as given on the policy, which was £15,000. So Mr K could expect 
Catlin to either settle his claim by covering the costs of repairing or replacing it, up to its 
value or to tell him that his claim isnt covered. But to date Catlin hasnt done either of those 
things.
Catlin hasnt yet made a decision on the claim. And, in those circumstances, it's not 
generally my role to direct the course of such a claim by telling an insurer what decision it 
should make and how from there it should settle a claim. Instead, I need to decide whether 
the insurer has, to the point of the complaint being made to us, dealt with the claim fairly and 
reasonably and, if I think it hasnt, to decide how it should put things right.
Its not unusual for an insurer like Catlin, to ensure that a claim is covered by the policy, to 
want to be satisfied that any event leading to a claim has taken place as its policyholder said 
it did. Most insurers will also want to assure themselves of other relevant claim aspects too, 
things like, for example, the value of the item subject to the claim. And those investigations 
and enquiries can sometimes, perfectly reasonably, take months to complete and any delays 
which occur may be outside of the control of the insurer. But I dont think thats the case 
here, as I think Catlin has delayed the progress of the claim. 
I think it was reasonable for Catlin to appoint an independent valuer to look into the claim 
and to try and establish a value for the painting. But the valuers report of her work is dated 
30 January 2021 and it appears that Catlin received the report shortly after that date. And 
Im not aware of any other evidence its asked Mr K to produce which is preventing it from 
making a decision on the claim. Further, it hasn't made us aware of any other form of 
outstanding information that it requires in order to do that. 
In the above circumstances, I don't think it's fair that, to date, Catlin hasn't yet given Mr K a 
claim outcome. So, to put things right, I think it needs to notify Mr K of its claim decision, as 
set out below, within 28 days of the date Mr K accepts this decision, if he does. 
In response to our investigators assessment of the complaint, Catlin has paid Mr K £200 
compensation to address his distress and inconvenience arising from its delays. I think thats 
reasonable compensation in the circumstances, so I make no further award in that respect.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. I require XL Catlin Insurance 
Company UK Limited to give Mr K its outcome to his claim for the damage to his painting 
within 28 days of the date he accepts this decision, if he does. That is, it must tell Mr K 
how it intends to settle his claim, and then make the appropriate payment or arranging 
repair/replacement, or otherwise explain to him why it is turning down 
(repudiating/declining) it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman