DRN-3969061
The complaint
Miss F complains that Wakam unfairly avoided her home insurance policy following a claim
for cracks in the property.
What happened
Miss F purchased a home insurance policy with Wakam. Around five months later she came
home and there was flooding around the exterior of her property. The next morning Miss F 
said she discovered cracks and so claimed on her policy with Wakam.
Wakam inspected the cracks and issued an experts report on the cause of the cracks.
Following this it declined the claim. It said the experts report said the cracks would have
occurred gradually over time and therefore thought Miss F hadnt given accurate information
about the condition of her property when buying the policy. Wakam therefore avoided
(cancelled as if it never existed) the policy as it thought Miss F had deliberately or recklessly
given incorrect information.
Miss F didnt think this was fair and complained. She said the cracks had only appeared after
the flooding and didnt think it was fair Wakam had declined her claim. Wakam reviewed the
complaint and didnt uphold it. It said the report showed Miss Fs home was in a poor state of
repair and the damage to it occurred before Miss F took out the policy. Unhappy with
Wakams response, Miss F brought her complaint to this service. Miss F said shed
decorated her house about six months before the claim and so didnt agree the cracks were
there before the policy started. She didnt think Wakam had acted fairly by declining her
claim.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 18 July 2023 where I said:
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations)
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Wakam thinks Miss F failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when
she bought her policy. It said during the sales process Miss F agreed to the following
statement:
The home insured on the policy is currently in a good state of repair, 
free from damage or defect and is not currently undergoing building 
work, and none is planned during the period of insurance.
Wakam has provided the survey it did on Miss Fs property when she put the claim in and
said it showed the property to be in a poor state of repair and the damage occurring before
the policy started. Ive reviewed the report and can see it notes that Miss F brought the
property from the council a couple of years earlier. It goes onto say:
when the council still owned the property, a few years prior to the loss 
date, Mrs F reports the council replaced some breeze blocks in this 
same wall. Mrs F reports there were no issues since.
It also says:
The damage has developed into a diagonal crack to the internal wall of 
the hallway which is mirrored on the other side of the wall behind the 
boiler. Around the property there are numerous cracks above window 
and door openings to the lounge and left bedroom. Externally there are 
diagonal, stepped cracks above windows.
The report also goes onto say that the damage has not occurred because of a recent event
and refers to subsidence. It explains it thinks the damage was caused by thermal shrinkage
and dilapidated plaster. More importantly though there is a section in the report titled Non-
disclosure/Misrepresentation and under this it says:
We do not consider that there are any non-disclosure or 
misrepresentation issues on this occasion.
So while Wakam has referred to this report to show why it thinks Miss F didnt given
accurate information when taking out the policy, I dont agree it shows this. The reason for
this is the report specifically refers to misrepresentation and concludes Miss F hasnt
misrepresented. Furthermore, while the cause of the damage could have occurred over time,
its also possible the cracks didnt show until after Miss F took out the policy. So, when taking
into account the report as a whole Im satisfied Miss F took reasonable care not to make a
misrepresentation when taking out the policy.
As Im not satisfied Wakam has shown Miss F made a misrepresentation, it therefore has no
remedies available under CIDRA. I can see Wakam avoided Miss Fs policy incorrectly but
has said that as Miss F has said her neighbour has an ongoing insurance claim, Wakam 
said it would review its position if Miss Fs neighbours insurer found the property has 
subsidence. To put things right Wakam should re-instate Miss Fs policy and reconsider the 
claim in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions. Wakam should also provide 
Miss F with a letter to show it avoided her policy in error so she can provide it to any future 
insurers if needed.
As Wakam incorrectly avoided Miss Fs policy, this meant she had to buy insurance
elsewhere. Therefore, Wakam should pay Miss F what she paid for other insurance to cover
her home, up until the date her policy with Wakam was due to end. This is because this is a
cost Miss F shouldnt have incurred if her policy with Wakam had lasted until its expiry date.
Wakam should also add 8% simple interest per year to what it pays to compensate her for
not having the money.
Incorrectly avoiding her policy also has caused Miss F unnecessary distress and
inconvenience. I say this as Miss F has been accused of providing incorrect information atthe point of sale, shes also had to purchase cover elsewhere unnecessarily. To compensate
Miss F for this unnecessary distress and inconvenience, Wakam should pay her £400
compensation.
Miss F responded and accepted my provisional decision. She also provided further photos of 
the flooding around her property and the neighbours. 
Wakam responded and didnt accept it. It said there was a second question which it didnt 
think Miss F had answered correctly for the same reasons. Wakam also didnt agree the 
experts report could be relied upon to show a misrepresentation hadnt occurred. Wakam 
also said if it had dealt with the claim then it wouldnt have offered Miss F a renewal as it 
wouldnt cover her property due to the cracking.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Wakams response, but its not persuaded me to depart from the findings in 
my provisional decision. Ill address each of Wakams points below. 
Wakam has now referred to a second question which it feels Miss F didnt answer correctly 
when she took out the policy. This is:
"To the best of your knowledge, your property, or any of your 
neighbouring properties has never suffered damage from subsidence, 
heave or landslip, been repaired or have any visible cracks in the 
internal or external walls?"
This question has not been referred to by Wakam as a reason for misrepresentation 
previously. Its disappointing to see Wakam bring this in at such a later staged of the 
complaint. However, I dont think Wakam has shown Miss F misrepresented this question 
either, for the same reasons as the original question it relied upon. 
I understand Wakam doesnt think the experts report can be relied upon do decide whether 
Miss F made a misrepresentation when taking out her policy as the expert is unlikely to know 
what question was asked. Ive considered Wakams comments, but it doesnt change the 
fact the report specifically refers to Non-disclosure/Misrepresentation as Ive quoted above. 
If the expert wasnt aware of the information needed to answer this question, then I would 
have expected it to be answered differently to reflect that. So, I dont agree it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to discount that evidence within the report. 
Ive also considered Wakams comments that the report refers to the cracking occurring over 
a period of time and therefore Miss F must have made a misrepresentation when taking out 
the policy. The report doesnt state that the cracks have been there for a long period of time 
it says that the causes appear to have been going on for longer than the policy was in force. 
I therefore think its possible the cracks may have appeared after Miss F bought the policy. 
So, I still dont agree that Wakam has shown Miss F failed to take reasonable care when 
taking out the policy. Im therefore not persuaded to depart from my provisional decision.
I would also like to clarify for Wakam that when Im directing Wakam to reinstate the policy 
Im not directing it to renew Miss Fs policy the following year. Wakam referenced this in its 
response to my provisional decision, so I wanted to clarify that this decision is only in regard 
to the 12-month policy which Wakam unfairly avoided. If Wakam decides it doesnt want to 
renew Miss Fs policy going forward after that policy expires, that would be a separate complaint Miss F would need to raise if she was unhappy about Wakams decision. And so 
not something Im going to comment on in this decision. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint. I 
require Wakam to:
1. Reinstate Miss Fs policy and remove records of the avoidance from internal and
external databases. Wakam should also reconsider the claim in line with the
remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
2. Provide Miss F with a letter saying it incorrectly avoided her policy.
3. Pay Miss F what she paid for other insurance to cover the time her policy with
Wakam should have been in place. 8% simple interest per year should also be added
to this amount calculated from the date Miss F bought the other insurance until the
date settlement is made.
4. Pay Miss F £400 for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman