DRN-4235590
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy about the way his disputed transaction claim was handled by Sainsburys 
Bank Plc.
What happened
Mr M purchased a pair of trainers from a merchant and paid using his Sainsburys credit 
card.
Mr M was unhappy with the quality of the trainers. Unable to resolve matters with the 
merchant, he contacted Sainsburys to raise a disputed transaction claim.
Sainsburys refunded the cost of the trainers and paid compensation for the time it had taken 
to resolve matters.
Mr M remained unhappy and complained to this service. He says that the compensation hes 
received was paid in relation to the delay in his calls being answered, and not his concerns 
about how the claim was handled. Mr M said he wanted further compensation.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They said they thought Sainsburys had handled 
the dispute fairly.
Mr M didnt agree so Ive been asked to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at Mr Ms request to raise a disputed transaction claim to see whether or not 
Sainsburys acted fairly in its handling of the claim.
The essence of Mr Ms complaint is about the time it took for Sainsburys to resolve the 
dispute, so Ive focussed on this when reviewing the available information.
Ive reviewed the timeline of events. Mr M raised a disputed transaction claim with 
Sainsburys on 24 October 2022 and dispute forms were issued to him the same day, which 
he was asked to complete and return together with evidence to support his dispute. 
Sainsburys didnt receive a response and sent a chaser letter on 21 November 2022. On 16 
December 2022 Mr M returned the dispute form but didnt include copies of any 
correspondence or other evidence to show that hed tried to resolve matters with the 
merchant. In January 2023 Sainsburys decided that because there was no evidence that the 
goods had been returned, a chargeback wouldnt be successful and instead it considered 
the claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Sainsburys explained to Mr M 
that it needed him to provide evidence that the merchant had refused to issue a refund for 
the goods. Mr M logged a complaint at this time because he wasnt happy about the request 
for evidence.
In March/April 2023 Mr M contacted Sainsburys to complain about the length of time the 
claim was taking to resolve. Sainsburys explained to Mr M that it still needed evidence that 
the merchant had refused a refund. Mr M didnt provide the evidence, so Sainsburys tried to 
contact the merchant directly to obtain it but didnt receive a response.
On 1 June 2023, and despite not having any evidence that the merchant had refused to 
accept a return of the goods and issue a refund, Sainsburys refunded the cost of the goods.
Having considered the timeline, I appreciate that it took several months before Mr Ms claim 
was resolved. However, having looked at what happened, I think that Mr M was in part 
responsible for the delay, because he didnt provide the evidence requested by Sainsburys. 
Section 75 is an evidence based process and Sainsburys needed to satisfy themselves that 
the merchant hadnt accepted a return of the goods and provided credit. Sainsburys also 
needed to satisfy themselves that the goods were faulty, because its a requirement of 
Section 75 that theres been a breach of contact (i.e. goods not of satisfactory quality) or a 
misrepresentation.
I can see that Mr M provided a photo of the goods to Sainsburys and I understand that he 
believes this to be sufficient evidence to show that the goods were faulty. Ive looked at the 
photo but its too blurry to determine whether the damage was due to a manufacturing fault or 
due to wear and tear. Even if the photo had been clearer and had shown a manufacturing 
fault, Sainsburys still hadnt been provided with the other evidence it had requested. I dont 
think it was unreasonable for Sainsburys to request this evidence. On balance, I think it was 
Mr Ms failure to provide the information requested which contributed to the delay here.
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Sainsburys has made an error and I wont be 
asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman