DRN-4012093
The complaint
Mrs W says that she and her husband were mis-sold a timeshare product. Because Mrs W 
paid in part using her credit card, issued by Lloyds Bank PLC, she says that she has a claim 
against the bank in the same way she has a claim against the seller.
Mrs W has been represented by a claims management company, so references to her 
evidence and submissions include those made on her behalf.
What happened
In 2015 Mr and Mrs W bought a long-term holiday product from Westgate Vacation Villas 
LLC (Westgate), a company based in Florida.
It appears from the sales documentation that the product included a weeks timeshare for a 
specified week in an identifiable property every other year, and a floating week not linked to 
an individual property.
The purchase was financed in part by a loan from Westgate, secured by a lien over the 
timeshare interest. In addition, Mrs W paid more than US$5,000 (nearly £3,500) using her 
Lloyds credit card; she also made two smaller card payments to Westgate. Mr and Mrs W 
also executed a lock-in agreement with another Florida company, Westgate Lakes LLC, by 
which Mr and Mrs W paid a fee to guarantee the price of an additional weeks 
accommodation for a limited period. They also took out a policy of insurance in respect of 
their timeshare interest.
In 2017 Mrs W contacted Lloyds about the sale of the timeshare product. In doing so and in 
later submissions to this service, she said:
She and Mr W have been unable to use the timeshare or the replacement 
accommodation offered.
They were told that they were buying the freehold of a unit, but that is not the case.
They were told they would receive an income from the timeshare.
They were told that the property was worth US$25,700, but it isnt.
Westgate was in breach of Florida regulations (specifically because it did not give them 
a copy of the public offering statement and because it did not act in good faith), which in 
turn was a breach of the implied term that relevant regulations had been followed.
Westgate was in breach of the EU Timeshare Directive and there was a breach of 
contract by misrepresentation.
The timeshare sale meant that the credit card agreement created an unfair relationship 
between the bank and Mrs W.
Lloyds contacted Westgate. Through its attorneys it said that Mr and Mrs W had been
unable to book the accommodation they wanted but had been offered an upgrade. They had
then cancelled the booking.
Mr and Mrs W referred the matter to this service. Our investigator was not persuaded
however that there had been any misrepresentation or accordingly that Mrs W had a claim
against Westgate. He did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr and Mrs W didnt
accept the investigators recommendation and asked that the case be reviewed by an
ombudsman.
I reviewed the complaint and issued a provisional decision. I noted first of all that, since the 
credit card was in Mrs Ws name, only she could refer the complaint about Lloyds to this 
service. 
I also said: 
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act, statements made by a supplier in relation to a 
transaction financed or proposed to be financed under pre-existing arrangements between a 
credit provider and the supplier are deemed to be made as agent for the creditor.
In addition, one effect of section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act is that a customer who 
has a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to 
certain conditions, bring that claim against a credit provider. Those conditions include:
that the credit financed the contract giving rise to the claim, either in whole or in part; 
and
that the credit was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the credit provider and the supplier.
Credit includes the use of a credit card account, and the arrangements under which 
suppliers are able to take credit card payments are, through membership of card schemes 
such as Visa, sufficient to constitute pre-existing arrangements.
I am satisfied that the card payment in this case was taken by Westgate and that it was the 
supplier within the meaning of the Act. I must therefore consider Westgates actions and 
whether they might give rise to a claim which Mrs W can bring against Lloyds.
I note that Mrs W has said that Westgate was in breach of both the EU Timeshare Directive 
and of relevant regulations in Florida. But both cannot apply. I think it more likely that the 
contract was governed by Florida law and that the regulations that the resort developer and 
the seller of the timeshare had to follow were matters of Florida law. I have been provided 
with references to the regulations which it is alleged Westgate did not comply with.
I have not however been provided with any response from Westgate to the accusations that 
it was in breach of regulations relating to the development of timeshare resorts  and in 
particular that it failed to provide relevant documents to Mrs W. Nor is there any evidence of 
the consequences of not providing Mrs W with the documents she says she should have 
received and didnt; it does not appear that she has asked for copies. And, assuming Florida 
law and English law are similar, a breach of regulations does not necessarily mean there is a 
breach of contract.
In general, I think that the evidence of any statements made leading up to the sale and 
evidence that they were untrue is very vague in this case. I would expect to see a much 
clearer and more detailed account of what happened. Since Mrs W says she has been 
unable to make bookings, I would expect also to see evidence of her unsuccessful attempts 
to do so and a response to Westgates statement that it was she who cancelled the booking 
for August 2017.That is not to say that I do not believe what Mrs W has said. However, I do not think that  
on the basis of what I have seen  there is enough for me to conclude that it would be fair to 
uphold the complaint about the banks response to the section 56 and section 75 claims. It 
follows too that I do not believe that a court is likely to make an order under sections 140A 
and 140B of the Act  under which a court can review the terms of a consumer credit 
agreement if it creates and unfair relationship.
In conclusion, I thought that the banks response to Mrs Ws claims was reasonable, and I 
indicated that it was unlikely that I would uphold her complaint. 
Lloyds said that it had nothing to add in response to my provisional decision. Mrs W has not 
responded to it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since neither Lloyds nor Mrs W has made any further submissions or provided any further 
evidence in response to my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from it. 
My final decision
For these reasons, my provisional decision is that I do not require Lloyds Bank PLC to take 
any further steps to resolve Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman