DRN-2135527
The complaint
This complaint has been brought on behalf of the estate of Mr K. The executor of his estate 
has agreed that Mrs K may bring the complaint for the estate. 
The complaint is that ReAssure Limited delayed reporting a payment of pension monies to 
HMRC. This delay meant that the estate was unable to apply for a refund of tax deducted 
from that payment sooner than it did.
What happened
In March 2019 ReAssure made a payment to Mr Ks estate in respect of money due from 
pension funds he had held with them. Tax was deducted and a net payment made. The 
payment should have been reported to HMRC. ReAssure accepts that the payment wasnt 
correctly reported at the time. HMRC appears to have sent reminders to ReAssure and it 
completed a report in November 2019.
ReAssure upheld the complaint and offered to pay £500 for the delays it had caused.
Mrs K didnt agree, and the complaint was referred to this service.
An investigator considered the complaint and said that whilst there had been delays by 
ReAssure, the delay didnt appear to have caused any additional losses. He also explained 
that this service couldnt make any award for trouble and upset as this complaint was 
brought by a representative of the estate. So, he said that he wouldnt suggest that 
ReAssure make any further award.
Mrs K didnt agree and asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
The case was referred to me. I asked Mrs K to clarify whether she had received any tax 
refund and she confirmed that she hadnt. I explained that in that case my decision was likely 
to be the same as the investigator, but Mrs K asked that I consider the matter further. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the matter further. I agree with the investigator. I dont make any further 
award and Ill explain why.
I appreciate that the delay in reporting this payment will have caused Mrs K additional 
frustration particularly when the payment itself had taken a long time to resolve. And if there 
had been a tax refund to the estate, then I think it would have been appropriate to consider 
whether ReAssure should compensate for the delay in receipt of that payment. But Mrs K 
has confirmed that there was in fact no tax refund. That means that the delay hasnt actually 
caused any direct financial loss. This service doesnt have any power to make awards that 
are punitive and designed to punish a business for mistakes it may have made. Our role is 
primarily to compensate consumers for any financial loss that may have been caused by an 
error.
ReAssure has made an offer of £500 for the delays. Whilst this service often does make 
awards to consumers to compensate for distress, inconvenience or any trouble and upset 
caused by a business error, I cant do so in this case. Thats because our powers are limited 
to making these awards to the customer of the business. This complaint is brought by the 
estate on behalf of the late Mr K so I cant make an award in these circumstances. So even if 
I felt the offer of £500 was too little, I cant interfere or make a higher award. I dont have the 
power to do that.
I do appreciate that Mrs K will be frustrated by this delay, but I dont make any award for the 
reasons Ive given.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr K 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman