DRN-4046607
The complaint
Mr Ms complained that AWP P&C SA didnt send someone to his home when he had a leak.  
And they refused to replace his hot water tank under his home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr M had home emergency cover for a number of years.  He bought the policy from his 
bank.  
Several years later, Mr M had a leak in his home.  So he contacted the bank to get someone 
sent to his home to assess and fix the problem.  At this point, the policy was underwritten by 
AWP.
AWP said they would send someone out at the same time an engineer attended to trace the 
source of the leak.  The engineer did come and identified the source of the leak was the hot 
water tank.  But Mr M heard nothing from the tradesperson AWP had arranged.  
When Mr M chased AWP, they told him that they had no-one to send.  They suggested the 
best thing would be for Mr M to find his own tradesperson and they would contribute up to 
£250 towards the tradespersons call out fee.  But they warned him it was unlikely the repair 
to his hot water tank would be covered by the policy.
Mr M arranged a tradesperson and negotiated a call out fee of £120.  The tradesperson who 
attended replaced the hot water tank  for which Mr M was charged £920.
Mr M complained to AWP.  He said the policy booklet on which AWP relied to say 
replacement of the tank wasnt covered was different from the one he had  and that his 
booklet showed he did have cover.  And he complained about having to chase for 
information about who was coming to his property and when, as well as AWP telling him 
someone was on their way but having no-one come.
AWP replied to his complaint by quoting from their policy document  which confirmed there 
was no cover for replacing a hot water tank.  They said the policy documents would have 
come from his bank (his home insurer) so they couldnt say why Mr M didnt have the most 
up to date policy terms.  
But AWP did acknowledge theyd not provided an appropriate level of service in terms of 
keeping Mr M up to date and providing him with accurate information.  They offered him £50 
for this as a gesture of goodwill.  And they confirmed they would reimburse Mr M the £120 
call out fee hed paid because they couldnt send a tradesperson to his home.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with AWPs reply and brought his complaint to our service.  Our 
investigator considered it and concluded AWP didnt need to do any more than theyd 
offered to resolve it.  She was satisfied that AWP had dealt with the claim in line with their 
terms and conditions and that the £50 payment theyd offered Mr M was fair.
Mr M didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint.  But Im not directing AWP to do any 
more than theyve already offered to resolve it.  Ill explain why.
My starting point for dealing with a complaint of this nature is to consider the policy terms 
and conditions and whether theyve been applied fairly by the insurer in this situation.  Mr M 
says they havent been, because hes never received a copy of the terms AWP have relied 
on.  Hes provided us with a copy of what he says he received.
Ive looked at the pages from the policy Mr M sent us.  They are different in a number of 
respects from what AWP have sent.  Most notably, the policy document Mr M sent us says 
its underwritten by another insurer - not AWP.  I think its clear from this that, at some point, 
Mr Ms bank changed the policy it offered customers.  
I cant say whether the bank didnt advise Mr M about this, or whether they sent him the 
wrong policy booklet.  But Im satisfied that it was they  not AWP  were responsible for 
doing that.  If Mr M wants to pursue that further, thats something he will need to raise with 
his bank.
But I am satisfied Mr Ms policy was underwritten by AWP at the time he made the claim.  It 
was the terms and conditions AWP have provided which were relevant then.  I cant fairly 
say they should apply the terms provided by another insurer.  But Ive considered whether 
AWP assessed the claim reasonably against their own terms.
The policy says AWP will:
Provide initial advice to you;
Arrange for a tradesperson to attend your home;
Pay up to £1,000 in total (incl. VAT) for each emergency claim incident, towards 
labour costs (including call out charges, materials and parts required to effect 
emergency repairs in your home and overnight accommodation
The policy states it is for emergencies only and the circumstances in which a permanent 
repair are limited to where:
this can be carried out during the same visit and at a similar cost to the temporary repair. 
If a permanent repair is not possible or the cost difference is significant, we will make a 
temporary repair and you will need to replace this with a permanent repair at your own cost 
within 30 days.
While the policy includes cover for damage to plumbing and drainage, replacement of water 
tanks, hot water cylinders, radiators and sanitaryware is specifically excluded.  So Im 
satisfied it was reasonable for AWP to tell Mr M this.  And that there was no obligation to 
make a permanent repair.
And Im satisfied AWP dealt with the emergency call out in line with their terms.  Their 
general conditions say they will make reasonable attempts to find a tradesperson.  They 
dont guarantee theyll be able to do that.
In this case, AWP arranged for a plumber to attend.  But the plumber didnt keep the 
appointment.  When Mr M told AWP what had happened, they agreed he could arrange an appointment himself and they would pay the call out fee.  I think that was a reasonable 
solution for what had happened.
Mr M has confirmed hes not yet been repaid the call out fee because he opted to bring the 
complaint to our service first.  So I think AWP should now pay him that fee (£120), as well as 
the £50 compensation they offered him for the customer service failings they identified.  But I 
dont think they need to do any more than that to resolve Mr Ms complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint about AWP P&C SA and 
directing AWP to reimburse him the £120 call out fee and pay the £50 compensation theyve 
previously offered him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman