DRN-3119669
The complaint
Mr V complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited refused to cover a test under a 
group private medical insurance scheme.
What happened
Mr Vs daughter (Miss V) is covered under his employers group private medical 
insurance scheme.
Miss V experienced eczema and rashes on her skin. This was due to suspected food 
allergies. Mr V contacted AXA to make a claim, and AXA authorised the consultation 
with a specialist, as well as skin prick testing.
Mr V then contacted AXA to make a claim for a food challenge test. AXA turned down the 
claim, as it thought the test was taking place for preventative reasons, which isnt covered 
by the policy. Unhappy with this, Mr V brought a complaint to this service. He went ahead 
and arranged for the food challenge to take place, and paid for this himself.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought AXAs 
internal claims guidance showed that AXA was correct to turn down the claim.
I issued a provisional decision on 8 October 2021. Heres what I said:
Ive looked at what the policy terms and conditions say, in order to decide whether 
AXAs claims decision was fair.
The policy explains that it covers eligible treatment. This is treatment of an acute 
condition which isnt preventative.
An acute condition is described in the policy as a disease, illness or injury thats likely 
to respond quickly to treatment thats likely to return the insured to the state of health 
that they were previously in, or leads to their full recovery.
Treatment is defined in the policy as surgical or medical services (including 
diagnostic tests) that are needed to diagnose, relieve or cure a disease, illness or 
injury.
The policy explains that diagnostic tests are investigations, such as x-rays or blood 
tests, to find or to help find the cause of symptoms.
Finally, the policy also says that it doesnt cover preventative treatment, or 
preventative screening tests.
Miss Vs specialist (Professor F) said his colleague had confirmed that Miss V had an 
egg allergy. He also said she had demonstrated a 3mm wheal to both milk and 
peanut.
Professor F then said that Miss V had never had any exposure to nut. And that skin 
testing more clearly confirmed a milk allergy, as well as to egg. He said that whilst she 
was negative to some nuts, she had had a 1mm wheal to hazelnut, 2mm wheal to 
cashew and pistachio, 3mm wheal to walnut and 8mm wheal to pecan. He said that 
ideally, he would do a blood test to understand how meaningful the sensitisation to 
nuts was, but this wasnt an option for Miss V. He therefore suggested they do a 
supervised exposure to some nuts, and if they were tolerated, they could be 
introduced into her diet.
Whilst I appreciate Professor F said that Miss V hadnt had exposure to nut, its 
apparent that she did then have exposure to nuts during the skin testing. Its also 
apparent that her exposure resulted in symptoms (wheals).
However, it was known that Miss Vs symptoms were being caused by the nuts to 
which she was being exposed. And so further testing wasnt needed in order to 
establish (or diagnose) what was causing the wheals  as this was known. Further 
testing was required because Professor F wanted to find out Miss Vs sensitisation to 
the nuts, in order to decide whether she could tolerate these or if they should be 
avoided.
Mr V says that AXA told him a blood test would be covered, and it was only a food 
challenge that it wouldnt authorise. If thats what Mr V was told, then I can understand 
his confusion. Though AXA has told this service that it doesnt agree to any further 
testing, regardless of the type of testing, as it considers it would all be preventative.
I dont think it matters if the further testing being carried out was by way of a food 
exposure challenge or a blood test  regardless of the method, the further testing was 
required to find out whether Miss Vs sensitivity to the nuts meant she ought to avoid 
them in the future. Im satisfied this would be considered preventative, rather than 
diagnostic. Consequently, I think it was reasonable for AXA to turn down the claim.
I invited both parties to provide me with any further comments they wished to make. 
Both parties responded to say they had no further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
However, as neither party has provided any further comments, I remain of the opinion 
expressed in my provisional decision, and for the same reasons.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman