DRN-3958780
Complaint
Miss M has complained about a loan Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday 
Loans) provided to her. She says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
Everyday Loans provided Miss M with a loan for £4,000.00 in July 2019. This loan had an 
APR of 77.7% and a term of 24 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£6,944.88, including interest, fees and charges of £2,944.88, was due to be repaid in 24 
monthly instalments of just under £290. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Miss Ms complaint and she thought Everyday Loans 
shouldnt have provided Miss M with her loan. So she thought that Miss Ms complaint 
should be upheld. 
Everyday Loans disagreed so the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Ms complaint. 
Having carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Miss Ms complaint. Ill explain 
why in a little more detail.
Everyday Loans needed to needed to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, 
what this means is Everyday Loans needed to find out enough about Miss M such that it 
could have a reasonable understanding of whether Miss M could afford to repay any credit it 
provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information Everyday Loans has provided suggested that it carried out a credit check 
and obtained bank statements before this loan was provided. The credit check showed that 
Miss M was already significantly indebted. And when the payments for this loan were added 
to Miss Ms existing monthly credit commitments, a significant proportion of her income 
would go towards credit commitments too.
I also have concerns at some of the transactions on the bank statements Everyday Loans 
obtained too. And given what was on the statements, I dont think it was reasonable for 
Everyday Loans to have accepted what Miss M said about her circumstances at face value 
in these circumstances. Im also satisfied that the information on Miss Ms statements called 
into question her ability to repay this loan without experiencing significant adverse 
consequences or borrowing further either.
Overall and having considered everything, Im persuaded by what Miss M has said about 
already being in a difficult financial position at the time she took out this loan. And while its 
possible Miss Ms indebtedness reflected her choices rather than financial difficulty, Id add 
that my experience of these types of cases suggest this is unlikely, in the absence of any 
reasonable or plausible arguments from Everyday Loans, Ive been persuaded to accept   
Miss Ms version of events. 
As this is the case, I do think that Miss Ms existing financial position meant that she was 
unlikely to be able to afford the payments to this loan, without undue difficulty or borrowing 
further. And Im satisfied that reasonable enquiries into Miss Ms circumstances would more 
like than not have shown Everyday Loans that it shouldnt have provided this loan to her. As 
Everyday Loans provided Miss M with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to 
act fairly and reasonably towards her. 
Miss M ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a loan she shouldnt have been 
provided with. So Im satisfied that Miss M lost out because of what Everyday Loans did 
wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Everyday Loans needs to do to put things right for Miss M
Having thought about everything, Everyday Loans should put things right for Miss M by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Miss M paid on her loan;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Miss M to the date of settlement;
removing all adverse information it recorded on Miss Ms credit file, if it remains, as a 
result of this loan. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans must give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Ms complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman