DRN-2607123
The complaint
Miss S is complaining that Santander UK Plc (Santander) provided poor service when she 
was arranging for one of the borrowers on a joint mortgage to be removed. She is also 
complaining about Santander sending paperwork about her to the wrong solicitors.
What happened
Miss S took out a joint mortgage with her sister in 2019. In 2020 she contacted Santander 
about taking her sisters name off the mortgage, leaving Miss S as the sole borrower.
During the phone call, she gave the mortgage adviser the name of a solicitor she thought 
she would use  although she wasnt too sure about the name. And she also provided the 
postcode for the solicitors office. The mortgage adviser said the solicitor was on its panel, 
that is a pre-vetted firm of solicitors Santander was happy for Miss S to use.
The adviser mistakenly used the wrong panel reference number, which meant the mortgage 
offer was sent to a different solicitor at the end of May, albeit it one that shared the same 
postcode as the one Miss S named.
When this was discovered a few days later, Santander also realised that Miss Ss preferred 
solicitor wasnt on its panel  and until the solicitor was added, it couldnt send any 
paperwork out. The solicitor was put on the panel on 10 June and the offer sent the next 
day. 
There was a further problem when Miss S was told she could fax a document to Santander, 
when it actually needed to be an original forwarded by her solicitor  that added to the 
confusion and delays.
It took two months to complete the transfer of the mortgage into Miss Ss name.
Miss S complained, and Santander acknowledged it had made mistakes. It apologised and 
said it would provide some training to the adviser who recorded the wrong solicitor. It said it 
was comfortable that  although the paperwork had gone to the wrong solicitor  it was one 
that they knew and trusted so they thought the information would have been dealt with 
properly. Santander paid Miss S £200 to make up for the problems shed had.
Miss S said that wasnt enough: Santander didnt increase the compensation, so she asked 
us to review her complaint.
Our investigator said he thought Santander had done enough to make up for the 
inconvenience it had caused, and noted that a decision on whether Santander had breached 
the Data Protection Regulations would be more properly dealt with by the Information 
Commissioners Office.
Miss doesnt think the compensation is high enough, so Ive been asked to decide this 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold this complaint, because I think Santander has done enough to 
compensate Miss S for the mistakes it made.
Santander has acknowledged that it sent paperwork to the wrong solicitor, and its 
apologised for that and said it will provide some retraining for the member of staff to avoid 
this happening again. I think thats an appropriate thing for it to do.
Santander also acknowledged it didnt provide the best service during the mortgage transfer 
and caused some delay by telling Miss S she could fax a document when she couldnt. But 
that doesnt seem to have caused a significant delay, although I appreciate it would have 
been annoying for Miss S.
I cant say the mortgage was delayed by Santander initially sending paperwork to the wrong 
solicitor  because the solicitor she wanted to use wasnt on Santanders pre-approved 
panel. Until it was, Santander wouldnt have been able to send out an offer. From what Ive 
seen the solicitor was added about ten days after the first offer was sent, and a revised offer 
sent at the same time.
I do accept that Miss S was inconvenienced by having to contact Santander about the 
mistakes, and she says she had to wait a long time to be connected  and then was passed 
around different departments. Miss S says sending the paperwork to the wrong solicitor was 
a gross violation of her rights  but I cant see that  apart from the inconvenience  she 
was affected negatively by this. I accept that Santanders error could have had significant 
results. But I can only award compensation for things that actually happened  not things 
that might have happened. 
Taking everything into account I agree that the £200 paid by Santander was reasonable, and 
Im not going to ask it to do more.
I cant comment on whether Santanders data protection processes are sufficiently robust, as 
that is the remit of the Information Commissioner. Miss S can, of course, contact the 
Information Commissioners Office if she thinks thats appropriate.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman