DRN-3024877
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that NRAM Limited recorded incorrect information on their credit files 
which caused problems when they tried to re-mortgage. They ask for compensation.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out an interest only mortgage with NRAM in 2007 as well as an 
unsecured loan. They had financial difficulties and entered into a debt management plan in 
2010. The unsecured loan was included in the DMP and NRAM agreed to accept reduced 
monthly payments. The mortgage wasnt included in the DMP and Mr and Mrs S maintained 
mortgage payments.
Mr and Mrs S say NRAM unfairly recorded arrears for the unsecured loan on their credit 
reports, instead of reporting a payment arrangement. As a result they were unable to re-
mortgage with a high street lender, and had to take out a more expensive mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs S also say that NRAM transferred money between their mortgage and 
unsecured loan. They say this caused confusion and it hasnt explained why it did this.
Our investigator said NRAM had reported accurate information. And because there was 
other adverse data on Mr and Mrs Ss credit file he couldnt fairly say NRAM was responsible 
for them not being offered a mortgage by a high street lender. Our investigator said while the 
allocation of payments between the accounts was confusing, ultimately NRAM credited the 
accounts correctly and this didnt have an adverse impact on either account. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree. Mrs S said they were never in six months arrears. She said 
NRAM cant both claim they were in arrears and in a payment arrangement. She wasnt 
happy about the way payments were allocated and transferred between the accounts.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ss DMP ended in 2018. They were unable to re-mortgage with a high street 
lender in 2020. They say this was due to incorrect adverse data recorded by NRAM on their 
credit files, as follows:
Mr and Mrs S say that NRAM wrongly reported 6 on their credit files for some months, 
(suggesting they were six months in arrears).
NRAM updated this in March 2020 so that their credit files showed AP (that they had a 
payment arrangement in place that they were maintaining) for all months, expect for July 
2016 which is still shown as 6.
Mr and Mrs S were concerned this adverse data was due to NRAM transferring money 
between their mortgage and loan accounts, something they hadnt agreed to.
Mrs S says NRAM cant both claim they were in arrears and in an arrangement to pay. I 
dont agree. A lender can agree an arrangement with a customer whose account is in 
arrears. And if theres an arrangement to pay less than the contractual monthly payment its 
likely this will result in arrears.
Mrs S says a reasonable person would understand the 6 to mean they hadnt made a 
payment for six months, which wasnt the case. I think though that the mortgage lenders they 
applied to would understand what the markers on their credit files mean. 
Mrs S also said the payment arrangement amended the loan agreement and, therefore, they 
werent in arrears as they made agreed payments. I dont think thats right. The terms of the 
loan agreement didnt change. NRAM accepted lower payments as a forbearance measure.
Because of the lower payments they made, Mr and Mrs S had arrears which totalled more 
than six months contractual monthly payments. In this respect, the 6 marker was accurate. 
I think though that while Mr and Mrs S were maintaining an agreed payment arrangement 
their credit file should fairly reflect this. NRAM updated their credit files to say this in early 
2020. NRAM says there was no arrangement in place for July 2016, which is supported by 
its records. I dont think its wrong that a 6 is still recorded for this month. 
Mr and Mrs S say their application to a high street lender in early 2020 was declined due to 
adverse information wrongly recorded by NRAM. At that point, Mr and Mrs Ss credit files 
showed 6 for some months and AP for some months. I dont think I can fairly find that this 
was the reason, or even the main reason their application was declined. Mr and Mrs S were 
in a DMP until 2018, and its likely other lenders had recorded adverse data on their credit 
files. And I dont think I can fairly find that their application would certainly have been 
successful if their credit file showed AP for all months (other than July 2016). I dont know if 
the lender they applied to would have seen this as sufficiently better. And, putting aside the 
information on Mr and Mrs Ss credit file, this mortgage application might not have completed 
for another reason  such as affordability checks or the property valuation.  
In the circumstances, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require NRAM to pay 
compensation to Mr and Mrs S for any additional interest costs or the costs of re-mortgaging 
again in the future.
The way NRAM presents payments between the two accounts is confusing. But I cant see 
that this caused any loss to Mr and Mrs S. Theres no suggestion that Mr and Mrs S made 
payments that werent applied to one of their accounts, and the interest rate was the same 
for both accounts. This didnt cause any errors in the information reported to their credit files. 
No adverse data was recorded for the mortgage account. And it was right for NRAM to 
record 6 or AP for the unsecured loan account. The mortgage and unsecured loan were 
repaid three years ago, and Mr and Mrs S didnt raise concerns about these payments or 
transfers until after this. I dont think its fair and reasonable to require NRAM to do anything 
more about the way it presented this information to Mr and Mrs S.
Mrs S raised a further concern about the way information about the NRAM loan appears on 
their credit reports, that it shows theyre in an arrangement to pay with an outstanding 
balance for the unsecured loan after they repaid the loan in full in March 2018. Mrs S sent a 
screen shot. While the credit report shows the balance of the unsecured loan as settled in 
March 2018 with a balance of zero, it also shows a payment arrangement and an 
outstanding balance against some months after this. This wasnt part of the complaint that 
Mr and Mrs S raised with NRAM and brought to us, so I cant look into it here. They should 
contact NRAM if they remain concerned about this. 
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman