DRN-2014015
The complaint
Mr C complains that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) has unfairly declined a claim he 
made under his home insurance.
What happened
In 2019 Mr C moved home. He says the removal company he employed (Company A) 
damaged his bed in transit. He says UKI told him his contents would be covered under 
his home insurance policy during the move, so he made a claim for this damage.
UKI considered the claim and found that Mr C hadnt taken out accidental damage 
cover that was available, so there was no cover for this type of damage. Mr C said if UKI had 
told him he didnt have cover under the policy, hed have taken out other insurance with 
the removal company directly. So he said hed been disadvantaged by UKIs error.
UKI accepted that Mr C had been given incorrect information by one of its agents and so, 
by way of putting things right, it agreed to consider Mr Cs claim under the accidental 
damage part of the policy as a one-off claim and without charging a premium. And it 
appointed an independent party  Company B to inspect the damaged bed and report back 
to it.
Company Bs report was inconclusive as to when the damage occurred, or who 
the responsible party was. So UKI spoke with Company A to ask for its testimony of events. 
It said the bed was already damaged before it was dismantled, and that Mr C had been 
told this at the time of the removal, and when he visited Company Bs office to discuss an 
alleged missing part of the bed. UKI concluded the evidence showed the bed was most likely 
damaged before Company As involvement. So it declined Mr Cs claim.
Mr C said hed sent a report to UKI which evidenced that there was no damage to his 
bed prior to Company A dismantling and moving it. And that hed received correspondence 
from UKI saying that a payment for the bed would be made to him.
UKI found that due to a system error, Company B had incorrectly sent correspondence to 
Mr C which suggested UKI would be making a settlement payment to him for the damaged 
bed. It apologised for any inconvenience this caused but said that the information Company 
B sent was incorrect and no settlement had been agreed.
With regard to the report, UKI says it never received this. So it attempted to obtain a copy 
of this report from Company A, but it was told Mr Cs information had been archived and 
was unavailable. So based on the information it had, UKI maintained its position to decline 
the claim, but said that if Mr C re-sent the report, it would reconsider.
Mr C brought a complaint to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said 
it didnt matter when the damage occurred to Mr Cs bed, because the accidental damage 
part of the policy provides cover for contents when in the home, or being moved to a new 
home. So he said UKI should pay Mr Cs claim in full. He also said it should pay him 
£100 compensation for the incorrect information and inconvenience caused. UKI disagreed, so the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued my provisional 
decision on this case in June 2020. In it I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont intend to uphold this complaint. I know this will 
come as a disappointment to Mr C, but Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that Mr C didnt have accidental damage cover under his home 
insurance policy. But as a one off, UKI agreed to consider his claim because of a 
miscommunication. And in doing this, it says the damage isnt covered under the policy and 
has declined the claim. So I need to decide whether this is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this case.
Under Mr Cs policy, Accidental Damage cover is an optional add-on, which provides 
cover for accidental damage to your contents while they are in your home or being moved 
to your new home. And accidental damage is defined in the policy as sudden and 
unintentional physical damage that happens unexpectedly.
UKI has accepted that damage in transit would be covered, so for Mr Cs claim to 
be successful, the damage to his bed must meet the accidental damage definition  
being sudden, unintentional physical damage that happened unexpectedly.
Mr Cs testimony is that the damage happened during the removals process and that it 
was caused directly by Company As handling of the bed. From what Ive seen, hes 
adamant there was no damage to his bed before this point. But UKI disagrees and says the 
evidence doesnt support the damage occurred during the move.
So Ive considered the evidence carefully. Theres limited information available in this 
case, so Ive made my decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened, given 
the information that is available.
The report by Company B doesnt provide a conclusive finding on how or when the 
damage occurred, but it does include useful information. It says chips seemed localised and 
may have happened pre move. So this suggests some damage couldve been pre-existing 
to the move taking place. Theres also quite an extensive list of damage noted to the bed in 
Company Bs report, which, on balance, doesnt seem consistent with a one-off incident of 
damage, although I accept the possibility that multiple incidents of damage couldve taken 
place in transit.
But if that was the case, it seems likely to me that Mr C wouldve noticed this 
damage relatively quickly  especially, if as he says, the bed had no damage prior to this. 
And Id expect that his first point of contact would most likely have been to speak to the party 
he says is responsible  Company A.
Company A says the damage to the bed was present before it was dismantled and moved. 
It says that Mr C called and visited its office, shortly after the move, to complain about a part 
of the bed he thought was missing  not that it was damaged. It said this was soon cleared 
up, and from what Ive seen, Mr C never made any complaints to Company A about 
anything else at that time.
Taking all of this into consideration, on balance, Im not persuaded the damage Mr C 
is claiming for was caused by Company A during his house move. And so, while it seems 
clear to me Mr Cs bed has suffered damage, Im not satisfied this was caused 
suddenly, unintentionally or unexpectedly as he described. I say this because his version of 
events isnt supported by the evidence  at least not enough to persuade me this is the case.Its possible Mr Cs bed may have been damaged at another time, but this isnt the claim 
he presented to UKI. So based on what I've seen so far, Im satisfied UKI has fairly declined 
the claim based on the information it had, and I dont intend to ask it to do anything further. 
If  Mr C can provide UKI with a report which shows the bed wasnt damaged prior to the 
move, Id expect UKI to consider this  which its said it will do.
I agree it was poor service on UKIs part that Mr C was told he had cover when he 
didnt, and that he was sent correspondence which he says led him to believe his claim 
would be paid. But UKI has apologised for its miscommunication. It also agreed to consider 
Mr Cs claim  even though he didnt have the relevant cover in place, and Ive already 
explained why I think its fairly declined the claim after doing this.
From what Ive seen, its also provided feedback to Company B about the system 
error resulting in misleading correspondence to Mr C. So overall, Im satisfied UKI has 
already taken fair and reasonable steps to put things right in this case. It follows I dont 
intend to direct it to pay Mr C compensation for trouble and upset.
I asked both parties to send me anything else theyd like me to consider before I issued my 
final decision. UKI responded saying it accepted what Id said, but Mr C disagreed. 
He explained that an estimator from Company A checked his contents before they were 
moved and made no notes of any damage. So hes questioned how UKI can refute the claim 
when no damage was recorded. Hes also doesnt think weve considered the 
correspondence Company B sent suggesting the claim would be paid.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C says that Company A inspected his contents before removal and didnt note any pre-
existing damage. But as I explained in my provisional decision, neither UKI or this service 
has seen written evidence of an inventory from Company A that confirms this.
UKI went further than I would expect in the circumstances of this case and contacted 
Company A to see if it could get a copy of this information, but Company A told it the 
information from Mr Cs move was archived and unavailable. I dont think UKI was required 
to do anything further to try and obtain this. 
Mr C repeatedly said hed sent UKI copies of a report which shows the bed wasnt damaged 
prior to the move, but from what Ive seen, its not received this. However, it has said that if 
Mr C can provide it with the report, itll reconsider his claim  which I think is fair in the 
circumstances for the reasons Ive already explained in my provisional decision. 
Ive seen a copy of the email Company B sent Mr C which he says suggests his claim would 
be paid. It says  We have recommended to your insurer that your insurance claim be 
settled with a cash payment of £1,350.00. If applicable, please find your cash settlement 
confirmation attached.
UKI says it was unaware this email had been sent to Mr C until he brought it to its attention. 
So it questioned Company B about this, who said the system most likely auto generated the 
email after a period of no contact  without anyone being involved. It says this can happen 
as standard practice unless an IT function is turned off.So it seems this was most likely sent in error as set out in my provisional decision. This is 
strengthened by the fact that Company Bs written report about the damage to the bed made 
no recommendation for the claim to be paid.
UKI has apologised for Company Bs system error and has given feedback to Company B 
about its system processes. But even if it was sent intentionally, I dont think it makes a 
difference to the outcome of this case. This is because any recommendation to pay the claim 
would still have to be considered in line with the terms and conditions of the policy  taking 
into account all the circumstances. And Ive already explained why Im satisfied UKI fairly 
declined Mr Cs claim after doing this. 
It follows, after considering Mr Cs comments, Im still satisfied UKI fairly declined his claim 
for the damage to his bed, based on the information available, for the same reasons as set 
out in my provisional decision above. So I wont be directing it to do anything further in this 
case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2020.
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman