DRN-3517386
The complaint
Mr P complains The Mortgage Works (UK) plc (TMW) refused his further mortgage advance, 
based on an inaccurate property valuation. 
What happened
Mr P says he approached TMW in April 2021 to obtain a further advance on his buy to let 
mortgage (BTL) to pay for legal costs he had incurred. Mr P says TMW instructed a 
valuation to be carried out but following the valuation report, TMW effectively valued his 
property at zero and informed him a structural survey needed to be carried out at his 
expense and noted commercial activity being carried out on the property. 
Mr P says there was no commercial activity being carried out at the property and his tenants 
felt the valuer had been rude during his visit and there was no evidence to support the 
property was subject to any subsidence, that required further investigation by a structural 
engineer at a cost of £1,200. 
Mr P says TMWs actions have reduced the value of his property, meaning he was unable to 
obtain finance on it, resulting in him having to borrow elsewhere at much higher interest 
rates. Mr P says personal internet searches were also carried out at the time of the property 
valuation, which he is unhappy about. Mr P says TMW have relied on inaccuracies in the 
original valuation report, which has severely affected the valuation of his property and 
caused him a great amount of stress and worry. Mr P says he wants TMW to write off his 
BTL and compensate him for the trouble and upset this has caused and refund the structural 
engineers report costs he incurred. 
TMW says the surveyor denies any of the allegations of rudeness during his inspection of 
the property and it had acted fairly when asking for a structural engineers report (SER) 
based on the comments the surveyor made. TMW says the surveyor had noted commercial 
activity taking place in the rear garden of the property and its own searches had shown a 
business had operated from that address, which was further evidenced in the SER. TMW 
didnt feel it had done anything wrong here. 
Mr P wasnt happy with TMWs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information and upheld the complaint. The 
investigator felt TMW had acted reasonably when it had relied on the surveyors expertise to 
assess Mr Ps property value and investigate any concerns it may have highlighted, 
including any structural movement detailed in the valuation report. The investigator says 
TMW had the right not to provide any further mortgage advance, following such a valuation 
being carried out. The investigator also felt TMW had acted correctly when it assessed if the 
property was being used for commercial activity, as that was outside the mortgage terms 
and conditions. The investigator says TMW correctly investigated the complaint about the 
surveyor.
The investigator did however feel TMW had no need to ask Mr P to instruct a SER as it 
already knew before then it was not going to provide the additional mortgage advance, as 
the property in its opinion was being used for commercial activity, outside the mortgage 
terms and conditions. The investigator requested TMW to refund the SER costs of £1,200 
plus 8% simple interest from the date it was paid by Mr P and a further £250 for the trouble 
and upset this matter had caused.
Mr P wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will be upholding part of Mr Ps complaint and I will explain how I have 
come to my decision. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting and frustrating for Mr P to discover his 
request for a further advance on his BTL, had been declined and his property valued at zero 
in the valuation report, when he believed it was inaccurate. When looking at this complaint I 
will consider if TMW were right to rely on the valuation report it had instructed and whether a 
SER was necessary. 
Mr Ps main complaint centres around the inaccuracies of the valuation report TMW had 
instructed, in particular its comment on potential structural issues, the property being used 
for commercial use and the fact TMW have effectively reduced his propertys value 
considerably by stating, it had no market value. 
The first thing to say is its not for me to decide whether or not the valuation report is 
accurate or not, as that is outside the scope of this service. What I can say is TMW have 
appointed a fully qualified surveyor to carry out that report and it isnt unreasonable, having 
done so, to rely on any findings raised within the report and take reasonable steps to 
investigate any issues raised in it.   
I can see that Mr P feels strongly about what was contained in the valuation report and 
specifically, the use of the property for commercial use. I am satisfied TMW would be entitled 
to make relevant searches to understand this more, but I have seen no evidence to suggest 
intrusive personal searches were undertaken by them, only that it had established a 
business had been registered at that address. With that in mind as TMW had reason to 
believe commercial activity was being carried out on the property, outside its lending policy, 
it was entitled to make the decision it did.
Mr P says his tenants claimed the surveyor was rude when he visited the property and that 
was an indication the surveyor was already in a poor mood, before making his valuation 
report. While it has been suggested there might have been language difficulties causing 
some communication issues, I can see that TMW have investigated this and the allegation 
has been strongly denied by the surveyor, so I cant say TMW have ignored this point and I 
cant realistically ask them to do anymore.
As far as the zero-valuation placed on the property is concerned, which I can see would 
have been upsetting for Mr P, although he may not agree that doesnt mean it has no value. 
Its more that for the purposes of TMWs own mortgage purposes, it cant be relied on for 
further borrowing, as the commercial activity is outside its lending policy and therefore is 
unacceptable security.
Thats not to say another lender would take the same view and its fair to say its not uncommon for zero values to be put on properties by appointed surveyors, when it doesnt 
meet the criteria of that lenders policy or terms and conditions.   
Its also reasonable of TMW to act upon any issues raised in the report regarding any 
potential structural issues, if it feels that may affect its security and Im satisfied thats what 
happened here. Where I do have an issue is that TMW already knew before asking Mr P for 
an expensive SER to be carried out, it wasnt going to provide the funding, as it already had 
concerns about the commercial activity at the property. Although Mr P says he knows of no 
commercial activity on his property, it isnt unreasonable for TMW having been told by the 
valuer there was, for it to then act upon that information and to carry out further enquiries.
As I said earlier, its not the role of this service to discuss the merits of an individual valuation 
report carried out by a professional surveying practice, as that is not a regulated business, 
so if Mr P remains unhappy he should contact the regulator of that business.
So here, I support the investigators view that given TMW had already decided it couldnt 
provide the extra funding before asking for an SER, those costs should be reimbursed from 
the date Mr P paid them along with 8% simple interest. In addition, TMW should pay Mr P 
£250 for the trouble and upset this has caused. Mr P should provide TMW with details of 
when he paid the £1,200 SER fee, so it can calculate the 8% simple interest from that date.
While Mr P will be disappointed with my decision, I am satisfied this is a fair outcome. 
Putting things right
I instruct The Mortgage Works (UK) plc to refund the £1,200 SER fee Mr P paid, along with 
8% simple interest from the date he paid it. In addition, it should pay Mr P £250 for the 
trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct The Mortgage Works (UK) plc to refund the £1,200 SER fee Mr P paid, along with 
8% simple interest from the date he paid it. In addition, it should pay Mr P £250 for the 
trouble and upset caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman