DRN-4248118
The complaint
E, a limited company, complains that Starling Bank Limited wont refund payments that it 
didnt make from its account.
What happened
The director of E says that his phone was stolen while he was using it at around 06:00 on 10 
July 2022. He had been distracted by someone hed been talking to asking for directions. 
Payments of a total of nearly £20,000 were made using the phone which werent authorised. 
One only payment of just over £503 made using the card details was refunded. But four 
faster payments werent.
Starling Bank said it wouldnt be refunding the other payments. It said that logging into the 
account would only be possible with a passcode as it understood that E hadnt set up 
biometric access. And setting up the new payee used here required a password. Starling 
Bank said E had agreed to the terms of conditions of the account which included keeping the 
security information and the device used to access the account safe. Starling Bank said that 
E was liable for the payments.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that Starling Bank 
had shown that the password was correctly entered to make these payments. There was no 
identified way in which an unknown third party could have discovered this. The director said 
he hadnt disclosed this information or written it down anywhere. While the payments were 
large and confirmation of payee didnt show that the name on the payees account matched 
the details given, this wasnt conclusive of someone else making the payments without Es 
authority. We provide informal dispute resolution and the director had told him that police 
were investigating the recipients account based on what had been reported.
E didnt agree and wanted the complaint to be reviewed. The director said that he clearly 
didnt make these payments for E. And he had reported this to police and his phone 
provider. He wanted to know why Starling Bank had allowed this large amount of money to 
be sent to a new payee. He wasnt aware of who had received the money and there was no 
connection to E. This had caused significant financial problems for E, and he wanted 
answers from Starling Bank. He said it was nonsense that no refund was provided if he 
couldnt show how the password was discovered. This needed to be taken seriously.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with security details. And if they werent authorised 
E wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
There are exceptions to that and the relevant one here is whether the director acted with 
gross negligence in not keeping Es details safe. Negligence is often referred to as a failure 
to exercise reasonable care. So, I think it fair and reasonable to conclude, the use of gross 
negligence, rather than mere negligence, suggests a lack of care, that goes significantly 
beyond ordinary negligence.
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of how these payments were made?
- Did E either authorise the payments on the account or allow with gross negligence 
someone else to have access to the security information as Starling Bank says?
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Ill be making findings about the relevant 
issues here based on what I think is most likely. It would be up to the authorities to 
undertake any criminal investigation.
A genuine device was used to access the account. This was one that E had used to make 
payments a few days earlier. I can see that a password was input to create the new payee 
at 06:38 on 10 July 2022 and then again to make the faster payments with the last one at 
07:34. During this time the card payment referred to above using the mobile phone wallet 
was made at 06:54. Im satisfied that these payments were authenticated.
I can see that the payments took all the available funds from the account. There were four 
faster payments of £5,000, £6,000, £8,400 and then £87.43. The card payment was eligible 
for chargeback and was refunded. There were no such rights for the faster payments. I note 
that the director said he noticed what happened on a second device at about 08:30. Thats 
also consistent with Starling Bank showing that push notifications were sent for each 
payment, and it says these went to both registered devices. The director called Starling 
Bank at just after 14:00. There were no funds recoverable by that time. The device and card 
were then blocked.
To make the payments required access to the phone through any security set on that. 
Access to the app itself required a passcode. And to make the payments involved here 
required a password. The password had been set on the account in December 2021. And it 
hadnt been input for several days. So, there was no possibility of the director being seen 
say inputting the details before the phone was stolen that day. There is no record of either 
the password or passcode being changed before these payments.
I take into account the size of the payments, that these didnt have confirmation of payee (a 
match of the account name to the details given and which was overridden in the app) and 
that all the money was quickly taken. This has been reported to police and the chargeback 
was successful. And so, I can see why the director insists these are unauthorised payments 
that E isnt responsible for.
Against that I need to think about how the necessary security information could have been 
discovered by a third party. Im afraid its not enough to assert that it must have been. The 
director has said that it wasnt written down or stored anywhere and he hadnt told anyone. 
It was clearly used within a short period he says of his phone being stolen. I cant see it 
plausible to think that the information was guessed. Starling Bank says that as this was a 
company account such payments didnt trigger any concerns. 
If I was to think that the security information had been disclosed or not kept safely then Id 
consider here the director hadnt taken sufficient and reasonable care of the information and 
that this was gross negligence. This would be grounds for E being liable for unauthorised 
payments. I appreciate that this is how Starling Bank concluded that the details were discovered. But the director has said he kept the details secure and on that basis there is no 
likely way in which an unknown third party discovered the details.
Having balanced all this information and what has been said on behalf of E I find it 
reasonable for Starling Bank to hold E responsible for these payments. I dont think it most 
likely that an unknown third party was able to discover the security information and make 
these payments if it had been kept secure as E claims happened. So, I dont find Es version 
of events to be reliable.
I appreciate whats at stake here for E and that it is continuing to pursue things with the 
authorities. But I dont have a reasonable basis to require Starling Bank to do anything 
further here.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman