DRN-3028304
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about the way Santander UK Plc treated them in relation to the 
interest rate charged on their mortgage account. They say the mortgage was mis-sold, as 
the benefits of a variable rate as opposed to a fixed rate were not explained to them.
 
They also complain that Santander didnt contact them when lower rates became available 
to them, to let them know they could switch to a different rate. Mr and Mrs C feel theyve 
overpaid interest on their mortgage as a result.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C took out a repayment mortgage in 2004 with Abbey National (which later 
became Santander). At the time they took out a fixed interest rate of 6.04% until January 
2020.
Mr and Mrs C say they called Santander in 2009 to discuss redeeming their mortgage as 
they thought the interest rate they were paying was too high, but they were told they would 
need to pay an Early Repayment Charge (ERC) if they wanted to redeem the mortgage 
early. Mr and Mrs C said they looked into this again in 2017, as they wanted to re-mortgage 
to another lender, but again found that an ERC would be payable so didnt go ahead.
Mr and Mrs C redeemed their mortgage in 2019, and in June 2020 complained to Santander 
after receiving advice from a claims management company. They complained to Santander 
about the sale of the mortgage, and also about the fact that the bank hadnt contacted them 
during the term of the mortgage to let them know they could switch to a variable interest rate. 
They felt theyd paid too much on their mortgage as a result, and wanted the additional 
interest theyd paid to be refunded. They also wanted an apology from the bank, as well as 
compensation.
Santander issued their final response letter in June 2020. They said Mr and Mrs Cs 
complaint had been made out of time. Santander said that Mr and Mrs C were aware when 
they took the mortgage out in 2004 that the fixed rate would run until the end of the 
mortgage term. They also said that Mr and Mrs C had contacted them several times over the 
term of the mortgage, and during a conversation in 2014, Santander had provided 
information about the outstanding balance, the remaining term, the fixed rate, and the ERC 
that would have been payable had the mortgage been redeemed. The annual mortgage 
statements also contained information about the mortgage product.
Mr and Mrs C brought their complaint to our service and asked us to look into things. They 
didnt agree theyd brought their complaint out of time, as they said they were only made 
aware of the problem by a claims management company after theyd redeemed the 
mortgage.
Santander didnt give our service consent to consider the complaint. I issued a decision 
which said our service could only consider Mr and Mrs Cs complaint about how Santander 
treated them from June 2014 onwards.
 
Our investigator looked into the part of Mr and Mrs Cs complaint that we could consider. 
Having done so, he didnt uphold it.
 
Mr and Mrs C asked for an ombudsman to make a decision, so the complaints been passed 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I set out in my previous decision, I cannot consider how Santander treated Mr and Mrs C, 
including the information they gave about interest rates, before June 2014. However, I have 
still taken account of the events leading up to that date, as they provide context for the 
complaint Im now considering.
In 2004, Mr and Mrs C agreed to take out their mortgage on the basis that a fixed rate of 
interest would apply until January 2020. The mortgage offer explained that if the mortgage 
was redeemed before that date, or a new interest rate product was taken out before that 
date, a product related charge would be payable.
Mr and Mrs C said they called Santander in 2009 and 2017 to ask about redeeming their 
mortgage, as they wanted to take advantage of lower interest rates that were offered. They 
say Santander told them they would need to pay a charge if they redeemed their mortgage 
early so Mr and Mrs C chose not to go ahead. From looking at the information set out in 
Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage offer, I agree the information Santander told Mr and Mrs C about 
the early repayment charge was correct. It was Mr and Mrs Cs decision whether or not they 
wanted to go ahead and redeem the mortgage early, and pay a charge. Or remain with 
Santander on the fixed interest rate. Im not satisfied Santander gave Mr and Mrs C 
incorrect, or misleading information.
Mr and Mrs C say that during those calls, Santander should have told them they could have 
switched to a lower interest rate with them, instead of re-mortgaging. Mr and Mrs C say the 
bank were aware they wanted to bring their costs down, and so should have told them about 
lower interest rates. Santander have provided notes from the conversations recorded in 
2009, 2014, and 2016, although these arent very clear. I have no reason to doubt 
Mr and Mrs Cs recollection of the calls they had with Santander so Ive thought about 
whether the bank should have offered them lower interest rates during those conversations.
Mr and Mrs C were tied into a fixed interest rate product. The terms of their mortgage stated 
that if a new interest rate product was taken out before the fixed rate expired, a charge 
would be applicable. Mr and Mrs C chose not to re-mortgage to other lenders due to the 
charge they would have incurred as a result of doing so. And so I think if Santander had 
offered them a lower interest rate product, which also would have incurred the same charge, 
I think its likely Mr and Mrs C would have made the same decision  to stay on their existing 
rate and avoid the charge. Mr and Mrs C were not able to take out a lower interest rate 
without incurring a charge, that wasnt an option that was available to them.
Ive also considered whether Santander should have written to Mr and Mrs C about other 
rates that may have been available to them over the course of the mortgage term. But this is 
not something that lenders were required to do. Im also satisfied Mr and Mrs C were aware 
there were cheaper rates available on the market, and had researched this as they did ask 
Santander about re-mortgaging to cheaper deals with other lenders. And for the reasons Ive 
already explained, even if Santander had pro-actively written to Mr and Mrs C about cheaper interest rate products available, I dont think it would have made a difference. As 
Mr and Mrs C still would have had to pay a charge if they wanted to take advantage of them. 
Its unfortunate that interest rates reduced across the industry after Mr and Mrs C had taken 
a fixed interest rate over a long period. But this is the risk associated with securing a fixed 
rate, which was likely to have been competitive at the time. 
Overall, Im not persuaded that Santander treated Mr and Mrs C unfairly.
My final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Kathryn Billings
Ombudsman