DRN-3769600
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) has unfairly declined to repair or take 
responsibility for damage caused to her vehicle following a claim on her car insurance policy.
Any reference to Mrs F or Aviva includes respective agents or representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
Mrs F holds an Aviva car insurance policy.
She made a claim following a road traffic incident. Aviva accepted the claim and 
recovered her vehicle to complete repairs.
When Mrs F received her vehicle back, she said Aviva had caused damage to the 
roof (close to a fin antenna). She complained, saying the marks had no relation to the 
incident and described the regular maintenance and garage storage of the car. 
Aviva says Company A, the agent that recovered Mrs Fs vehicle, had said the 
damage was pre-existing and would not have been caused by its recovery. Aviva 
also commented stating the damage to the fin appeared consistent with someone 
trying to lever them off which wasnt required or attempted during recovery or repair.
Mrs F disagreed and brought the matter to this Service. She provided many photos of 
the vehicle and reiterated her position, and she also provided a quote for the roof/fin 
repair and repaint (around £325).
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said Mrs F hadnt provided any 
technical or expert opinion to support how the damage couldve occurred. And that 
the photos Mrs F sought to rely on to show the car was undamaged were undated. 
The Investigator said the photos provided by Aviva gave a clearer indication of the 
vehicles condition and supported damage to the fin was existing. 
Mrs F disagreed, stating the Investigator had overlooked her own photographs and unfairly 
sided with Avivas position. So, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Aviva accepted Mrs Fs insurance claim. And theres no dispute between parties that 
this claim incident did not cause the roof damage in question. 
So, I have to decide what is the most likely cause of the roof damage in light of all of 
the available evidence. And whether this damage was caused by Aviva and/or its 
agents during its recovery and repair of the vehicle as Mrs F has alleged. 
The damage in question is several small black marks/scratches around the fin on the 
roof of the vehicle.
Ive been given photos from Mrs F that show her vehicle without this roof damage. 
These photos are undated, and Mrs F hasnt said when they were taken. So, I accept 
these suggest Mrs Fs car was without the roof damage at some point in time.
Aviva has also provided photos. Some of these show the vehicle being recovered 
onto a truck. Having reviewed these, I think Company As comments that the damage 
wouldnt have been caused by the recovery make sense. I say this as it would be 
unclear to me why the roof of the car wouldve been altered during this process or 
during any subsequent repair.
Aviva has also provided Company As photographs that it says shows the damage is 
pre-existing. One is taken at night and I can see a black mark on the fin. And a 
second is prior to Company As delivery of the vehicle to Avivas garage. This also 
appears to show a small black mark on the fin but is less clear than the first.
I want to acknowledge that both of these images are grainy and far from close up 
images of the damage in question, but I have limited evidence that I have to base my 
decision on. And Im satisfied these images most likely show the damage in question 
was in place at the time of the recovery, unlike Mrs Fs photos that are undated. 
Aviva suggested the damage may have been caused by someone trying to lever off 
the fin. I accept this is a possibility, but ultimately whatever the cause, Im satisfied 
this damage was existing at the time Aviva took responsibility for the vehicle. And as 
a result, Im not directing it to take responsibility or pay any costs for this repair.
Mrs F had also previously raised concerns about damage to one of her wheels. While 
this hasnt been the focus of her complaint with this Service, for similar reasons to 
above, Ive not been given sufficient evidence to persuade me it would be fair to hold 
Aviva responsible for any necessary repair.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman