DRN-1137389
 
The complaint
Mr K complains that Vanquis Bank Limited continued to charge interest on his credit card 
account when hed told it he was experiencing financial difficulties. 
What happened
Mr K had a credit card with Vanquis, and he contacted it at the end of 2016 when he was 
having some difficulties in meeting the payments towards it because of a change in his 
circumstances. At that time his Repayment Option Plan was started, which meant interest 
and charges were frozen on the account. This was subject to Vanquis receiving information 
and documentation from Mr K about his situation, and this plan was then removed in April 
2017 when this wasn't sent to it.
Following this, Vanquis agreed a repayment arrangement of £50 a month for a three month 
period. Mr K paid the first instalment of these payments, and then Vanquis didnt receive the 
following two so late payment charges were applied. Mr Ks credit file was also updated to 
show these late payments. 
Vanquis told Mr K that it could only freeze interest and charges on an account when a 
payment plan had been agreed. And it accepted an offer of a payment plan Mr K made 
through a debt management company, which started in November 2017. Vanquis said no 
interest had been applied to the account since then. But it said that there were times that 
payments towards this agreed plan werent received by the due date, and so these had been 
reported as late payments.
Mr K complained and asked for all the late payment markers to be removed from his credit 
file, and for a refund of the interest charged to his account since December 2016.
Vanquis said the late payment markers had been applied correctly, and it was Mr Ks 
responsibility to make sure the payments were made on time, even if they were being made 
through a third party. 
Mr K was able to repay his credit card balance by March 2019, and his account was closed.   
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She 
thought that Vanquis had tried to help Mr K while he was in financial difficulties. She said 
that it hadnt received information it had asked for to carry on with the Repayment Option 
Plan, and it didnt receive all the agreed payments towards his payment arrangement. 
Because of this, the investigator thought the fees and interest had been applied correctly. 
The investigator also said that she thought Vanquis had reported accurate information in 
relation to the late payments, so didnt think it should remove the markers. 
Mr K didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for his complaint to be reviewed. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr Ks complaint about two particular payments being received late whilst 
he was dealing with the third party debt management company is being addressed 
separately. Therefore this doesnt form part of my decision here about Vanquis.
And although I do appreciate Mr Ks strength of feeling about the impact of the interest; 
charges; and late payment markers on both his financial situation and his credit history, I 
dont think Vanquis has acted unfairly or unreasonably with the actions it has taken.
I say this because I think Vanquis has looked to respond positively and sympathetically to 
the financial difficulties Mr K told it about. 
It suspended interest and charges for a period, and agreed a repayment arrangement with 
him. However, it didnt receive the information it asked Mr K for to allow it to give further 
consideration to his particular circumstances, and, after he made the first payment towards 
the agreed repayment plan, it didnt receive the subsequent ones.
If theres been an arrangement that a consumer may pay reduced amounts towards a debt 
then thatll be reflected in their credit report. 
And I can see that Vanquis also agreed to accept an offer of reduced payments Mr K made 
through a debt management agency, and no interest was charged on the account since 
then. This continued until his account was closed. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think Vanquis should be required to make any 
amendments to Mr Ks credit file when this reflects how he managed his credit card account. 
Vanquis has a responsibility to report accurate and up-to-date information to credit reference 
agencies, and I think thats what it has done here. I also don't think it needs to refund interest 
applied through the times before his payment plan was agreed and maintained.
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2020.
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman