DRN-2854308
The complaint
Mr L complains about the service he got from One Call Insurance Services Limited after a 
direct debit on one of his car insurance policies was cancelled.
What happened
Mr L had taken out two car insurance policies through One Call, one was called standard, 
the other platinum. He paid for both by monthly direct debit. 
Mr L subsequently replaced the vehicle insured on the standard policy. But One Call said the 
new vehicle couldnt be substituted on his standard policy nor added to his platinum one. So 
Mr L took out a new policy for the new vehicle. He paid the premium in full, rather than by 
monthly direct debit. One Call said his direct debit for the standard policy would be 
cancelled.
Mr L contacted One Call a couple of weeks later with a problem about a direct debit. He 
spoke to a representative who dealt with standard policies. She said the direct debit on      
Mr Ls standard policy had been cancelled, but the problem could be with his platinum policy. 
However, since she didnt have access to the platinum account, she couldnt confirm this.
A day later, One Call says Mr Ls finance provider told it the platinum policy direct debit had 
been cancelled. So One Call wrote to Mr L giving him 7 days notice of cancellation of the 
platinum policy.
Mr L contacted One Call a few times more to find out what had gone wrong with the direct 
debit, which he says he didnt cancel. He was told he needed to make a missed payment of 
around £25. A £15 default charge was also added to his account (although One Call later 
waived this). After the last of these conversations, One Call sent Mr L another 7 day 
cancellation letter.
By this time, Mr L had made a complaint to One Call about its service. He contacted it again 
because he was worried he wasnt insured. He was told his insurance would be extended for 
another 14 days while his complaint was investigated.
A few days after this, One Call sent Mr L its response to his complaint. It apologised for any 
inconvenience it had caused Mr L. Because it couldnt verify Mr L had cancelled the wrong 
direct debit (something, as Ive said, Mr L denies), it said it would waive the £25 missed 
payment, reinstate the direct debit on the platinum account and remove the cancellation 
record from Mr Ls file (the £15 default charge having already been waived).
Mr L then brought his complaint to us. He says One Call falsely accused him of trying not 
to pay. He says the threat to cancel his insurance caused him inconvenience, stress and 
anxiety.
The investigator who looked at Mr Ls complaint upheld it. She thought there was an 
instruction error by One Call that shouldnt have happened. She thought One Call should 
pay Mr L £150 for the anxiety it caused him in thinking his insurance might be cancelled, 
along with the stress of One Call blaming him for the cancelled direct debit. 
One Call hasnt responded to our investigators view. So Mr Ls complaint has come to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ls complaint. I dont think One Call has treated 
Mr L fairly and Ill explain why.
Its not clear to me what went wrong with the direct debit on Mr Ls platinum account. 
Information One Call has sent us shows the direct debit on the standard policy was 
cancelled by One Call on the day Mr L took out the insurance policy on the new vehicle and 
by Mr L the following day. 
For the platinum account, information from One Call shows the direct debit being declined on 
its due date, with a note from that date saying default by bank amount differs. Theres also 
a note dated the following day saying instruction cxld by payer. Ive seen no other 
information about the cancellation of this direct debit.
Mr L says he didnt cancel the direct debit on the platinum account. In its final response letter 
to Mr L, One Call said it didnt think the direct debit for the platinum policy had been 
cancelled (presumably it means it doesnt think it had been cancelled by One Call, although 
the wording isnt clear). But it said it had no means of verifying this. It also said it believed  
Mr L had cancelled the direct debit instruction for his standard policy and this had caused an 
instruction error leading to the cancellation of the direct debit on the platinum policy. I dont 
really know what this means.
What I do know is Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr L cancelled the wrong direct debit. And, 
whether it was cancelled by mistake by One Call through some kind of system error or by  
Mr L, Id have expected One Call to be able to explain to Mr L quickly and clearly what had 
gone wrong. It didnt do this. 
One Call has acknowledged its failings by apologising to Mr L for any inconvenience its 
caused him and waiving the missed payment and default charge. Its also reinstated the 
direct debit and says its removed the cancellation record from Mr Ls file.
Like our investigator, I dont think this goes far enough. Mr L spent a considerable amount of 
time on various live chats trying to sort out what had happened with the direct debit. He 
didnt get very far despite his efforts. At one stage, Mr L was unsure if he still had car 
insurance under the platinum policy (presumably because the two different letters giving 
notice of cancellation necessarily gave two different cancellation dates). He was clearly 
worried he might be driving uninsured. Given the consequences of this, his anxiety was 
understandable  and One Call wasnt quick to give him reassurance. As Ive mentioned he 
also describes the stress of being falsely accused of not paying when One Call apparently 
has no systems in place to be able to trace direct debits.
In these circumstances, in addition to the other steps One Call has taken (as Ive outlined 
about), I think its fair and reasonable to direct One Call to pay Mr L £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience its handling of the issue with Mr Ls direct debit has caused him.Putting things right
I direct One Call Insurance Services to put things right as I set out below.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Ls complaint.
I understand One Call Insurance Services Limited has already waived the missed payment 
of around £25 and the default charge of £15. And I understand it has removed the insurance 
cancellation from all internal and external databases. But, for the avoidance of doubt, I direct 
that One Call Insurance Services Limited should do all of these things if it hasnt already. It 
should also write to Mr L confirming that the cancellation of the platinum direct debit was an 
error on its part  so Mr L can show the letter to future insurers should he need to.
In addition, I direct One Call Insurance Services Limited to pay Mr L £150 for the distress 
and inconvenience it has caused him. 
One Call Insurance Services Limited should pay Mr L this sum within 28 days of the date we 
tell it Mr L has accepted my final decision. If it doesnt, One Call Insurance Services Limited 
should pay simple interest at the rate of 8% per annum on this sum from the date of my final 
decision to the date of payment. 
If One Call Insurance Services thinks its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from any interest, it should tell Mr L how much its taken off. It should also give 
him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman