DRN-2558672
The complaint
The estate of Mrs E complains that Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited wouldnt 
release the proceeds of a life policy without it first obtaining a Grant of Probate.
What happened
In early 2019, Mrs E sadly passed away. Mr E, her son, was named in her will as executor. 
He began to administer her assets to be distributed to her beneficiaries. The late Mrs E had 
held a life insurance policy with Scottish Friendly, which was worth about £9,000. Mr E 
contacted Scottish Friendly in order to release the proceeds.
Scottish Friendly explained to Mr E that it couldnt do so until hed received a Grant of 
Probate confirming he had the right to act on behalf of Mrs Es estate. Mr E complained. He 
said there was no legal requirement to apply for a grant, and that none of the other 
companies hed dealt with in administering his late mothers estate had asked for one.
Scottish Friendly stood by its decision and said it wouldnt release the money until Mr E had 
a Grant of Probate. Mr E, as the representative of the estate of Mrs E, brought his complaint 
to our service. Since we began investigating, Mr E has now received a Grant of Probate and 
Scottish Friendly has paid the proceeds of the late Mrs Es policy.
Mr E said he wants Scottish Friendly to pay him the cost of requesting a Grant of Probate as 
well as interest on the life policy proceeds, as Scottish Friendly should have released them 
much sooner than it did.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She thought Scottish Friendly had treated 
the estate of Mrs E fairly. She said that Scottish Friendly was entitled to decide what form of 
authority it needed in order to release funds, and didnt think it was unreasonable in asking 
Mr E to get a grant before paying out the proceeds of the late Mrs Es policy.
Mr E disagreed. He maintained there was no requirement for Scottish Friendly to have asked 
for the grant, and that doing so put unnecessary barriers in the way of his administration of 
his late mothers estate. He said Scottish Friendly had admitted it didnt need a Grant of 
Probate, but was just sticking to its process, in correspondence with him. He asked for an 
ombudsman to decide the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by expressing my condolences to Mr E on his mothers passing. Dealing with 
an estate is always a stressful and difficult process and I appreciate his strength of feeling 
about what happened when he tried to redeem his late mothers life policy. But overall, like 
our investigator, Im not persuaded Scottish Friendly has treated the estate of Mrs E unfairly.
When someone dies, the legal right for their executor to act in administering their assets is 
conferred by a Grant of Probate. This says that the named person is legally appointed to 
administer and distribute any money, savings, shares, property or other assets the deceased 
held.
In some circumstances  where the person who died held all their assets jointly, or if all they 
had was savings  a grant wont be needed. And some financial companies will allow an 
executor to access and administer assets up to a certain value without needing a grant 
either. The amount a company will allow to be released without a Grant of Probate can vary, 
and will come down to the individual firms commercial judgement  which isnt generally 
something wed interfere with.
Here, Scottish Friendly has explained that the nature of the policy and the amount it was 
worth fell above the level it was willing to release without a Grant of Probate. As it was 
ultimately a matter for Scottish Friendly to decide if it was willing to release the money 
without a grant, Im not persuaded it was unreasonable for it to ask Mr E to get a Grant of 
Probate in these particular circumstances. I cant see its treated the estate of Mrs E 
differently to any other application from an executor to redeem a similarly valued policy.
I understand Mr Es frustration, especially where other firms allowed him to access larger 
sums without needing a Grant of Probate. But the fact those firms decided to do so doesnt 
mean Scottish Friendly werent entitled to ask for a grant if it so chose, or that this put up an 
unreasonable barrier in allowing Mr E to administer his mothers estate.
So taking everything into account, Im not persuaded Scottish Friendly unreasonably 
prevented or delayed the estate of Mrs E accessing the proceeds of her life policy. 
Accordingly I dont require it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs E 
to accept or reject my decision before 30 July 2021.
 
Luke Gordon
Ombudsman