DRN-2290243
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complained about being mis-sold a type of payment protection insurance (PPI) 
by HSBC UK Bank PLC (HSBC) which, at the time, was potentially trading under the 
Midland Bank brand. 
HSBC is responsible for answering the complaint now, so Ill therefore mainly refer to it 
throughout this decision.
There has been a great deal of complexity to work through in getting to the bottom of this 
matter. In their complaint, Mr and Mrs A have referred to numerous financial products they 
were sold by HSBC such as credit cards, endowment policies and personal loans. 
However, most of these issues have already been dealt with a long time ago. 
So, to be clear, this decision is about the type of insurance cover that pays out if those 
insured lose their job or become too ill to work. Typically, this type of insurance runs 
alongside mortgage commitments, in that if successfully claimed on, the policy helps the 
consumer(s) to pay their mortgage repayments when they cant work. Sometimes the cover 
is standalone so even if the person(s) insured dont / doesnt have a mortgage, the pay-out 
from the policy can be used to support other financial commitments. 
To keep things simple, Ill refer to PPI to describe the policies we are talking about here. 
It seems Mr and Mrs A had mortgages with HSBC, covered with PPI policies from the early 
1990s, through to 2006. The mortgage and PPI policies have long since been closed. 
What happened
One of our adjudicators has already assessed this case and told Mr and Mrs A its unlikely to 
be upheld. They disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided not to 
uphold this PPI complaint. 
In their initial complaint to us Mr and Mrs A referred to PPI being mis-sold to them in the 
1970s. However, I can see when HSBC investigated the matters, it uncovered policies from 
1997 and 2004. Mr and Mrs A cant tell us much at all about these policies, but they know 
they had them and say they were advised to have them to help protect their mortgage 
borrowing. Both these policies covered Mr and Mrs A jointly and were designed to pay out if 
either lost their jobs or became unable to work.
To me, these two PPI policies look like they were most likely taken out during significant 
mortgage borrowing events, such as a main mortgage application and then some further 
borrowing a few years later. I say this because the dates seem to tie-in to them borrowing 
money and the PPI premiums of around £29 per month and £47 per month respectively 
would also seem to fit those scenarios.
But later on, HSBC uncovered three much smaller PPI policies from sales around 1995  
1998. Typically, the charges for these were only around £5 per month and so I think they 
represented either standalone policies or further borrowing of smaller amounts on an 
existing mortgage account. Neither Mr and Mrs A, nor HSBC can tell us much to clarify how 
these smaller PPIs came about. We simply dont know much about them.
Given the timescales involved here, its also been difficult to source the paperwork from the 
original sales and what we have access to now amounts to very little. I should say that this 
isnt unusual, or indeed unreasonable, given how long ago they were. We do have access to 
some of HSBCs electronic records however, and a few other documents. But by no means 
are we able to build up a full picture of what took place. Perhaps understandably, Mr and 
Mrs As recollections have also been somewhat difficult to follow.
Nevertheless, the main allegation here is that HSBC mis-sold PPI cover to Mr and Mrs A. Its 
alleged that the PPI cover was portrayed as being a necessary part of getting their 
mortgages approved and that they didnt really want, or need, this type of protection.
Id like to place of record that I certainly dont doubt that Mr and Mrs A genuinely feel that 
PPI was mis-sold to them. But where there are substantial gaps in the evidence  and 
recollections are somewhat unreliable due to the passage of time  its necessary for me to 
make some reasonable assumptions in this case. Ive seen a great many such sales, and 
many with HSBC, and so Ive used my general experience with these to help me think about 
what probably happened.
Were Mr and Mrs A forced to take out the PPI cover?
My focus has been more on the 1997 and 2004 policies because we seem to at least have 
some documentation to refer to  but actually, my thinking is the same for all the PPI they 
had with HSBC: it wasnt mis-sold in my view. 
The evidence I have from the 1997 PPI sale is mainly electronic records from the HSBC 
computer system. I obviously cant say what Mr and Mrs A were told during the mortgage 
interview, but the records do indicate that PPI was discussed, and they were asked whether 
or not it was something they wanted to have. The evidence suggests they agreed to the 
cover and the price. Some general aspects of the insurance were probably discussed.
Of particular note, it seems that two successful claims for unemployment were made on the 
policy which resulted in Mr and Mrs A being supported in their mortgage payments in 1999 
and again in 2001. They received over £1,200 in total.
For the 2004 PPI sale, its likely this occurred when Mr and Mrs A were reorganising their 
mortgage affairs. Weve been sent some documentation by HSBC which is related to Mr and 
Mrs As mortgage application (further borrowing). Again, Mr and Mrs As contention is that 
the PPI was portrayed as something they needed to have to get the mortgage approved. 
However, Im afraid the evidence simply doesnt support that. In my view, the mortgage 
illustration (which may have subsequently changed) offers a choice between having  or not 
having  this type of PPI cover attached. Mr and Mrs A indicated they wanted to have the 
PPI and they signed their names by way of confirmation.My general experience of these types of sales is that Mr and Mrs A would have probably 
been given something explaining the policy rules. But for both these occasions, the evidence 
Ive seen is more persuasive that the PPI was discussed, and it was something they wanted 
to have. The absence of having more of the sale documents does mean assumptions have 
to be made, but the records show, in my view, that the PPI was portrayed as optional. And 
by claiming on the policy, Mr and Mrs A were obviously well aware of what the PPI was for.
Was PPI suitable for Mr and Mrs A?
This is the second main aspect of Mr and Mrs As complaint. However, Ive looked at their 
jobs and their overall financial situation. I note, firstly, that at some point Mr A was potentially 
self-employed although Im uncertain about whether the dates when he was are pertinent to 
the PPI policies. But assuming he was self-employed, Ive looked at the PPI policy details 
and I dont consider the terms to have been any more onerous due to the type of work he 
was in. Essentially, I think a successful claim on the policy was possible in his self-employed 
circumstances. This issue did not therefore disadvantage them.
Ive also thought about other financial products they say they had in place at the time such 
as savings, other forms of insurance and job-related sickness protection. However, 
collectively, I havent seen anything which implies the PPI cover wasnt for them suitable. I 
think its fair to say that their mortgages were significant and long-term financial 
commitments and the consequences of not being able to make the repayments  or be 
supported in doing so  could have been serious for them.
Life cover, for example, put forward by Mr and Mrs A as a viable alternative to PPI, is not in 
my view a reason to uphold their complaint either. That is because life protection covers a 
quite different eventuality and so it doesnt conflict with the suitability of the PPI. Nor have I 
seen levels of savings or other assets that make the PPI seem unsuitable for them. 
Ive also considered the price of the cover. Both the 1997 and 2004 PPI costs seem to me to 
be in line with the type of protection I know was being generally marketed at the time.
In short, I dont have any supporting evidence that PPI was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs A and 
so I dont think it being recommended to them was wrong.
Were they given enough information?
I cant say whether they were told everything they ought to have been told. But my 
experience is that they would have been given written booklets or similar documentation 
explaining the cover. Ive seen copies of these for the years in question and Ive got no 
reason to suppose Mr and Mrs A wouldnt have seen them.
I also think theyd have had to authorise the money leaving their accounts to pay for the 
policies and their claim(s) would have allowed them to calculate the value for money  
certainly for the later policy.
Mr and Mrs As response to our adjudicator
As Ive said, our adjudicator mainly explained the all above to Mr and Mrs A, although in a 
little less detail, when he said he wasnt recommending upholding their PPI complaint. Ive 
looked at Mr and Mrs As response to this and thought carefully about what theyve said. But 
Im afraid I think they are conflating two completely different products in their reply, albeit 
ones connected to their past mortgages. They refer to be being mis-sold an endowment 
policy, again from many years ago, which is a different issue to the one Im addressing here. 
It seems their endowment was rearranged in the early 2000s and their mortgage converted to a repayment mortgage  what we are addressing now is the sale of PPI, so its a different 
issue unfortunately.
Summary
I can see Mr and Mrs A have sent us a great many documents about a large number of 
financial products they had over many years. Im mindful of all the effort theyve put in to this 
complaint.
In this final decision Ive had to try and narrow down the sheer volume of information we now 
have from them. Our adjudicator has also helped them with some unconnected complaints 
they have about life insurance, going back some time.
However, in summary, Im afraid I find no supporting evidence that any of the PPI policies in 
question was mis-sold to them. 
The evidence  albeit partial  is far more supportive of there being discussions and 
disclosures about the optional nature of the cover. I also think the policies were suitable for 
Mr and Mrs A and the evidence is of them being able to access the benefits when they 
needed them most. I think they took out the cover because it was something they wanted to 
have at the time and they did this on several occasions. 
For me to think they were told they had to have these policies, Id also have to think they 
were told this repeatedly by different staff, over many years. I dont think this is likely. 
Im very sorry to disappoint them but Im not upholding their PPI complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint about being mis-sold PPI. 
I do not direct HSBC UK Bank PLC to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman