DRN-3634445
The complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC have unfairly registered a default against him.
What happened
Mr P had a career and development loan with Barclays. He says that from 2018 he was
working overseas, and he had been maintaining his payments to the loan. In 2021, while still
living overseas, he decided to check his UK credit rating, where he discovered that Barclays
had registered a default on his credit file.
Mr P says that he was unable to Barclays career and development loan team for days as
there was no contact number for them. When he was able to speak to Barclays staff, they
were unable to help him. When Mr P spoke to someone who could help him, he says he
immediately settled the outstanding balance and requested that Barclays remove the default
from his credit file.
Mr P says that although he shouldve updated Barclays with his address, Barclays also had
his email address and telephone number, so they did not take any reasonable steps to make
sure they were writing to Mr P, or that they communicated with him via the alternative
methods they couldve done. Mr P made a complaint to Barclays.
Barclays partially upheld his complaint. They said Mr P had missed his February and March
2020 repayments, which meant his loan was two months in arrears. Mr P returned to making
his monthly repayments in April 2020. As his loan was not brought up to date, Barclays say
they continued to send him arrears notices. They also sent him a default notice on 2 March
2021. Barclays said they did not default his account in March 2021, as they sent him another
default notice on 14 June 2021, which explained if Mr P did not pay his arrears on or by 10
July 2021 (or contact them prior to this date to agree a repayment of the arrears), then they
would default his account, which they did when they received no contact or payment from Mr
P.
Barclays said that they werent able to remove the default, but they made arrangements to
backdate the date of the default to 30 March 2021. They said this is when the default
shouldve applied and as Mr P has since cleared the arrears, then the debt would be showed
as satisfied on his credit report. Barclays said that although Mr P told them that they could
have made more effort to contact him, they confirmed all of the appropriate letters were
issued to him in line with their terms and conditions to his registered address.
Barclays said that due to the service Mr P received when he tried to contact them about the
default, they offered him £50 compensation. Mr P brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator felt the £50 compensation which was offered was fair. He said Barclays
have advised that in line with their terms and conditions, they would not send regulated
correspondence, such as arrears letters or default notices via email or SMS and that they
will only be sent via post, to the address held on file. He said Barclays sent Mr P 18 arrears
notice letters from February 2020 to November 2021. Our investigator said there was no
error in applying a default to Mr Ps credit file as Barclays had acted in line with their terms
and conditions.
Mr P asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He said Barclays had not contacted
him on the information they had for him, which was disproportionate. He said he had seen
previous cases similar to his where the default had been overturned.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mr P has said regarding similar cases to his where a default has been
overturned. But I must be clear to Mr P that I can only consider the individual merits of his
complaint, and not what has happened with other complaints. This is because each
complaint is different, even if they may appear to be similar. So here, Ill be focusing on
whether Barclays did anything wrong by registering a default.
Barclays are required by the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority to send certain
documents via post, regardless of what preferred communication method a customer may
have. So here, Barclays sent Mr P several arrears notices and then default notices to his
registered address. Barclays would not be required to send these types of communication by
email or text message. So I cant say that they have done anything wrong by not trying to
contact Mr P via alternative methods.
It is Mr Ps responsibility to ensure that Barclays have up to date information for him. But Mr
P did not update Barclays with his address when he moved overseas, so Barclays would not
know his circumstances had changed. I asked Barclays if they had received any returned
mail which they had sent to Mr P and they had confirmed they had not. So Im persuaded it
would not be proportionate for Barclays to try and use alternative ways to contact Mr P,
when they had no mail returned to them. I say this as Barclays would have no indication that
Mr P was not receiving their letters, or he was living overseas. In addition, they are not
required by the regulator to send arrears notices by text message or email.
It is also Mr Ps responsibility to ensure his contractual payments are made on time. But he
missed his February and March 2020 payments. This caused arrears and ultimately resulted
in his account defaulting before Mr P cleared these arrears. It was November 2021 when Mr
P cleared his arrears and satisfied the outstanding balance. So this was a significant amount
of time from when Mr P first started building up arrears to when he settled the outstanding
loan balance. So I would expect Barclays to register a default in these circumstances.
Generally, a default would be registered when the communication between a lender and a
borrower breaks down. Although Mr P missed his February and March 2020 payments, he
did continue to make his contractual payments after this. So I cant say this should be the
starting point of when the default should have been applied as this would have been too
premature.
Barclays have said that Mr P was paying by standing order. So its likely that Mr P set up his
last payment to be around November 2020, when his loan was scheduled to end. So
because Mr Ps payments stopped in November 2020, there were no further payments to his
account until he had realised his account had defaulted.
I queried with Barclays the correct default date. As they had originally defaulted the account
in July 2021 and then they said they should have defaulted the account four months earlier
in March 2021. Barclays confirmed to me that the original default date of July 2021 was
actually correct, and they made a mistake backdating the default to March 2021.As this mistake is in Mr Ps favour, Barclays have said they would not look to change the
date of the default back to July 2021, and Im not minded to interfere with this as part of my
decision. Barclays have explained to me that the reason it should have been registered in
July 2021 is that Mr P had not cleared the arrears on his account and the arrears had
reached more than 12 months of them not being cleared  and it being more than six months
after the scheduled maturity date of the loan without any agreement being reached. Barclays
said the maturity date was November 2020, so six months after this would be May 2021. As
they didnt receive any of the arrears payments by June, they sent Mr P a notice of default to
his registered address.
While I have sympathy for Mr Ps situation and its clear he acted to clear the arrears as
soon as he found out he owed Barclays money, despite customer service issues he faced
when he tried to contact Barclays, I cant say that Barclays have made an error in applying a
default. I understand the implications this may have for Mr P, but as Barclays are required to
register a default when arrears accrue and they are not paid within a reasonable timeframe,
this is what they have done. So I wont be asking them to remove the default. Mr P may wish
to add a notice of correction to his credit file, which could explain to potential lenders the
reason why the default was applied. And potential lenders would be able to see that Mr P
has satisfied the debt, even if it would still show as a default.
Ive considered the compensation that Barclays offered Mr P. They offered him £50 for poor
customer service. But Im not persuaded that this recognises the full impact of the customer
service that Mr P had. I say this because Mr P was told incorrect information about why his
account had defaulted. He shouldnt have been sent a default notice in March and June
2021 and Ive documented above the reasons why the account should have rightfully
defaulted in July 2021. This decision will be the first time that Mr P will have been aware of
this as this has not been communicated to him previously.
So Im persuaded that this will add more distress to the distress and inconvenience he
suffered from the poor customer service when he tried to first contact Barclays about the
default and nobody could help him. So Im persuaded that a total of £150 compensation
would be fair for Barclays to pay Mr P due to the poor customer service and the conflicting
information about when his account should have defaulted. Especially as the default was
originally registered in July 2021, then he was told that was incorrect and it was being
backdated to March 2021, but this was incorrect, and the original July 2021 date was
correct.
I know Mr P would rather have the default removed as opposed to compensation, but Ive
explained the reasons why it would not be proportionate to ask Barclays to remove the
default. So it follows, I intend to ask Barclays to pay Mr P an extra £100 to the compensation
they already offered him, to total £150.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Barclays accepted my provisional decision. Mr P did not accept the provisional 
decision. He made a number of points. In summary he said while the judgement was fair, 
hes previously politely declined any compensation and would like to again. He said his 
request was to appeal to the human side of a big business such as Barclays in line with the 
beliefs Barclays state on their website such as acting with empathy and integrity and our 
success is judged not only by commercial performance, but also by our contribution to 
society, and how we act responsibly for the common good and he wanted them to forgive 
his small error and amend his credit file.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mr P has said about appealing to Barclays better nature to forgive his 
small mistake. I have attempted to engage with Barclays to see if they would be willing to 
amend Mr Ps credit file based on the errors which they have made. But Barclays are within 
their rights to decline to do this. And this is what theyve decided to do here. They have an 
obligation to report accurate information to the credit reference agencies including 
registering a default.
I must stress that Barclays have done nothing wrong in registering a default of Mr Ps credit 
file. As I explained in my provisional decision I cant say that Barclays have made an error in 
applying a default. I understand the implications this may have for Mr P, but as Barclays are 
required to register a default when arrears accrue and they are not paid within a reasonable 
timeframe, this is what they have done. So while I have sympathy with Mr Ps 
circumstances, it would not be proportionate for me to instruct Barclays to remove the 
default when they have done nothing wrong in applying the default.
As I mentioned in my provisional decision, Mr P may wish to add a notice of correction to 
his credit file, which could explain to potential lenders the reason why the default was 
applied. And potential lenders would be able to see that Mr P has satisfied the debt, even if it 
would still show as a default.
In summary, Mr Ps response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision. I know Mr P will be disappointed, but I hope 
he understands my reasons. 
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to ask Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr P a total of 
£150 compensation for distress and inconvenience. Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome for 
the reasons given previously.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part. Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr P a total of £150 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman