DRN-2437271
The complaint
 Mrs M complains about the replacement phones Assurant General Insurance Limited have 
provided to her under her mobile phone insurance policy.
What happened
In December 2020 I issued my provisional decision. In it, I sent out whatd happened in this 
complaint, and what I thought was appropriate to resolve it.
In November 2018 Mrs Ms phone developed a fault, and she sent it to Assurant for a repair /
replacement. A replacement phone was sent around a week later, but just three days after
receiving it, Mrs M had to report this replacement phone as being faulty. Another
replacement was sent, but this too developed a fault shortly after being received.
Mrs M says she was going on holiday and didnt want to be without a phone at this point, so
didnt return it until March 2019. She got another replacement phone, and eight months later
in November 2019 she told Assurant this phone wasnt working either. Mrs M was told by
Assurant theyd arrange a courier collection for this phone, but no one turned up on any of
the potential dates shed been told. When making these arrangements, Mrs M understood a
replacement phone for her was in stock, but when she called back to find out why no one
had collected her phone, she was told the replacement phone for her was no longer in stock
 and says no one contacted her to tell her this.
She says another date was agreed for a replacement, again no one turned up, and again
when she called up she was told a replacement for her phone wasnt in stock  and this time
was also told it was too old to be replaced. Because of this, they offered her £150 in
settlement for her phone. Mrs M didnt see how she could replace her phone with this
amount and didnt think this offer met the policy terms because these say shell be offered a
replacement phone or, if they cant do that, then a phone of an equivalent specification. But
she says she wasnt offered this  just the £150 in lieu of a replacement phone, plus £50
compensation. And as a result of this, shes ended up with a phone costing her £30 a month
over two years, rather than a phone that was costing her £10 a month. She was also
unhappy with the possibility of being offered a refurbished phone, as she was concerned at
buying one of these where there was no possibility of any comeback if there were issues.
During the course of Mrs Ms claims, shes complained to Assurant about the issues shes
had. Ive summarised their responses below:
In December 2018 they were sorry for the faults that had developed on Mrs Ms 
phones and paid her £75 compensation for the issues shed experienced.
In March 2019 they said sorry for the further problems Mrs M had experienced and 
offered her £25 which they thought was fair. Mrs M didnt accept this.
In November 2019 they upheld her complaint again about not communicating 
properly with her and paid her £50 for this. But they said theyd acted correctly by 
offering £150 for her phone and said the policy terms say theyll offer refurbished 
phones  not new ones.
Unhappy with these issues Mrs M asked us to look into things. One of our investigators did
so and said he thought under our rules we couldnt consider the first two issues raised by
Mrs M as theyd been made out of time. But for the issues raised in November 2019 he felt
Assurant should have offered Mrs M a different type of phone but didnt so put this offer to
her. Otherwise, he felt Assurant had acted fairly in the way theyd handled the claim, and the
compensation paid.
Mrs M didnt accept this. In summary she said:
All the issues should be considered as theyre all part of the same problem.
The inconvenience shes experienced through the delays in getting a phone that 
worked cant ever be replaced.
Was told several times theyd contact her to collect her phone, and they didnt.
The policy terms havent been met as no other models were offered after the 
replacement / repair option failed.
She turned down the £150 and would have accepted the different phone if itd 
been offered at the time. But now shes got a new phone, she wouldnt accept 
this.
She doesnt think it right she should be expected to buy a reconditioned phone.
They laughed at her when she was claiming in November 2019, saying she had a 
really old phone.
Assurant admit they made errors, so should be compensating her. And £50 of the 
compensation shes received covered the excess shes had to pay for the claim.
Assurant also didnt agree with our investigator. They said they didnt think it was right the
complaint was upheld in Mrs Ms favour just because they could offer an upgraded phone
now  as their stock changes daily. So, they could only offer an alternative thats available at
the time. And they said on the date the cash settlement of £150 was offered its usually
because thats all they can do. They say its possible the upgraded phone wasnt available at
the time. Our investigator explained Assurant cant evidence that though, so its right he
upholds the complaint.
Prior to me carrying out a formal review, we got in touch with Assurant, and explained it was
possible, under our rules, we could consider all the issues raised by Mrs M. Under the rules,
if Assurant consent to us looking into things, then we dont need to make a formal finding
that we can  Assurant did consent to us looking into all the complaint points.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Settlement of the claim in November 2019
The policy terms say Assurant will repair the phone if possible  and if not theyll replace it
with one the same make, model and size. And if thats not possible, then theyll offer a
choice of phones with an equivalent specification.So, when Mrs M says Assurant hasnt met the policy terms, I agree they havent on this part
of her claim. Mrs M has said they never discussed the possibility of a replacement phone
with her, and Assurant cant provide any evidence to suggest they did  and when our
investigator asked this question, they specifically said it doesnt appear they did.
Mrs M isnt happy with this vague explanation from Assurant. I agree its disappointing they
cant provide a clearer explanation about whats happened and why. But I need to focus on
whether Assurant actions, in terms of how it settled the claim, was fair.
Instead of being able to offer a replacement phone, Assurant have said they were prepared
to pay Mrs M £150 for her phone  this is conditional on her returning the phone, which shes
told us recently she still has.
Its common practice with mobile phone insurance policies if the insurer cant provide an
appropriate replacement phone, theyll pay out an amount which they say means an
equivalent replacement phone can be bought.
Assurant have offered £150 and provided evidence to show this is fair in terms of adverts for
similar phones to what Mrs M had. Mrs M has said she didnt think she should have to buy a
replacement phone from someone she didnt know, where there was no comeback if there
were issues.
I do take Mrs Ms point and can see why she might not be comfortable with that. But the
policy terms say theyll offer Mrs M a refurbished phone  not a new one. So, I dont think
any cash settlement should be based on a new phone, but rather refurbished phones, which
is what Assurant have done. And the adverts Assurant have provided show Mrs M could
have got a phone for that amount.
As Mrs M now has a new phone, Im satisfied the offer of £150 for her phone is the most
appropriate way to resolve this complaint. Mrs M will need to return the phone to Assurant in
order to be paid this. But I think to avoid any further issues, one specific date should be
agreed with Mrs M for Assurants courier to pick up the phone. Or, Assurant will need to
refund Mrs M her postal costs  Mrs M may wish to send the phone back by special delivery
to avoid any potential issues with it getting lost in the post.
Customer service issues
Assurant have accepted theyve made lots of mistakes here, so Ill focus my thoughts on
whether the compensation is sufficient for what Mrs M has experienced. Overall, I dont think
it is.
Assurant have offered Mrs M a total of £150, of which Mrs M accepted and has been paid
£125. But, £50 of that figure is a refund of the excess costs  on a claim where Mrs M has
been provided with multiple phones that didnt work, and several appointments that have
been missed. So, Im not sure it should really count as compensation for the issues Mrs M
has experienced.
Mrs M has said shes had to be without her phone for periods of time because of the issues
that have happened  and has pointed out the reliance people have on their phones now.
Shes also said she sat in work on several occasions until 6pm waiting for Assurants courier
to show up  but they never did. This issue could easily have been prevented if Assurant
had just communicated with Mrs M to let her know what was happening.And, Assurant seemingly didnt handle the claim itself correctly either by contacting Mrs M to
offer her a different but equivalent type of phone. Theyve said more recently they only offer
a cash settlement if they cant offer anything else  but they also cant prove they did look
into this. Given how they handled the rest of the issues Mrs M has complained about, it
seems reasonable to say they made further mistakes here.
So, taking all of this into account, Im satisfied total compensation of £350 is fair. As
Assurant have already paid Mrs M £125, this means a further £225 needs to be paid to her.
Responses to my provisional decision
Assurant replied, and said they have nothing further to add.
Mrs M replied and said she was concerned about the level of compensation, and in 
particular said as a result of the mistakes by Assurant, she had to take out a new phone 
contract. She says this phone contract has cost her £390 over the last 13 months, but if her 
phone had been repaired or replaced, then itd have only cost her £130, so shes lost out by 
£260 because of this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  I understand why Mrs M would want her costs back for the new phone she purchased, as 
she feels this was her only choice given the issues Assurant created.
But, Mrs Ms point about her phone being returned also says she could effectively have had 
a deal for £10 a month. And Mrs M has said previously she wouldnt be prepared to buy a 
second-hand phone  so it seems the phone shes got, was a new one.
As Ive explained above, the policy terms dont offer cover for a new phone, they only offer 
cover for a replacement or repaired phone. And in the absence of Assurant being able to do 
that for Mrs M, Ive concluded £150 cash settlement for her old phone is fair. So, I dont think 
itd be appropriate to ask Assurant to pay any more than that under the terms of the policy 
for her phone. And as I said in my provisional decision, I think an additional £225 
compensation needs to be paid to Mrs M  bringing the total compensation shell have 
received to £350. Overall, Im still satisfied this is a fair way to resolve this complaint.
Putting things right
 I order Assurant to:
Agree one specific date with Mrs M to pick up her old phone / reimburse her postal 
costs if she sends it herself
Pay Mrs M £150 upon receipt of this phone
Pay Mrs M an additional compensation amount of £225, to bring the total 
compensation paid up to £350. 
My final decision
 It follows I partially uphold this complaint and order Assurant General Insurance Limited to 
carry out the actions set out in the Putting things right section above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman