DRN-1972685
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Lloyds Bank plc marked her account as dormant without informing her. 
She also complains that Lloyds Bank plc provided poor service and breached data protection 
laws.
What happened
Mrs C had a current account with Lloyds. She says she found out her account had been 
marked as dormant during 2018. She says this wasnt the first time this had happened. 
In 2018 Mrs C attended a Lloyds branch and presented documents to verify her identification 
and address. She did this because she wanted Lloyds to reactivate her account. She says 
the branch staff refused to accept this information and told her shed have to send the 
documents to her own branch.
Mrs C sent the documents as requested but she didnt receive any response. She then 
discovered that the branch shed sent the documents to had been closed. She became 
concerned about the security of her documents and complained to Lloyds. 
Lloyds investigated her complaint. It sent her a final response in December 2018. It said it 
had marked her account as dormant because she hadnt used it for some time. But it agreed 
that its service had been poor. So, it paid her £258 by way of compensation for whatd 
happened. It also told her it had received her documents in December 2018 and her account 
was no longer dormant. She was issued with a new debit card and made a payment into the 
account in January 2019.
Mrs C says all the documents shed sent to Lloyds were returned to her through the post. 
The envelope was marked  Addressee gone away. Mrs C says the correspondence shed 
sent to Lloyds had been opened before it was returned to her. 
In August 2019 Mrs C says she attempted to make an online payment using her Lloyds debit 
card, but the payment was refused. Mrs C says this was because Lloyds had marked her 
account as dormant again. She contacted Lloyds about this. She enclosed all her personal 
documents again and complained about the incorrect information shed been given in 
December. She also complained thered been a data protection breach when her documents 
had been opened and returned to her by an unknown person.
Lloyds investigated her complaint. It apologised for telling her in December 2018 that itd 
received her documents. That was due to an error on its part. Mrs C had previously provided 
documentation to it in December 2011. But it had misread the date on its records as 
December 2018. It said its branch staff had told her to send her documents to her own 
branch because the name on her account hadnt been updated after she got married. So, 
her own branch needed to update its records.
Lloyds also explained that post sent to a branch which had closed was usually redirected to 
its mailing centre. It said it couldnt explain why that hadnt happened. 
Lloyds apologised for telling Mrs C that the dormancy marker had been removed. Because it 
hadnt received the documentation the dormancy marker had been reinstated and that was 
why the online payment shed tried to make had been refused. Lloyds asked her to send 
certified copies of the documentation it required so that it could now update its records.
Lloyds offered to pay Mrs C a further £375, which it subsequently increased to £450, to 
compensate her for what had happened. Mrs C declined this offer and referred her complaint 
to our service.
Our investigator looked into her complaint. He said Lloyds had accepted it had made 
mistakes. But, having considered everything, he thought it had done enough to put things 
right. He said Lloyds had already paid Mrs C £258 in December 2018 and had offered to pay 
her a further £450. He thought that was in line with what our service wouldve expected, and 
it was fair and reasonable compensation for what had happened.
Our investigator also said our service couldnt look into whether thered been a breach of the 
data protection laws. That was a matter which Mrs C could refer to the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO). 
Mrs C didnt agree. She said that the matter had caused her considerable stress and anxiety 
which needed to be taken into account. She also said shed had to spend a lot of time trying 
to get things resolved. 
Because Mrs C didnt agree the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions which applied to Mrs Cs account. These state that 
when an account hasnt been used for at least twelve months Lloyds may suspend it. But it 
says it will give two months notice before it does this.  I can see that when an account is 
suspended Lloyds applies a dormancy marker to it.
Mrs C says she didnt receive any notification from Lloyds about the dormancy marker in 
2018. Despite this, she did become aware of it. I say this because she attended a Lloyds 
branch in 2018 and presented her identification documents. She did this because she 
wanted the dormancy marker removed. Mrs C says she was told to post the documentation 
to her own branch because the name on her passport didnt match the name on her account.
Mrs C did as she was asked. She wasnt aware that the branch she posted the documents to 
had been closed. The branch she visited hadnt told her this and she says she never 
received any notification from Lloyds about it.
She hadnt heard anything from Lloyds and so she contacted it in December 2018. She says 
she discovered, through her own research, that the branch had been closed and she 
became worried about where her documents had gone.
Lloyds investigated her complaint. In its final response letter dated 22 December 2018 it 
acknowledged that its service had been poor. It provided compensation for the upset shed 
been caused and for her postage costs and time. But it confirmed that the documents had 
been received and she could now be confident the account was active. At the time Mrs C 
accepted this. And, I can see she was able to make a deposit to the account in January 
2019.There is no dispute that the information Lloyds gave to Mrs C was incorrect. It hadnt 
received the documents. This error meant that, despite Lloyds putting notes on its systems 
to say that the dormancy marker shouldnt be applied, it was applied again in May 2019. 
Lloyds didnt inform her about this, and she didnt realise the account was marked dormant 
until she tried to use the card in August 2019.
I understand how frustrating it mustve been for Mrs C when she couldnt use her account in 
August. Shed been told in December 2018 that she could be confident the account was now 
active. And, theres no evidence that Lloyds sent her any notice that the dormancy marker 
would be put back on the account in May 2019. So, Lloyds has made mistakes in how it 
dealt with the dormancy marker on the account.
Its not our role to punish or fine a financial firm when it makes errors or provides incorrect 
information. Our role is to consider the action the firm took to try to put things right. So, Ive 
thought about what Lloyds did when it became aware of its error. 
The first issue that needed to be dealt with was the removal of the dormancy marker. 
I can see that Lloyds immediately acknowledged its error when Mrs C contacted it in August. 
It then took steps to get the information it needed to remove the dormancy marker. Theres 
no doubt this was inconvenient for Mrs C. She couldnt use the account until the matter was 
resolved. But Lloyds did offer to pay for the costs of getting the documentation couriered to 
it. And, although Mrs C says she had to remind it to pay these costs, it has reimbursed her. 
It is the case that Mrs C hadnt tried to use the account between January 2019 and 20 
August 2019. It was a month later, on 23 September when Lloyds confirmed to her that the 
dormancy indicator had been removed. A new PIN was issued at that time.
Mrs C didnt use the account again until 23 October 2019. So, I think its fair to say that 
although access to the account had been restricted since May 2019, this was an account 
which she used infrequently. But shed still have been inconvenienced and she had to spend 
time corresponding with Lloyds to try to get the matter resolved. Ive taken that into account 
when considering the compensation thats been offered.
Mrs C also says she experienced distress and inconvenience because her documentation 
had been opened by someone she didnt know and returned to her. I can appreciate how 
concerning this mustve been for Mrs C. 
Our investigator said we couldnt look into complaints about breaches of data protection 
laws. He said Mrs C should raise these concerns with the ICO.  I agree thats it not our role 
to determine whether theres been a breach of data protection laws. But, when considering 
whats fair and reasonable, we take into account the laws, regulations and circumstances of 
each case. 
It was August 2019 when Mrs C raised the matter about the returned post. I dont see 
anything to suggest shed raised this earlier. Its not clear when the documentation was 
returned to her or why she didnt contact Lloyds at the time when it was returned. It may be 
that, because of what shed been told in December, she didnt raise concerns when the 
documentation was returned to her. But she did raise her concerns about this matter when 
she contacted Lloyds in August 2019.
Lloyds hasnt been able to explain why the documents were returned rather than redirected 
to its central mailing team. It now says it never received them and they must have been 
returned by the postal services. It says that because the documents were never in its possession it isnt responsible for what the postal services may have done. So, it hasnt been 
able to resolve Mrs Cs concerns about her personal data. 
Mrs C thinks Lloyds is responsible for what happened to her documents. She says it told her 
to send the documents to a branch when it knew or shouldve known that the branch was 
closed. Shes told us she intends to raise this matter with the ICO and its entirely 
appropriate that she should do that. But Ive thought about Mrs Cs concerns concerning her 
personal data when considering the compensation which has been offered in this case.
When deciding whether an offer of compensation is fair and reasonable, we take into 
account the impact that the actions of the organisation had upon its customer. 
Theres no doubt that Mrs C was inconvenienced and, although this was an account she 
used infrequently, she had to spend time and effort trying to sort the problem out. 
Ive also taken into account the fact that Lloyds acknowledged its error as soon as Mrs C 
contacted it in August. And it offered to assist her with the courier costs. Thats what wed 
have expected it to do, given everything thatd happened. 
Lloyds also offered to pay Mrs C £450 by way of compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience she experienced. Our investigator thought this was in line with what our 
service would expect. He said we take into account what has happened and not what 
couldve happened. Thats right. When assessing what would be fair compensation, we look 
at everything thats happened, including all the actions the business took to try to put things 
right.  
Having considered everything here, Im satisfied Lloyds has acted fairly and reasonably. Its 
acknowledged and apologised for the errors it made. Its removed the dormancy marker and 
reimbursed Mrs C for the courier costs she incurred. It hasnt been able to explain why the 
postal services didnt redirect her documentation to its central mailing team. But, as 
mentioned above, thats something Mrs C intends to refer to the ICO. Shes entitled to do 
that.
So, although I know Mrs C will be disappointed, I think the offer of £450 is fair and 
reasonable compensation for the trouble and upset shes been caused. Lloyds has 
confirmed that its offer is still open, should Mrs C wish to accept it.
Ill leave it to Mrs C to decide whether she wants to contact Lloyds to accept its offer. I dont 
require Lloyds to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman