DRN-3444940
The complaint
Mr W complains about the value of a claim for fire damage under his leisure home insurance 
policy from his insurer, American International Group UK Limited (AIG). 
References to AIG include their agents who administer the policy and handle claims.
What happened
Mr W had a caravan on a static caravan park, insured through a home and contents policy 
underwritten by AIG. The policy was on a new for old basis with the caravan insured for a 
buildings sum of £25,500. In April 2021 there was a fire in an adjacent caravan that caused 
damage to Mr Ws caravan. Mr W contacted AIG to make a claim for the damage. AIG 
appointed loss adjusters, who visited the site and agreed the damage was covered under 
the policy. The damage was estimated at £14,955 and based on this AIG assessed the 
caravan to be economically repairable.
However, the loss adjusters estimated the new for old value of the caravan was likely to be 
about £50,000. As the buildings sum insured was £25,500 AIG thought this meant Mr W had 
under-insured. So, they told Mr W theyd only pay for a proportion of the estimated cost of 
repairs. Mr W challenged AIGs view, saying the retail cost of an equivalent new caravan to 
his own was in line with the sum insured. He said the difference was a result of the profits 
charged by the management of the caravan site for the caravan being on their site. As this 
element wasnt included in the cost of purchase from the caravan manufacturer, he thought 
AIG should cover the full estimated cost of repairs.
AIG considered Mr Ws view but rejected it. In their final response they said Mr W had been 
advised on several occasions that the insured value was too low for  a new for old policy, 
but he hadnt reflected the additional costs of having a caravan on the site. AIG went on to 
say the policy terms and conditions made it clear that if a policyholder is under-insured, then 
the full value of a claim might not be paid.
Mr W then complained to this service. He maintained his view that he wasnt under-insured, 
based on the replacement cost of a new caravan from the manufacturer. Different sites 
would charge different amounts for a caravan bought on-site. He also said the policy didnt 
say that new for old replacement was dependent on the specific site the caravan was 
located and the policy was insuring the replacement cost of the caravan (not the value 
including the pitch it was located on). He said hed been affected financially by being unable 
to use the caravan - but he was still having to pay the fees for the pitch. He also said the 
stress and anxiety had affected his wifes health. He wanted AIG to cover the full estimated 
cost of repair to his caravan and to compensate him for the stress and anxiety, together with 
the loss of use of his caravan.
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. On the issue of whether the caravan had been 
under-insured, he thought a new for old policy was intended to provide an equivalent 
caravan in the same location. That would be higher than the simple replacement cost from 
the manufacturer. Based on this, he thought Mr W was under-insured. The investigator also 
thought Mr W had made a careless misrepresentation under the Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA) when he based the insured sum on 
the replacement cost from the manufacturer. The investigator thought this meant AIG acted 
fairly in offering a proportionate reduction of the claim value.
 
However, the investigator didnt think AIG had fairly calculated the proportionate reduction. 
Thats because they calculated the proportion based on the ratio of the sum insured 
(£25,500) to the correct sum insured (estimated at £50,000). That meant a figure of 51%, 
when applied to the estimated repair cost of £14,955 gave a figure of £7,627 (less the policy 
excess). However, the investigator thought AIG should have calculated the reduction based 
on the ratio of the actual premium paid (£170.93) compared to the correct premium (for the 
correct sum insured). Information from AIG indicated the correct premium should have 
been £246.96 (meaning Mr W had paid 69.2% of the correct premium). So, Mr W should 
have received 69.2% of the estimated repair cost (£10,351 less the policy excess).
AIG disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. They said theyd acted correctly in basing the proportionate reduction on the ratio 
of the sum insured to the correct sum insured. They also disagreed with the investigators 
view the claim should be settled in line with CIDRA, given theyd contacted Mr W on several 
occasions about the sum insured being too low. They also said theyd told Mr W of the 
consequences should he be under-insured. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether AIG have acted fairly towards Mr W.
The key issue in this complaint is whether AIG acted fairly in applying a proportionate 
reduction to the claim for damage from Mr W. Following on from this  if AIG acted fairly in 
applying a proportionate reduction - theres the issue of how the reduction should be 
calculated. Ive noted Mr W accepted the view of our investigator, that he was under-insured. 
Ive also noted AIG, in disagreeing with the investigators view, challenged the issue of how 
the proportionate reduction should be calculated. While it seems the second issue is 
therefore the more important one here, I have considered both issues.
When making his complaint to this service, Mr W said hed used a replacement cost for an 
equivalent caravan from the manufacturer. Referring to their website, for a model with the 
same floor plan as his caravan, he noted a replacement cost of £24,600 (which is close to 
the £25,500 figure he used as the sum insured). He also argues the policy didnt say that 
new for old replacement was dependent on the specific site the caravan was located and 
the policy was insuring the replacement cost of the caravan (not the value including the pitch 
it was located on). AIG say Mr W had been advised on several occasions the insured value 
was too low for a new for old policy, and he hadnt reflected the additional costs of having a 
caravan on the site.
Ive considered both views carefully, including the information and evidence provided. On 
balance I agree with AIG. In coming to this conclusion Ive noted what AIG have provided 
about the information provided when the policy was taken out and how to provide the 
appropriate figure for the sum insured (both for policies based on market value and those 
on a new for old basis, as was the case with Mr Ws policy. Ive also noted the definition of 
New for Old in the policy document:
The cost of replacing the Home with its brand new equivalent in the event of total 
loss taking into account fees and associated costs as applicable.Looking at this, I think its clear that the figure isnt just the brand new equivalent (from the 
manufacturer (as Mr W sees it). I think its reasonable to take the definition to include the 
additional costs of locating the home (the caravan) on the site where the caravan was 
located (the pitch). Based on this, Ive concluded Mr W was under-insured under the new for 
old basis of his policy.
Having come to this conclusion, Ive also looked at whether it was clear to Mr W what the 
consequences of being under-insured would be. AIG say it was clear that under-insurance 
would mean a proportionate reduction in the value of a claim for damage or loss. Theyve 
referred to what the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) contains. It includes a 
statement under the heading Are there any restrictions on cover? that says:
! If the sum insured is less than the full replacement cost, we will pay the same 
proportion of the loss or damage as the sum insured bears to the full replacement 
cost
Together with separate letters to Mr W saying the sum insured looked low and consequently 
should he need to make a claim he would be unlikely to receive sufficient funds (to replace 
his caravan), I think it was clear what the consequences of under-insurance would be.
Having reached these conclusions, Ive then considered the second issue of the basis of the 
proportionate reduction.
Our investigator thought Mr W had made a careless misrepresentation under CIDRA when 
he based the insured sum on the replacement cost from the manufacturer. AIG disagree with 
that view and that the claim should be settled in line with CIDRA, given theyd contacted Mr 
W on several occasions about the sum insured being too low. They also said theyd told Mr 
W of the consequences should he be under-insured. 
Ive considered this point carefully. CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation when taking out (or renewing) a consumer insurance contract 
(a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. If a consumer fails to do 
this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is - what CIDRA 
describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the 
insurer has to show they would have offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the 
consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Given my conclusion that Mr W should have been aware that he was under-insured (despite 
AIG contacting him about the issue) then I think he failed to take reasonable care when 
providing the sum insured figure he did. From what AIG have said, had Mr W provided a 
correct sum insured figure theyd still have provided cover  but charged a higher premium. 
Based on this, Im satisfied Mr W made a qualifying misrepresentation. 
Mr W says he provided what he thought was an appropriate sum insured based on the cost 
of a replacement caravan from the manufacturer. While AIG wrote to Mr W to query the 
amount (as they thought it looked low for a new for old policy) they havent said why they 
consider CIDRA doesnt apply. In the circumstances, I think his misrepresentation should be 
treated as careless (rather than deliberate or reckless). Under the latter two categories, AIG 
would have been entitled to avoid Mr Ws policy (that is, treat it as though it had never 
existed) and decline his claim in full (which they havent done). As Im satisfied Mr Ws misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked at the 
remedies available under CIDRA. CIDRA states where theres a careless misrepresentation 
the insurer may still avoid the policy where it wouldnt have offered the cover at all. But as 
AIG would have offered cover (albeit at a higher premium) this isnt applicable.
 
As AIG would have offered cover (at a higher premium) then CIDRA provides for the insurer 
to apply a proportionate reduction based on the proportion of the premium the policyholder 
paid compared to what they should have paid. Given what Ive said about Mr W making a 
misrepresentation, Ive concluded that AIG should follow the principles of CIDRA when 
applying a proportionate reduction  rather than applying the terms of the policy by basing 
the proportionate reduction on the ratio of the actual sum insured to the correct sum 
insured. That is, CIDRA should take precedence over the terms of the policy.
As the premium paid by Mr W was £170.93 and the correct premium AIG would have 
charged - had the correct sum insured been provided  is £246.96 then the proportionate 
reduction should be 30.8%. Applying this proportion to the estimated repair cost of £14,955 
gives a proportionate reduction of £4,604. That is, Mr W should receive £10,351 (less the 
policy excess). 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Mr Ws complaint in part. I 
require American International Group UK Limited AIG Insurance plc to:
Settle Mr Ws claim on the basis of a proportionate reduction of 30.8% (£4,604) of the 
estimated repair cost of £14,955 (less the policy excess).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman