DRN-1186788
The complaint
Mr K and Mrs U say they havent receive the nectar points they were expecting for holding a 
Sainsburys Bank Plc mortgage.
What happened
Mr K and Mrs U applied for a mortgage with Sainsburys Bank through a mortgage broker. 
The mortgage completed on 19 April 2018.
On 4 June 2018 Mr K and Mrs U provided their nectar card details to Sainsburys Bank so 
their mortgage could be linked to the nectar account.
Periodically Mr K and Mrs U contacted Sainsburys Bank as they hadnt received the nectar 
points they were expecting, until in January 2019 a formal complaint was raised.
Sainsburys Bank rejected the complaint and so Mr K and Mrs U referred it to us. Our 
investigator said Sainsburys Bank hadnt done anything wrong as the scheme didnt work 
how Mr K and Mrs U thought. Mr K and Mrs U didnt agree and so its been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I trust Mr K and Mrs U wont take it as a 
discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint in the way that I have. Ours is an informal 
dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the 
complaint.
The confusion here seems to have come about due to Mr K and Mrs U (and/or their broker) 
not understanding what the promotional nectar scheme actually was. There was never the 
option for Mr K and Mrs U to earn nectar points just for paying their monthly mortgage 
payments.
Instead, Mr K and Mrs U were eligible to receive 5% of their grocery bill back with reward 
vouchers to spend in Sainsburys stores for two years. So - once the nectar card was 
registered against the mortgage account - each time Mr K and Mrs U spent money buying 
groceries from Sainsburys stores and online (subject to certain rules and exclusions) and 
used their nectar card, the spend amount would be added up. Each quarter Sainsburys 
would calculate 5% of that total figure which would then be sent to Mr K and Mrs U as a 
voucher to spend in Sainsburys stores. Theyd need to have spent at least £100 a quarter to 
get the minimum £5 voucher, and the maximum amount that could be claimed in any one 
quarter was £50.
This was on top of the normal nectar scheme, so was an additional benefit for eligible 
mortgage customers.
In their response to our investigator Mr K and Mrs U have said Sainsburys Bank told them 
theyd be receiving points on their mortgage before they signed anything. As Mr K and Mrs U are the ones bringing the complaint against Sainsburys Bank, to uphold the complaint Mr K 
and Mrs Us version needs to be more likely than Sainsburys Banks version; not just as 
likely. And having considered everything, on balance I cant say that Mr K and Mrs Us 
version is anything other than just as likely. 
If Mr K and Mrs U feel their mortgage broker didnt act appropriately and explain this to them 
then thats a matter theyd need to raise with the broker themselves. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr K and Mrs U to accept or reject my decision before 29 May 2020.
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman