DRN-2432145
The complaint
Mr H complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) recorded a fault claim against his motor 
insurance policy following an incident. He wants this changed to non-fault and a refund of his 
increased premium.
What happened
Mrs S, a named driver on Mr Hs policy, was involved in an incident with another driver whilst 
she was parking. She later said there had been no contact between the cars. But the other 
driver disagreed and made a claim. UKI settled this without telling Mr H. After he 
complained, it apologised for not telling him this and paid him £40 compensation. 
UKI also instructed its engineer to compare the damage on both cars. He said he couldnt 
find any damage that correlated to the circumstances. He said the other driver should 
provide a diagram of what was alleged. The other insurer relied on its engineers report and 
wouldnt accept liability. So UKI maintained the fault claim against Mr H. Mr H was unhappy 
that this increased his premium at renewal.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought UKI 
had reasonably investigated the claim and settled it according to the policy terms and 
conditions as it was entitled to do. She thought the best possible outcome was a 50/50 
settlement, and this would still mean a fault claim for Mr H. She didnt think UKI needed to 
take the matter to court. And she didnt think UKI needed to refund Mr H any premium. 
Mr H replied that there was no evidence to show there had been an impact. Mrs S had said 
her car had moved at the time of the incident. Mr H thought this was due to the other cars 
speed, and he asked for evidence that the car had been driving slowly, as the other insurer 
maintained. He provided photographs of his car taken at the time which showed no damage. 
Mr H asked for an ombudsmans review, so his complaint has come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr H feels frustrated that he has been held at fault as he thinks there 
is no evidence of an impact and no damage to his car. But he does agree that the two cars 
were at the scene. The other driver made a claim for damage he said was caused by Mrs S, 
and so I think UKI had to investigate this. 
The investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing an incident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it 
treated Mr H the same as someone else in his position. 
I think UKI is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr H to take over, 
defend, or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mr H has to follow its advice in connection with the 
settlement of his claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. 
This is a common term in motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are 
entitled to take a commercial decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party 
claim or better to compromise.
That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably investigate a claim before making its decision 
on how to settle it. In Mr Hs case, the other drivers claim was for scratches and some tyre 
contact. UKI thought this was consistent with the circumstances. There were no independent 
witnesses or CCTV footage to consider. So it was one drivers word against the others. 
And so UKI settled the other drivers claim without inspecting both cars, as Mr H had 
requested. Due to the low value of the other drivers car, it was declared a write off. 
When Mr H complained, UKI upheld his complaint. It agreed it hadnt sufficiently investigated 
the claim before settling it. It said it would inspect Mr Hs car and compare any damage with 
the other drivers car. This was seven months after the incident. 
UKI then sent the engineers reports on both cars to its in-house engineer for a consistency 
report. He said the damage didnt correlate and recommended asking for a diagram from the 
other driver to understand what was alleged, but this wasnt available. 
So UKI relied on Mrs Ss statement that her car had moved at the time of the incident and 
the other insurers view that the other car was going at low speed. It thought there must have 
been an impact that caused damage. The other insurer relied on its own engineers report 
that supported his version of events. So UKI said it wouldnt change the fault claim. 
Mr H provided photographs of his car which he said were taken at the time and showed no 
damage. But I can see that UKI had already considered photographs of the car and thought 
that they showed new damage. So I cant say that Mr Hs photographs provide evidence that 
his car wasnt damaged in the incident. 
I can understand Mr Hs frustration. But I think UKI eventually reasonably investigated the 
claim and considered the evidence before deciding to maintain its decision. Mr H wasnt 
present at the time of the incident. So I think UKI can rely on what Mrs S reported. Theres 
no doubt that both cars were at the scene. And, from Mrs Ss account, the onus would be on 
her to take greater care as she was making a manoeuvre.  
UKI carried out a consistency report on the damage to both cars which cast doubt on 
whether the claimed for damage was caused by the incident as it was reported. But the other 
insurer wouldnt accept liability. UKI didnt consider taking the matter to court as it was 
unlikely a court would find entirely in Mrs Ss favour. This would leave it with costs that were 
disproportionate to the amount of the claim. 
And so the best possible outcome would be for the claim to be settled as split liability, which 
would still leave Mr H with a fault claim. So UKI decided to not further dispute liability, as I 
think its entitled to do by the policy terms and conditions. And this leaves the fault claim on 
Mr Hs record and with a consequent increase in his premium. As I cant say that UKI has 
acted outside the policy terms and conditions or unfairly or unreasonably, I dont require it to 
make Mr H any refund.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman