DRN-3898671
The complaint
Miss Ns complaint is about the sale of a mortgage endowment policy taken to repay and 
protect her mortgage with a lender that is now Santander UK Plc. She says that the 
mortgage adviser strongly recommended that she take out an endowment mortgage rather 
than a repayment mortgage, as not only would the mortgage be repaid, but the policy would 
also give her an additional lump sum. She considers the endowment policy was mis-sold as 
it fell short of its target value at maturity and she wasnt advised that there was a risk 
associated with it.
What happened
Miss Ms policy started in January 1988. It was a traditional with-profits endowment policy. It 
had a target value of £25,000, a basic sum assured of £7,650 and was arranged on a low 
start basis, with the premiums increasing for each of the first ten years. The term was 25 
years and the policy matured in 2013 with a shortfall.
Miss N complained to Santander in 2021. Santander informed Miss N that it had concluded 
that it was not responsible for the sale of the policy. It said that the policy had been sold to 
her by an independent financial adviser business (hereafter referred to as the Adviser). As 
such, Santander told her that it wasnt responsible for what she was complaining about. 
Miss N didnt accept what Santander said and maintained that she had been sold the policy 
by her mortgage lender. She referred the complaint to us. Miss N provided letters from 
January 1988 from the lender and the product provider confirming that her applications had 
been accepted. She also provided a letter from the lender from a few months later 
confirming the mortgage account had been set up. In addition, Miss N provided us with a 
copy of the illustration she was given for the policy, which was dated 16 December 1987. 
This was produced on letterheaded paper of the Adviser.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt think that Santander was 
responsible for the complaint, as the evidence showed that the Adviser had sold Miss N the 
policy.
Miss N disagreed and told us that Santander had arranged for the Adviser to give her 
mortgage advice at home; she had not initiated contact with the Adviser. She also 
highlighted that Santander had placed a charge on the endowment policy.
The investigator considered what Miss N had said about the sale, but it didnt change his 
mind. He explained that the language used in the letters surrounding the mortgage and 
assignment of the policy to the lender was normal and didnt indicate that the policy had 
been sold by Santander. He confirmed that there was no evidence of a link between the 
Adviser and Santander, and so he didnt change his conclusion that Santander wasnt 
responsible for the sale and the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While it doesnt affect the outcome of this complaint, I think it might assist Miss N to have 
some additional information about financial services arrangements in 1987. Financial 
regulation didnt come in until 29 April 1988, which is after Miss Ns policy and mortgage 
were sold. Prior to that most lenders would sell endowment policies to go with interest-only 
mortgages they were providing. It was usual that the lender would have a panel of life 
assurance businesses they would sell policies from, and the sales would be completed by 
the branch staff (usually at management level) alongside the mortgage. When a policy was 
sold, the lender would receive commission from the life assurance company.
There were also independent businesses in the market that sold mortgages and policies with 
any lenders and life assurance companies theyd set up an account with. These accounts 
were simply an administrative tool to facilitate the business selling the policies and 
mortgages. The independent business didnt act on behalf of either the lender or the life 
assurance company when selling mortgages or policies for the lenders and life assurance 
companies respectively. For each policy application submitted to a life assurance company, 
the independent business was paid a commission in the same way as a lender would have 
been. They were what would now be called independent financial advisers.
As such, if Miss N had approached Santander for mortgage advice it could have provided 
that advice itself. It could also have directly sold her an endowment policy to go with the 
mortgage, thereby receiving the commission. There would have been no reason for 
Santander to arrange for advice to be given by another business and it would be to its 
detriment in that it wouldnt receive the commission for any policies sold.
I have looked at the letters and documents Miss N has sent us, and I dont consider the 
letters from the lender, product provider and Miss Ns solicitors give any indication as to what 
party sold the mortgage and endowment policy. The earliest correspondence simply confirm 
that the two applications had been accepted. As for the need for the endowment policy to be 
assigned/charged to Santander, that was normal practice by all lenders at the time. The 
assignment simply meant that the lender had an interest in the policy and when it matured, it 
could claim the proceeds to repay the mortgage.
Miss N has confirmed that she was visited in her home by the Adviser and was sold the 
mortgage and the mortgage endowment policy. The illustration for the policy is printed on 
paper with the Advisers letterhead  this is key as it supports the fact that the advice to take 
the endowment policy was given by the Adviser, not Santander.
Miss N latterly said that that Santander arranged for the Adviser to visit her at home, and so 
she considers the Adviser was acting on Santanders behalf. I have considered this, but I 
have seen no evidence that indicates the Adviser was giving advice on behalf of Santander, 
and such an arrangement would have been very unusual at the time. In addition, we have 
checked the regulators records from the end of April 1988. These show that the Adviser 
wasnt at that time linked to Santander or any other lender, which while not categoric 
evidence that it wasnt four months earlier, it does indicate that it is likely it was an 
independent business selling mortgages and policies. 
Having considered all of the evidence carefully, I am not persuaded that Santander is 
responsible for the sale of Miss Ns mortgage endowment policy.
My final decision
My decision is that Santander UK Plc is not responsible for the matters Miss N has 
complained about and so we are unable to consider her complaint further. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman