DRN-4058068
The complaint
Mr M has complained about his let property insurer The National Farmers Union Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited (NFU). He feels it completed poor work at his property and 
delayed his claim for storm damage, causing him financial and non-financial loss.
What happened
Mr Ms property, which is grade 2 listed and situated about 250 miles from his home, was 
damaged in a storm in March 2020. He made a claim and was initially asked to arrange 
temporary repairs and an estimate for reinstatement. When estimates were presented NFU 
felt they were too costly and included unnecessary work. NFUs loss adjuster at the time 
arranged for a contractor to complete the work. 
Reinstatement work began in August 2020. Mr M was concerned within the first few days 
that work was not being done to standard and in line with the schedule of works. Following 
further visits to the property in October and November 2020 Mr M asked that the contractor 
stop work, he then presented a surveyors report and NFU accepted that poor work had 
been done by its contractor. 
A plan was put in place to resolve the problems and reinstate the property. In February 2021 
NFU explained the plan to Mr M and said that on a provisional assessment, it would then be 
about six months to completion. Mr M was pleased that matters were getting resolved  but 
he pointed out to NFU how much work hed had to put in to get to that point. He noted six 
visits to the property up until December 2020, which all came with a cost incurred to and 
disruption suffered by him. He said that whilst NFU had reimbursed him for rental income 
lost for the property, it was a holiday let which relied a lot on repeat bookings, so repeated 
cancellations were affecting his reputation. He said his health was also suffering.
In April 2021 NFU issued a final response to Mr M. It said that there had been lengthy delays 
in the claims progress and poor work completed. It accepted Mr M had been caused 
distress and inconvenience as a result and said it would pay £450 compensation. Mr M said 
that was insufficient and complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our Investigator ultimately felt that NFU should be paying a total of £950 to Mr M as 
compensation for distress and inconvenience suffered. She wasnt minded to make any 
other award. 
NFU agreed to the recommendation. Mr M said it was still insufficient and did not take into 
account his financial losses. The complaint was passed to me for an Ombudsmans 
consideration. 
I felt it should be upheld. That, in the period relevant to this complaint  between the claim 
being made in March 2020 until NFUs final response of 21 April 2021  that compensation 
of £950 was fair and reasonable for Mr Ms non-financial loss. But that in respect of Mr Ms 
concerns about his financial losses, NFU should pay Mr Ms fuel and expert costs, plus 
interest. So I issued a provisional decision, to explain my views to both parties, my findings 
of which were:
Delays, claim handling and poor work
NFU has accepted that the claim has been subject to delay, not least those caused by its 
contractors poor work. But Mr M believes that if NFU had merely accepted his quote at the 
outset, the property would have been reinstated by summer 2020, and all of the worry and 
concern caused by NFUs contractor would have been avoided. I dont think things would 
have been that simple though. One of the delays experienced by NFU was a lead time on 
materials. I think its fair to say, given the pandemic and its effects, that this is something 
Mr Ms contractor would likely have encountered too. 
In any event, I think it was reasonable for NFU to have initially asked Mr M to get estimates 
and, once it assessed them, to change its mind about progressing the claim in that way. For 
example, the estimate included the cost of reinstating a lathe and plaster ceiling, where that 
ceiling comprised a plasterboard finish. So NFU didnt think the estimate reflected reinstating 
the property on a like basis. NFU chose to appoint its own contractor and lead times for 
materials then further impacted the progress of the claim.
I think NFU though didnt manage Mr Ms expectations about the claim effectively. NFU told 
Mr M, in June, that the work would likely be finished by August 2020. But I think the lead 
time for materials was likely already known about  or should have been. And because NFU 
had set Mr Ms expectations in this respect, he had taken bookings for August, which by 
early July had to be cancelled. In late July assurances were given that work would complete 
by the end of August, and Mr M was encouraged to arrange bookings for September. But the 
poor work which then started in August meant that completion date wasnt possible either. 
And a further promise of work being finished by December 2020 was also broken  meaning 
bookings for the Christmas period had been taken and had to be cancelled too. I think its 
good that NFU had tried to assist Mr M with mitigating his situation by trying to help him plan 
ahead  but Im not persuaded, having seen what was going on  and knowing the ultimate 
repair programme did take a few months, that any of this advice was particularly accurate or 
realistic. 
In terms of delay I think the claims progress began to be avoidably impacted when the work 
started. For example, despite the claim having involved an element of water ingress, none of 
the professionals involved checked the property was dry, a delay occurred with a wallpaper 
order  but later investigations showed the property should not really be wallpapered, and 
incorrect plaster was applied to the walls which wasnt allowed to dry before decorating was 
attempted. Mr M was visiting the property more than hed have liked around this period 
because he was concerned about the work being done. And following two visits in October 
and November work stopped completely. 
Not unreasonably time was then spent by NFU reviewing the situation. It was agreed, 
amongst other things, that work would need doing, that retrospective listed building consent 
would be needed and that the re-work would be done by a different contractor following a 
tender process. In February 2021 NFU told Mr M that would likely take around six-months 
and it was whilst these plans were all being put in place and progressed in April 2021 that 
NFU issued its final response. 
I think the initial claim was not that complex, but the building is grade 2 listed. So, I think it 
should always have been recognised that some specialist contractors or at least the in-put 
and oversight of a listed building specialist working alongside contractors, might be required. 
Im aware that when the successful tender contractor did start work, work was completed at 
the property in around eight months. I am not looking at that period here, but the time the 
repairs did eventually take gives a good indication of what Mr M would have been looking at 
if suitable contractors or a specialist had been appointed earlier. Here contractors started work in August 2020, and nine months later, when NFUs final response was issued in 
April 2021, Mr M was facing an expected further four months of work to reinstate his 
property. Whereas an actually completed eight-month repair programme, satisfies me that if 
NFU had handled the claim better, with a more appropriate contractor starting work in 
August 2020, the property shouldve been fully reinstated by April 2021, if not a little earlier.
Compensation for distress and inconvenience (non-financial loss)
I accept that Mr M has put a lot of effort into making sure the claim and reinstatement work 
progressed. This holiday let earned Mr M income and he was also situated quite a distance 
from the property. So I think its understandable that he was worried about it and, certainly 
once it was clear work was not being done to standard, that he felt the need to visit. And 
I know he did so even though he was not in the best of health. I also note that following the 
problems identified by Mr M in October and November 2020, his involvement with the claim 
and repairs increased. I think thats understandable, but his time and effort reasonably has to 
be recognised  if things had been handled better, earlier Mr M would likely have been 
content to let NFU progress matters. 
Im also aware that Mr M tried to plan ahead as much as possible  so working to get new 
bookings made for periods when he reasonably expected work to be completed by. I accept 
it was frustrating for him when, in August, September and then December 2020, bookings 
made for when work was expected to be completed, had to be cancelled. There was 
obviously an element of time and effort involved in the administration of those bookings and 
cancellations too. 
So I think Mr M has suffered a lot of distress and inconvenience due to the way NFU 
handled this claim up until it issued its final response in April 2021. I think some more 
realistic management and the appointment of an appropriate contractor could have avoided 
that. Im minded to award a total of £950 compensation, if NFU has already paid £450, it will 
now only have to pay the remaining £500.
Travel costs
Mr M, in a letter dated December 2020 said hed had to visit the property six times. I note he 
then had to visit again in March 2021 to assist in a review of the schedule of work. I think its 
fair to say that review was only necessary due to the poor work  so Mr Ms visit was only 
necessary due to NFUs failures. Its only fair that it reimburses Mr M for his fuel costs 
associated with that visit. The other six visits Im going to halve  a policyholder/property 
owner will often want to have some involvement. I think that even if things had gone well 
Mr M wouldve wanted to visit at the start of the claim, then once repairs were underway and 
then at the end. So I think its fair to say that out of six visits to the property up to 
December 2020, NFU should reimburse Mr Ms costs for half of them. Taking the visit in 
March into account too, that is four visits in total.
Mr M said it cost him £90.00 a trip for fuel. Given the distance of the property and the price 
of fuel, I think that is not an unreasonable sum. So Im going to require NFU to pay Mr M 
£360, £90 each for four trips, with interest* added to the total amount from the date of the 
visit in March 2021 and applied until settlement is made. Three of the four visits pre-date 
March 2021 but I feel interest applied from then is fair as by that point NFU should have 
acknowledged the extra outlay and acted to compensate Mr M for it. 
Loss of reputation
Ive taken into account above that Mr M had to cancel some bookings. And Ive also taken 
into account his time, effort and frustration involved in that. Im not persuaded though that cancelling bookings in August, September and December 2020 would have materially 
impacted Mr Ms reputation as a holiday let provider. I say that not least given the problems 
in the country at the time with the Covid-19 pandemic. So I dont intend to make any award 
in this respect.
Expert fees
Mr M instructed a damp specialist and a surveyor in December 2020. It seems the input of 
experts like this likely influenced the claim. If Mr M incurred a cost for these experts, and 
unless NFU can show me good cause why it should not do so, I think it should reimburse 
Mr Ms outlay, subject to proof of that being provided. NFU should add interest* to the costs 
shown applied from the date they were incurred until settlement is made.
NFU said it accepted my decision. Mr M said that £950 is not fair and reasonable 
compensation in the circumstances. He said he wanted to highlight the delay at the start of 
the claim and some of the poor work issues which, if he hadnt spotted them, might have 
resulted in penalty to him and the work not completing properly. He feels my decision 
glossed over the poor work issues. He emphasised the complete lack of oversight by and 
negligence of the loss adjuster throughout the claim. Mr M said the award seems out of line 
with examples of awards given on our website.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mr M for providing a further account of what happened, particularly in the first few 
months of the claim. I know he thinks the quote from his contractor was like-for-like and that 
he believes that if his contractor had started work there wouldnt have been any delays. But 
Im not persuaded the quote was like-for-like and, in any event, it was always for NFU to 
choose how it wanted to implement the repair programme. I also note Mr M had checked 
with his contractor and been assured all materials were available. But Im not satisfied its 
most likely that work could have concluded in short order without disruption. It may have 
done but, in my view, its by no means most likely it would have. 
I appreciate that Mr M has reviewed some examples of awards on our website. But along 
with the examples, our website also provides detail about the bands of awards we often 
apply. So an award of between £750 to £1,500 might be made where substantial upset has 
been caused which has significantly affected daily life over a sustained period of many 
months, sometimes over a year. I set out provisionally the upset I found Mr M had been 
caused by NFUs failures. Those being (in summary) it not managing his expectations 
properly and its poor work  meaning Mr M, even though his health was suffering, had to 
manage the claim much more closely, including taking long journeys to visit the property, the 
inconvenience and frustration of making and cancelling bookings, and that by April 2021, if 
not a little earlier, the repairs should have been completed. I remain satisfied that the period 
all of that occurred over was ten months (June 2020 to April 2021) and that Mr M was 
substantially affected by it. I am also satisfied that my award of £950 is in line with our 
general approach to awarding compensation, as well as being in line with other awards 
made by this service in similar circumstances.
Having considered Mr Ms reply, my view on the complaint  including that NFU failed Mr M 
here, that it did poor work and he suffered substantially as a result  has not changed. As 
such my provisional findings copied above, along with my further findings here, are now 
those of this, my final decision. 
 Putting things right
I require NFU to:
Pay Mr M a total of £950 compensation  if it has paid £450 already, it will now only need 
to pay the remaining £500.
Pay Mr M £360 as compensation for fuel costs incurred travelling to the property, plus 
interest* applied from the visit date in March 2020 until settlement is made.
Reimburse Mr M the cost he incurred for a damp specialist and surveyor, subject to Mr M 
providing proof of costs. To any reimbursed amount interest* should be added, applied 
from the date costs were paid by Mr M until settlement is made. 
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs may require NFU to take off tax from this interest. 
If asked, it must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited to provide the redress set out above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman