DRN-3784334
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard irresponsibly gave 
him a credit card that he couldnt afford. For simplicity, I will refer to the business 
throughout as Barclaycard. 
What happened
In March 2016, Mr M applied for a credit card with Barclaycard. He was given a credit 
card with a credit limit of £1,500. The credit limit was not increased. 
In 2022, Mr M complained to Barclaycard to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened for him because it wasnt affordable.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should not be upheld. Mr M didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Barclaycard will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Mr Ms complaint is that Barclaycard made credit available that was unaffordable. 
Barclaycard has explained that it relied in part on information that Mr M provided at the time 
of application to assess affordability. Mr M told Barclaycard that he earned £16,000 a year 
from his employment and that he had some other financial commitments at the time. 
Barclaycard said they carried out a credit search in Mr Ms name to assess Mr Ms level of 
debt at that time and to understand how he had been managing that debt. With that 
information and using their own scoring metric, Barclaycard decided to agree to the credit 
card of £1,500. So, there was some assessment of affordability at the time of the sale.
The Barclaycard checks showed that Mr M most likely did have the income he claimed and 
that Mr M had some other financial commitments and borrowings. And the credit check 
showed little or nothing of note in terms of adverse credit. I have seen the credit file that Mr 
M has provided us and that also shows little or no adverse markings recorded from the time 
of the credit card and earlier. 
So, it seemed from the credit check that, at the point the lending decision was made, Mr M 
was affording his existing credit. And so, Barclaycard were not put on notice of any reason 
not to agree the lending from that. And so, I dont think that the information that Barclaycard 
had at the time of the lending decision, would have led them to feel they ought to make 
more searching enquiries of Mr Ms expenditure. 
And Barclaycard told us it had checked Mr Ms income, with a firm that compared declared 
incomes with those from previous credit applications. And Mr Ms declared income had 
raised no flags that suggested a closer look should have been taken. And Mr M told us that 
the declared income was correct. So, I do not believe that a closer check of that (by payslips 
etc) would have put Barclaycard off the lending. And this credit card was reasonably modest 
compared to Mr Ms declared income. So, I do not believe that Barclaycard would have 
seen anything that would have made the credit card seem unreasonable.
Mr M has provided bank statements that show he ran a current account with a bank that 
was different to the business he took the credit card with. The bank statements show that Mr 
M had another account, that he hasnt provided details for, as the statements show money 
moving into and out from a different account in his name. From the statements of the 
account that Mr M has shared with us, it is obvious that he had a gambling habit at the time. 
I have seen no evidence that Mr M shared that information with Barclaycard at the time it 
made its lending decision. In any event, and as discussed above, the gambling habit had 
not led Mr M to blemish his credit file at the time he applied for the credit card. 
I have to look at the information that was available to Barclaycard at the time it made its 
lending decisions and not to use hindsight. Barclaycard was not made aware of the habit at 
the time the credit card was taken out. And I have seen insufficient evidence that the other 
information that Barclaycard acquired or had presented to it at the time of the lending 
decision, would have led them to think that they were remiss in not checking Mr Ms 
expenditure more closely. I do not think that Barclaycard should have checked Mr Ms bank 
statements before providing him with this credit card.  
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, I have seen insufficient 
evidence to think that the credit Barclaycard provided to Mr M was unreasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman