DRN-1937302
The complaint
S is unhappy with Covea Insurance plcs settlement of a claim under its return to invoice 
(RTI) gap insurance policy.
What happened
S vehicle was stolen in February 2019. Once it had received its settlement from its motor 
insurer, it made a claim on its RTI gap insurance policy with Covea to recover the shortfall. 
Covea made some enquiries with S insurer and discovered that S had insured the vehicle 
according to its trade value, as opposed to its retail value. And as the trade value was lower 
than the retail value, Covea used the vehicles market value, as confirmed by the industry 
guides, to settle the claim on the gap insurance. 
Covea calculated the market value to be £12,560 and, having deducted this from the original 
purchase price of £14,500, settled the claim to S finance company for £1,940. 
S was unhappy with this as it felt the policy should be settled using the motor insurer 
settlement paid against the retail price of the vehicle when it was purchased. So, it felt there 
was a shortfall in the settlement of £1,710, and it complained to Covea. 
Covea didnt uphold S complaint. They said that, although S had purchased the vehicle at 
the retail price, it had chosen to insure it at the trade price on a trade policy. Covea felt S had 
under-insured the vehicle and wasnt prepared to pay the shortfall.
S brought its complaint to our service. Our investigator upheld it. She said that the RTI policy 
terms didnt allow Covea to settle the claim on a market value basis, irrespective of how S 
had insured the vehicle. She asked Covea to pay the difference between the initial 
settlement and the new claim amount. She also said interest should be paid on that amount.
Covea didnt agree so its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Covea have settled the claim based on the current market value of S vehicle at the time of 
the claim. What I need to decide is if the policy allows them to do this. And in this case, I 
dont think it does. Ill explain why. 
S purchased a return to invoice gap insurance policy. So, it didnt expect there to be a 
shortfall should it ever have needed to make a claim on it. 
The policy terms say:
This insurance is designed to cover you, in the event of the total loss of your insured 
vehicle, for the difference between the motor insurance settlement (or the amount you 
receive from a third partys insurance policy), and the original purchase price.
The motor insurance settlement is the amount S motor insurer has settled the claim for. In 
this case that amount was £10,850. So, I can understand why S was surprised when 
Coveas settlement didnt cover the difference between what it paid for the vehicle - £14,500 
 and what the claim had been settled for. Im satisfied that it should have covered the 
difference between the settlement from S insurer and the original purchase price of the 
vehicle.
Covea have said that they dont think they should have to cover the shortfall as S 
under-insured the vehicle. But the policy terms dont state this, and I havent seen any 
evidence to suggest this should be the case. 
The policy terms state that Covea can use the market value of the vehicle only if the motor 
insurer doesnt follow the guidelines our service sets when assessing the settlement value of 
a vehicle. But I havent seen anything that suggests the motor insurer hasnt followed our 
guidelines. The vehicle was insured on a trade policy for the trade value and has been 
settled as such. That is what I would expect to happen. Because of this, I dont think its fair 
for Covea to use the market value as the value to settle the RTI policy with. They should use 
the motor insurer valuation as the base and settle the claim according to the original 
purchase price S paid for the vehicle. As S has been without that money, 8% simple interest 
should also be added to the amount to be paid, from the date of the original settlement until 
the date this revised amount is paid. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Covea Insurance plc must:
Pay S the difference between their previous settlement figure of £1,940 and the new 
claim amount of £3,650;
Pay 8% simple interest on this amount from the date the original amount was paid 
until the date the new amount is settled. *
*Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Covea Insurance plc deducts income tax 
from the interest it should tell S how much has been taken off. Covea Insurance plc should 
give S a tax deduction certificate if it asks for one, so it can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2020.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman