DRN-3013433
The complaint
Mr G complains that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) declined transactions he tried to make while 
he was abroad. Hes also unhappy about the service he received while trying to 
communicate with Lloyds via mobile messaging.
What happened
Mr G holds a current account debit card with Lloyds. On 1 December 2020 he attempted to 
use his debit card while abroad at several cash machines in order to withdraw money from 
his account. He said these attempts were unsuccessful. 
Later that day, Mr G went to a hotel to pay for hotel accommodation. But he said this 
payment wasnt successful either, which left him in a vulnerable situation as he had nowhere 
to sleep. Mr G said that he slept on the streets because he couldnt access the money in his 
account. During this time, he said he was mugged and assaulted and feeling unwell with a 
stomach infection.
Mr G tried to contact Lloyds via mobile messaging. But he said he didnt receive a response 
for five hours after sending messages asking for assistance. And he said, despite asking 
Lloyds to raise a complaint on his behalf, it didnt. 
In March 2021, Mr G returned to the UK. He contacted Lloyds again and asked it to lodge a 
complaint as hed previously requested. Lloyds raised a complaint on Mr Gs behalf and 
investigated what had happened. 
On 12 March 2021, Lloyds sent Mr G its final response to his complaint. It explained that 
there was nothing to show that any transactions had been declined on 1 December 2020. It 
further stated that, if any blocks had been applied to Mr Gs card, he wouldnt have been 
able to use his card until after hed spoken with the fraud department. It said this hadnt 
happened because Mr G hadnt spoken with any member of its fraud department and had 
been able to use his card after 1 December 2020. So, it thought a potential merchant issue 
was therefore responsible for the issues Mr G had experienced. And it didnt uphold this part 
of Mr Gs complaint.
Lloyds did, however, uphold Mr Gs concerns about the time it had taken to communicate 
with him via mobile messaging. It recognised that Mr G ought to have received a quicker 
response to his requests for assistance. And it offered to pay him £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience he had been caused.
Mr G didnt accept the compensation hed been offered and referred his complaint about 
Lloyds to our service. Our investigator assessed the evidence provided by Mr G and Lloyds. 
But they didnt think Lloyds needed to do anything more here. They were persuaded that the 
compensation offer that Lloyds had made was fair to recognise the service that Mr G had 
received via mobile messaging. But they didnt think Lloyds had declined any of the 
transactions Mr G had attempted to make on 1 December 2020. So, they didnt recommend 
upholding this complaint. But Mr G disagreed with our investigators view of his complaint 
and asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr G experienced here. Hes explained how he was 
impacted as a result of not being able to transact on his account. And I dont doubt it must 
have been very traumatic for him to be unable to access his money while abroad. 
My role is to assess whether I think Lloyds made a mistake, or treated Mr G unfairly such 
that it needs to now put things right. And, while I sympathise with Mr G, I agree with our 
investigator for broadly the same reasons. Ill explain why.
I can see that Mr G has provided evidence of mobile messages he sent to Lloyds together 
with submissions about his complaint. I want to assure him Ive read and considered 
everything that both he and Lloyds have sent when reaching my decision. I havent referred 
to all the points Mr G has raised as Ive focused on what I feel are the key issues of this 
case. I hope Mr G wont take that as a discourtesy; my approach reflects the informal nature 
of our service.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
The first part of Mr Gs complaint is about his inability to transact on his account on 1 
December 2020. So, Ill deal with this issue first.
Mr G has told our investigator that he feels his inability to transact on his account was 
caused by an error on Lloyds part, which led to the transactions he attempted to make being 
declined. But Lloyds has stated that theres no record that any payments were declined. 
Ive carefully considered statements of Mr Gs account. From these statements I can see 
that, on 1 December 2020, Mr G was able to transact on his account while in the UK. Later 
that day Mr G said he arrived overseas. I can see that he was also able to successfully 
complete transactions on 2 December 2020 and in the subsequent days while abroad.
I think that if Lloyds had declined the transactions that Mr G said he had attempted on 1 
December 2020 while overseas thered be evidence of this within the business records that 
our service received. As there isnt Im not persuaded that Lloyds declined any of the 
transactions that Mr G said he wasnt able to make.
Lloyds has told our service that, if it had applied blocks to Mr Gs account, he wouldnt have 
been able to transact on his account until hed spoke with its fraud department. Theres no 
evidence that Mr G contacted Lloyds fraud department prior to the transactions that 
successfully debited his account on 2 December 2020. So, Im persuaded that Lloyds didnt 
apply a fraud block to Mr Gs account.
Based on the available evidence, I havent seen enough to persuade me that Lloyds caused 
transactions on 1 December 2020 to fail. Instead, I think its most likely that the transactions 
were unsuccessful as a result of issues with the hotel and the cash machines Mr G 
attempted to withdraw money from. As Im not persuaded that Mr Gs transactions were 
unsuccessful as a result of an error by Lloyds, Im unable to direct it to compensate him for 
what happened. 
  Ill turn now to the second part of Mr Gs complaint, which is about the time it took for him to 
receive a response from Lloyds following the mobile messages he sent.
Lloyds has explained that, on 1 December 2020, it was experiencing longer wait times. But it 
accepts it shouldnt have taken five hours for Mr G to have received a response to his 
request for assistance. It also acknowledges that Mr G asked for his complaint to be logged 
on his behalf and that this didnt happen.
I recognise how frustrating and distressing it must have been for Mr G not to receive a timely 
response to his messages. He wasnt able to access money in his account while abroad. 
And I understand that he was also without access to other funds. It must also have been 
disappointing for Mr G that Lloyds didnt raise a complaint on his behalf after hed asked it to.
As our investigator explained, our service would say that Mr Gs experience warrants an 
award of compensation. Lloyds has already offered to compensate him in the sum of £100. 
In thinking about whether the compensation Lloyds offered was fair and reasonable I must 
bear in mind that our service isnt here to punish businesses. When deciding what potential 
compensation to award our service must take two things into account: financial loss as a 
result of any business error and non-financial loss, including inconvenience and upset. 
I havent seen any evidence that Mr G suffered financial loss as a result of Lloyds failure to 
promptly respond to his mobile messages. While Mr G has told our service that he was 
mugged and assaulted as a result of having to sleep on the streets, I havent seen enough 
evidence to enable me to fairly conclude that this was caused by the delayed response that 
he received from Lloyds.
When our service considers awards for non-financial loss there isnt a set formula that we 
use to calculate awards for particular errors. Its my role to consider what impact the banks 
actions have had on the consumer and to decide, within guidelines set by our service, 
whether compensation would be appropriate in the circumstances. 
Its clear to me that Mr Gs experience of Lloyds mobile messaging service went beyond 
mere irritation. Its reasonable to expect him to have received a response sooner than he 
did. But I agree with the investigators view that the compensation already offered by Lloyds 
is an appropriate amount of compensation that fairly reflects the trouble and upset Mr G 
would have experienced as a result of the shortfall in service he received. Its in line with 
awards made by this service in comparable circumstances and its what Id have told Lloyds 
to pay had no offer been made. So, I wont be requiring Lloyds to increase the amount its 
already offered to pay here. I can see that Mr G rejected this offer. If he would now like to 
accept it, he should contact Lloyds directly to do so.
I realise Mr G will be disappointed with this decision. But Im not going to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons already outlined. This now brings to an end what we, in trying to 
resolve his dispute with Lloyds informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant help Mr G any 
further with this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman