DRN-3309392
The complaint
Miss H has complained that Indigo Michael Limited trading as SafetyNet Credit (SNC) 
provided a credit facility she couldnt afford to repay. 
Miss H is also unhappy with the communication and information she was given by SNC 
during the time when it was investigating her complaint.
 
What happened
Miss H was granted a credit facility from SNC in July 2018 with a credit limit of £220. SNC 
has told us that it didnt increase her credit limit during the time she used the facility. 
Miss H made a complaint to SNC in May 2021 saying that it had been irresponsible in 
providing her with the facility. 
By 18 June 2021 Miss H hadnt heard from SNC so she sent an email chasing for a 
response. Later that same day SNC emailed back telling her;
Your file has been passed to the relevant department to process the offer outlined in 
your final response and the monies will be in your account by close of business 
Friday 08/07/2021Please be aware that if we have agreed to make any changes to 
your credit file, these changes may take between 6 to 8 weeks to process from the 
time of this email If you have any further queries
Miss H responded to SNC on the same day highlighting shed not yet received the final 
response letter (FRL) that was referenced in SNCs email and she asked for a copy to be 
sent to her. 
On 21 June 2021 SNC emailed Miss H confirming the following; 
We can confirm that your final response has not been sent yet, and that the message 
sent was done so in error.
The email also confirmed her complaint was being investigated and under the complaint 
handling rules it had up to 8 weeks to issue a FRL which would be done by the deadline of 
8 July 2021. 
Mis H responded, and again chased SNC for an update on 4 July 2021. 
SNC issued its FRL on 7 July 2021. In it, SNC accepted it was wrong to have granted the 
facility and upheld Miss Hs complaint in full. It also made an offer to put things right for her, 
and Ive outlined this below:
Total amount borrowed: £465.00
Interest added: £97.71
Total repaid: (£272.61)
Amount written off: £0.00
Outstanding balance: £290.10
Interest (to be written off): £70.73
Outstanding balance minus interest: £219.37
Total amount repaid: £272.61
Amount applied to funds borrowed: £245.63
Interest repaid: £26.98
Statutory 8% interest: £5.71
HMRC 20% deduction: (£1.14)
Redress due: £31.54
New outstanding balance after redress applied: £187.83
Amount written off from your balance: £31.54
Redress to be sent to you: £0.00
SNC also agreed to; 
All entries under [busines name] will be removed from your credit file when we next
report to the Credit Reference Agencies. This can take between six to eight weeks to 
show on your credit file.
SNCs offer explains that as Miss H hadnt paid it enough to repay the capital she had 
borrowed, SNC wouldnt need to pay her any money directly but instead use the refund due 
(and the removal of unpaid interest) to reduce Miss Hs balance from £290.10 to £187.83. 
Miss H didnt accept the offer in the FRL and brought her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint and concluded SNC didnt need to do any more. She 
said the offer SNC had made to put things right in relation to the credit facility was fair and 
reasonable and in line with what the Financial Ombudsman would recommend SNC pay, 
had it been decided the facility shouldnt have been granted. 
While an outstanding balance remained, SNC had told us that it would be willing to discuss a 
repayment plan with Miss H.
Our adjudicator acknowledged SNC had made an error by providing the update that it did on 
18 June 2021. But she didnt think compensation needed to be paid to Miss H for this error 
because SNC corrected the mistake within a couple of days. The adjudicator concluded 
Miss H hadnt suffered any detriment.
SNC didnt respond to the adjudicators assessment.
 
However, Miss H didnt agree with the adjudicators findings. In response she made a 
number of points, including:
SNC should either write off or reduce the outstanding balance by 50% because it 
shouldnt have granted the facility in the first place. 
SNC should also remove the facility from Miss Hs credit file. 
SNC operates in a shoddy manner by sending out emails in error. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the facility was provided. 
Ive split the decision into two parts, the first part deals with what happened when SNC 
granted the facility and the compensation it has offered to put things right for Miss H.
In the second part, Ill then look to review what happened with the email communication 
during the time when SNC was investigating Miss Hs complaint.
Irresponsible lending 
In relation to the irresponsible lending part of Miss Hs complaint, there is nothing further for 
me to say because SNC has already accepted, in the FRL, that this complaint needs to be 
fully upheld. SNC accepts that the facility shouldnt have been granted and so, I dont intend 
to make a finding on this. 
However, its clear, from her response that Miss H is unhappy with the compensation that 
has been offered by SNC in order to put things right. Miss H says SNC should either reduce 
the outstanding balance by 50% or write it off. I wont be recommending SNC does this 
because I dont think that would be fair or reasonable in the circumstances of the case.  
Once the Financial Ombudsman Service has concluded that a business has done something 
wrong our starting point for any redress or compensation is that what the award should , as 
far as possible, put the consumer back into the position they wouldve been in had the error 
not been made. So, in this case, SNC needs to pay compensation to put Miss H back into 
the position she wouldve likely been in had it not granted the facility. 
However, that isnt always possible in cases which involve irresponsible lending. This is 
because a consumer has been advanced money which has been spent. So, its not possible 
to just unwind the loan, because Miss H would need to repay at least the amount she had 
borrowed.  
This is why, the Financial Ombudsman takes the well-established approach to say that a 
lender cant benefit from lending money that was irresponsibly lent. A consumer should only 
have to repay the capital balance they borrowed, and anything the lender has charged 
above this is refunded, along with 8% simple interest per annum (minus 20% tax). 
In Miss Hs case SNC isnt going to be entitled to recover any balance greater than the sums 
it advanced, but wed still expect the amount advanced to be repaid. 
So, where there is an outstanding balance due, its reasonable for SNC to use any refund 
due to offset this balance. In this case, Miss H hasnt repaid SNC enough to fully repay what 
she has borrowed, which is why SNC has calculated a new outstanding balance of around 
£187. This is the amount of capital Miss H has borrowed but hasnt yet been able to repay. 
The redress that SNC has calculated, is in line with the approach the Financial Ombudsman 
Service would take, if we had concluded that SNC ought to not have provided Miss H with 
the facility. 
Taking into account our approach to compensation, Ive concluded SNC doesnt need to do 
anything further to put things right for Miss H. Nor, have I seen anything else to make me 
think that SNC should depart from the well-established approach to compensation, which 
Ive outlined above. Therefore, the offer that SNC has made in the FRL, is in my view, fair 
and reasonable to put things right for Miss H. Email communication 
Following Miss Hs complaint and having not heard anything for a while she chased SNC for 
a response to her complaint. Following this update request, she was told the complaint was 
resolved following the FRL (despite Miss H not receiving one) and that payment would 
follow. 
Miss H, understandably confused about this, responded to ask what was going on. It was 
then, three days later on 21 June 2021, SNC explained that its email of 18 June 2021 was 
sent in error. 
It then provided, what I consider to be a meaningful update because it explained the rules 
around how long it had to investigate the compliant and it provided Miss H with the latest 
date she would expect to get a response to her complaint - 8 July 2021. SNC issued its FRL 
before this date, on 7 July 2021. 
Ive thought about what happened here, and its clear that the email sent to Miss H on 18 
June 2021 was incorrect and SNC accepts this. But that doesnt mean it needs to do 
anymore and I agree with this, much like the adjudicator for the same reasons. 
 
I accept it wouldve been confusing to be told that an FRL had been issued and payment 
would be following. Miss H needed to go back to SNC for clarification. But SNC provided this 
within a few days and it explained exactly what had happened so far and what would be 
happening moving forward. It also quickly explained that an error had been made. 
I dont think, in this case, there has been any detriment caused to Miss H and I dont think 
SNC needs to pay any further compensation. I say this because, SNC apologised and 
explained what would be happening. I think that was the correct approach, and no further 
award is due as I think what SNC had done is sufficient. 
I appreciate Miss H may disagree with this, but I dont think I can fairly ask SNC to pay 
compensation when it confirmed what the error was and rectified the situation in a 
reasonable period of time. 
Putting things right for Miss H
The offer SNC has made in the final response letter is reasonable and it doesnt need to do 
any more than what has already been agreed. 
If Miss H accepts this final decision, she is accepting the offer is fair and reasonable and 
SNC should then carry it out. 
An outstanding balance remains due to be paid to SNC and I would remind it to treat Miss H 
fairly and with forbearance when discussing a way forward. 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained above, the offer Indigo Michael Limited (trading as SafetyNet 
Credit) which is outlined in its final response letter is fair and reasonable to resolve the 
complaint and it doesnt need to pay Miss H any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman