DRN-4351414
The complaint
Mr K complains about delays and the repairs that Royal & Sun Alliance Limited (RSA) made 
to his car following a claim on his motor insurance policy. Hes also unhappy that he wasnt 
provided with a courtesy car. He wants a refund of his payments and compensation.
 
What happened
Mr Ks car was damaged in an incident, but RSA said it was still driveable. After two months, 
RSA took the car for repairs. Mr K said it was returned with further damage and he was 
without a car whilst the repairs were carried out. RSAs repairer accepted that further 
damage had been caused. It ordered parts and tried to contact Mr K. RSA offered Mr K £300 
compensation for his trouble and upset. 
our investigators view
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought the car 
was still drivable after the incident and so the delay didnt cause Mr K much disruption. Mr K 
wasnt entitled to a courtesy car until his car was taken for repairs. Mr K said the cars 
windows had been left open, but she couldnt see that this had any impact. The repairer tried 
to contact Mr K to rectify the additional damage, but it received no response. She couldnt 
see evidence that Mr K hadnt been provided with a courtesy car during the repairs. She 
thought RSAs compensation offer was fair and reasonable. 
Mr K replied that he didnt agree and so the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr K 
and to RSA on 22 August 2023. I summarise my findings:
I could understand that Mr K felt frustrated by how his claim had been handled. I was sorry 
to hear about the stress this caused him and that he had been unwell. Mr K said he was 
without a car for five months from June 2022 to November 2022. He said the courtesy car 
provider kept delaying the provision of a car and he couldnt meet his needs as he lived in 
the countryside. And then he found additional damage to his car, and he had to wait for parts 
to arrive for this to be fixed. 
Mr K said he had to make £1,800 payments for the car during the five months, and he spent 
£1,200 on alternative transport. He wanted RSA to reimburse these costs. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Mr K was unhappy with delays in providing him with a courtesy car. Mr Ks policy provided 
for a replacement car whilst repairs are carried out. From what I could see, the reported 
damage to Mr Ks car was to the boot and bumper and the car was still driveable following 
the incident. So I couldnt say that RSA should have provided Mr K with a car before his was 
taken for repairs. 
RSA looked for a repairer from 22 June 2022. And I could see that it contacted numerous 
repairers to undertake the work. One accepted it and contacted Mr K on 24 June 2022, and 
Mr K provided images of the damage to his car. It then took about three weeks for repairs to 
be authorised by RSA, which I thought wasnt unreasonable. 
RSAs repairer then contacted Mr K to arrange a date for the car to be collected. Parts were 
ordered two weeks later and arrived on site. Two weeks later, the repairer contacted Mr K to 
arrange to collect his car on 21 September 2022, but this had to be deferred by one day due 
to traffic. 
RSA accepted that there was a two month delay in arranging a booking in date after the 
repairs were authorised. It said this was due to its repairers capacity issues and then with 
the supply of needed parts. But Mr K was still mobile in this time. And, whilst I appreciated 
his frustration, I couldnt say that this caused any loss that warranted compensation. So I 
didnt require RSA to reimburse Mr K for his car payment costs. 
But RSA did pay him £300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by this delay. And 
I thought that was in keeping with our published guidance, so I thought that was fair and 
reasonable. 
It then took about two weeks for the repairs to be made and for Mr Ks car to be returned to 
him. I thought that was fair and reasonable. 
When the car was returned, Mr K said the windows had been left open and the repairer said 
a trim was damaged. Mr K provided photographs to RSA. The repairer couldnt see any 
interior damage caused if the windows had been left open. And I hadnt seen any evidence 
to confirm that damage was caused. But it ordered a new part and, a month later, fitted it so 
the rectification was made. This was delayed as Mr K was unavailable and I thought the 
repairer reasonably tried to contact him. 
Mr K said he also noted new paint damage and dents. RSA said these were present when 
the car was collected from Mr K and Mr K had then signed the check in sheet. But I hadnt 
seen any evidence to support this. But neither had I seen any evidence to show that the 
garage caused further damage to the car whilst it carried out repairs. Mr K provided 
photographs and I could see that RSAs repairer reviewed these but couldnt see any 
additional damage. 
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision to not pay for 
additional repairs.
Mr K said he was taking his car to a dealers garage for review, but I hadnt seen that he 
provided a report to RSA. So I couldnt say that RSA had any evidence of further damage 
caused by the repairer that required rectification. So I couldnt say that it needed to pay for 
any further repairs to Mr Ks car. 
Mr K said he wasnt provided with a replacement car whilst his was being repaired. I looked 
at RSAs file and I couldnt see any evidence to show that the repairer provided a 
replacement car (it collected and dropped off Mr Ks car, but it didnt drop off and collect a 
replacement). And I hadnt seen that RSA paid for hire. 
RSA then agreed that Mr K wasnt provided with a courtesy car whilst his car was being 
repaired. So I thought it should arrange for Mr K to be compensated for about two weeks 
loss of use. Mr Ks car was specialised, and so I thought RSA should reasonably 
compensate him at the rate of £20 a day for his loss of use. 
Subject to any further representations from Mr K and RSA, my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint in part. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K didnt respond to my provisional decision. But RSA replied that it accepted it. So, as 
Ive not received any further representations to consider, I can see no reason to change my 
provisional decision. 
Putting things right
I require Royal & Sun Alliance Limited to pay Mr K compensation at the rate of £20 a day for 
his loss of use whilst his car was being repaired. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Royal & Sun Alliance Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman