DRN-3754564
The complaint
Mrs T is unhappy that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (CFS) dealt with the conditional sale agreement she had with them. 
What happened
In July 2016 Mrs T was supplied with a used car through a conditional sale agreement with 
CFS. Mrs T paid a deposit of £500 and the agreement was for £6,735.49 over 49 months; 
with 48 monthly payments of £130.95 and a final payment of £2,525 if Mrs T wanted to keep 
the car. At the time the car was around two years old and had done 15,500 miles.
Mrs T made payments to the agreement until September 2019. She missed the payments 
due in October and November 2020, and then made some additional payments in early 2020 
to clear the arrears. In April 2020, CFS gave Mrs T a payment deferral as her income had 
been affected by the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. And, while Mrs T made some 
reduced payments during 2020, once the payment deferral had expired in August 2020, she 
stopped making her normal monthly payments.
Because of the increasing arrears balance, CFS issued a default notice in October 2020 and 
the agreement was terminated in May 2021.
Mrs T complained to CFS that she hadnt been made aware of the final payment, so she 
wasnt prepared for this. She also complained about how she was treated while she was in 
arrears, and that CFS terminated the agreement. However, CFS thought theyd treated Mrs 
T fairly and followed their processes. So, they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mrs T wasnt happy with this, and she brought her complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that CFS responded to Mrs Ts complaint about the final payment on 
14 November 2019, and Mrs T had six months to bring this to us for investigation. But she 
didnt contact us until May 2021 and, as such, this wasnt something we could consider. 
With regards to the arrears the investigator said that because Mrs T was already in arrears 
when her income started to be affected by Covid-19, CFS werent required to provide her 
with a payment deferral. And he thought theyd acted reasonably by doing so.
The investigator also said that CFS had acted fairly by terminating the agreement when they 
did, as this ensured the arrears didnt build up to a level where they had a long-standing 
impact. And by repossessing and auctioning the car, they cleared the outstanding balance, 
so lessening the financial impact on Mrs T. He also said that CFS acted fairly by keeping 
Mrs T updated with the arrears situation on her account, even though she may not have 
wanted to receive letters about this, as they had an obligation to do so.
Given this, the investigator didnt think CFS needed to do anything more.
Mrs T didnt agree with the investigator. Shes said the complaint final response date quoted 
by the investigator was incorrect  she says it was 8 May 2022 - and she thinks that CFS 
should remove any adverse credit from the credit reference agencies as they have had 
more than enough money from me.
Mrs T also raised issues about undisclosed commission, that she was being overcharged for 
the car, and that the dealership pressured her into buying the car and failed to go through 
the paperwork with her. And shes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mrs T was supplied with a car under a conditional sale 
agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to 
investigate complaints about it. 
final payment
The types of complaint we can look into are set out in our rules which can be found in the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook under DISP. These include time limits on how long 
a person can wait before bringing their complaint to us. 
So, unless a business consents or there are exceptional circumstances, a person usually 
has to bring their complaint to us within six months of the final complaint response issued by 
the financial business  in this instance CFS.
Ive seen that Mrs T has raised a number of complaints with CFS and has received a final 
response for each of these. These are:
14 November 2019  complaint about not being told about the final payment
3 November 2020  complaint about arrears and that the amount already paid is 
more than the value of the car
31 March 2021  complaint about delays in dealing with her previous complaint
1 April 2021  complaint about a payment plan
6 May 2022  complaint about the car being repossessed
Ive seen that, on all of these letters, CFS advised Mrs T that she had the right to bring her 
complaint to us, but that this must be done within six months of the date of the letter. And, if 
she brings her complaint to us after this date, we wont have their consent to investigate.
Mrs T first raised her issues with us on 7 May 2021. She hasnt provided an explanation as 
to why she was unable to bring her complaints to us earlier than this. And, as she continued 
to raise complaints with CFS, Im satisfied that she would also have been able to contact us 
about the matter. Given this, I dont think there are any exceptional circumstances as to why 
we should consider her complaints outside of the six-month time limits.As such, and while I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mrs T, the issues she 
raised that were covered in the CFS letters dated 14 November 2019 and 3 November 2020 
arent something were able to consider. And this includes her complaint about the final 
payment, and the comments shes subsequently made about the value of the car.
conduct of account
Ive seen that Mrs T missed the payments for October and November 2019, and she made 
additional payments between January and March 2020 that cleared these arrears. However, 
she then missed the payment for April 2020.
On 24 April 2020, after Mrs T had contacted them about her financial circumstances, CFS 
wrote to her to confirm they were applying a 3-month payment holiday. They also confirmed 
that the term was being extended by three months, that interest was still being charged, and 
that this interest would need to be paid at the end of the extended term.
In a letter dated 17 June 2020, CFS confirmed to Mrs T that theyd agreed to extend her 
agreement by four months  one month for the missed April 2020 payment, and three 
months for the payment holiday. In this letter CFS also confirmed that Mrs Ts payments 
wouldnt be increased, but any outstanding balance resulting from the interest on the 
missed/deferred payments would become payable at the end of the agreement.
Mrs T shouldve started making her normal monthly payments again in August 2020. But she 
didnt do this. Instead she made sporadic payments totalling £180 between 31 July and 2 
November 2020. Ive not seen anything to show me that any further payments were made 
after this. Due to the worsening arrears situation, CFS first defaulted, then terminated, the 
agreement. The car was repossessed and, in May 2022, sold at auction. The sale proceeds 
were applied to Mrs Ts account and, on 1 June 2020, they advised her that the balance was 
now fully repaid. And her account closed.
Mrs T has said she believed the car would be paid off in July 2020, and that she only had to 
pay 47 payments of £130.95. However, Ive seen the agreement she signed in July 2016. 
And this clearly said there were 49 payments, not 47, 48 of £130.95 and a final payment of 
£2,525. Whats more, the letters CFS sent her on 24 April and 17 June 2020 explained that 
her agreement was being extended to cover the arrears and the deferred payments. Given 
this, Im satisfied that Mrs T shouldve been reasonably aware that her payments continued 
after July 2020.
As Mrs T didnt continue to make the full monthly payments after the payment holiday ended, 
CFS wrote to her to let her know that she was in arrears. And, when these arrears werent 
cleared (or a payment arrangement put in place to clear them), CFS first defaulted then 
terminated the agreement.
Mrs T is unhappy with CFS actions. And its clear from her complaints that she believed 
shed paid CFS more than the car was worth, so shouldnt have to pay anything more. As 
such, I accept that she would find any attempts to collect the payments both unwanted and 
unacceptable. However, as she hadnt made all of the payments under the agreement she 
signed, CFS were entitled to attempt to collect these.
CFS contacted Mrs T by letter, email, and by phone, on a number of occasions. They also 
advised her what actions they would take if the arrears remained unpaid. These are factual 
statements and, although Mrs T may not have wished to be advised of her obligations under 
the agreement, this doesnt make CFS actions threatening or harassment. As such, Im 
satisfied that CFS didnt do anything wrong by contacting Mrs T about her arrears.Mrs T has also said that CFS have reported missed payments to the credit reference 
agencies, and she doesnt think they shouldve been able to do this. However, CFS have an 
obligation to report factual information to the credit reference agencies and, when Mrs T 
didnt pay the four missed/deferred payments or the final payment, CFS reported this. And 
Ive not seen anything to show me they incorrectly reported missed payments. As such, I 
wont be asking CFS to amend Mrs Ts credit file.
Finally, Mrs T has raised a number of complaints in her comments to the investigators view 
that havent been previously raised with CFS. The Financial Ombudsman Service is unable 
to consider issues where the financial business hasnt had the opportunity to consider them 
first. Given this, I wont comment further on these issues.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mrs Ts complaint about Clydesdale Financial 
Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman