DRN-1572044
The complaint
Mr A complains about the level of service hes received from Gefion Insurance A/S after 
making a claim on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr As car was taken for repairs after an incident. But Mr A was unhappy with the time taken 
to repair his car, the quality of these repairs, and the courtesy car provided by Gefion. Mr A 
said he had to return his car several times to the repairing garage for rectification work. He 
said it took 19 weeks to repair and return his car. Gefion agreed that there had been a three 
week delay in the claim. It offered Mr A £400 compensation, but he was unhappy with this. 
Mr A said the car was returned with unsatisfactory repairs and Gefion had agreed to rectify 
these and then have an independent assessor inspect them. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought it was 
unreasonable that the repairs had taken over a year and still werent satisfactory. He thought 
Gefion should pay Mr A £400 further compensation for the frustration caused. He thought 
Gefion had arranged for Mr A to have a larger car than his policy allowed. But, as he thought 
this was Mr As wish, he didnt think Gefion was responsible for Mr As increased fuel costs. 
Gefion replied that it agreed to pay Mr A £400 further compensation. But Mr A was still 
unhappy with this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr As frustration that its taken so long to get his car satisfactorily repaired. 
Gefion agrees that its made mistakes in the repairs. It agreed that it caused a three week 
delay at the start of the claim when there had to be a change in garage. 
I can see that further inspection of the car found further damage that had to be authorised for 
repair. Then parts had to be ordered and a repair time booked. But I think this process, 
which took about four months, could have been hastened:
There was a weeks delay because the garage didnt receive instructions
It took two weeks for Gefion to authorise the repairs after it received the garages 
report
The parts arrived at the garage, but it then took over six weeks for the repairs to be 
made as opposed to a four week estimate. 
And when the car was returned to Mr A, he found there were multiple faults that needed 
rectification. I think Gefion reasonably agreed to rectify these and have the car inspected by 
an independent engineer. Gefion also then provided Mr A with a like for like courtesy car. 
But I think Mr As car should have been fully repaired the first time. 
Mr A said there were further problems with the repairs and Gefion rectified some of these. I 
can see that it adjusted the headlights as the approved garage had made previous 
adjustments.
From what I can see, the only outstanding issue is swirls in the paintwork in the repaired 
area. Gefion tried to arrange to have this inspected, but, from what I can see, Mr A wanted to 
wait for better weather. So I think it was Mr As decision not to agree for a final inspection of 
the repairs. Gefion then told him that he would have to obtain his own estimates for this. I 
can understand that Mr A felt frustrated that this matter was still ongoing. But I think Gefion 
made reasonable attempts to complete the final repairs and inspection.
When a business makes a mistake, as Gefion accepts it has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer. 
Mr A was provided with a courtesy car for the duration of the repairs. In response to his 
concerns about the small courtesy car, Gefion arranged for him to be provided with a like for 
like car. I think that was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I dont think Gefion is 
responsible for the extra petrol costs for the bigger car as I think this was Mr As decision. 
I can see that there were delays in the repairs. But I can also see that Gefion wasnt able to 
successfully contact Mr A on several occasions and I cant hold it responsible for these 
subsequent delays. 
Putting things right
Gefion offered Mr A £400 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its handling of 
his claim. Its agreed to pay Mr A a further £400, and I can see that this has been done. I 
think that is sufficient compensation for the inconvenience caused Mr A and the impact of 
the errors. This is because its in keeping with what Id award in similar circumstances. So I 
dont require Gefion to increase this further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Gefion Insurance A/S to pay Mr A £400 compensation in addition to the £400 it has 
previously offered, as it has already done. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman