DRN-2911689
The complaint
Mr T says Valour Finance Limited trading as Savvy.co.uk lent to him irresponsibly. He says 
he had significant financial and mental health problems at the time of lending. These would 
mean it wouldnt be possible for him to repay the loans in a sustainable way. He thinks 
Savvy shouldve made better checks and seen this. 
What happened
This complaint is about one instalment loan Savvy provided to Mr T on 8 June 2015. Mr T 
borrowed £600 and he was due to make 12 monthly repayments of £100. The loan was 
repaid on 5 October 2015. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought that the checks Savvy had made 
were proportionate and so it was reasonable to lend. 
Mr T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. He reiterated that his finances were poor and 
that he had other related problems. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Savvy needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr T could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Savvy should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive seen a record of the information Mr T provided when he completed his loan application. 
Mr T said he had a monthly income of around £1,500 and he had regular monthly outgoings 
of around £900. Savvy confirmed Mr Ts income and outgoings where possible, for example, 
it obtained a screenshot of his bank details to confirm his income.  
And in addition to asking Mr T about his situation it also looked at his credit file. And there 
were some concerns when it did this, such as a late payment on a credit card. But Savvy 
discussed these, and Mr Ts overall situation, in a telephone call before lending. I think it got 
a reasonable picture of Mr Ts finances from this process. So, it was reasonable for Savvy to 
think that Mr T could afford this lending given the information it had.
The crux of Mr Ts objection to the lending is that he feels Lending Stream should have 
made more in-depth checks. Had it done this, it wouldve seen he was in financial difficulty. 
But given the amounts borrowed against his income, and that that it was early in the lending 
relationship, I dont think its reasonable to say Savvy should have looked into his finances in 
more detail in this case. 
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Savvy was made aware of any 
financial problems Mr T mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate Mr Ts circumstances further. So, I think it was reasonable for Savvy to rely on 
the information it obtained.
Mr T has said that he had mental health problems. And it seems reasonable to say that hes 
had a difficult time. I hope things have improved for him. But Ive seen no evidence that 
Savvy was aware of this at the time. And the checks it made were otherwise proportionate. 
So, Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint for this reason alone. 
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Savvy did were proportionate. 
And I think its decision to lend was reasonable. Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman