DRN-4273552
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs J have complained that Santander UK Plc closed their joint bank account due 
to them not providing information which they feel was unreasonable. They say they have 
been treated in a discriminatory way due to their race.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to all parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. I will 
explain why. But before I do, I would like to highlight that this decision relates solely to Mr 
Hs and Mrs Js joint account.
Its important to highlight that this service is unable to make a finding on whether 
something constitutes discrimination as per the Equality Act 2010. Only a court of law 
can make a legal finding based on the definitions set out within the act. I know Mr H 
and Mrs J will be frustrated by this. However, I can consider whether Santander has 
acted in a fair and reasonable manner. To do that, I will take several things, including 
the Equality Act 2010 into consideration.
Having reviewed Santanders Terms and Conditions, which Mr H and Mrs J would 
have agreed to, prior to opening the account, I am satisfied it allows for Santander to 
request information from its customers. One of the reasons for this is to comply with 
regulatory requirements. 
The terms and conditions also allow for immediate account closure, they say:
You havent acted in the way you agreed in these terms. Either more than once or in a 
serious way. For example, this would include if you dont provide us with information, 
weve reasonably asked for on more than one occasion. 
Santander has said, that as part of its know your customer policy (to satisfy 
regulatory requirements) it needed up to date information from Mr H and Mrs J.
I can see from the evidence submitted both Mr H and Mrs J have been asked to 
provide further information. And I can see that Mr H complied and provided most of 
the information which Santander asked for. But Mr H refused to provide statements 
of an account he holds with a third-party bank as he felt this was unreasonable. 
However, in its final response letter dated 20 March 2023, Santander made it clear it 
still required the statements due to a regulatory requirement (in line with its terms and 
conditions) and if it didnt receive the statements, it would place a restriction on the 
account.
In line with the terms and conditions, as Santander has asked for this information on 
more than one occasion and the information hadnt been provided, it is entitled to 
close the account immediately.
While I appreciate how strongly Mr H feels that the information Santander requested 
was unreasonable, I cant say it wasnt acting inline with the terms and conditions of 
the account. The terms and conditions clearly outline it can ask for further information 
for many different reasons. So, I cant say it acted unreasonably.
As this information wasnt provided, Mr H and Mrs Js account was suspended. 
Again, I am satisfied Santander made them aware this would happen if the 
information wasnt provided in its final response letter.
From the system notes provided, I can see that on 31 March 2023 Santander wrote 
to Mr H to let him know it had made the decision to close the account. It said it would 
give them two months notice. As mentioned above, Santander didnt need to give 
two months notice as the terms allow it to close an account immediately in these 
circumstances.
Santander has provided evidence to show the account was closed on 1 June 2023. 
Therefore, Santander ensured it provided the two months notice it said it would.
So, while I appreciate Mr H and Mrs J will be disappointed I cant fairly conclude that 
Santander treated them unfairly or unreasonably. It acted inline with the terms and 
conditions of the account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman