DRN-3539892
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA)s proposed 
settlement of their buildings insurance claim.
All references to RSA also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Its not in dispute that subsidence has occurred at Mr and Mrs Bs property. However, 
RSA feel this isnt the main cause of all the damage being claimed for  such as the 
bay window and dropping in the floor level. 
Because of this RSA feel these should not be included in the claim. It has however, 
proposed to repair some cracking in the area around the bay window.
Mr and Mrs Bs appointed surveyor said the damage appears to have been caused 
by the tree roots identified as the cause of the subsidence. They said the roots from 
the trees had shrunk sub soil and resulted in the base of the window sagging and 
rotating outwards. 
In their report, the surveyor references photos of the windows from reports regarding 
the property in 1995 and 1996. They comment the windows are slightly out of plumb 
and that though some cracking was observed, it was at a lower level.
RSA agreed the roots had caused the rotation, but said cracking observed around 
the bay had not significantly increased enough from existing cracking for it to be 
consistent with the subsidence damage  and the issues with the bay are likely to be 
historical and down to age related wear and tear.
There was previous movement at the property and a subsidence claim was made 
prior to Mr and Mrs B purchasing the property  over 25 years ago. However, I can 
see following a period of monitoring, no work was carried out, which suggests there 
has been no further movement until the most recent episode of subsidence.
RSA have offered other explanations for the primary cause of damage such as 
historical movement and inherent defects. But this isnt supported by evidence from 
further investigations. Its been established there is subsidence and its been agreed 
by the both RSA and Mr and Mrs Bs surveyor that it has played a significant role in 
the rotation of the bay window. 
Mr and Mrs Bs surveyor has also commented on the change in the distortion of the 
bay since the damage previously observed in 1996. 
So, considering whats been set out above, Im more persuaded by what 
Mr and Mrs Bs appointed surveyor has said. And the damage has been caused by 
the subsidence.
It is noted by RSA that Mr and Mrs B are unable to open the windows. RSA are 
obligated under the policy to provide a lasting and effective repair. So, if it can repair 
the window, and any associated damage, effectively, it should do so. However, if this 
cannot be achieved, it should then consider a replacement.
So, for these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
RSA should consider the damage to bay windows, and the related dropped flooring, as part 
of any claim settlement or repairs.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
To put things right, I direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to do as Ive set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman