DRN-4088478
The complaint
W, a limited company, represented by its director Mr C, has complained about its 
commercial vehicle insurer Collingwood Insurance Company Limited, in respect of a claim 
made when its lorry was stolen, and which Collingwood declined.
What happened
In March 2021, W had a lorry parked at its premises. Mr C reported to the police that the 
lorry had been stolen and a claim was made to Collingwood, via a third-party. Mr C was 
asked to provide certain details, which he did. And Collingwood approached the finance 
company for information about the vehicle and the police for further details. In August 2021, 
with the police report still outstanding, Collingwood decided to interview Mr C.
During the interview Mr C was asked to provide some financial details for the company, 
which he said he didnt have to hand. Following the interview and review of the subsequently 
provided police report, Collingwood felt there were discrepancies in the account of the theft. 
It also noted that, when Mr C had been interviewed, he had said the key for the vehicle had 
been taken by the thieves from a locked key-safe  but the interviewers had found no sign of 
a key-safe having been in place. Collingwood decided the claim was not genuine and told 
Mr C it was declined.
Mr C was unhappy. Collingwood agreed to interview Mr C again. Mr C said that the 
statement taken in August 2021 had been inaccurate as he had been tired and under the 
influence of drugs  which accounted for any discrepancies, but also was why he had 
refused to sign the written account in the months since, including whilst being interviewed 
again. During the interview Mr C was asked to provide certain financial details, which he said 
he would not do as he could see no relevance to it and felt it was no business of 
Collingwoods. Mr C maintained that the key had been in a key-safe.
Subsequently Collingwood issued a final response to Mr C. It referenced the previous 
concerns it had had with the claim  that the incident may not have happened in the way 
reported. Collingwood said it was not persuaded that the claim was genuine. It also noted 
that Mr C had refused to cooperate with it  which was in breach of a policy condition. 
Collingwood felt its decline of the claim was fair and reasonable. 
Mr C complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. He told our Investigator that he had 
not refused to provide financial details, he was happy to but didnt see the relevance of doing 
so and whilst he had refused to sign the statement taken by Collingwoods interviewers in 
2021, that was because what hed said during that interview had been recorded incorrectly.
Our Investigator noted the general policy condition referenced by Collingwood, and was 
inclined to agree with it that Mr C had not cooperated with its enquiries. She felt its decline of 
the claim was fair. Mr C reiterated that he had refused to sign the statement in 2021 because 
the facts he had given had not been taken down correctly  he had always said someone 
else discovered the theft. He said the police had not taken a statement from him. As Mr C 
did not agree with our Investigators assessment, his complaint was passed to me for an 
Ombudsmans consideration.
I wasnt minded to uphold it. But my reasoning for that went further than that expressed by 
our Investigator. So I issued a provisional decision. My findings of which were:
In short it is clear to me that the policy condition referenced by Collingwood is not the only 
bar for it in respect of this claim, and that even if Mr C were to now offer cooperation in 
respect of the businesss finances, that would not resolve the other concerns that have 
already been set out by Collingwood as reason for it declining the claim  namely that it 
thinks the incident did not happen in the way reported by Mr C. So that complaint subject 
needs covering here as part of this decision.
In any claim it is always up to the policyholder to show, in the first instance, on the face of it, 
that they have suffered a loss likely covered by the policy. What that will mean in practice will 
vary depending on the incident and cover in place. But for claims such as theft  where the 
item subject of the claim has not been recovered, there are no suspects available, and the 
incident was not seen by anyone or any cameras  often the policyholders account of the 
incident will be the key evidence of whether a genuine claim under the policy has likely 
occurred. A compelling and likely plausible account will show that they took care of an item 
which was taken from them by persons unknown.
Here, in very general terms, Mr C reported that he had a lorry, covered by the policy, which 
was stolen. Collingwood had no reason to doubt that report. But the greater detail 
surrounding the incident; such as, who discovered the loss, when and how it was possible 
for the lorry to have been taken  reasonably all need to make sense for Mr C to have shown 
that, on the face of it, he most likely has a genuine claim under the policy. And it is in respect 
of this type of detail that Collingwood has found concerns, such that it thinks its unlikely the 
incident happened as reported. Collingwood has also noted what it feels to be a relevant 
policy term reasonably applying to allow it to decline liability.  
Looking at the policy term first; I think Collingwood has shown that Mr C is in breach of the 
term which requires him to cooperate with its reasonable enquiries. Collingwood asked Mr C 
on two occasions to see financial records for the business, yet he has never provided any. 
And when asked on the second occasion he did not say he was happy to provide those but 
was unsure as to why these were required. Rather he refused partly because he couldnt 
see the relevance of those records being asked for, but also that, in his view, they were none 
of Collingwoods business. I dont think that was a reasonable response from Mr C. 
Collingwood does not have to explain to him why certain documents are required, and in 
terms of investigating and validating claims it is often not appropriate to explain why, to a 
policyholder, certain details are required. Simply put that can potentially compromise the 
efficacy of an investigation. Collingwood made a reasonable request for detail to be 
provided, and Mr C refused, which was in breach of the policy term requiring him to 
cooperate. The policy explains that this will allow Collingwood to decline a claim. I think its 
decline in this respect was fair and reasonable.  
Turning to Mr Cs report of the incident that led to the claim; I can see why Collingwood has 
concerns. I appreciate that sometimes when events are reported, discrepancies can arise 
naturally as a result of different persons making accounts and/or because, over time 
memories can become confused or distorted. I also appreciate that factors such as alcohol 
and/or drugs might affect a persons memory or allow them to become confused. Im not 
persuaded though that any of that accounts for the discrepancies noted here by Collingwood 
as a cause for concern.
The initial notification of the claim to Collingwood and of the incident to the police were made 
along similar lines  the theft had been discovered on the morning, the office door had been 
broken to gain entry, whereupon the key to the vehicle was taken and the vehicle itself stolen. Mr C told the police though that whilst he was reporting the incident, hed been 
notified by someone else and hadnt yet attended the premises. The report to Collingwood 
noted they had arrived for work on the morning and found the lorry gone. But when Mr C 
spoke to Collingwood in August 2021, he was very clear that he had discovered the theft.
I bear in mind that Mr C, in August 2021, may have been under certain influences. And, 
I think, if he had seemed unsure as to what had happened, or showed signs of confusion as 
to timings or who had seen what, then I might be satisfied that Collingwood was being overly 
concerned about the discrepancy between what Mr C told it then and the account given to 
the police. But Mr Cs statement, to me, seems very clear and he gives the detail as being 
his memory  what he saw and experienced when arriving that morning, finding the lorry 
gone, the office broken into, with a damage key-safe open and on the floor, and then calling 
the police. To me that isnt something that can be explained by confusion  not set against 
the original account of Mr C having been told about the theft by someone else and reporting 
it to the police before attending the premises. 
I further bear in mind that later, when Collingwood spoke to Mr C again, he sought to clarify 
what he had said in that first formal statement to it. He said hed given the account he had, 
about him finding the vehicle gone, because of his state of mind at the time and he wanted 
to clarify what had actually happened. At this point I fairly have to acknowledge that Mr C 
gave a different reason to our Investigator for the content of the first statement  he said he 
had never said he had found the theft and that Collingwoods interviewers had made 
mistakes in recording what he had said. 
The clarification detail Mr C gave to Collingwood was, essentially, that another person 
arriving on site, had found that the lorry was gone and had told him all the things he had put 
forward in August 2021 as being his own memories and recollections of that day. Whilst this 
clarification does seem to accord with the account recorded by the police, I can understand 
why Collingwood feels the account given in 2021 casts doubt over the reported loss as a 
whole. 
Theres also the issue of the key-safe. The presence and use of the key-safe was not 
mentioned to the police or to Collingwood when the loss was first notified. And when Mr C 
was interviewed in August 2021, the interviewers checked the area where Mr C said the 
key-safe had been (screwed to the wall), and yet could find no sign of any attachments 
having been there. Mr C said he discarded the damaged key-safe as the police did not ask 
to see it. But I cant see why Mr C did not initially tell Collingwood about the key-safe. 
Collingwood had asked him to give his account of the theft in an informal way shortly after 
the incident  Collingwoods detail at the time recorded that Ws office had been broken into 
and the key accessed, but Mr C did not clarify then that the key had been kept in a key-safe, 
which had been damaged and had been, or was due to be, discarded. He did not tell 
Collingwood that until August 2021.
In the circumstances here, I understand why Collingwood feels it cant put any faith in the 
incident having occurred as reported by Mr C. And, I think that, on this occasion, this all 
reasonably means that Mr C has not satisfied even the first stage of the claim process in 
respect of showing that, on the face of it, hes had a loss likely covered by the policy. As 
such, Im satisfied that Collingwood has fairly and reasonably declined Mr Cs claim. 
Accordingly, I dont intend to uphold Mr Cs complaint that Collingwoods decline was unfair 
and unreasonable.
Collingwood responded, stating it had nothing further to add.
Mr C appointed a representative. The representative, in summary, said:The provisional decision is based on what Collingwood has said, it does not represent 
what happened.
Other facts and a timeline show that there might be a different story here, a more 
balanced view to be found, to the one-sided version presented by Collingwood.
Mr C had checked the vehicle the day before to make it ready for work the next day  
that along with what he had paid for the vehicle and the insurance premiums, do not 
suggest he was aware it was about to be stolen.
Collingwood caused delays and did not, at anytime ask to see CCTV footage which was, 
and hopefully still is, available. 
The idea that Mr C was under any influence of drugs or alcohol at any meeting is 
scandalous.
It was always the case that Mr C did not sign the August 2021 statement because it 
contained inaccuracies.
After that interview Collingwoods loss adjuster left Mr C with the impression that the 
claim would be paid.
It was that same adjuster, interviewing Mr C in 2022, who had assumed, on Mr Cs 
behalf, that he would refuse to provide the financial documents the insurer had asked for. 
And Mr C was not told they had to be provided or what the implications may be for his 
claim if he did not do so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all of the comments made by Mr Cs representative in reply to my provisional 
decision. But there isnt anything there which, in my view, materially impacts on the findings 
I made. 
I understand Mr C and his representative are unhappy about the comments made by 
Collingwoods agent regarding drugs and alcohol. But Collingwoods agent noted concerns 
in these respects, recording what Mr C said in a report, as well as taking his witness 
statements. It was recorded that clarification regarding the first statement was needed 
because of Mr Cs state of mind when that had been given. I appreciate Mr C disputes that 
but Ive seen nothing that reasonably brings these contemporaneous documents into 
dispute. Im also mindful that I noted provisionally that the August 2021 statement was 
written on the basis of it being Mr Cs account and memory of what occurred, what he did 
and said  it doesnt seem likely to me that all that detail was recorded incorrectly by the 
interviewer. Im satisfied it was fair and reasonable for Collingwood to think discrepancies 
had arisen and to rely on them in declining the claim. 
It was always possible for Mr C to present any evidence he wished to in support of his claim. 
So if there was CCTV evidence available that he felt Collingwood had not obtained but 
should have, he could have presented that. And whilst Mr C reports that he was not told in 
the interview on 3 August 2022 that he had to provide the financial details, or what the 
implications may be of not doing so, his policy required him to cooperate with the insurers 
requests. If Mr C wants to provide further detail to Collingwood in support of his claim, he 
can do so. 
Ill emphasise that I am not making any finding about whether Mr C did anything wrong, only 
whether, given the detail it had, Collingwood had reached a fair decision on the claim. If 
other evidence exists which Mr C thinks shows he reported a valid claim, this can be 
presented to Collingwood for consideration. My provisional findings were made on the basis 
of what Collingwood had done, given what it had seen to that point. And no evidence, only the comments made in reply, has been presented which gives me cause to change the 
findings I reached.
As such, my provisional view on this complaint has not changed. My provisional findings, 
along with my comments here, now form the findings of this, my final decision. 
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint. I dont make any award against Collingwood Insurance 
Company Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman