DRN-2893228
The complaint
Mrs W has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold her a 
packaged bank account, called an Advantage Gold account. 
NatWest charged Mrs W a monthly fee for the Advantage Gold account and provided 
several potential benefits in return. Mrs W thinks it should refund her all the fees she paid, 
plus interest. 
What happened
Mrs W has banked with NatWest for quite a long time. NatWest has looked at its records for 
her has told us that:
in October 2008, she opened a fee-free account, 
in November 2009, it sold her the Advantage Gold account, for which it charged a 
monthly fee, and which replaced her fee-free account, 
in July 2015, it switched her to a Select Platinum Account and continued to charge a 
monthly fee,
in December 2020, she went back to a fee-free account.
This account history is not in dispute and I have taken it to be accurate. 
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mrs Ws complaint. The adjudicator didnt 
think that NatWest had mis-sold the Advantage Gold account to her and didnt recommend 
that it should give her any money back. 
Mrs W didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review 
her case. So, it has come to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about this case. Ive looked into 
everything that Mrs W and NatWest have told us or sent us about the complaint, and Ive 
decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
In 2009, NatWest, along with other banks, was allowed to sell packaged bank accounts like 
the Advantage Gold account in two ways. It could do so without giving personal advice on an 
information-only (or non-advised) basis; or as an advised (or recommended) sale. In both 
situations, as well as giving Mrs W a choice, I would have expected NatWest to tell her about 
the Advantage Gold accounts costs and benefits clearly and fairly; and in an advised sale, I 
would also have expected it to check her circumstances to see if she needed the benefits 
which the Advantage Gold account could provide. 
Both on our questionnaire and in more recent correspondence, Mrs W has said that Natwest 
recommended she should buy the Advantage Gold account during a meeting in one of its 
branches. Shes mentioned that it did so on the basis that (she) wanted an overdraft 
facility. Natwest has said that it sold the account to her on an information-only basis, which 
was its usual practice at the time. 
I will turn to the issues Mrs W has raised about an overdraft shortly, but while I cant tell for 
sure what happened during the meeting, I havent seen sufficiently compelling evidence for 
me to think that NatWest changed its usual selling practice for Mrs W. I certainly accept that 
it may well have talked positively to her about the Advantage Gold account; after all, it was 
trying to sell her the account and it was in its own interests to sound enthusiastic, but I dont 
think it gave her personal advice. I have considered this complaint to be about an 
information-only sale. 
Turning to the overdraft, Mrs W has told us at the time NatWest sold her the Advantage Gold 
account she was interested in being provided with an overdraft facility and that during the 
meeting NatWest told her that she could only get an overdraft facility if she opened a 
(packaged bank account) for which she would have to pay a monthly fee. She now believes 
this was wrong and she could have had an overdraft with her fee-free account. 
Firstly, I would like to confirm that Mrs Ws current belief is correct. It is very rare for Natwest 
and other banks to decide whether a customer can have an overdraft based on the type of 
account she or he holds. If NatWest was willing to grant Mrs W an overdraft with the 
Advantage Gold account, then its highly likely that it would also have allowed her an 
overdraft with a fee-free account. But Mrs Ws point is that she thinks NatWest misled her 
about this. 
Again, I cant tell for sure what NatWest said, or didnt say, to Mrs W, but it has pointed out 
that before November 2009 it had already allowed her an overdraft with a fee-fee account. 
So, it seems extremely unlikely to me that it would have told her the opposite as this would 
have contradicted her own experience. However, at the time, one of the potential benefits 
available to customers with Advantage Gold accounts was that NatWest would usually 
charge them lower interest rates on overdrafts than it applied to customers with fee-free 
accounts. NatWest may well have told Mrs W that she could only have this benefit if she 
bought the Advantage Gold account. But as this would have been true, it wouldnt have been 
misleading. 
Although the main point of Mrs Ws complaint concerns the overdraft, she has also 
mentioned that she didnt need the benefits that came with the Advantage Gold account. 
These included insurance for mobile phones, use of a car breakdown service and travel 
insurance. Shes told us that she already had some of these services, such as use of a car 
breakdown service and mobile phone insurance, so didnt need them from the Advantage 
Gold account.  However, in an information-only sale this wasnt something NatWest had to 
check. 
Mrs W has also mentioned that she had a medical condition and had to pay an additional fee 
for cover under the travel insurance policy. I accept this, but as NatWest seems to have told 
about the additional premium, I think it met its obligation to tell her about the benefits clearly 
and fairly.
Given that Mrs W already had a fee-free account before NatWest sold her the Advantage 
Gold account and I havent seen anything to make me think it told her she couldnt keep that 
account, Im also satisfied that it allowed her a choice. And as there is no dispute that NatWest told Mrs W about the monthly fee, I dont think it mis-sold the Advantage Gold 
account to her. 
Although most have Mrs Ws comments have been about the Advantage Gold account, I 
have also considered what happened when NatWest switched her to the Select Platinum 
account. 
 
During 2015, NatWest decided to withdraw Advantage Gold accounts from its customers 
and move them to its Select Platinum account. It did this for commercial reasons and along 
with other banks it is allowed to make changes like this. However, to treat Mrs W fairly, I 
would have expected it to tell her what was happening, give her fair notice and allow her 
reasonable choices if she wasnt happy with its intentions. NatWest has told us that in 2015 
it wrote to all customers about the changes it was making and has sent us an example letter 
from the time. It seems to have sent such a letter to Mrs W and I think it treated her fairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mrs Ws complaint that National 
Westminster Bank Plc mis-sold her a packaged bank account. I am not going to tell it to give 
her any money back. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2021. 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman