DRN-4413571
The complaint
Mr C complains that Moneybarn No.1 Limited (Moneybarn) shouldnt have lent to him  as the 
loan was unaffordable. 
What happened
In June 2019, Mr C acquired a car by entering into conditional loan agreement with 
Moneybarn. The cash price of the car was £6,495, Mr C made an initial payment of £400. 
The total amount repayable after added interest and charges was £14,524.60 repayable in 
monthly instalments over 60 months of £239.40. 
In November 2022  Mr C complained to Moneybarn, saying they shouldnt have lent to him 
because the loan was unaffordable. He said his income was low and hed been regularly 
using other lending such as payday loans to meet his commitments.
Moneybarn said theyd conducted a full credit search and also verified Mr Cs monthly 
income using a current account analysis done by a Credit Reference Agency (CRA). 
Moneybarn added that they used data from the Office for National Statistics (ONS) to 
estimate Mr Cs level of non-discretionary expenditure. They said they found:
Mr Cs existing borrowing levels were zero.
Whilst they could see that Mr C had defaulted on previous borrowing, the most recent 
had been entered 29 months prior to his application, and they could see that he was 
making contributions towards repaying the sums owed.
Although there was evidence of a County Court Judgment (CCJ) on Mr Cs file, the 
amount was considered low and had been entered 39 months prior to his application.
There was no Insolvency information on Mr Cs file.
Moneybarn said they were satisfied theyd done enough checks and the agreement was 
affordable for Mr C.
Mr C wasnt happy with Moneybarns response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said while Moneybarn hadnt been able to provide the credit file theyd seen,    
Mr C had provided his credit report. And shed hadnt seen any evidence that differed from 
what Moneybarn said theyd seen, other than the CCJ which Mr C didnt dispute. She said 
taking into account the information on the credit file together with the size of the loan, the 
APR, its term and the monthly repayment she was satisfied that Moneybarn had completed 
reasonable and proportionate checks. And they hadnt acted irresponsibly in lending to Mr C.
Mr C didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman  to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding his complaint. Ill explain why.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out in a part of its handbook known as CONC 
what lenders must do when deciding whether or not to lend to a consumer. In summary, a 
firm must consider a customers ability to make repayments under the agreement without 
having to borrow further to meet repayments or default on other obligations, and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers financial situation. 
All lenders are required to ensure they dont lend irresponsibly. Ive considered the relevant  
rules, guidance and good industry practice when someone complains about irresponsible 
and/or unaffordable lending. In reaching my decision there are two overarching questions I 
need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances of 
the complaint. These are:
1. Did Moneybarn complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy themselves 
that Mr C would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did Moneybarn make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr C 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Moneybarn act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way
So Ive first considered whether Moneybarn carried out proportionate checks.
Moneybarn said theyd looked at Mr Cs credit file which they said showed he didnt have 
any existing borrowing. While they could see hed defaulted on some previous borrowing, 
this had been some time prior to his application. As had the CCJ which had been 39 months 
prior to the application. And Mr C was paying towards the reduction in the outstanding 
amounts.  
Moneybarn also said they carried out an income and expenditure assessment. They verified 
Mr Cs monthly net income at £2,000 using a CRA tool, and they estimated his non-
discretionary expenditure at £1,005.25 using ONS data. They added on £270.40 to allow for 
any variations in estimates and calculated that Mr C had a monthly disposable income of 
£724.35.  which they said was enough for Mr C to be able to afford his monthly instalment 
of £239.40.
Moneybarn havent provided a copy of the credit report they looked at  so Ive looked at the 
one Mr C provided. This shows Mr C had a default in October 2017. The credit report 
suggests that the only active account Mr C had at the time of his application was for utilities 
 water. I can see there were three option accounts which were payable on a weekly basis, 
that had been settled in 2017 and 2018, before Mr Cs loan agreement with Moneybarn. The 
credit report didnt show Mr C had a CCJ, which implies this has fallen off the report as it 
was now over six years. I can see that Mr C had taken on further credit, four credit cards, 
three loans and two mail order accounts but these were after his loan was agreed with 
Moneybarn. So, the information Ive seen on Mr Cs credit report at the time of the lending 
with Moneybarn correlates with the information they said they saw at the time of his 
application.
CONC allows firms to use statistical data (CONC 5.2A.19) in their affordability assessments 
unless theyve reason to suspect that a customers non-discretionary expenditure is 
significantly higher than that described in the data. In this case, I cant say that the 
information seen by Moneybarn suggested this was the case for Mr C. While Mr C had 
previous financial difficulties these looked to be some time ago and that he was in a better 
financial position and so able to seek lending. And I can see that Moneybarn also allowed a contingency amount of £270.40 to allow for any deviation in their estimates. This left Mr C 
with an estimated disposable income after the new loan amount was deducted of £484.95. 
I know my decision will disappoint Mr C but I think the checks carried out by Moneybarn 
were proportionate and reasonable. So, I wouldnt  have expected Moneybarn to seek any 
further information to determine whether theyd lend to Mr C or not. And based on the 
information they had I think their lending decision was fair as it showed Mr C had sufficient 
income for him to be able to maintain his loan repayments.
 
I understand since taking out the lending Mr Cs financial situation has deteriorated. Id 
expect Moneybarn to act with forbearance and consideration in accordance with CONC in 
helping Mr C with any financial difficulties he has.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman