DRN-3161332
The complaint
Mr W complains about the low credit limit on his account with Barclays Bank UK PLC 
(Barclays) and says it should be higher.
What happened
In 2020, Mr W applied for a credit card with Barclays. His application was approved and he 
says he was offered a credit limit of £1,200. But Barclays wanted to validate Mr Ws income, 
so they set a preliminary credit limit of £50 while they waited for proof of Mr Ws income. Mr 
W provided payslips from his employer, as Barclays had requested. But the credit limit 
remained at £50.
Mr W complained to Barclays. They said they werent able to offer Mr W a higher credit limit, 
as they had to make sure the limit was affordable for him. On the basis of Mr Ws payslips, 
Barclays didnt think a higher credit limit was appropriate. So they didnt think theyd made a 
mistake by keeping the limit at £50. But they offered compensation of £50 to reflect the poor 
level of customer service Mr W had received.
Mr W wasnt happy with Barclays response and brought the complaint to this service. He 
wants Barclays to increase the credit limit to £1,200. Our Investigator didnt think Barclays 
needed to do anything here. But Mr W didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me 
to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive started by looking at the terms and conditions of Mr Ws account. They confirm that 
Barclays will set the credit limit according to various factors, including Mr Ws circumstances. 
The terms confirm that Barclays will tell him what his credit limit is when they first open his 
account. Theyll then review it from time to time. Barclays say that, in this case, Mr W was 
approved for a credit limit of £1,200 initially. But this was subject to him providing payslips to 
prove his income. They set the lower credit limit of £50 while they waited for that information. 
I think that was a reasonable approach which was in line with the terms and conditions.
Barclays say that the income stated on Mr Ws application wasnt supported by the payslips 
he provided. They say that a credit limit of £1,200 wasnt affordable based on the average 
income shown by the payslips, when also taking into account Mr Ws existing financial 
commitments. They say thats why they didnt increase the credit limit to £1,200. From the 
information Ive seen, I think this was a reasonable conclusion for Barclays to reach. And I 
wouldnt expect them to set the credit limit at a level which they didnt think was affordable 
for Mr W. Taking everything into account, I think it was reasonable for Barclays to keep the 
credit limit at £50. Barclays have said theyre willing to look at it again if Mr Ws 
circumstances change and I think thats fair.
But Mr W has described numerous phone calls he had with Barclays. He says he was told at 
one stage that the underwriting team had approved the credit limit of £1,200, only to be told 
later that Barclays were not going to set that limit. Barclays say that Mr W had been 
approved for a limit of £1,200 initially, subject to his proof of income supporting this. But it 
doesnt seem as though that was explained to Mr W clearly and he says he was given 
contradictory and unclear information. 
Barclays accept that Mr W received a poor level of service here. Theyve already paid him 
£50 to apologise for the distress and inconvenience of that, and to compensate him for the 
time he spent on the phone to them while abroad. I think thats fair. And I think its enough to 
recognise the impact of what happened here.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr W. But I dont think Barclays need to do any more here, so Im not 
going to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman