DRN-1499443
The complaint
This complaint is about the mis-sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy by 
AXA France IARD to Ms L in 1999 in connection with a store card.
What happened
Ms L bought a store card and PPI in 1999. She said she has no recollection of a PPI 
sale. She concludes it was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld on the basis that Ms L hadnt been 
given enough clear information to make an informed choice. 
AXA France disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at 
again by an ombudsman.
AXA has accepted responsibility for this sale. So for ease, I will refer to AXA as the PPI 
seller.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the relevant issues to take into account are the same as those set out in the note 
on our website about our approach to PPI complaints.
I have decided to uphold Ms Ls complaint for the reasons set out below.
AXA said the PPI was bought from a sales representative. This was a non-advised sale so 
AXA had to give Ms L enough clear information so she could make an informed choice.
I dont know how Ms L was given information about the policy terms and conditions  
particularly the information about the things the policy did not cover (the exclusions). 
And I dont know exactly what she was told or when. AXA said it sent the policy with full 
details of the insurances - including the exclusions and limitations  and the levels of 
cover. But it looks like this was sent to her after the sale. So it is possible that Ms L may 
have continued with her purchase without being aware of the full terms and conditions. 
So I think AXA did something wrong in the way it sold this policy to Ms L.
This is important because Ms L has confirmed she had a pre-existing medical condition. 
Under the exclusion clauses in the PPI policy relating to pre-existing medical conditions, 
Ms L wouldnt have been able to make a claim for any condition she had at the start of 
the policy. The possible effect is that Ms L wouldnt have been covered by the PPI policy 
if she needed to make a claim due to the pre-existing medical condition - which AXA 
accepts she had at the start of the policy.
As Ms L was suffering from a medical condition, she may have been receiving treatment to 
control it and it was likely to continue. She also told us she was employed by a company 
who employed people with disabilities, like Ms Ls. She told us the employer was very 
understanding in respect of her medical condition because it allowed her to take time off 
work for it several times before the policy was sold. So its also clear to me she would 
have been aware of her condition at the time of the sale. I think it is unlikely that she would 
have been able to claim on the policy for any complications or for more debilitating 
episodes arising from the original condition.
So I think the exclusion clause could have limited the usefulness of the policy to Ms L and 
this clause should have been highlighted to her more clearly. I am satisfied that AXA 
probably didnt highlight this significant feature in a clear way to Ms L during the sale 
process. As a result, this was a failing in the sale. I think that if Ms L had been properly 
informed about the exclusion, she wouldnt have gone ahead with buying the PPI policy 
given her circumstances at the time.
Taking everything into account, I think the PPI policy was mis-sold so I uphold this 
complaint. I think AXA has to put things right for Ms L.
Putting things right
AXA France IARD should put Ms L in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt 
taken out PPI.
A. AXA France IARD should find out how much Ms L would have owed when 
she closed her store card account if the policy hadnt been added. So it 
should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the 
mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA France IARD should then refund the difference between what Ms L owed 
when she closed her account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had 
PPI.
If Ms L made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA France IARD can 
take off what she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B. AXA France IARD should add simple interest on the difference between what Ms 
L would have owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until 
she gets the refund. The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
C. If  when AXA France IARD works out what Ms L would have owed each month 
without PPI  Ms L paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA France 
IARD should also pay simple interest on the extra Ms L paid. And it should carry 
on paying interest until the point when Ms L wouldve owed AXA France IARD 
something on her credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D. AXA France IARD should tell Ms L what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA France IARD to take off tax from this interest. 
AXA France IARD must give Ms L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she 
asks for one.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and AXA France IARD should put things 
right as I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman