DRN-1336635
The complaint
Mrs G complains that she was mis-sold a Card Protection policy (CP) by Capital One 
(Europe) plc in 2005, as she didnt ask for it and was unaware she had it.
What happened
Mrs G said shed been unknowingly paying for CP each year since 2006 and wouldnt have 
agreed to take out an ongoing plan. After she noticed the payment was still coming out in 
2019, the plan was cancelled. When she asked Capital One for evidence that she had 
agreed to an automatically renewing plan, it denied it was responsible for selling it and 
referred her to another business who it said was responsible.
Capital One later accepted it had sold the policy, but said a redress scheme was set up in 
2015 to provide redress to customers who purchased CP after January 2005. It said Mrs G 
had missed the deadlines to submit her claim and it was time-barred as a result. Because of 
this, it said Mrs G wasnt entitled to have her claim reviewed for compensation, but did 
arrange for the plan to be cancelled.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said under the scheme rules, claims had to 
be made by a certain date. She was satisfied that Mrs Gs policy would have fallen under the 
redress scheme, but said the claim hadnt been made in time despite notification of the 
scheme being sent to her at the address held on file. So she didnt feel Capital One needed 
to take any further action.
Mrs G didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Card Protection policies provide a range of benefits. Typically, the main benefits are cover 
for fraudulent transactions when cards are lost or stolen and the ability to make one call to 
the provider of the policy, who could then cancel and arrange replacement cards with 
different card providers.
The FCA previously investigated the sale of these types of policies and found a number of 
problems. The redress scheme was approved by the High Court and put into place on 17 
August 2015 to compensate customers for premiums paid on or after 14 January 2005. 
Customers who were eligible to claim under the scheme were contacted with an invitation to 
do so.
Under the scheme rules, there were deadlines that applied to making a claim. The scheme 
was accepting claims made within seven months of the date it started  or within thirteen 
months of the date it started if the customer failed to make their claim in time due to 
exceptional circumstances. This meant claims would need to be made to the scheme no 
later than 18 March 2016, or 19 September 2016 if exceptional circumstances applied. Any 
claims made after these dates were time-barred  and the scheme wouldnt consider them.
As Mrs G had a policy of this type sold in 2006, Im satisfied it was covered under the 
redress scheme. So the only complaint this service can consider is whether the rules of the 
redress scheme have been followed correctly.
Customers were written to when the redress scheme was initially put into place to inform 
them of the scheme and invite them to claim. Weve been provided information to show 
Mrs G was contacted in February 2015 to advise her of the scheme, with a vote letter sent in 
May 2015 and a claim form in August 2015. All correspondence was sent to the address 
held on file for Mrs G.
Mrs G said she didnt receive these letters, as she had moved from the address they were 
sent to. But she says she updated her address with Capital One and would have expected it 
to also be updated with the business that administered the policy. Although Capital One may 
have sold the policy, it wasnt responsible for administering it  that was a different business. 
So Mrs G would still have needed to update her address for the policy. As far as the policy 
administrator was concerned, correspondence had been sent to the correct address; unless 
it was told of a change of address it wouldnt be able to send letters anywhere else. I 
appreciate Mrs G says she didnt know she had this policy, but the payment would have 
shown on her credit card statement each year and its good practice for customers to check 
statements regularly. If she didnt recognise this payment, its reasonable to have expected 
her to make further enquiries into this. 
With this in mind, Im satisfied the scheme rules have been followed. The claim wasnt made 
to the scheme within the time limits set out  so I do consider it is now time-barred.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman