DRN-2683326
The complaint
Mr C complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited has rejected a claim made on his 
motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Cs car was flooded, and it was recovered to a dealers garage. Mr C said that Admiral 
accepted his claim, but he decided to have the car repaired privately rather than make a 
claim. Six months later, the car broke down and Admirals independent assessor thought this 
was due to the repairs made earlier. Admiral said that it wouldnt cover the claim as Mr C 
had used a non-approved garage for his repairs. Mr C said Admiral had initially accepted the 
claim and so should cover his costs. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Admiral 
had reasonably concluded that the car had been damaged due to the workmanship of the 
initial repairs. These were made at a non-approved garage and outside the policy. So he 
didnt think Admiral was responsible for this or that it needed to cover the claim. Also, he 
thought mechanical failure wasnt covered by the policy. 
Mr C replied that Admiral had initially accepted and opened a claim after the car was 
flooded. He said hed had no choice as to where his car was recovered. He said hed not 
gone ahead with the claim to avoid affecting his No Claims Discount (NCD). 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr C feels frustrated that hes now left with a bill for £15,000 to repair 
his car. Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with 
the terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
I can see from Admirals file that Mr C notified it of the flood damage and a claim was 
opened. Mr C then decided to withdraw the claim to preserve his NCD. He had the car 
repaired at his choice of garage. 
Mr C said that no repairs were made when the car was initially taken to the dealers garage. 
But the independent assessors report says:
the water ingress suffered initially was dealt with by pumping the water out of the 
engine and Intercooler, replacing the air and oil filters, changing the engine oil and 
undertaking a smooth running' check.
The car had stalled after the flood, and the garage got it running again at a cost of £1,200. 
So I think this can reasonably be considered as repairs. 
The assessor said that six months later water was found in the engine oil. He thought that a 
minor anomaly within the engine had led to the cars break down six months later. All parties 
concur that this was most likely due to the workmanship of the initial repairs leaving some 
residual water in the engine. I havent seen any evidence to contradict this.
If Mr C had gone ahead with his claim and Admiral had authorised repairs at its approved 
repairers, then the repairs would have been guaranteed and Admiral would be responsible 
for any later rectification work. But the repairs were made privately outside the policy and so 
I can see no reason why Admiral should be responsible for the later damage due to the poor 
initial workmanship. I think this is a matter for Mr C to take up with the repairing garage. 
I can see that Admiral awarded Mr C £50 compensation for the trouble and upset caused 
after an email he sent didnt arrive as it should have. I think that was fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances as it reflects the impact this had on Mr C.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman