DRN-3468215
The complaint
Ms G complains about customer service she received from Aviva Insurance Limited.
What happened
Ms G says she called Aviva a number of times on 23 March 2022. She complained to Aviva 
saying it had slammed the phone down on her three times. She also complained that shed 
written to Avivas CEO who hadnt responded to her.
Aviva responded to Ms G acknowledging her emails to its CEO and the complaint handler 
told her he was responding on the CEOs behalf. Aviva said it could find no record of any 
calls to or from Ms G on 23 March 2022. It didnt uphold her complaint. 
Unhappy with Avivas response, Ms G referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
explained to Ms G that Aviva was unable to find any record of the calls she said shed had 
with it on 23 March 2022. Aviva was able to locate a call recording from 22 March 2022 with 
Ms G. But Ms G says this isnt the call she was unhappy with.
Our investigator listened to the call from 22 March 2022 and had no concerns with how this 
was handled. He was also satisfied that Aviva had responded to Ms Gs complaint to its 
CEO. Ultimately, with no recording of the call Ms G was unhappy with, he didnt think Ms Gs 
complaint should be upheld.
Ms G didnt accept this and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. So, its been 
passed to me to consider and make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In cases such as this, where what has happened is in dispute, I have to make my decision 
on the balance of probabilities. That means I have to decide what I think is most likely to 
have happened given the evidence I do have.
Ms G says she called Aviva on 23 March 2022 and it hung up on her. Unfortunately, Aviva 
isnt able to locate any of these calls and has no record of these calls being received. 
Aviva has told us that its system logs a call in a number of ways. Once a policy is accessed 
by a call handler using a policy number, the call will be logged. It can also search via the 
number which a call is received from. Our investigator has provided Aviva with Ms Gs 
contact details. And Aviva has confirmed that it has searched for these calls using a number 
of methods and cant find them. It has, however, been able to find a recording of a call with 
Ms G from the day before. 
It seems likely that one of the first things an agent would need to do when taking a call would 
be to take the policy number from Ms G. This would have logged the call on Avivas 
systems. And, as Ive said, Aviva has told us it has no record of this. Aviva has also told us 
that no one accessed her policy on 23 March 2022. I know Ms G is suspicious of the fact 
that Aviva cant locate these calls. However, this service is an informal alternative to the 
courts. We investigate complaints by requesting evidence from both parties. But we have no 
powers or ability to access Avivas systems to check whether what it is telling us is correct. 
That said, under its regulatory obligations, Aviva is required to cooperate with our 
investigations and provide us with what we ask for, if what we ask for exists. I find it unlikely 
Aviva would tell us it cant locate calls if it could. And if a recoding had been available, it 
seems likely that Aviva wouldve provided it, especially as its provided another call recording 
from around the same time.
Ms G has provided screen shots from her phone showing a number of calls she made on 
22 and 23 March 2022 which she says proves she spoke with Aviva. However, the screen 
shots only show that calls were made from her phone. They dont show the number that was 
called, and of course they cant evidence anything about what was said in any calls.
Unfortunately, without any further evidence, I dont have enough to says that Aviva treated 
Ms G unfairly during any calls on 23 March 2022. 
Ive also thought about what Ms G has said about Avivas CEO not responding to her. 
However, Ive seen an email from one of Avivas complaint handlers acknowledging Ms Gs 
email to its CEO and explaining he is responding on the CEOs behalf. A CEO is responsible 
for overseeing the day to day operations of a company. And I dont think its unreasonable 
for a CEO of a company the size of Aviva to delegate responsibility for dealing with individual 
complaints such as this to other staff.  
My final decision
I know Ms G feels very strongly about this matter, but my final decision is I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman