DRN-2386259
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt treat her fairly when she asked for help 
with her interest only mortgage. 
What happened
Mrs G took out an interest only mortgage with Barclays in 2010. The term was due to expire 
in 2020. Mrs G says Barclays didnt offer the help she asked for, such as a term extension. 
Mrs G repaid the mortgage in 2018. She sold the property to a housing association. She 
bought back part of the property, but says she cant afford the rent to live there.
Our investigator said Barclays wasnt unfair when it declined to extend the mortgage term. 
This wasnt clearly in Mrs Gs best interests. The investigator noted that Mrs G sold her 
property two years before the term expired. 
Mrs G said she had to take action proactively to avoid Barclays taking possession when the 
term expired. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority or FCA) sets out in its rules that it expects 
stringent assessments of affordability and, for interest only mortgages, repayment strategy 
before lenders agree to enter into or vary mortgages. Mrs G want to vary her mortgage by 
extending the term, and possibly changing the repayment method. 
Theres an exception to this which might have allowed Barclays to vary Mrs Gs mortgage 
without having to carry out an assessment of affordability or repayment strategy if the 
proposed change was in Mrs Gs best interests. 
I should say that this doesnt mean Barclays couldnt consider affordability, and ask for 
information about Mrs Gs circumstances to do so. Barclays can fairly take this into account 
when considering whats in her best interests. I should also say that while the exception 
allows Barclays to agree to vary the mortgage despite concerns about affordability it isnt 
required to do so. It could still fairly decline to extend the term for another reason. 
I cant now require Barclays to review Mrs Gs circumstances, to see if a term extension or 
switch to a capital repayment basis over an extended term would be affordable, or in her 
best interests. This isnt possible as Mrs G has repaid her mortgage. 
What I can look at it is what happened before Mrs G repaid her mortgage, and whether 
Barclays treated her fairly.
Mrs G contacted Barclays in 2016. She said she had a buyer for her property, but had 
decided not to sell as she hadnt found anywhere to move to. She said the property was 
worth £250,000, which meant she had a lot of equity. She wanted to re-mortgage over ten 
years and take out further borrowing to update the property. 
Mrs G told Barclays she had difficulties with some other debts and had arrangements to pay. 
Barclays said it wouldnt offer additional borrowing while she was in a payment plan with 
other debts. It said as Mrs G was able to meet her mortgage payments it wouldnt offer a 
term extension to reduce monthly payments. Barclays said Mrs G should seek independent 
advice about her other debts.
In 2017 Mrs G started an application at her branch to extend the term and change the 
payment type. While Barclays says this didnt progress beyond the early stages, it doesnt 
have a record about why this was. 
On balance, I dont think I can fairly find that Barclays didnt treat Mrs G fairly. Ive listened 
carefully to the recordings of Mrs Gs calls with Barclays, as well as considering other 
evidence. I dont think it was clearly in Mrs Gs best interests to extend the mortgage term, or 
switch the payment method. 
If Mrs G had switched to a repayment method her monthly payments would have increased. 
This is because shed have paid some of the capital back each month as well as the monthly 
interest. As Mrs G was already struggling with other debts, it seems unlikely this would have 
been affordable. I cant see that it would have been in Mrs Gs best interests to switch to a 
repayment mortgage if she couldnt meet the monthly payments. 
If the term had been extended on an interest only basis, Mrs G would have still needed to 
repay the capital when the term expired. Theres no evidence shed have been in a better 
position to do this at the end of an extended term. Its likely shed have needed to sell the 
property to repay the mortgage. 
Mrs G borrowed the money and she did have to repay it at the end of the term, in 2020. In 
fact, Mrs G repaid the mortgage earlier than this, in 2018. From what Mrs G told Barclays, 
she had equity in the property. This would have given her some possible options to look into 
to repay the mortgage. And she still had two years to do this.
I dont know if Mrs G took independent financial advice, or what options she looked into 
before deciding to sell her property to a housing association. Im sorry that Mrs G is 
struggling with her rental payments. But I cant see that Barclays was responsible for her 
decision to sell the property to the housing association, or for the terms of the sale. I dont 
think Barclays treated Mrs G unfairly, and I dont think its fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances to require Barclays to take any action or pay compensation to Mrs G. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman