DRN-2091720
The complaint
 Mr A complains that Arval UK Limited refused to recompense him sufficiently for a faulty 
car.
What happened
In November 2019 Mr A leased a second-hand car from Arval. Shortly afterwards he 
encountered problems and he complained to Arval. It agreed to terminate the lease and 
credited all the payments he had made totalling £1,677.36. It also offered make a 
contribution of £1,300 towards another lease agreement if he chose to take out another one 
with Arval or £500 towards a lease agreement with another company. 
Mr A rejected the offer and took his complaint to the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Associations (BVRLA) dispute resolution service. It offered its comments and observations. 
It went on to say: 
We understand that while you are pleased that some level of compensation has been 
offered you feel it is not enough as you are without a vehicle and ordering a new one will 
take some time. While we can appreciate your point, Arval are not obliged to offer financial 
recompense for the time you are without a vehicle as they are not responsible for the vehicle 
fault. Please also be aware that as per our website, the BVRLA cannot request monetary 
compensation for any consumer.
It is unfortunate that you had issues with your vehicle from the beginning of your lease, 
however, we believe Arvals offer to you is reasonable and therefore, we are unable to 
request that they act further.
A couple of weeks later Mr A said he would accept Arvals offer, but it said it had been 
withdrawn. Mr A brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who recommended it be upheld. Mr A had suggested he be recompensed for 
his alternative travel costs while sourcing a replacement car. Our investigator didnt think that 
was appropriate. He said that Mr A would have had to incur lease costs along with running 
costs if he had retained the car. As such our investigator didnt think he had suffered a 
financial loss.
However, he thought that Arval should have paid Mr A simple interest at 8% on the money it 
had repaid him and that it should honour its offer of £500 compensation. Mr A agreed but 
said he had taken out another lease agreement with Arval in May 2020. Our investigator 
recommended that Arval contribute £1,300, including VAT, to the new agreement rather than 
pay £500.
Arval didnt agree. It said that the matter had already been considered by the BVRLA and Mr 
A had rejected its offer and so it didnt believe it should reinstate it. Our investigator said that 
the BVRLA dispute resolution service didnt have the jurisdiction to award compensation and 
this was the basis of Mr As complaint. He didnt consider the complaint Mr A brought to this 
service had been considered by the BVRLA.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I must first address the issue of whether this service is able to consider this complaint. The 
rules we follow allow this service to dismiss a complaint if the subject matter has been dealt 
with by a comparable independent complaints scheme or dispute-resolution process. The 
BVRLA web site sets out what complaints it cannot consider and under this heading it states: 
The service does not award any compensation payment in relation to alleged financial 
losses, or inconvenience caused. That means that it could not address the subject matter of 
Mr As complaint in any meaningful way. 
Arval had already agreed that the car should be rejected and the only issue Mr A was 
seeking to address was the matter of compensation for his losses and for the inconvenience 
he had suffered due to the problems with the car. Given this falls outside the remit of the 
BVRLA scheme I do not consider there are grounds for dismissal. I believe it is open to this 
service to consider Mr As complaint.
Arval emailed Mr A on 5 February 202 saying: To confirm this is Arvals final offer as 
follows:-
We would offer a contribution of £1300.00 including VAT against the advance rental if 
a new vehicle was ordered via your Broker and ARVAL
If you do not wish to place a new order then we will offer £500.00 credit for the 
inconvenience that has been caused to you.
You will shortly receive a formal letter from Arval confirming the above offer and details of 
the escalation process if you wish to take this further with the Financial Ombudsman 
Service.
Mr A rejected this offer and exercised his right to bring the matter to this service. It does not 
follow that because he sought to exercise his rights that he should automatically lose the 
compensation offered by Arval. I think it is an unusual approach for the business to have 
taken.
In February Arval considered £1,300 towards a new lease agreement was merited, but now 
it thinks differently. I struggle with that logic. The only change is that Mr A made use of his 
right to seek arbitration. 
On the matter of fair redress, I have looked at the events that Mr A encountered with the 
faulty car. These are set out in his email to Arval dated 3 February 2020. Mr A was without 
his car for a number of weeks and after the car was returned he was left without transport. I 
appreciate Arval has returned the payments he made, but I consider that this service would 
expect some redress to be paid for the distress and inconvenience Mr A suffered.
Arval has already suggested either £500 or £1,300 if he was to take out a new agreement 
with it. Since he has done so I think the £1,300 option is fair and reasonable. I also agree 
that interest should be paid on the money already returned. 
Putting things rightI consider Arval you reinstate the compensation it previously offered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Arval UK Limited to contribute 
£1,300, plus VAT, to the agreement taken out by Mr A and if necessary, rework that 
agreement. It should also add interest at 8% simple to the refund of payments it has already 
made. This should be calculated by reference to the date paid and the date repaid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman