DRN-2984337
The complaint
Ms S complains that AWP P&C SA has turned down a medical expenses claim she made on 
her travel insurance policy.
What happened
Ms S had a sole annual travel insurance policy. She was on holiday in the UK with her 
partner. Unfortunately, while they were travelling home, Ms S partner was taken seriously ill 
and was admitted to hospital. Ms S stayed in a nearby hotel while her partner was an in-
patient. She incurred additional accommodation costs as a result, as well as food expenses. 
Ms S said she had to buy her partner clothing and she also had to buy a new mobile phone. 
So she made a claim on her travel insurance policy for the costs associated with her 
partners hospitalisation.
AWP turned down Ms S claim. It said that the medical expenses section of the policy only 
covers the medical expenses a policyholder themselves incurs as a result of their own illness 
or injury. In this case, it was Ms S partner who became unwell and was hospitalised. He was 
not insured under Ms S policy  he had his own insurance cover. So AWP said that Ms S 
would need to seek reimbursement of her costs from her partners insurer.
Ms S was unhappy with AWPs decision and she asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Ms S complaint should be upheld. She considered the policy 
terms. She didnt think there was any cover for a policyholders expenses if their travelling 
companion became unwell.  So she felt it had been fair for AWP to turn down Ms S claim.
Ms S disagreed. She felt the investigators view was unacceptable. She said shed still been 
travelling on her trip when her partner had almost died. She said shed never have left him. 
She felt she was in no-mans land, as she said her partners insurer had also declined to 
cover her costs.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Ms S, I think it was fair for AWP to turn down 
her claim. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of the policy and the circumstances of Ms S claims to decide whether AWP treated 
her fairly.
Ive first turned to look at the terms of Ms S policy, as these form the basis of her contract 
with AWP. Ive seen a copy of Ms S policy certificate and Im satisfied that she was the only 
person covered by the insurance contract.
AWP considered the claim under the Emergency medical and associated expenses section 
of the policy. Given Ms S incurred these costs following her partners emergency admission 
to hospital while they were travelling home from their trip, I think it was appropriate for AWP 
to assess the claim under this section. The policy says:
We will pay you or your personal representatives for the following necessary and 
unforeseen emergency expenses if you die, are injured, have an accident or are taken ill
during your journey. (Bold is my emphasis).
AWP has set out what it means by you or your. The policy provides the following definition:
You, your, person insured: each person shown on the policy schedule, for whom the
appropriate insurance premium has been paid.
I think the policy terms make it clear that the medical expenses section of the policy only 
covers costs associated with a policyholders own death, illness, injury or accident. In this 
case, Ms S didnt incur any unforeseen emergency expenses as a result of her own illness 
or injury. And this section of the policy simply doesnt cover the costs a policyholder incurs 
as a result of their extending their stay due to their travelling companions emergency 
medical situation. On this basis, I dont think it was unfair for AWP to conclude that Ms S 
claim wasnt covered by this section of the policy.
And, having checked the remainder of Ms S policy terms, I dont find theres any section 
which provides cover for the circumstances of her claim. AWP also isnt responsible for the 
way in which a third party insurer assesses claims. I sympathise with Ms S position because 
I dont doubt how upsetting the situation was for her and I entirely understand why she 
wanted to remain with her partner. But I think it was fair for AWP to turn down her claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman