DRN-3276398
The complaint
Mr H complains about advice he received from Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) in 
relation to a defined benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme. Portal processed the 
transfer of Mr Hs DB scheme on an insistent client basis to a personal pension.
Mr H is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading this decision Ill mostly 
refer to representations as being made by Mr H.
What happened
In January 2015 Mr H responded to a mailer from Portal about potentially taking money from 
his pension and completed a form giving it authority to gather information about his DB 
scheme.
Portal gathered information and, on 14 July 2015, it completed a pension transfer analysis, 
or transfer value analysis (TVAS), and produced a report. This noted the DB scheme had a 
cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £10,799.72. And it indicated, at the normal 
scheme retirement age of 65, Mr H could either receive a guaranteed pension of £694 per 
year or take tax free cash (TFC) of £3,195 and a reduced pension of £479 per year. In both 
cases, the yearly pension would continue to increase in retirement. It also recorded the 
critical yield - the growth rate required of a new pension to allow Mr H to purchase equivalent 
benefits that would match the guaranteed benefits of his DB scheme. It said, for retiring at 
age 65, the critical yield was 10.8% if Mr H took a full pension or 9.2% if he were to take TFC 
and a reduced pension. It also looked at the critical yield if Mr H were to take retirement 
benefits at age 58. And the report included some cash flow modelling projections, for 
retirement at ages 65 and 58.
On 15 July 2015, Portal sent Mr H a letter titled Reviewing your pension  here are your 
options. This said Portal had now gathered the information it needed to start providing Mr H 
independent pension advice. It said, once hed read the letter, he should call to arrange a 
telephone appointment. The letter said what the CETV was and that the critical yield was 
10.8% and that this would be explained in more detail during the appointment. The letter 
also had a section called What are your options right now?. This outlined three options 
which were to do nothing, pension release (taking TFC and leaving the residual balance 
invested) or to take full benefits and retire with income (take TFC and use the remaining 
balance to produce an income). The letter quoted a specific amount of TFC  £2,699  in 
respect of the latter two options.
I understand a conversation subsequently took place on 23 July 2015, where Portal 
gathered information about Mr Hs circumstances and objectives. The fact find document it 
recorded at the time said he was 56, married with no other financial dependents. It said Mr H 
was unemployed as he was a full-time carer for his wife and in receipt of benefits. He lived in 
rented accommodation, with some of the rent covered by further benefits. It recorded that he 
had no savings but also had no other debts or liabilities and that he and Mrs H had a 
combined disposable income of approximately £100 per month. It said Mr H was looking to 
release TFC, the maximum possible, and the purpose given was home improvements. It 
said his planned retirement age was 66 and he intended to fund his retirement using his 
state pension.
Portal also carried out an assessment of Mr Hs attitude to risk, which it deemed to be 
balanced.
Portal then sent Mr H a further letter on 29 July 2015 titled Important information about 
accessing your pension early. This reiterated the CETV of his DB scheme and the total 
amount of TFC that could be released. But said, because the critical yield was 10.8%, it 
would be against our recommendation to do this. It also said Mr H would be waiving his 
entitlement to a guaranteed pension of £694 per year payable at age 65 by transferring. The 
letter then immediately followed this up by saying;
If you still wish to go-ahead with pension release, we can still help you with this. As this is 
against our recommendation, we now need you to complete and return the insistent client 
form confirming you are aware of the benefits you would be giving up.
I enclose a form with the various options available to you. Please can you complete and 
return both forms to us in the pre-paid envelope as soon as possible. Once we have this, I 
will arrange to send out all the relevant application forms and suitability report detailing our 
advice.
The letter included an options form for Mr H to complete. The first option given was Income 
drawdown (take TFC and invest the remainder until an income was required). With the 
second being to Do nothing  our recommendation.
An insistent client form was also included for Mr H. This comprised three declarations for 
Mr H to agree to. These declarations acknowledged;
the critical yield was unlikely to be achieved and that Mr H would be giving up access 
to a guaranteed pension of £694 per year at age 65
Mr H might be entitled to take TFC of £3,195 and a reduced pension of £479 at 
retirement under the DB scheme and if he chose to proceed hed only receive an 
immediate TFC sum of £2,699 and potentially approximately £204 per year from the 
new arrangement at age 66 (assuming a rate of return of 2.2%). He wouldnt be 
eligible for any further TFC from the new pension.
transferring was against Portals recommendation.
There was also a section for Mr H to explain in his own words why he wanted to be an 
insistent client.
Mr H completed and returned the forms saying he wished to proceed as an insistent client 
on 1 August 2015. In the section of the form to explain in his own words why, Mr H wrote I 
need the money, my wife is in a wheelchair and we dont get much off the government. I 
need a car to take her to hospital. I need it like yesterday.Portal then sent Mr H a suitability report on 13 August 2015. This said Mr Hs stated 
objectives were to make home improvements and his risk profile suggested he was a 
balanced investor. It said Portal had recommended that Mr H leave his pension policy where 
it was, but Mr H was being treated as an insistent client, so Portal was recommending a new 
pension provider to match his objectives. That Portal didnt recommend transferring was 
reiterated several times. The report reiterated the CETV as well as the full pension or TFC 
and reduced pension Mr H could potentially be entitled to under the DB scheme. It indicated 
that there was no other method of raising the required capital that could be identified. It 
included some general warnings about potential risks and the options for the new pension 
arrangements that had been considered. It then went on to recommend a new pension 
provider and a specific portfolio mix which Portal said it believed was in line with Mr Hs 
attitude to risk.
Mr H completed and returned the application forms  which included a further declaration 
acknowledging he was proceeding as an insistent client  and the transfer went ahead on 
the basis of this recommendation.
Mr H complained to Portal in November 2020. He said hed been given negligent advice 
having trusted Portal to advise on the best options available to him. He said he hadnt been 
made aware of the benefits hed lose by transferring and Portal had failed to consider his 
circumstances fully. He also said the advice he was given was unclear, he didnt understand 
what an insistent client was and had believed Portal was recommending that he transfer.
Portal didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said it had advised Mr H against transferring 
and had repeated this several times. But he had insisted on doing so  and Portal felt it was 
clear from the documents Mr H had completed that hed understood this. So, it had helped 
on this basis, subsequently making a recommendation it felt was suitable.
The complaint was then referred to our service. One of our Investigators considered the 
complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He felt Portal had appropriately set out the 
benefits that Mr H would be giving up by transferring and how any new pension would need 
to perform to match those benefits. He also felt Portal had been clear that it wasnt 
recommending the transfer and that the declarations Mr H had completed indicated he 
understood this. So, he didnt think it had acted incorrectly by treating Mr H as insistent.
Mr H did not agree. He said he didnt think the process Portal had followed was appropriate. 
He also felt Portal shouldve done more to understand and consider his circumstances. He 
noted that in 2017 a further fact find had been completed, when hed discussed drawing 
down additional funds from his pension, in which it was recorded he was potentially 
vulnerable. He said his situation was similar in 2015, so he felt Portal hadnt done enough to 
understand this and treat him accordingly.
Our Investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion. He said that the advice had taken 
place in 2015 and there was nothing in the information that Mr H had provided to Portal at 
that time which ought to have indicated he shouldve been considered vulnerable. He said it 
also appeared possible, based on the differing information in the two fact finds, that Mr Hs 
circumstances mayve changed between 2015 and 2017. So, he didnt think Portal had 
treated Mr H incorrectly in 2015 or that the process it had followed wasnt appropriate.
Mr H asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. As a result, it was passed 
to me to decide.I asked for some additional information. This was to clarify the reason Mr H had approached 
Portal to discuss accessing his pension. The fact find suggested hed needed money for 
home improvements. But hed written in his own words, at the time of the transfer, that he 
needed the money to purchase a car to take his wife to medical appointments.
Mr H confirmed that he took the money to get a car and a wheelchair for my wife and went 
on to explain that any money that was left over was used to improve things in the house for 
my wife.
I also asked what Mr H wouldve done differently to fund these purchases if he hadnt been 
able to take TFC. To which Mr H said Without the money I would have been stuck / Taking 
money from my pot was the only way I could get a car and anything else as the government 
give us little to live upon.
His representative added that they still didnt think Portal had done as it shouldve as it 
hadnt discussed alternatives.
I issued a provisional decision earlier this month explaining that I didnt intend to uphold 
Mr Hs complaint. Below are extracts from my provisional findings, explaining why.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable and should only be considered if it could be demonstrated that the transfer was 
in the customers best interests. And, contrary to what Portal suggested in its final response, 
this was applicable at the time of the advice.
Portal has argued that the advice it gave was suitable. This is because it says it 
recommended that Mr H not transfer his pension, but he was insistent that he wanted to. 
And when this was clear, it recommended an appropriate pension. While I think 
recommending to Mr H not to transfer was the right advice to give, I think there were flaws in 
Portals process and the manner in which it presented its recommendations  which I also 
consider were incomplete.
The letter Portal sent to Mr H on 15 July 2015 talked about reviewing Mr Hs options. This 
was sent before a fact-finding conversation had taken place or Mr Hs objectives had been 
established. So, Portal didnt at that stage know what Mr Hs circumstances were. But while 
the letter didnt recommend one of the options, the information given was, in my view, 
unbalanced and potentially mis-leading.
The letter talked about three options. The first of which was to do nothing and leave the 
pension benefits with Mr Hs current provider. But it said nothing more about this option. It 
didnt say that by doing this Mr H would be due a guaranteed pension. Or that hed also still 
be able to take TFC on retirement under that scheme if hed wanted to. This was despite the 
fact that Portal had already carried out a TVAS at that stage and had the relevant 
information available. There was also a section immediately after the options being listed 
within the letter, which Portal, in bold font, asked Mr H to please read, that included it saying 
As part of our conversation we can discuss how to make your existing policy work much 
harder to grow your remaining fund. This, when coupled with the how Portal framed the 
option of not moving the pension, in my view suggested that the existing pension and Mr H 
leaving his funds invested in it was a potentially negative outcome.The other two options Portal talked about on the other hand, mentioned the immediate 
release of TFC and specifically how much Mr H could take. Which Im not sure was 
appropriate without knowing his circumstances. One option talked about was pension 
release and said Mr H could transfer benefits and release a TFC sum of £2,699 then leave 
the remainder invested. And the other was to take full benefits and retire with an income 
which again said Mr H could take a sum of £2,699 as TFC and could then use the remainder 
to produce an income, which Portal said it would get the best possible deal for.
The letter didnt indicate there were any other options available to Mr H. But given Mr Hs 
age, which the TVAS report shows Portal was aware of, it appears he couldve taken 
benefits immediately under his existing scheme. So, I think the information given was also 
incomplete in terms of the options available to Mr H.
I appreciate that the letter didnt indicate that Mr H should choose one of the options it talked 
about. But I think the way that the options included were presented, and because the options 
were in fact incomplete, emphasised the release of TFC by transferring. I dont think this was 
in line with the requirement, set by the regulator, to start by assuming the transfer was 
unsuitable.
Portal did then complete a fact finding call. But there was nothing recorded about Mr Hs 
income needs in retirement. It was noted he intended to fund his retirement from his state 
pension, but not how much he thought hed need on a regular basis or if the state pension 
would in fact be sufficient to do so. The primary purpose of a pension is to provide benefits in 
retirement. And Portal was looking at whether to recommend the transfer of a pension. So, 
the lack of any real consideration of Mr Hs retirement needs make it difficult to say that 
enough essential information was obtained to make a suitable recommendation.
Instead the fact find looked at what Mr H apparently needed tax free cash for, which was 
recorded as home improvements. Two things stand out from this though. There was no 
detail recorded at all of what improvements Mr H was looking to make or how much these 
would cost. It was just stated that he needed the maximum available TFC, with no context. 
Given the fact find noted he lived in rented accommodation, which likely wouldve impacted 
how much he could realistically alter, Id have expected to see a bit more detail. And, the 
reason recorded for needing TFC is also at odds with what Mr H has said he needed the 
money for  to purchase a car. And Mr H hasnt just said now that this was why he needed 
the money  he made that clear at the time when asked to explain why he wanted to go 
ahead. I think this calls into question how much Portal actually did to understand Mr Hs 
specific circumstances.
That being said, while I think there were flaws in the fact finding, I dont agree with Mr Hs 
representatives that Portal shouldve considered Mr H vulnerable in 2015. It appears in 
2017, when a further discussion had taken place, Mrs Hs health had deteriorated. And that 
was what led to Mr H being considered, at that time, potentially vulnerable. But I havent 
seen anything in the information from 2015 that makes me think a similar conclusion 
shouldve been reached by Portal at that point.
The next letter Portal sent Mr H was on 29 July 2015. This said Mr Hs DB scheme had a 
transfer value of £10,799 from which he could release £2,699  again placing emphasis on a 
specific amount Mr H could potentially obtain. But it said because the critical yield was 
10.8%, it would be against Portals recommendation to do so.So, this letter gave a recommendation. As such it was the document which was supposed to 
summarise Portals advice and personal recommendation to Mr H. I think Portal was correct 
that the required critical yield was unlikely to be achievable. And this meant that a transfer 
was not financially viable. But this isnt the only thing Id have expected Portal to take into 
account before making a personal recommendation. The critical yield is important, and a 
strong indicator of whether retirement benefits are likely to be better or not by transferring. 
But this isnt the only consideration for whether advice is suitable. And no other reason for 
the advice was provided or further analysis of Mr Hs circumstances. There was nothing said 
about his objectives, why these were important to Mr H, why there werent more appropriate 
ways of achieving these objectives or why Portal felt retaining his existing benefits was more 
appropriate in comparison to these objectives. No suitability report was provided at that 
stage either. Nor were there any comparisons of potential benefits or detailed information, in 
order for Mr H to make an informed decision.
And within the same letter, after saying it was against Portals recommendation to transfer, it 
then said that if Mr H wanted to go ahead with the transfer anyway Portal could help him, 
while treating him as an insistent client.
Mr H said he wanted to go ahead. But only after he did this, did Portal provide a suitability 
report. So, at the point Mr H decided he wanted to be treated as an insistent client Portal 
hadnt provided any detailed analysis of why a transfer out of the scheme wasnt in his best 
interests. Portal instead expected him to make a determination that started him down the 
road of the insistent client process without giving him enough detail to reasonably make that 
decision.
And even when a suitability report was subsequently provided, I dont think it gave enough 
information for Mr H to make an informed decision retrospectively.
The suitability report did say several times that Portal recommended that Mr H leave his 
pension where it was and transferring was against its recommendation. But it provided no 
additional context to that recommendation or why Portal thought this. So, he was given no 
further information to allow him to consider again whether insisting was appropriate. It simply 
stated that Mr H had insisted on proceeding so went on to focus on the new provider and 
why this was being recommended.
Portal was required to ensure that it treated Mr H fairly and that it acted in his best interests. 
But Im not persuaded that the process it followed did this. I dont think the process was 
geared towards Mr H making an informed, considered assessment of the reasons why he 
shouldnt be transferring. And I dont think that providing Mr H with a means of proceeding 
against the advice, without establishing fully why the advice had been given was in his best 
interests. Overall, I think Portal made it altogether far too easy for Mr H to agree that he was 
an insistent client rather than allowing him time to think about the advice not to go ahead 
with the transfer. And so, I dont think he truly could make an informed decision about this.
Would Mr H have acted differently?
As Ive summarised, I think the advice was incomplete and the process followed didnt allow 
Mr H to make an informed decision about whether to be an insistent client. But even so, I 
need to think what is more likely than not to have happened if an appropriate process had 
been followed.
While the process followed by Portal was flawed, Mr H was provided with the opportunity to 
explain in his own words why he wanted to proceed on an insistent basis. Again, to which he 
answered I need the money, my wife is in a wheelchair and we dont get much off the 
government. I need a car to take her to hospital. I need it like yesterday.When I asked more recently what the money had been used for Mr H confirmed it was for a 
car and wheelchair for his wife.
I think the statement made at the time of the advice suggests a genuine and pressing need. 
The things purchased were not, in my view for frivolous purposes or just something the Mr H 
mightve liked to have. There was a specific purpose for requiring access to a vehicle and 
wheelchair that I think made the purchase of these essential. I dont think getting by without 
them was likely a realistic alternative. And Mr H emphasised how significant a priority it was.
Mr H has also said recently Without the money I would have been stuck / Taking money 
from my pot was the only way I could get a car and anything else as the government give us 
little to live upon.
And, despite again the overall process followed by Portal having been flawed, I think it was 
clear that Mr H proceeding with the transfer was against its advice  even if the specific 
reasons for that advice were not. The letter of 29 July 2015 said transferring was against 
Portals recommendation. And Mr H signed a declaration in response to this letter confirming 
that he was aware he was acting against Portals advice. The suitability report then 
confirmed at various points that Portal and its adviser were not recommending a transfer. It 
said on page one that the adviser recommended that you leave your pension policies where 
they currently are. On page two, under a section titled My Recommendation the first 
sentence, which was in bold font, said, I recommend that you do not transfer your existing 
pension plan. And these warnings were repeated several more times throughout the report. 
Lastly the declaration Mr H completed after receiving the suitability report again included, in 
bold, the statement Due to the guarantees you will be giving up in proceeding with this plan 
we recommend you do not proceed.
So overall, Im satisfied that Mr H had a genuine need to access money from his pension. 
And given the volume of warnings that were given when he chose to proceed, I think on 
balance, even if Portal had employed a clear and fairer insistent client process, Mr H would 
likely still have sought to access funds from his pension. I say this because I think what he 
did and has said indicated he was aware he was acting against advice.
As Ive mentioned, I understand Mr H wouldve been entitled to access benefits under his 
existing DB scheme at the point advice was given. But this wasnt discussed by Portal. I 
think this shouldve been highlighted as part of the advice process. But the normal retirement 
age for the DB scheme was 65. Mr H was 56 at the point of the advice. So, he wouldnt have 
been entitled to full benefits under the DB scheme  rather he couldve potentially taken 
reduced benefits, including TFC.
The TVAS report suggested that at age 58, Mr H wouldve potentially been able to take 
£2,007 in TFC and an annual pension of £301 under the DB scheme  these being reduced 
benefits. And the benefits available at age 56, at the point of the advice, would have been 
less again. So, by taking benefits early, under the DB scheme, the amount of TFC Mr H 
received wouldve been significantly lower than he obtained by transferring (£2,699). Mr H 
wouldve begun receiving an immediate guaranteed income from the annuity. But this 
wouldve been less than £25 per month. And given his priority was for a lump sum to achieve 
specific objectives, I think his preference wouldve been maximising the TFC.
Taking all of this into account, on balance, I think given what I know about his circumstances 
and what Mr H chose to do I think even if Portal had provided complete information about his 
potential options as part of its advice process, hed have still have chosen to transfer his 
pension, in order to maximise the TFC he received in 2015.So, I'm not persuaded that had Portal provided full and clear advice and followed a more 
appropriate process Mr H would have done anything differently. I think hed have still gone 
against that advice and released the funds from his DB scheme. So, I don't think hes lost 
out as a result of Portals actions.
Responses to my provisional decision
I gave both parties an opportunity to make further comments or send further information 
before I reached my final decision.
Portal didnt provide any additional comments for me to consider.
Mr Hs representatives did not accept my decision. They noted that Id found that the 
process followed by Portal was flawed but I thought that Mr H would always have proceeded 
as he had a genuine need to access funds. They said at the time of the advice Mr H did not 
have any outstanding debts and was managing his living expenses  indicating they didnt 
agree it was necessarily a genuine need. But if Mr H did have a need to access funds the 
representatives said I needed to consider whether Portal sufficiently explored that need or 
alternative ways of obtaining funds. And they didnt think it had. The representatives said 
Mr H had now confirmed that the cost of the vehicle he purchased was around £1,500 and 
the cost of the wheelchair £200. So they say he didnt have a need for the full amount 
released and now believes he couldve met his needs by taking benefits early under the DB 
scheme at the time  which is what he now thinks he wouldve done, but for Portals poor 
advice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it is important for me to be clear that although I thought there were a number of flaws 
in the advice process Portal followed, its underlying advice here was that Mr H should not 
transfer his benefits. The reason for Portals advice could certainly in my view have been 
clearer.  But that underlying recommendation was in my view made clear to Mr H. It was 
stated in the initial assessment letter it sent him on 29 July 2015 and reiterated several times 
in the subsequent suitability report. And similarly, while I think the insistent client process 
followed was also flawed, Mr H did complete several declarations indicating he understood 
that he was acting against Portals advice. And this played a part in my conclusion that I 
thought Mr H would always have insisted on accessing money from his pension, even if a 
more appropriate process had been followed.
Mr Hs representatives say that Portal shouldve done more to explore the other options 
available to him, if he had a genuine need for money. 
Firstly, Im not inclined to change my opinion that Mr H had a genuine need. The purchase of 
a car and wheelchair for Mrs Hs benefits were in my view something he needed rather than 
something that wouldve been nice to have  supported by what Mr H wrote at the time of 
the advice when explaining in his own words why he wanted to go ahead. And I think its 
important once again to reiterate that the underlying recommendation by Portal was not to 
proceed  rather than that need making a transfer suitable.I do agree though that, as part of the overall advice process, Id have expected Portal to 
consider alternative solutions. But the suitability report suggests it did. It noted that Mr H 
didnt have any assets he could utilise to raise the required amount. It said he didnt want to 
take on lending because of the costs and because he didnt earn a salary. It noted he didnt 
own his home so secured lending was not a possibility. And it said he didnt have enough 
disposable income to meet his needs. And I havent seen anything that suggests these 
conclusions were unreasonable. 
Mr H has not disputed that he was unemployed as he was acting as a full-time carer. So had 
no direct income, beyond benefits. Which would, in my view, have made obtaining credit, 
certainly at an affordable rate, difficult. While he and Mrs H appear to have had a small 
amount of disposable income each month, this wasnt enough to buy the items they needed. 
And saving this disposable income to eventually pay for the items would also not have been 
viable given what Mr H said about needing the car urgently. Mr H didnt own a property, so it 
was correct that secured lending wasnt an option. And there is no suggestion he had any 
other assets available. All of which is supported by what Mr H said more recently that without 
accessing the money from his pension, hed have been stuck as accessing his pension 
was the only way he could get the car. So, I think that Portal did largely consider the 
alternative options available to Mr H and correctly discounted them.
The one option that appears not to have been taken into account, as I said in my provisional 
findings, was accessing benefits immediately under the DB scheme. The TVAS report says 
that at age 58 Mr H couldve likely taken TFC of £2,007 and an annual pension of £301. 
These benefits were reduced because, at age 58, Mr H wouldve been retiring 7 years 
before the normal scheme retirement age.
Mr H was 56 at the time of the advice. So, the benefits available wouldve been reduced 
even further because he wouldve been taking them 9 years early. So, the TFC wouldve 
been less than £2,007 (likely by a not insignificant amount) and the annual pension less than 
£301  meaning the amount paid monthly wouldve been less than £25. But it appears this 
option was available. And I agree that Portal should have made this clear. 
Because it wasnt made clear, I have to consider what I think Mr H would more likely than 
not have done, had this possibility been presented to him as part of the advice.
Mr Hs representatives say that Mr H only needed £1,700 and so, had this option been made 
clear to Mr H, hed have opted to take benefits early under the DB scheme as this couldve 
met his needs. But on balance, I dont agree that this is what I think would likely have 
happened.
Mr H mayve ended up spending the amount his representative has stated on a car and 
wheelchair for Mrs H. But I think at the time of taking advice from Portal, its entirely possible 
he didnt know what the final cost of those things would be. And I think, particularly given 
what he said about not receiving much support from elsewhere, his preference wouldve 
been to maximise the lump sum available to him. Transferring provided TFC of £2,699. 
Whereas under the DB scheme hed have received less than £2,007. It is true that hed have 
also begun to receive an income under the DB scheme had he taken benefits early. But, as 
his representatives have said, he doesnt appear to have been struggling with any debt and 
he and Mrs H had a modest disposable income of approximately £100 per month. And given 
that the monthly pension wouldve been less than £25 under the DB scheme, I dont think 
this wouldve persuaded him, at the time, to take a significantly lower amount of TFC.Looking back now Mr H may well think hed have acted differently. But I have to look at what 
I think would likely have happened at the time of the advice. I remain of the opinion that Mr H 
wouldve insisted on accessing benefits from his pension, even if a more appropriate 
process had been followed, as I think he had a genuine need to do so. And I think, even if 
the option of taking benefits under the DB scheme had been presented, given the immediate 
sum that wouldve been available wouldve been significantly lower, on balance I think Mr H 
wouldve still opted to transfer.
So, while Ive taken on board the comments made, I still dont think Mr H would be in a 
different position than he is now, even if Portal had provided more complete advice and 
followed a more appropriate insistent client process.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman