DRN-4091121
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that Santander UK Plc delayed their transferring money to their
son who resides overseas by blocking transfers that they attempted to make.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B attempted to transfer £10,000 from their account to their son overseas on 27
June 2022. The instructed transfer was blocked by Santander as it triggered their automated
fraud prevention systems. Mr B called Santander about this and confirmed that the transfer
instruction was genuine. The next day, Santander messaged Mr and MRs B and explained
that all blocks on their account had been removed. Santander also explained that because
the transfer instruction had been made by Mr and Mrs B via a third-party app, Santander
couldnt now complete the transfer and Mr and Mrs B would need to re-instruct it.
Mr and Mrs B re-instructed the £10,000 transfer the next day, on 29 June 2022, but the
instruction triggered Santanders fraud prevention systems again meaning that the transfer
was blocked again. Mr B called Santander that same day and again confirmed that the
instruction was genuine. But Santander didnt then remove the restrictions on his and Mrs
Bs account so they could instruct the payment for a third time. And Santander also failed to
do this when Mr B called them again the following day, 30 June 2022, at which time Mr and
Mrs B raised a complaint.
Frustrated with the service they were receiving from Santander, Mr and Mrs B referred their
recently raised complaint with Santander to this service, also on 30 June 2022. But because
this service can only consider a complaint once the business being complained about has
had the opportunity to consider and respond to it themselves, this service had to allow
Santander the opportunity to respond to Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Santander responded to Mr and Mrs Bs complaint on 20 July 2022 and acknowledged that
when Mr B had called Santander for the second time on 29 June 2022 that the instructed
payment hadnt been correctly referred for approval as it should have been. Santander
apologised to Mr and Mrs B for this and made a payment of £70 to them as compensation
for any trouble and upset their error may have caused. Santander also explained that Mr and
Mrs B would need to contact Santander to have the restrictions that were still present on
their account removed.
Because no contact from Mr and Mrs B was received which meant their account continued
to be restricted, Santander contacted Mr and Mrs B on 28 July 2022 and reiterated that they
would need to call Santanders fraud centre or visit a branch to remove the restrictions on
their account. Santander also made a payment of a further £30 to Mr and Mrs B as
compensation for any inconvenience they may incur because of these requirements.
Mr and Mrs Bs account then remained restricted until 9 September 2022, when Mr B called
Santander as requested and the restrictions on the account were removed. Mr and Mrs B
were then able to complete the transfer to their son overseas. However, because currency
exchange rates had moved against them, they needed to transfer an additional £1,152.04 to
ensure that their son received the same amount of money that he should have received, had
Santander allowed the transfer to complete in June 2022 as they should have done.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt the response Santander had
issued to Mr and Mrs Bs complaint  including the apology and compensation payments
totalling £100  already represented a fair resolution to what had happened. Mr and Mrs B
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 24 March 2023 as follows:
Fraud prevention systems are used by all financial institutions to flag account activity 
that may be of concern and to prevent further usage of an account where its felt that 
there is a possibility that fraud may be potentially occurring. Indeed, it must be noted 
that financial institutions such as Santander have an obligation to employ such 
systems in order to comply with banking regulations which require banks to have 
systems in place to protect their customers accounts, as much as possible, from acts 
of attempted fraud.
Additionally, its incumbent on banks to employ these systems with a degree of 
vigilance  to err on the side of caution, as it were  which unfortunately means that 
there will be instances where legitimately authorised transfers are flagged 
erroneously by the fraud prevention systems. And this appears to be what happened 
in this instance.
That being said, I can understand how it would have been frustrating for Mr and Mrs 
B for their re-instruction of the transfer to be blocked by Santanders fraud prevention 
system for a second time, especially having confirmed the legitimacy of the transfer 
to Santander after it was blocked by them in the first instance.
Santander have explained that any transfer can trigger their fraud prevention system 
at any time  including re-instructed transfers that have already been confirmed as 
being legitimate by their customers.
Its for Santander to set the parameters of their fraud prevention system, and I dont 
doubt that Santander set the parameters with the safety of their customers money in 
mind. But it can still be the case that when a correct process has been followed  as 
Santander maintain is the case regarding the second blocking of Mr and Mrs Bs 
attempted transfer  that an unfair outcome can unfortunately occur.
And in this instance, given that Mr and Mrs B had confirmed to Santander that the 
instructed transfer was legitimate the day before that instructed transfer was blocked 
by Santander for the second time, I dont feel it was that Santander then blocked the 
re-instructed transfer as they did  despite the well-meaning intentions of 
Santanders processes here. And I feel that Mr and Mrs B did incur frustration and 
inconvenience that they reasonably shouldnt have had to incur as a result.
Santander have acknowledged that when Mr B called them for the second time that 
they didnt remove the restrictions on Mr and Mrs Bs account as they should have 
done. And theyve apologised to Mr and Mrs B for this and made payments totalling 
£100 to them as compensation for any trouble and upset they may have incurred as 
a result.But I dont feel that this compensation amount takes fair account of everything that
happened here, including what I feel was the unfair blocking of the instructed 
payment for the second time.
Because of this, Ill be provisionally upholding this complaint in Mr and Mrs Bs favour 
and instructing Santander to make a further payment of £150 to them. This brings the 
total amount of compensation payable to Mr and Mrs B to £250, which I feel is more 
fairly reflective of the unfair outcome that occurred here and the upset and 
inconvenience that Mr and Mrs B have experienced because of it.
However, I wont be instructing Santander to reimburse the £1,152.04 exchange rate 
losses that Mr and Mrs B are claiming here. This is because I feel that Mr and Mrs B 
could and should have reasonably mitigated against these losses by continuing to 
liaise with Santander from the end of July onwards, and by meeting Santanders 
requirement for them to contact Santanders fraud department directly or go into 
branch. And I feel that these requirements would likely have been provided to Mr and 
Mrs B sooner than was the case had they continued to try to resolve matters with 
Santander at the end of July as Ive explained.
Im aware that Mr and Mrs B were frustrated with Santander, and I can appreciate 
why this was the case. But I dont feel that this frustration reasonably absolves them 
of their responsibility to have mitigated against the potential exchange rate loss that 
they did incur. And I dont feel that I can fairly instruct Santander to reimburse Mr and 
Mrs B for a loss which I feel Mr and Mrs B could and should have reasonably 
mitigated against.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mr and Mrs B and Santander the opportunity to 
provide any comments or new information they might wish me to consider before I moved to 
issue a final decision.
Mr and Mrs B have reiterated that they feel that Santanders requirement for them to either 
call and speak with Santanders fraud department  which in all likelihood would have 
entailed a lengthy phone call, including holding and waiting times  or to have visited a 
Santander branch  the nearest of which is six miles from Mr and Mrs Bs home  was 
unreasonable, and that Santander should instead have called them directly to resolve this 
issue, which Santander refused to do.
However, Im afraid I dont agree with Mr and Mrs Bs position here, and I dont feel 
Santanders requirements in this regard were unreasonable  and this is even in 
consideration of the fact that I acknowledge that Santander should have ensured that the 
attempted transfer wasnt flagged by their systems for the second time. 
I say this because, given that the attempted transfer was flagged for the second time, I feel 
that Santander should compensate Mr and Mrs B for having to take the steps necessary to 
comply with Santanders process to resolve the matter for a second time. These steps 
involved Mr and Mrs B either calling Santander and speaking with their fraud department or 
visiting a branch. And its in acknowledgement of how the need to take these steps would 
have inconvenienced, and did inconvenience, Mr and Mrs B, that Ill be instructing Santander 
to pay further compensation to them of £150.
But once Santander did flag the payment for the second time, the need for Mr and Mrs B to 
take those steps became unfortunately necessary. And this is because I wouldnt expect 
Santander to have released the payment without completing their verification process, even 
if the payment in question had been flagged for a second time. Accordingly, given that Mr and Mrs B chose not to call Santanders fraud department or visit 
a Santander branch, I feel that any loss they incurred arising from moving exchange rates 
because of that decision should be fairly considered a consequence of their own choice and 
is therefore a loss which I continue to feel they could and reasonably should have mitigated 
against.
As such, it remains my position that Santander shouldnt be held accountable for any 
consequential loss incurred because Mr and Mrs B chose not to take the steps required of 
them to release the payment in question, which I acknowledge would have inconvenienced 
them  and which as explained Im here instructing Santander to pay compensation to them 
for  but which Im also satisfied were unfortunately reasonably required of them by 
Santander at that time, given the circumstances of what happened.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr and Mrs B were wanting here, but I hope theyll 
understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
Putting things right
Santander must make a further payment of £150 to Mr and Mrs B.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman