DRN-2619595
The complaint
Mr G complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc hasnt fully reimbursed him after he became the 
victim of a scam.
What happened
 Mr G holds both a current account and savings account with HSBC. 
In late 2018 and early 2019, Mr G had dealt with HSBCs fraud team, when his 
current account had been subject to a series of attempted unauthorised withdrawals. In that 
instance, the fraudulent transactions had been identified as not authorised by Mr G and had 
been reversed. During the time it took to resolve that matter Mr G says he was told by a 
member of HSBCs branch staff that if something similar happened again there might be the 
need to set up a new account for him.
On a Friday evening in November 2019, he received a call purporting to be from HSBC. 
Unknown to him at the time, this was not genuinely a call originating from his bank, but 
instead he was speaking to a scammer.
Mr G says the current call was very similar to interactions hed had with HSBCs fraud team 
during the earlier fraud episode. He says he was taken through a security process similar to 
that hed normally expect when speaking to HSBC. He says the caller knew specific account 
details he didnt think anyone else could know. While Mr G says he didnt reveal his own 
security information, he did tell the caller what he believed the balance of his current account 
was at the time. Mr G says that the overall similarity to previous calls convinced him he was 
speaking with his bank.
Mr G was told that someone had been attempting to withdraw money from his account. The 
caller told Mr G hed need to move his money to another account that the bank had set up 
for him. Mr G says he was told the new account had a different account number and sort 
code and that a replacement bank card would be issued.
Mr G says this mirrored what he recalled previously being told by an HSBC branch staff 
member. He believed he was speaking with the banks fraud team and so he says he 
followed the instructions he was given, believing he was thereby protecting his money. 
Mr G was instructed to make the payments in stages and was told this was due to transfer 
limits applying to his account. He sent four payments in total, in the sums of £2,000, £100, 
£300 and finally £9.36. The first two payments were sent on the Friday night, and the 
scammer arranged to call back the following morning, when the final two payments were 
made. These took the remaining cleared balance of his account down to less than £1. 
Mr G made all four payments by Faster Payments transfer to the details provided by the 
scammer. The sort code the scammer had provided was one assigned to another bank. 
However, Mr G says he didnt realise this at the time.
Mr G says when he didnt receive a replacement card, he started to have doubts about what 
had happened. He rang HSBC and heard a recorded message while he was on hold, 
warning that HSBC would never ask a customer to transfer money. This made him realise 
hed probably been the victim of such a scam, and he reported the matter to the Police and 
then to HSBC.
HSBC notified the recipient bank about the scam, but none of Mr Gs money remained to be 
recovered.
HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. HSBC says one or more of 
those exceptions applies in this case. On that basis it didnt think Mr G was entitled to a full 
refund under the CRM Code. However, it accepted it hadnt done everything it could to help 
protect him, and so refunded 50% of the money hed lost.
Mr G brought his complaint to our service as he was unhappy with HSBCs decision not to 
fully reimburse him. One of our investigators looked into it and found that Mr G had met the 
requirements to be fully reimbursed under the CRM Code, and that HSBC therefore should 
refund him the remaining money hed lost.
HSBC disagreed with the investigators assessment. In summary, it thought:
- Mr G had made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that the 
payments were for genuine services or that the person he was transacting with was 
legitimate.
- Proper consideration hadnt been given to whether Mr G had a reasonable belief in 
each of the three factors set out at paragraphs R2(1)(c)(i)-(iii) of the CRM Code. 
HSBC did not consider it possible that Mr G had a reasonable belief in any of these 
factors.
- In particular, Mr G had failed to heed red flags at the time, including that the call was 
unexpected, originated from a withheld number, and had the well-publicised 
hallmarks of a scam. Further it should have seemed unusual to be asked to make 
more than one payment, and Mr G ought to have realised from the sort code that the 
new account was not one with HSBC. Mr G hadnt carried out checks to verify what 
he was being told, and he should have terminated the call and phoned HSBC 
separately.
- Mr Gs personal characteristics were a relevant consideration under the CRM Code  
he was not vulnerable or unsophisticated. Hed been the previous victim of fraud so 
should have demonstrated a heightened level of diligence.
- The scam was not sophisticated and is well-known.
- It is unreasonable to believe that HSBC would put pressure on a customer to transfer 
funds, and to an external destination.
- Even if it were to be found that Mr G hadnt made the payment without the 
reasonable basis of belief required under the CRM Code, HSBC considered Mr G 
had acted in a grossly negligent manner in making the payments. It thought this 
because the circumstances described had the hallmarks of a scam, including the 
requested payment method, the receipt of a cold call from an organisation of trust, 
the sense of urgency and the non-HSBC account details.
- HSBC accepted it had not provided an effective warning about the scam. But it 
observed that the CRM Code says a banks failure to meet the required standards 
may rather than must result in responsibility for reimbursing. This required 
consideration of whether the banks compliance would have had a material effect on 
preventing the APP scam that occurred.
- HSBCs offer to reimburse 50% of the payments made was therefore fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances and in compliance with the CRM Code.In light of this disagreement, Mr Gs complaint has been referred to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I agree broadly with the conclusions reached by the investigator.
Under the terms of the CRM Code, HSBC should have refunded the money Mr G 
lost.  I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to full reimbursement apply 
in the circumstances of this case. 
In the circumstances HSBC should now fairly and reasonably refund the balance of 
the money Mr G lost.
The money was taken from Mr Gs current account. It is not clear how he would have 
used the money if HSBC had refunded it when it should have done. But if HSBC had 
refunded the money when it ought reasonably to have done, Mr G would not have 
been deprived of it for the time he has. So, HSBC should also pay interest on the 
balance not yet refunded at a rate of 8% simple per year. This interest should apply 
from 18 November 2019, when HSBC first declined to fully refund Mr G, to the date 
of settlement.
HSBC says it accepts it did not fully comply with the standards for firms contained in the 
CRM Code. As such I understand HSBC accepts the CRM Code makes it liable in part for 
Mr Gs losses and it has partly refunded him. But it considers Mr G should share liability 
under the CRM Code. 
I have carefully considered all of HSBCs representations, including those about whether 
Mr G had a reasonable basis for belief when he made this payment and whether he was 
grossly negligent. But they do not persuade me to reach a different view to that reached by 
our investigator - I am not persuaded that Mr G failed to meet his requisite level of care 
under the CRM Code (a failure HSBC would need to establish for it to choose not to fully 
reimburse him under the terms of the CRM Code). 
Did Mr G make these payments without a reasonable basis of belief as set out at 
R2(1)(c)(i)-(iii) of the CRM Code?
Based on its submissions, I understand HSBC believes it can establish the following under 
the CRM Code: 
In all the circumstances at the time of the payment, in particular the characteristics 
of the Customer and the complexity and sophistication of the APP scam, the 
Customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: (i) the 
payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; (ii) the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or (iii) the person or business with whom they 
transacted was legitimate.
However, Im satisfied that HSBC has not shown that Mr G lacked such a reasonable basis 
of belief when making these payments. I say that considering the CRM Code as a whole and 
each element of the exception HSBC seeks to rely on. In particular:
HSBC points to what it considers red flags Mr G disregarded. I have taken account of 
all the circumstances it highlights. But on balance, I am not persuaded these 
outweighed the other factors that Mr G says led him to believe in the veracity of the 
caller.The initial scam call wasnt one Mr G was expecting at that specific time. But Mr G 
has explained why this wasnt something unexpected altogether  given his prior 
experience with HSBCs fraud team and the branch staff members comment about 
the possibility of needing to set up a new account in future. The scenario he was told 
during the call (that someone was attempting to misappropriate his money) matched 
the circumstance under which he says hed previously been told by HSBC he might 
require a new account. In that sense he was already expecting that he might need to 
make such a transfer at some point  he recalls being primed for this by HSBC itself 
when previously in branch. Considered as a whole, I am not persuaded Mr G didnt 
have a reasonable basis for believing he was paying the person he was expecting to 
pay here.
While I understand HSBCs concern that the call was received from a withheld 
number, Mr G recalls this was in line with previous (legitimate) calls hed received 
from HSBC. Given that perception, I cant agree that this was necessarily a red flag 
that should have caused him concern. Rather it seems to me this would reasonably 
have been a neutral factor - in itself not providing either significant reassurance or 
doubt.
Mr G recalls that the caller knew specific information about his accounts. He says he 
thought this information could not be known by anyone besides himself and HSBC - 
helping persuade him it was indeed his bank calling. I consider that reasonable in the 
circumstances here.
The interactions with the scammer appear to have mirrored (to Mr Gs recollection) 
those he says hed expect to have had with HSBCs genuine staff. I note HSBCs 
doubt that Mr G is correct in his recollection that the security process matched that it 
would genuinely use. However, I consider it would be enough that the security 
process seemed sufficiently like Mr G recalled from previous phone calls  I do not 
think it is reasonable to expect a typical consumer to know exactly the security 
process and questions a bank uses in various circumstances. From what Mr G 
describes, I am satisfied he considered the process followed was in line with what 
hed have expected were it genuine. In scams of this nature scammers do closely 
mimic these processes. Overall, I find his recollections plausible here. I find it 
reasonable that he believed he was transacting with a legitimate person or business.
In that context I dont find it unreasonable that he might have confirmed his account 
balance to the caller  at that point in the genuine belief he was speaking with his 
bank. 
While this type of scam is unfortunately all too prevalent, that does not mean that all 
consumers are aware of the hallmarks as HSBC says Mr G should have been. Mr G 
has explained he believed what he was being told by the caller, and he did not know 
this might be a scam. It seems he had not seen the information HSBC has referred to 
on its own or on our own websites. With Mr G not being aware of it at the time, I do 
not consider this can demonstrate he disregarded a red flag on this occasion  and 
nor does it persuade me his actions were made without a reasonable basis of belief 
here. Neither do I find this inconsistent with Mr G not being vulnerable or 
unsophisticated.
I also dont consider the previous fraud hed suffered should mean he ought to have 
identified this call from his bank wasnt genuine. The previous fraud was of a wholly 
different character. It was not something Id consider necessarily would have made 
Mr G any more aware of the risk of a safe account scam, such as this, than he would 
have otherwise been.
HSBC points to the sort code, and that this related to a different bank. Mr G says he 
didnt recognise this at the time. HSBC considers Mr G ought to have known this and 
queried it. I understand HSBCs point, but I consider it is applying too high a standard 
here in terms of what it expects from a layperson not versed in the underpinnings of 
the sort code system. Rather I think it reasonable that Mr G (as he claims) might not have appreciated he was sending money to another bank, particularly in the 
circumstances that applied here: with him believing he was sending the money under 
the banks direct instructions.
As part of the scam, Mr G was talked through the process of transferring the money 
to the new account, and that included sending more than one payment. Mr G doesnt 
fully recall why the scammer said he should do this beyond that he was told it was 
due to transaction limits on his account. Mr G says he accepted this explanation and 
was following what he thought his bank was instructing him to do. Im not persuaded 
this was unreasonable in the circumstances.
In following what he believed to be the instructions of his bank to protect his money, 
and given this coincided with what he recalled previously being told by his bank, I find 
Mr G did have a reasonable basis for believing the transaction was being made in 
connection with a legitimate service. In the all of the circumstances, I dont find it 
unreasonable for Mr G to have believed his bank was asking him to do this.
HSBC says Mr G ought to have terminated the call and rung it directly. I agree with 
HSBC that had Mr G done so, this would almost certainly have avoided the scam. 
I have considered whether Mr G is at fault here. Firstly, Id observe that it was open 
to HSBC to have alerted Mr G to the prudence of taking such a step through the 
provision of an effective warning delivered in the course of the payments he made. 
HSBC accepts it did not do so. As such, any expectation that Mr G should have 
taken that step relies on the extent of his knowledge of the risk that the caller was not 
genuine, and his capacity at the time and in the moment of a pressured scam to take 
such a step  when he otherwise believed he was already speaking to his bank. 
Considering his recollections and what he thought at the time, which as explained 
above I consider not to have been unreasonable in the circumstances, I dont find he 
was at fault in not having sufficient doubt during the scam to independently take the 
step HSBC now says he should have.
With all of the above in mind, in light of all the circumstances here, and in line with the 
requirements of the CRM Code, Im not satisfied HSBC has been able to establish that when 
Mr G sent these payments he did so without a reasonable basis for belief  under all of the 
factors specified in the CRM Code.
Gross negligence
HSBC states that in any event, it believes Mr G was significantly careless and was grossly 
negligent in making these payments. I understand it therefore considers it may apply the 
exception given in the CRM Code where it can be established that: The Customer has been 
grossly negligent.
Ive carefully considered HSBCs comments in this regard. However, dont agree it has 
established this. Taking everything into account, I consider his actions followed reasonably 
from a belief that if he didnt do as instructed, he risked losing his money. I have already 
covered why I consider his belief that these instructions originated from his bank was not 
unreasonable. I think in similar circumstances a reasonable person would likely act in the 
same way Mr G did here. I do not find he was significantly careless.
Taking everything into account, I am not persuaded Mr G was grossly negligent in making 
these payments, and it follows that the corresponding exception to reimbursement cannot 
fairly be relied on by HSBC.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided that Mr G ought to have been fully reimbursed 
by HSBC UK Bank Plc for the losses he incurred due to this scam. I therefore direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mr G:
the balance of the money he lost through this scam  i.e. £1204.68  within 28 days 
of receiving notification of his acceptance of my final decision; and,
interest at the simple rate of 8% per year on that amount (less any tax properly 
deductible) from 18 November 2019 to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman