DRN-4038533
The complaint
Mr O complains that Santander UK Plc has applied the wrong interest rate to his mortgage.
What happened
Mr O arranged an interest-only mortgage with Santander via a broker. This mortgage had a 
term of six years and began on 30 January 2017. The applicable interest rate is in dispute 
here.
Santander applied a fixed interest rate of 2.09% to Mr Os mortgage from 30 January 2017 
to 2 January 2022. It then applied its standard variable rate (SVR) from 3 January 2022 to 3 
February 2022. Mr O redeemed the mortgage on 4 February 2022.
Mr O says he was expecting the interest rate to be fixed for the duration of the mortgage, or 
for at least 62 payments. So, he thinks Santander has applied the wrong interest rate to his 
mortgage between 3 January 2022 and 3 February 2022.
In support of his complaint Mr O has referenced:
The mortgage offer (dated 26 October 2016) refers to 62 payments.
His mortgage completion statement (30 January 2017) that refers to the fixed interest 
rate and doesnt include an end date.
A letter from a conveyancer to him (dated 31 October 2016) that said the fixed rate 
was for 72 months.
Santander says the relevant mortgage offer is the one dated 26 October 2016 which was 
valid until 31 January 2017. This says the initial interest rate is fixed until 2 January 2022 
and then the mortgage moves onto Santanders standard variable rate (SVR).
When Mr O complained to our service the investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They said 
that the interest had been applied in line with the terms of the mortgage set out in the 
mortgage offer document dated 26 October 2016. They said that this information was also 
referenced in Mr Os annual mortgage statement, so they thought Mr O had been made 
aware of this information.
Mr O disagreed, he said he had agreed an updated mortgage offer in January 2017 over the 
phone due to the urgency of the matter. He said the completion statement didnt mention an 
end date to the fixed interest rate, and in any event he should have had at least 62 payments 
at the fixed interest rate as referenced on the mortgage offer the investigator was relying on.
Santander has said that the mortgage was arranged by a broker and that it had no 
conversations with Mr O before the mortgage began. It added that it isnt responsible for the 
information in the conveyancers letter, and that the conveyancer was acting for both parties    
and paid for by Mr O.
The matter was passed to me and I issued my provisional decision on 6 March 2023 
explaining why I didnt intend to uphold the complaint. In summary I thought the mortgage 
offer dated 26 October 2016 set out the applicable terms to Mr Os mortgage and that these 
had been applied correctly to Mr Os mortgage.
Mr O didnt agree, he said in summary:
The mortgage completion statement doesnt specify an end date to the fixed interest 
rate, and this is the document that Mr O thinks should be relied on. Mr O says the 
mortgage offer was based on a start date of 3 November 2016 which didnt happen 
so its void.
Mr O thinks Santander should be fined for its misleading and inconsistent 
documentation.
Mr O wants to complain about the conveyancer that sent him the letter dated 
31 October 2016 (referenced above).
Santander didnt have anything further to add, so the matter has been passed back to me for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, including reviewing Mr Os further comments, Im not upholding this 
complaint for the following reasons:
Santander says the applicable mortgage offer is dated 26 October 2016 and that it 
didnt issue another offer to Mr O after this. This letter states the mortgage offer is 
available until 31 January 2017, which is consistent with the timing of Mr Os 
mortgage drawdown on 30 January 2017.
Mr O says the mortgage offer was based on a start date of 3 November 2016 which 
didnt happen and so the offer is void. I dont agree  this is because whilst the 
section on payments provides an illustration based on the mortgage starting on 
3 November 2016, the offer states that its valid until 31 January 2017.
I appreciate Mr O says he spoke to Santander in January 2017, but Santander 
doesnt have a record of any calls with Mr O before the mortgage began. Santander 
has confirmed that Mr O used a broker to arrange this mortgage and so I think its 
more likely that Mr O would have spoken to his broker about the terms of his 
mortgage rather than to Santander directly. I havent been provided with any 
evidence to support Mr Os assertion that a further offer was agreed / issued by 
Santander in January 2017.
For these reasons I think its likely that that the mortgage offer terms set out in 
Santanders letter dated 26 October 2016 are the terms applicable to Mr Os 
mortgage. So, these are the ones Ill be using when considering whether Santander 
has operated Mr Os mortgage fairly.
The mortgage offer letter dated 26 October 2016 sets out that the initial fixed interest 
rate period ends on 2 January 2022. And that after this date, interest will be charged 
at its standard variable rate. So, I think the offer letter is clear about what rates are applicable to Mr Os mortgage and when the initial fixed interest rate ends.
I understand Mr O has highlighted that section 6 of the mortgage offer refers to 62 
payments at £593, but it also says here that this example assumes the mortgage 
starts on 3 November 2016. So, I think its clear that this is illustrative. And taken in 
the context of the rest of the letter (including section 7 which references that the 
payments due may be significantly different after 2 January 2022) I think its clear 
that the applicable interest rate is only fixed until 2 January 2022.
As this mortgage was arranged by a broker, it would be the broker and not Santander 
who is responsible for ensuring Mr O understood the terms of the mortgage.
I note that Mr O was aware of the date at which an early repayment charge (ERC) 
was applicable until, and that this was the same date. Its common for the ERC to be 
applicable for the duration of the fixed interest rate period rather than to end before 
this. 
Mr O says that his mortgage completion statement references the fixed interest rate 
and doesnt include an end date. Whilst I can see how the absence of this 
information could be confusing, this document doesnt change the terms of Mr Os 
mortgage. All the other documentation Ive seen that Santander provided to Mr O 
does set out the end date of the initial fixed interest rate period. For example, his 
annual mortgage statements include the feature end date and a pack which explains 
that this refers to his product end date including any fixed interest rates.
Mr O has said he thinks the mortgage completion statement is a key legal document 
and that it overrides the mortgage offer letter. Whilst Santander should take care to 
ensure the documents it provides are accurate, the mortgage completion statement 
doesnt set out all of the terms of the mortgage. It is the mortgage offer that Mr O has 
agreed to, so I think its fair to apply the terms of the relevant mortgage offer. It isnt 
the role of our service to fine or punish businesses, and as I think Santanders 
mortgage offer letter was clear about when the fixed interest rate was until, I dont 
think an award would be reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr O has provided a copy of a letter from a conveyancer which states the interest 
rate is fixed for 72 payments. But given this conveyancer was acting for both parties 
and paid for by Mr O, I dont think it was acting as an agent for Santander. And so, it 
wouldnt be reasonable to hold Santander responsible for any potential errors made 
by a third party. If Mr O doesnt remember paying for this separately, it may be that 
he paid it indirectly, but the instructions to the conveyancer and the conveyancers 
letter both say its acting on Mr Os behalf. For clarity, I havent seen any evidence 
that Santander provided this third party with incorrect information. 
I understand Mr O wants to complaint about the conveyancing firm. Our service 
doesnt consider complaints about solicitors directly and the relevant firm here isnt 
within our jurisdiction. So, Mr O would need to take this forward separately.
Overall, I think Santander has applied the agreed interest rate to Mr Os mortgage, as set out 
in the applicable mortgage offer and so I dont intend to require it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman