DRN-2860339
The complaint
Mr C complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited scrapped his car without his 
permission after it had declined a claim made on his motor insurance policy. Hes also 
unhappy with the amount offered for its salvage value. He wants it to reimburse the full value 
of the salvage. 
What happened
Mr Cs car was damaged in an accident. Admiral repudiated his claim and deemed the car to 
be a category B total loss. Admiral offered Mr C the cars salvage if he could show that he 
held a breakers licence. As Mr C didnt respond to Admiral, it sold the car for salvage. 
Admiral agreed it should have told Mr C it had disposed of the car and it paid him £25 
compensation. It also offered him the salvage amount it had been paid, or to offset this 
against its outlay for the other drivers costs. But Mr C thought he could have obtained much 
more for the cars salvage. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She saw that 
Admiral had held the car in storage for ten months before disposing of it and Mr C hadnt 
contacted it in this time. She thought he was unlikely to have been able to dispose of it 
himself and he didnt provide any evidence of higher salvage values. She saw evidence that 
the salvage value Admiral had received was what it had offered Mr C. She thought its offer 
of £25 for not telling him it had disposed of the salvage was fair and reasonable.
Mr C didnt reply to the investigators view, so the complaint has come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Mr Cs policy says that if the car is deemed to be a total loss, then Admiral takes ownership 
of it. But our usual approach is that when a car is written off and deemed a total loss under 
a motor insurance policy, as Mr Cs car was, the insurer, in this case Admiral, becomes the 
owner of the salvage only after the consumer accepts payment of the cars full market value. 
But in this case, as Admiral repudiated the claim, no settlement was paid to Mr C. 
Our stance is then that if the consumer asks to keep the salvage, we would expect the 
insurer to allow this. The car is, after all, the consumer's property and they should have the 
right to keep it if they wish to do so. However, in that event, the insurer is entitled to deduct 
from its settlement offer what it would have been able to sell the salvage for. But we wouldnt 
usually expect an insurer to offer the salvage to the consumer if they havent asked about 
keeping it.
Mr Cs car was assessed to be a category B total loss. This is where the car was not suitable 
for repair, but usable parts could be recycled. Admiral asked Mr C to provide evidence that 
he had a breakers licence before it would return the car to him. But I havent seen evidence 
that Mr C told Admiral that he wanted to retain the salvage or that Mr C had the means to 
break up the car and dispose of the parts. 
Admiral retained the car in storage for ten months before finally approving its disposal. 
Admiral agreed that it hadnt followed its own procedure by giving Mr C seven days notice of 
the cars disposal. I think that if Mr C had wanted to retain his car he would have contacted 
Admiral within the time it was in storage. But he didnt. So I cant say it was wrong for 
Admiral to dispose of the car. And I think its payment of £25 compensation for any trouble 
and upset was fair and reasonable. 
Admiral obtained a very small payment for the cars salvage, compared to its pre-los market 
value. Ive seen from the engineers report that the impact of the accident was considerable. 
And Ive seen evidence that the amount that Admiral offered Mr C was what it received for 
the salvage. Mr C said hed provide evidence from dealers of what he could have sold the 
cars parts for. But, despite ample opportunities, he hasnt done this. So I cant say that 
Admirals offer for the salvage amount was unfair or unreasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman