DRN-3268163
The complaint
Miss P complains about how much Action 365 Ltd charged when she cancelled her 
commercial vehicle insurance policy. Miss P said the policy was mis-sold as the charges 
werent made clear at the point of sale. 
What happened
Miss P took out a policy through Action 365 who is a broker. A couple of months later she 
then discovered that she had some no claims discount (NCD) which she wished to use on 
her policy. As the NCD hadnt been issued within the last two years Action 365 said it wasnt 
able to add it to her policy. Miss P asked what the cancellation costs were and then 
cancelled her policy. 
As Miss P thought shed been charged too much she complained. Action 365 reviewed the 
complaint and didnt uphold it. It said as Miss Ps policy had been cancelled more than 14 
days after it started then her cancellation fee was £75. They also said Miss P had been 
charged an arrangement fee of £82. Action 365 also said the additions to Miss Ps policy 
were non-refundable. As Miss P didnt agree she referred her complaint here. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt recommend it was upheld. He found the 
terms of business was clear on the fees applied. He also found theyd been sent to Miss P 
when the policy was sold and that the time on risk and other charges werent applied by 
Action 365. Because of this he didnt find Action 365 had done anything wrong. Miss P 
disagreed, she said Action 365 hadnt told her the fees when the policy was sold, and she 
never received the information from Action 365. 
As Miss P disagreed the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook says that a firm should specify its
customers demands and needs based on the information obtained from the customer and
propose a policy that is consistent with those demands and needs. It also has a general duty 
to provide information in a way that is clear, fair and not
misleading.
Miss Ps policy was sold in a non-advised sale. That means Action 365 needed to provide 
information in a way which was clear fair and not misleading to enable Miss P to decide if the 
policy was suitable. Ive reviewed the terms of business and they have a section called 
Payment for Our Services. Within the section it has a table which says the maximum 
charge for setting up a policy is £100 and if a policy is cancelled after 14 days from purchase 
the maximum charge is £75. The terms also say any additions are non-refundable after 14 
days. 
I can see Action 365 have charged £82 for the arrangement/set up fee. And £75 for the 
cancellation fee as the policy was cancelled more than 14 days after purchase. As these are 
proportionate and in line with those laid out in the terms of business, Im satisfied its fair and 
reasonable for Action 365 to charge them. In regard to the additions Miss P has been 
charged for, the terms say theyre non-refundable. But as theyre charged by other 
businesses, I cant comment on them in this decision. Also, what Miss P has paid the insurer 
for the time on risk isnt charged by Action 365 so I cant comment on that in this decision 
either. 
Ive also considered Miss Ps point about the policy being mis-sold as Action 365 didnt tell 
her about these charges when she bought the policy. I can see the charges are laid out in 
the terms of business and these were sent to Miss P when she took out the policy, so Im not 
persuaded Action 365 did mis-sell her policy. I appreciate this isnt the answer Miss P was 
hoping for, but Im not persuaded Action 365 has done anything wrong in charging her an 
arrangement fee of £82 or the cancellation fee of £75. It therefore follows that Im not going 
to tell it to refund the money. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman