DRN-2518958
The complaint
Mr H complains Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited unfairly turned down his claim and added 
an exclusion to his policy. 
What happened
Mr H holds an income protection policy with Aviva, which he took out in October 2018. The 
policy is designed to pay a monthly benefit in the event Mr H is incapacitated due to illness 
or injury. 
Mr H later made a claim when he was unable to work due to severe eczema. Aviva declined 
the claim and said this was because Mr H hadnt declared the full extent of his eczema and 
how it affected him when he took out his policy. It said although hed declared the condition, 
some of the further questions he was asked about it were answered incorrectly. And it 
considered this to be a careless misrepresentation which entitled it to apply a retrospective 
exclusion to the policy. 
Mr H complained. Aviva said if it had been told more about the extent of his eczema 
condition, it would have applied a policy exclusion relating to skin conditions from the outset. 
So it thought it had been right to add the exclusion retrospectively and to decline the claim. 
Unhappy with Avivas response, Mr H brought his complaint to this service. An investigator 
here looked into what had happened and said he thought Mr H hadnt answered all of 
Avivas questions correctly in relation to his history of eczema. So he didnt think Aviva had 
acted unfairly.
Aviva made no further comments on the investigators view. However, Mr H disagreed and 
asked for a decision from an ombudsman. And so the case has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms, or not at all, if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Aviva has said Mr H failed to take reasonable care in answering its medical questions when 
he took out his policy. 
Mr H was sent a policy information pack including a copy of the medical questions he was 
asked and the answers that had been recorded. And he was asked to review this and let 
Aviva know if anything was incorrect. The personal details confirmation form showed how 
Mr H had answered the following questions relating to his eczema in the two years prior to 
his application. 
Does your present occupation aggravate your condition? No
Been referred to, treated at or had any investigations at a hospital or clinic? No
Been absent from work or unable to perform your daily activities due to illness, disorder 
or injury for more than two weeks at a time? No
Mr Hs medical records show hed been signed off work by his GP for almost three months 
in 2017  so within the two years before taking out the policy. And the reasons stated were 
infected eczema and atopic dermatitis / eczema which was described as severe 
eczema. The records show hed also been referred to see specialists for his eczema 
during 2016 and 2017 and had undergone tests. One of the medical reports from a 
dermatology doctor in January 2017 also stated that Mr H had said he thought his new job 
and stress had caused his eczema to flare up. 
Based on this medical evidence, I think it was reasonable for Aviva to say Mr H didnt 
answer the above three questions correctly in relation to his eczema. I think the questions 
Aviva asked were clear. And as Mr H had been off work for a considerable amount of time 
and had been referred to see specialists in the two years prior to taking out the policy, I 
think its reasonable to expect he should have declared that information when asked. 
Im persuaded Mr H failed to take reasonable care to answer Avivas questions correctly and 
that he made a careless misrepresentation. For Aviva to take any action, there needs to 
have been a qualifying misrepresentation. So I need to identify whether or not the 
misrepresentation made by Mr H made a difference to Aviva. 
Aviva provided a statement from its senior underwriter confirming, had the additional medical 
information about Mr Hs eczema been declared, Aviva would have still offered the policy. 
But, it would have done so on different terms. It would have applied an exclusion to any 
claims relating to any disease or disorder of the skin.. And because of this, Im satisfied the 
misrepresentation was a qualifying one. 
Aviva treated the misrepresentation as careless. And in these circumstances, the remedy 
available under CIDRA is for it to add the relevant exclusion to Mr Hs policy, and assess the 
claim from that point. And as thats whats happened in this case, Im persuaded Aviva has 
acted fairly. 
Im aware Mr H would like a refund of his policy premiums. Although Aviva retrospectively 
applied an exclusion to the policy in relation to skin conditions, Mr H could still have benefited from income protection cover in relation to other illnesses or injuries. So I dont 
think it would be fair for me to direct Aviva to refund any premiums. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman