DRN-3175908
The complaint
Mr M complains because AWP P&C SA hasnt paid a claim for a cancelled holiday under his 
travel insurance policy.
All references to AWP P&C SA include the agents it has appointed to handle claims on its 
behalf.  
What happened
Mr M was insured under a group annual travel insurance policy, provided by AWP.
Mr M was due to go on holiday in April 2020 but, on 17 March 2020, the UKs Foreign,
Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth
Office (FCO)) advised against all but essential travel abroad. This advice remained in force
throughout the duration of Mr Ms intended trip.
Mr M cancelled his holiday and made a claim under his policy with AWP for his unused visa,
airport parking fees, flight and tour costs. Mr M was subsequently given a credit voucher for
flights from the company he booked through.
AWP turned down Mr Ms claim, as it said the reason for the cancellation of his trip wasnt
due to any of the reasons mentioned as being covered under his policy. Unhappy, Mr M
complained to AWP before bringing his complaint to the attention of our service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and said she didnt think the claim was
covered under the policy terms and conditions. But she thought it would be fair and
reasonable for AWP to assess Mr Ms claim under the cancellation section of his policy
regardless. She went on to outline what costs she though AWP should pay and
recommended that AWP should pay £100 compensation to Mr M.
AWP didnt provide us with any evidence relating to Mr Ms complaint, nor did it respond to
our investigators opinion, so the complaint was referred to me.
I made my provisional decision about Mr Ms complaint in October 2021. In it, I said:
Im satisfied that our investigator identified, and set out, relevant industry rules and guidance
which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. In addition, our investigator
highlighted and referred to the key documents which I think are relevant to this complaint.
When making my provisional decision, Ive also had regard to the relevant law (including the
unfair terms provisions in the Consumer Rights Act 2015).
The policy documentation
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) provided to us by Mr M summarises
the cover available under his policy. On page 2, under the heading Where am I covered?, it
says:
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region where the Travel Advice
Unit of the British Foreign and Commonwealth Office or the World Health
Organisation has advised against travel, unless agreed otherwise with the insurer.
The policy terms and conditions provided by Mr M, on page 18 under the heading Section D
 Cancellation or Curtailment, say that AWP will pay for certain costs if a trip is cancelled for
any of the following reasons:
1. The death, accidental bodily injury, illness, compulsory quarantine on the orders of
a treating doctor, redundancy that qualifies for payment under current redundancy
legislation, cancellation of leave for British Forces, police or government security
staff, summoning to jury service or witness attendance in a court of you or your
travelling companion.
2. The death, serious injury or illness of,
a close relative, or
the person with whom you intend to reside at the holiday or journey
destination, or
a dependent business partner,
of you or your travelling companion which necessitates the presence of the
person concerned.
3. Hijack
4. Adverse weather conditions making it impossible for you to travel to initial point of
departure at commencement of outward journey.
5. Major damage or burglary at your home or place of business which at the request
of an emergency service requires your presence.
The policy terms say, at page 14 (not, as our investigator said, at page 12) under the
heading General exclusions:
The Insurer shall not pay (unless agreed in writing by or on behalf of the Insurer) for
any claim directly or indirectly caused by, arising or resulting from, or in connection
with: 
10 You travelling to a country, specific area or event to which the Travel Advice unit 
of the British Foreign and Commonwealth Office or the World Health Organisation
has advised against travel, unless agreed by or on behalf of the Insurer.
Was it unreasonable for AWP to decline Mr Ms claim?
Mr M has made extensive arguments as to why he thinks his claim should be covered under
the provisions under the cancellation section of his policy relating to compulsory quarantine
on the orders of a treating doctor. However, having taken into account the content of email
correspondence between Mr M and his visa provider as well as the date the NHS isolation
note provided by Mr M was issued, Im not satisfied that any requirement by Mr M to self-
isolate was what led to the cancellation of this trip.
Instead, I think FCDO restrictions as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic and the closure of
borders were the reasons the trip was cancelled. These arent reasons that are listed as
insured events under the cancellation section of Mr Ms policy. Ive reviewed the remaining
sections of Mr Ms policy and I dont think he holds any cover which would pay a benefit in
the circumstances he found himself in. So, Mr Mrs claim isnt covered under the terms andconditions of his policy.
However, I dont think applying a strict interpretation of the policy wording leads to a fair and
reasonable outcome in this case, and Ill explain why.
The exclusions that Ive outlined above mean, if Mr M had travelled abroad as intended (if it
was possible for him to do so), he wouldnt have been following FCDO advice. So, he is
unlikely to have been covered by the policy terms and conditions at all. But, under the terms
and conditions of the policy, cancellation of a holiday due to changes in FCDO guidance also
isnt covered by the policy. I dont think that was made sufficiently clear to Mr M within the
policy documents that were provided to him.
Mr M would have needed to read the full policy terms and conditions in order to understand
that the situation he found himself in wasnt covered. And, I dont think that this information
was brought to his attention in a clear, prominent and transparent way. So, I dont think the
combined effect of the policy terms were made sufficiently clear to him.
I think this created a significant imbalance in the rights and interests of Mr M and AWP. I
think, if Mr M had realised there was no cover under the policy if he needed to cancel his trip
because FCDO guidance changed, its likely hed have been able to find an alternative policy
elsewhere which did provide the cover he needed.
So, therefore, I think it would be fair and reasonable for AWP to treat Mr Ms claim as
covered under the cancellation section of his policy.
Our investigator outlined in some detail what costs she thought AWP should pay, what costs
she thought werent covered under the policy and what further evidence she thought Mr M
needed to provide. I understand Mr M has been seeking to have his claim settled for some
time, but it isnt for our service to provide such detailed recommendations to AWP at this
point.
AWP declined Mr Ms claim because it said the claim wasnt covered under the terms and
conditions of his policy. AWP hasnt yet had the opportunity to assess the costs claimed for
in more detail and determine, for example, whether it thinks Mr M has evidenced his losses
and/or if these monies are recoverable or can reasonably be considered as having been
recovered from elsewhere. So, AWP first needs to be given an opportunity to assess Mr Ms
claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of his policy (taking into account any
policy excess and or/limits)  as well as the opportunity to ask for any reasonable additional 
evidence which it may require - before it would be fair or reasonable for our service to
comment on any assessment of the claim.
If Mr M is unhappy with the outcome of AWPs claim assessment, he has the right to
complain to AWP about the matter, before bringing a new complaint to the attention of our
service.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M, but I also dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask AWP
to pay him compensation in these circumstances. I have no doubt AWPs decline of his claim
will have caused him frustration and annoyance, but making an insurance claim is inevitably
inconvenient and I think asking AWP to reassess his claim is enough to put things right in
this instance.
AWP didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr M replied to say he was prepared to 
accept much of my provisional decision, but said he felt AWP should pay compensation for 
its delay in replying to emails and providing a final response letter. Mr M also said AWP 
should be given a reasonably prompt deadline by which to decide the value of his claim. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account everything which Mr M has said, but I wont be changing my 
provisional decision. 
AWP sent Mr M a final response letter about his complaint in June 2020 which provided 
referral rights to our service. AWP was under no obligation to correspond directly with Mr M 
about his complaint any further after it sent him a final response letter, and I have no power 
to award compensation to Mr M for any delay or failure by AWP in providing information to 
our service. 
Id expect AWP to assess Mr Ms claim within a reasonable timeframe and without any 
unnecessary or excessive delay. But AWP is entitled to take the opportunity to consider the 
costs claimed for in detail and request any additional information which it may reasonably 
require in order to do this. So, I cant fairly impose a deadline within which AWP should 
assess Mr Ms claim at this point. If Mr M is unhappy with the length of time taken by AWP to 
assess his claim, he also has the right to complain to AWP about the matter and bring a new 
complaint to the attention of our service.  
Putting things right
AWP P&C SA should put things right by treating Mr Ms claim as covered under the 
cancellation section of his policy and assessing the claim under the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint in part, and I direct AWP P&C SA to put 
things right in the way Ive outlined above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman