DRN-3178282
The complaint
Mr E has complained that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) did not do enough
checks before it granted his loans. Later on, Mr E was told by Lending Stream that he still
owed a balance even though he had successfully completed an Individual Voluntary
Arrangement (IVA).
What happened
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Es complaint in part. Lending Stream agreed with the 
adjudicators recommendation and offered to settle the complaint. Mr E initially accepted the 
offer and the case was closed. However, he remained unhappy in how Lending Stream went 
about dealing with paying the settlement. The case was reopened and sent for a final 
decision. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to uphold Mr Es 
complaint in part. A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings 
follow in italics and forms part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Mr E took three instalment loans from Lending Stream between March and July 2016. A
summary of his borrowing, based on the information provided to us from Lending Stream,
can be found below:
loan number loan amount agreement date repayment date
1 £150.00 24/03/2016 29/04/20216
2 £150.00 17/06/2016
3 £170.00 08/07/2016
Mr E repaid his first loan earlier than Lending Stream was expecting. But loans 2 and 3
remained outstanding. However, Mr E has provided evidence to show these two loans were
included in his IVA and he has provided a completion certificate dated 13 December 2019.
Following a complaint, Lending Stream issued its final response letter (FRL) on 1 March
2021. In this, Lending Stream agreed that it ought to not have provided loan 3. It calculated
the interest (along with 8% simple interest) that Mr E had paid towards this loan which came
to £57.85. It explained to Mr E that as he had an outstanding balance it would use the refund
to offset the balance, leaving Mr E with around £112 left to pay.
Mr E didnt agree with this and explained to Lending Stream that he had been caused
distress and anxiety at being told that he owed Lending Stream money when he had
completed his IVA. Mr E then referred his complaint to our Service.
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Es complaint and he upheld it. He recommended that
Lending Stream pay Mr E directly the amount of interest he paid towards loan 3 (if it hadnt
already done so). He also recommended that Lending Stream pay Mr E £100 for the distress
and inconvenience that was caused to him.
Lending Stream agreed with the adjudicators opinion. In summary it agreed to the following;
pay £57.85 directly to Mr E
pay £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused and
It also agreed to remove loan 3 from Mr Es credit file.
As part of the settlement, it said that if Mr E wanted to have the compensation paid into
account other than the one that Lending Stream held for him than hed need to provide a
copy of a bank statement showing the sort code and account number.
This offer was put to Mr E who accepted it. This Service then closed the case.
However, Mr E then told us that he wasnt happy to accept the offer in order to resolve the
complaint. He has sent a number of emails following the case being closed, and Ive
summarised what he told us below;
Lending Stream had no intention of paying the compensation without seeing bank
statements. Which Mr E, for a number of reasons, didnt want to provide including
that it was his personal data and Lending Stream had no need for it.
He is a vulnerable person.
Mr E spent about 90 minutes dealing with Lending Stream, and he wants his hourly
rate covered for this.
Mr E wants the money that is due to him from the interest, calculated to the date the
payment is made.
In short, Mr E says that had he known how much time and extra effort was needed to get the
compensation then the amount that was previously recommended wasnt enough. He also
made it clear, that he wasnt going to accept the original settlement offer as a result of these
problems. So, Mr E says that Lending Stream ought to not have paid it.
After this Service told Lending Stream the complaint was being passed to an ombudsman it
provided the following comments;
Mr E accepted the settlement on 5 May 2021.
It asked for Mr Es bank statements on 6 May 2021 as this was part of its standard
procedure when paying compensation into a different bank account than it held for
Mr E.
On 6 May 2021 Mr E explained why it wasnt possible to provide the bank statements
Lending Stream made the decision to pay the compensation on 14 May 2021 without
seeing the further evidence it requested.
It paid the settlement within 28 days, and so there wasnt a delay.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr E later said he didnt accept the offer, because of the issues he experiencedin terms of the evidence that Lending Stream needed to see in order to pay the 
compensation. But, up to the further problems that Mr E says he had, both parties thought
the resolution proposed by the adjudicator was fair and reasonable. So, Im not going to
revisit the complaint up to the point that it was accepted.
But, what I am going to consider, if whether Lending Stream needs to pay anything extra (on
top of what it paid Mr E on 14 May 2021) to compensate him for the additional time spent
dealing with it and this Service, and the distress that he says he has suffered.
Based on Lending Streams most recent email to this Service, it told us it paid Mr E (in
respect of the interest paid towards loan 3) £58.40. To me, that does suggest that it
recalculated what the 8% simple interest was, because this is more than the original amount
quoted in the FRL to Mr E. So, I dont think Lending Stream needs to take any further action
in relation to paying Mr E further interest and or any additional 8% simple interest due on this
sum.
The crux of this case is whether given the additional communication, which led to Mr E
needed to spend more time dealing with Lending Stream and this Service, means that the
compensation award of £100 should be increased. Ive thought very carefully about this
matter.
Mr E accepted the offer, and this Service closed the complaint. Lending Stream has told us
(and Mr E) that as the bank details it held for him differed to the account that Mr E wanted
the compensation paid into that it needed to see a bank statement.
Mr E provided details for the account in a screen shot, but not the bank statement as
Lending Stream had requested. Mr E says the screen shot ought to have been sufficient for
Lending Stream to pay the compensation.
However, Lending Stream says that wasnt enough. Lending Stream appears to have a
process in place, where it wants the statement in a non-edible format such as in a pdf
document. It isnt for this Service to tell Lending Stream what information it may or may not
need in order to complete the settlement. But, I can quite understand Mr Es frustration at the
whole matter, given the information he provided to it.
Lending Stream appears to have by-passed its own internal procedures in order to pay the
settlement to Mr E on 14 May 2021. I accept this was done after Mr E made it clear to this
Service and to Lending Stream that he didnt now accept the offer, but I think this was a
reasonable course of action for Lending Stream to take.
Equally, when an offer is accepted and this Service closes a case, we expect that that
maybe some delay in compensation being paid, which is why we ask consumers to get in
contact with us within 28 days if the payment hadnt been made.
In this case, despite the issues with the bank statement Lending Stream paid the settlement
within 9 days of receiving confirmation that Mr E had accepted the agreed settlement. I
consider this to be a reasonable timescale, and its clear, given what Lending Stream has
told us that it took the decision to do this in order to bring this matter to a close. 
But, Ill point this out again, Mr E had already effectively withdrawn his acceptance of the 
offer that was paid.
Our Services awards arent designed to fine and punish Lending Stream for the errors that
may have been made. Instead, any award for distress and / or inconvenience are based on
the individual circumstances of each case.I acknowledge that Mr E would like his hourly rate refunded but as our website explains; 
we dont usually consider, for example, someones hourly rate. Instead, I have to
consider what has happened in the round, and whether any further compensation should be 
paid.
Having done so, I do consider further distress and inconvenience was caused to Mr E.
Lending Stream ought to have been reasonably aware that Mr E was a vulnerable customer,
this was outlined in his complaint form (which was provided to Lending Stream)
So, while, I make no finding on whether lending Stream was right or wrong to ask for the
bank statements. But I do agree with Mr E that he spent considerable time dealing with
Lending Stream and further communication with this Service, after believing the matter had
been settled and the issue closed. And the communication between Lending Stream and Mr
E couldve been clearer, which has caused further distress.
Equally based on the emails Ive seen to date, it doesnt seem that Lending Stream let Mr E
know that it was going to pay the compensation on 14 May 2021. I appreciate, it was
reasonable for Lending Stream to make the payment, but given it knew Mr E was a
vulnerable customer the communication couldve been better, as that may have reassured
Mr E about what was happening and why, which would have been reasonable in the
circumstances.
So, given what it knew it about Mr Es personal situation and the fact that it doesnt appear
to have communicated with Mr E that it was paying the settlement until after it was done, I do
consider a further award needs to be paid in order to adequate reflect what has happened,
and Ive outlined below what Lending Stream needs to do.
Response to PD
Both parties were asked to respond to the provisional decision and provide any new 
evidence or comments for consideration by 18 November 2021. 
Mr E initially responded and he told this Service that he accepted the findings of the 
provisional decision. Mr E did also confirm the account he wanted the compensation paid 
into was account ending *8021. 
Lending Stream responded and said it accepted the findings of the provisional decision. It 
also confirmed the previous compensation had been paid on 14 May 2021. And it would be 
paying the new amount of £50 into Mr Es account ending *8021. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr E and Lending Stream appear to have accepted the findings of the provisional 
decision, so I see no reason to depart from these findings I made. Both parties have also 
agreed which bank account for these funds to be paid into. 
My decisions is therefore that Lending Stream should pay Mr E an additional £50 
compensation. 
Putting things right
Lending Stream should pay Mr E an additional £50 for the distress and inconvenience thathas been caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Mr Es 
complaint in part.
Gain Credit LLC should put things right for Mr E as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman