DRN-4235510
The complaint
Ms Y complains about Pinnacle Insurance Plc.
Ms Y is unhappy about Pinnacles decision to withdraw its offering of payment protection 
insurance (PPI) to its customers. 
Ms Y does not want her policy cancelled and is concerned about the cost of obtaining a 
replacement policy from a different provider due to her age and thinks that Pinnacle should 
be providing alternative cover.
What happened
In February 20203, Pinnacle wrote to Ms Y explaining that after June 2023, her policy would 
not be renewed as it had made a commercial decision not to provide this cover anymore.
Ms Y was unhappy, so she made a complaint to Pinnacle. Her complaint wasnt upheld, so 
she brought her complaint to this Service.
Our Adjudicator looked into things but didnt think that the complaint should be upheld.
Ms Y remained unhappy, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ys complaint. I know this will be 
disappointing for her, so Ill explain why.
Pinnacle has made the commercial decision to cancel its mortgage payment protection 
insurance policy for all of its customers  not just Ms Y. It also provided Ms Y with the notice 
period required as set out in the policies terms and conditions which was 90 days.
I understand that Ms Y is concerned that she no longer has cover, and that the financial 
landscape at the present time is a worry for her as the mortgage is only in her name. She 
would like Pinnacle to either re-instate the policy, or provide alternative cover, as her age will 
make finding an alternative policy from another provider financially prohibitive for her.
While I do understand Ms Ys concerns, it is not the place of this Service to become involved 
in a commercial decision made by a business  Pinnacle is able to make its own decisions 
about the policies it choses to offer or withdraw. It is also not obliged to provide alternative 
cover if it does not wish to continue providing this kind of insurance.
I do understand that Ms Y may struggle to find alternative cover at the same price as her 
previous policy, but this doesnt change the fact that Pinnacle hasnt done anything wrong 
here. 
It follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman