DRN-2722641
The complaint
This complaints about an equity release lifetime mortgage that Mr and Mrs D took out in 
2010 on the advice of a business then known as Just Retirement Solutions Limited, but now 
known as Hub Financial Solutions Limited. In the narrative, Ill refer to the business as Just, 
as that is the name used at the time the mortgage was arranged. 
The main thrust of the complaint is that Mr and Mrs D believe the mortgage was unsuitable 
for their needs; they should have had an interest-only mortgage instead. There were other 
elements to it, but an ombudsman colleague has determined that our jurisdiction only 
allowed us to consider the suitability of the mortgage. She concluded that the other elements 
of the complaint were time barred under our rules. Ive looked at what my ombudsman 
colleague said on jurisdiction, and I agree with her. My power to consider this complaint is 
restricted to the suitability of the mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D took the mortgage out in 2010. The terms of the mortgage provide that no 
monthly repayments are required. The intention is that the mortgage is due to be repaid if 
Mr and/or Mrs D go into full-time residential nursing care or after the death of the last 
surviving borrower. It can be repaid voluntarily before either of those events have happened, 
but then an early repayment charge (ERC) is usually payable. 
Interest on the loan is rolled up into the outstanding balance and is compounded until the 
debt is repaid. All of this means that if the loan runs for a number of years, there can be a 
significant balance to be repaid. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld; Mr and Mrs D asked for the 
case to be referred to an ombudsman for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because 
I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the 
wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the round. 
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority.  We deal 
with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont 
replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions 
on how we investigate a complaint, or when we have enough information on file to decide it.
In this decision I have looked at the sale of the mortgage (in terms of what was regarded as 
good industry practice at the relevant time) and considered generally whether Just did 
anything wrong when the mortgage was taken out. In doing that, I can give no regard to the 
regulatory standards in place now, or to any hindsight that the intervening years might have 
brought.
I reiterate that its Justs actions Im considering here, not those of the lender. The two 
businesses may be part of the same wider commercial group, but under the rules we follow, 
known as DISP, theyre still viewed as separate and discrete entities by us, as well as by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) which wrote the DISP rules. 
If the available evidence is incomplete (not unusual in a case such as this where the sale 
happened so long ago) and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what we consider is 
most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly the same test 
that the courts use in civil cases.
Its for us to assess the reliability of evidence and deciding how much weight should be 
attached to it. When doing that, we dont just consider individual documents in isolation. We 
consider everything together to form a broader opinion on the whole picture. 
The starting point here is the point-of-sale documentation from 2010. The value of such 
documents is that theyre contemporaneous; so they should reflect what was said and 
agreed at the relevant time. Theyre not fool-proof, of course; its always possible information 
might be recorded incorrectly; but its typically more reliable than peoples individual 
recollections at a distance of time which, although given in good faith, can sometimes be 
inaccurate or contradictory. 
So unless theres a compelling reason to believe the information is inaccurate, well 
generally attach some weight to it. Even if anomalies or mistakes are identified, that doesnt 
automatically mean a mis-sale has taken place. We still have to consider whether they might 
or might not have affected the suitability of the advice that was given.
The information-gathering exercise identified specific financial objectives, and indicated that 
Mr and Mrs D would need of some form of borrowing if they were to be able to realise their 
stated objectives. Actually, the need to borrow in some form isnt in dispute here. The main 
issue here appears to be that Mr and Mrs D say they would have preferred a traditional 
mortgage on an interest-only basis. 
Mr and Mrs D say they could have afforded to pay the monthly interest instalments, but 
thats only part of it. Given the overall financial circumstances that prevailed at the time, its 
very unlikely that they would have been accepted for a traditional mortgage, given their age 
and circumstances, notwithstanding that they wanted, or believe they were able, to make 
regular monthly payments. 
Thats borne out by the information captured at the point of sale, which records that 
Mr and Mrs D had tried themselves to find an interest-only mortgage without success. Also, 
the advisor had looked to see if there were equity release products that would allow 
Mr and Mrs D to make regular payments; again, without success. That indicates to me that 
equity release in the form recommended was probably the only viable option for 
Mr and Mrs D in 2010 given the circumstances recorded at the time.
Its possible that after the mortgage had gone through, Mr and Mrs D subsequently changed 
their minds about what theyd do with some of the money, but Justs duty was to give 
suitable advice, which Im satisfied it did. Just couldnt insist Mr and Mrs D follow every 
aspect of the advice it had given them. Nor was it obliged to monitor its customers 
behaviour after the sale to ensure they did what theyd said they were going to do.
My final decisionI dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 May 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman