DRN-3570216
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy that Capital One (Europe) plc told him he didnt need to pay anything further 
on his account, but then later said there was a balance that remained outstanding.
What happened
Mr J believed his Capital One account had been closed and that there was no balance 
outstanding to be repaid. However, Mr J then received a letter from Capital One which stated 
that there was a balance of approximately £1,350 that Mr J remained liable to pay. Mr J 
spoke with Capital One about this and was told by an agent that there wasnt an outstanding 
balance that he was liable to pay back. Mr J wasnt happy with the contradictory information 
he was receiving from Capital One, so he raised a complaint.
Capital One looked at Mr Js complaint. They explained that the agent with whom Mr J had 
spoken had made a mistake, and that in fact there was a balance outstanding that Mr J 
remained liable to pay. Capital One apologised to Mr J for the provision of incorrect 
information by their agent, and they made a payment of £100 to his account as 
compensation for any trouble and upset he may have incurred. Mr J wasnt satisfied with 
Capital Ones response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt the response that Capital One 
had already issued to Mr Js complaint  including the explanation of what had happened 
and the payment of £100  already represented a fair and reasonable outcome. Mr J 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im satisfied that Capital One havent acted unfairly towards Mr J by 
maintaining that a balance remains outstanding on his account, and so I wont be instructing 
Capital One to write off that balance as Mr J would like.
One reason for this is because a prior complaint that Mr J had raised against Capital One 
regarding this account has been considered by this service, with a decision being issued on 
that complaint by an ombudsman. This decision instructed Capital One to delete any credit 
file reporting relating to this account, but it also included that the balance outstanding on the 
account would remain outstanding for Mr J to pay.
It's clear that Mr J has received inaccurate information from Capital One about whether there 
was a balance that remained outstanding on his account. But that mistakenly given 
information doesnt affect the legitimacy of the balance that remains outstanding on the 
account, which Im satisfied should fairly remain outstanding for Mr J to repay as Capital One 
maintain.
However, Mr J was given incorrect information by Capital One, and so I feel its fair that 
Capital One should pay compensation to Mr J in light of the trouble and upset he incurred as 
a result. Capital One dont dispute this, and in their response to Mr Js complaint they 
apologised for the incorrect information he was given and also made a payment of £100 to 
reduce the balance outstanding on Mr Js Capital One account by way of compensation. 
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an amount considered as fair and 
reasonable by one person not considered as being such by someone else. But the £100 that 
Capital One have already paid here does seem fair to me, given the full circumstances of 
this complaint, and I can confirm that its commensurate with what I would have instructed 
Capital One to pay, had they not already done so.
Ive considered whether its fair that Capital One should have applied the compensation 
amount to Mr Js outstanding balance with them, rather than pay it to him outside of his 
account. But given that Mr J does have a balance outstanding with Capital One that he 
remains liable to pay, and given that the balance includes outstanding credit capital which  
Mr J has previously had the benefit of, Im satisfied that it is fair in this instance for Capital 
One to apply the £100 to reduce the balance that Mr J owes to them.
All of which means that Im satisfied that the response that Capital One have already issued 
to Mr J in regard to his complaint  including the explanation, the apology, and the crediting 
of his Capital One account with £100  already represents a fair and reasonable resolution 
to this complaint.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr J was wanting, but it follows that I wont be upholding 
this complaint or instructing Capital One to take any further action. I trust that Mr J will 
understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman