DRN-4435074
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wont refund money she lost in an 
investment scam.
What happened
What Mrs M says:
In February 2023, Mrs M was added to a WhatsApp group out of the blue  it was a trading 
discussion group, where people were giving each other tips and advice. The group appeared 
genuine. Mrs M was looking to increase her income given the unstable economy of the UK.
Mrs M messaged one of the financial assistants on the chat and was introduced to a 
financial advisor from the scam company (which I will call A). Mrs M looked at As 
website and it seemed legitimate. She checked Trustpilot and there was nothing of 
concern about A.
As advisor sent Mrs M a lot of information about A and the trading process. She was 
introduced to the trading platform (which I will call B), based in Hong Kong. Mrs M 
opened an account with B and went through Know Your Customer and Anti Money 
Laundering checks  which added credibility to B in her eyes.
Mrs M was told she would make quick profits and the trading would be in cryptocurrency. 
She was told she needed to send money to her crypto wallet (which I will call C), and 
from there to the trading platform (B).
So - Mrs M sent money to her crypto wallet (C) from her Barclays account. Several 
payments were sent, and Mrs M was encouraged to send more money based on:
- She could see the performance of her funds in her account with B (which 
proved to be a fake trading website).
- She was offered, and took, an incentive programme.
- She was told (and could see) her investments were doing well and should therefore 
put more money in.
- Mrs M asked to withdraw some money and was told she needed to pay 30% of the 
profits to do that  so she sent more money for that.
- Then, as the withdrawal was over USD10,000, she was asked to pay further fees  
and she made an additional payment on 6 April 2023.
The payments were:
Number Date Payment Type/ Beneficiary Amount
1 6 March 2023 Faster Payment/ Crypto Wallet C £300
2 15 March 2023 Faster Payment/ Crypto Wallet C £950
3 15 March 2023 Faster Payment/ Crypto Wallet C £5,000
4 15 March 2023 Faster Payment/ Crypto Wallet C £14,500
5 17 March 2023 Faster Payment/ Crypto Wallet C £21,000
6 20 March 2023 Faster Payment/ Crypto Wallet C £8,500
7 24 March 2023 Faster Payment/ Crypto Wallet C £16,200
8 24 March 2023 Faster Payment/ Crypto Wallet C £200
9 31 March 2023 Faster Payment/ Crypto Wallet C £830
10 3 April 2023 Faster Payment/ Crypto Wallet C £24,200
11 3 April 2023 Faster Payment/ Crypto Wallet C £500
12 6 April 2023 Faster Payment/ Crypto Wallet C £12,300
13 6 April 2023 Faster Payment/ Crypto Wallet C £12,000
14 6 April 2023 Faster Payment/ Crypto Wallet C £100
15 6 April 2023 Faster Payment/ Crypto Wallet C  Credit (£100)
Total Loss £116,480
Mrs M was then told she needed to pay tax to the Hong Kong government  she became 
suspicious and refused to do so. The scammers threatened her that she would be liable 
for liquidated damages and they would take her profits for themselves. She then realised 
she had been scammed.
Mrs M said shes lost her lifetime savings, and now has no money left to help pay bills. 
She has maxed out her credit card and has had to take out a secured loan for £35,000. 
She has become very distressed about what happened, she is anxious and doesnt trust 
anyone anymore. She suffers from sleepless nights.
Mrs M says Barclays didnt question any of the payments and shouldve done more to 
protect her. She said they should refund the money, plus interest at 8% per annum.
What Barclays said:
Barclays said they werent liable for Mrs Ms losses as shed made the payments to her 
crypto currency account with C. The claim should therefore be sent to C. And the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM) didnt apply for the same reason.
Furthermore, Barclays said:
- the payments were sent to Mrs Ms existing crypto wallet account with C  and 
shed made payments to it before. Barclays said shed made 22 transfers to it 
between 24 January 2022 and 1 May 2022. So - the payments werent out of 
character because they were to an existing beneficiary.
-
- the value of the payments wasnt out of character either  as shed made 
payments up to £18,000 and above in the previous six months.
- Mrs M was an experienced investor  because she had made crypto 
investments before and had liquidated an investment portfolio to make the 
disputed payments.
Our investigation so far:
Mrs M brought her complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He said:
- Mrs M had invested in cryptocurrencies before and had sent money to her 
crypto wallet.
- Looking at her account, she had made several large payments before, including 
one for £18,731 on 19 January 2023.Therefore, our investigator didnt think it was reasonable that Barclays shouldve 
intervened. Mrs M didnt agree. She said:
- The payment of £18,731 was to her solicitors in connection with her mortgage, 
so it wasnt relevant.
- The prior payments to C were for much larger amounts than before, and were 
made in a short period of time  so Barclays shouldve questioned what was 
happening, and asked questions.
- The onus was on Barclays to do that  they were the experts.
Our investigator didnt change his opinion, and so Mrs M asked that an ombudsman look 
at her complaint. So  it has come to me to do that.
I made a provisional decision which said:
Im sorry to hear that Mrs M has lost money in a cruel scam. Its not in question that she 
authorised and consented to the payments in this case. So although she didnt intend for the 
money to go to a scammer, she is presumed to be liable for the loss in the first instance.
So, in broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. 
And I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules 
and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time, I consider Barclays should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to 
counter various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing 
of terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs 
that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other 
things). This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and 
scams in recent years, which banks are generally more familiar with than the 
average customer.

In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers 
from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) doesnt 
apply in this case. That is because it applies to faster payments made to another UK 
beneficiary and in this case, the payments were made to Mrs Ms own account with C  her 
crypto wallet.
I need to decide whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs M 
when she made the payments, or whether it should have done more than it did. I have 
considered the position carefully.Barclays didnt intervene in any of the payments. The first consideration here is: if the 
payments were of a sufficient size and was out of character with how Mrs M normally used 
her account  then we would expect Barclays to have intervened and spoken to Mrs M 
about them. I looked at Mrs Ms account for the previous 12 months, and its fair to say 
that the larger payments were unusual compared to the way in which she used her account 
 which was to make day to day expenditures of fairly low value.
I can see she made fairly regular payments of £1,000 to £3,000, usually to her savings 
account. And a regular monthly credit card payment of around £1,000 to £1,200. There 
was one large payment of £18,731 on 19 January 2023 but other than that, there werent 
any other large payments of a significant value, and I dont consider that the one high 
value payment, of itself, can lead to a conclusion that the scam payments werent 
unusual.
First two payments: £300 (6 March 2023) and £950 (15 March 2023):
I considered the first two payments. And here, theres a balance to be struck: Barclays has 
obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their customers best interests, but 
they cant be involved in every transaction as this would cause unnecessary disruption to 
legitimate payments. In this case, I think Barclays acted reasonably in processing these 
payments.
Payments 3 to 14: 15 March 2023 to 6 April 2023:
I consider that Barclays ought reasonably to have intervened in the payments with effect 
from the payment for £5,000 on 15 March 2023. I say that because:
- By then, this was the third payment within a few days to a cryptocurrency 
wallet  which was known to be the subject of possible scams.
- It was out of character with Mrs Ms normal use of her account. While I accept 
there were some payments of £1,000 to £3,000, the payment of £5,000 was 
significantly more than that.
- I can see that each payment was preceded by a credit of a similarly high 
value  taken together with the large payments, they shouldve caused 
Barclays to ask questions. Between 15 March 2023, and 3 April 2023, such 
credits were £21,673,
£20,457, £20,000, £7,800 £20,543 and £8,500.
- Ive considered what Barclays said about the prior payments to Mrs Ms crypto 
wallet Buut these were made more than a year before and were for amounts far 
less that the disputed payments  between £200 and £1,000, with the average 
around £700. So  I dont think that was a reason not to intervene in the higher 
value payments more than a year later.
-
Barclays were the expert in such matters and if theyd intervened, held the payments, and 
contacted Mrs M we would have expected them to ask open questions such as:
- Why are you making the payment?
- Who to?
- For what purpose?
- How did you hear about the investment?
- How were you contacted about it?
- Where did the money come from that youre investing?
- What do you know about bitcoin investing?
- Have you made bitcoin investments before?- How were you given the bank account details where the money was to be paid to?
- Have you given control on your devices to anyone else?
Barclays wouldve found out that Mrs M had been contacted out of the blue via a WhatsApp 
chat, and the contact had originated from the internet. These were red flags and there was 
enough going on to persuade me that Mrs M wouldve been warned about the risks involved 
and wouldnt have made the payments from the third payment onwards.
Im also not persuaded that the fact the payments were going to Mrs Ms own account and 
so appeared to be going somewhere safe and within her control should have satisfied 
Barclays that she wasnt at risk of harm. This is because by January 2019, firms like 
Barclays had, or ought to have had, a good enough understanding of how these scams 
work  including that a customer often moves money to an account in their own name 
before moving it on again to the scammer - to have been able to identify the risk of harm 
from scams.
So  I consider Barclays should be liable for Mrs Ms losses in the first instance.
Contributory Negligence:
But thats not the end of the story here. I also considered whether Mrs M couldve done 
more to protect herself and whether she should therefore reasonably share some of her 
losses.
And I think she should. I say that as:
- It appears she did only limited research into the advisor company and the 
bitcoin platform. I can see there were some warnings about both A and B. Albeit 
dating from March 2023 - so its inconclusive if they were live when Mrs M made 
the payments.
- She liquidated an investment portfolio to fund the payments to C. She provided 
evidence of it  and it comprised of (largely) equity shares. So  it does suggest 
she was a fairly experienced investor and shouldve been aware of the general 
risks of investing  to the extent that the claims of the advisor about making 
quick, substantial profits were likely to be too good to be true.
- She had invested in bitcoin before and maintained an existing bitcoin portfolio 
(which weve seen). Her bitcoin transaction history showed that in 2022 she 
made 44 buys in 26 different cryptocurrencies.
- So this leads me to say: 1) it wouldve been reasonable for her to see that the 
profits promised by the new bitcoin trader were too good to be true and 2) if she 
wanted to invest further in bitcoin, it would be reasonable to expect her to trade 
through her existing and known platform, rather than one she didnt know and 
which had originated through WhatsApp.
-
For all these reasons, I consider its reasonable that Mrs M be responsible 50% of her 
losses. So  Barclays should refund £58,240 plus interest at 8% per annum simple.
Recovery:
We expect firms to quickly attempt to recover funds from recipient banks when a scam 
takes place. I looked at whether Barclays took the necessary steps in contacting the bank 
that received the funds  in an effort to recover the lost money. I couldnt see that theyd 
contacted the provider of Mrs Ms crypto wallet  but Im persuaded that had they done so, no funds wouldve remained in any case  as shed moved them into the bitcoin trading 
platform.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Both Barclays and Mrs M accepted the findings  so I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Barclays and Mrs M accepted the findings, my final decision is the same as the 
provisional decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC must:
Refund £58,240, plus interest at 8% per annum simple from the date of the 
payments to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman