DRN-3456602
The complaint
Mrs C has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected his claim against it under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to his purchase of some solar panels.
Mrs C is represented in this case by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
Mrs C bought solar panels for her home in November 2016. The purchase was funded by a 
loan from Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for any misrepresentation or breach of 
contract by the installer under the relevant legislation. The CMC says:
the installer misled Mrs C into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which 
they werent;
the installer misled Mrs C about the true cost of the panels, by telling her the cash 
price but not the total amount she would have to repay under the loan; and
the installer told Mrs C that she did not have to worry about registering her panels for 
the feed in tariff (FIT) as the installer would do that on her behalf.
Mrs Cs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the benefits of 
the panels had not been mis-represented to Mrs C, and there was no other reason to uphold 
the complaint.
The CMC did not accept that opinion. It made the following arguments:
being satisfied with what she had been told in the sales meeting, Mrs C had not 
thought it necessary to read the sales documentation;
Mrs C had been particularly vulnerable, due to her sister having recently been 
diagnosed with a serious illness;
where a person is unaware that a representation is false, the fact that they could 
have found out it was false by taking reasonable care is not a defence in law.1
The CMC asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I do not uphold this complaint. I will explain 
why.
Was Mrs C told that the panels would be self-funding?
The contract for the sale of the solar panels sets out the cost and the estimated benefit of 
the panels very clearly, and is only two pages long. If Mrs C chose not to read it then that 
was her choice, but I think that it is unlikely that the salesman told her that the panels would 
1 Citing Chitty on Contracts (34th edition), paragraph 9-051.
pay for themselves and then handed her a two page contract which made it very clear that 
the panels would actually not pay for themselves. Indeed, the contract made it clear that the 
benefits did not begin to approach the cost.
Immediately above the signature box, in the middle, it says in bold capital letters Estimated 
total 1st year benefit, and next to that on the right is the figure £289.60. I think this figure is 
conspicuous; it is not buried in some fine print. To the left it says that the finance amount is 
£9,570, payable over 120 months, or ten years. This document was signed by Mrs C 
immediately below those figures, and so I think that the installers salesman did enough to 
bring this information to her attention.
The interest on the loan does not appear on this document, and so I think that Mrs C could 
be forgiven for overlooking it. However, one tenth of the amount borrowed would clearly 
come to £957.50 each year. That is more than three times the stated benefit figure for the 
first year. Again, I think this is clear.
For these reasons, I am not persuaded that the installer misled Mrs C about the benefits and 
cost of the panels. It was clear that the panels would not be self-funding during the term of 
the loan.
Was Mrs C misled about the cost of the panels?
As I have said, the contract does not show the true cost of the panels, because it omits the 
loan interest. However, I am satisfied that the loan agreement made it clear to Mrs C that 
she was taking out an interest-bearing loan. It clearly breaks down the loan into the cash 
price, the total amount payable, the amount of credit (which was the same as the cash 
price), and the total charge for credit.
So the installer made it clear to Mrs C that she would have to pay £12,637.14 for the panels, 
over ten years.
Was Mrs C told she did not have to register for FIT payments?
On the balance of probabilities, I do not accept that the salesman told Mrs C that the panels 
would be registered for her. That is not how the FIT scheme ever worked, and the salesman 
would have had no reason to tell her otherwise.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman