DRN-3782222
The complaint
Miss D complains that ReAssure Limited failed to apply her monthly contributions to her 
personal pension. She also complains about ReAssures customer service.
What happened
Miss D paid £20 per month to ReAssure with the expectation that the contributions would be 
paid into her personal pension.
In May 2022, ReAssure apparently advised Miss D that her total contributions of £220 had 
not been paid into her pension. Miss D was unhappy about this, and also pointed out that 
she had paid £300 in total. After further correspondence between the parties, ReAssure later 
accepted its letter ought to have said £300. 
ReAssure applied the £300 to Miss Ds pension, and offered her £150 for any inconvenience 
caused by its errors. Unhappy with this, Miss D brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator initially recommended the complaint be upheld. Whilst he noted that 
ReAssure had paid the £300 into Miss Ds policy, he didnt think this was an appropriate 
outcome. Our investigator recommended that ReAssure should calculate how many extra 
units each contribution would have bought at the time Miss D had paid her monthly 
contribution, and then increase the policy by the same amount of units. However, he thought 
the £150 compensation offered by ReAssure for the inconvenience caused to Miss D was 
reasonable. 
ReAssure responded to explain the premiums had already been backdated as of the date 
they should have been applied to the policy, to ensure that Miss Ds wasnt financially 
disadvantaged. It agreed to send a letter to Miss D with full details of this. Our investigator 
confirmed this to Miss D.
Miss D didnt accept our investigators recommendations in respect of the compensation, as 
she thought ReAssure ought to pay her £800. 
The matter has therefore been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a financial business makes an error, the aim of this service is to place a consumer 
back in the position they would have been in, if not for the error (as far as possible).
ReAssures first error was failing to pay Miss Ds contributions into her pension. Although we 
asked ReAssure for more information about why this happened, it did not provide this. 
Nevertheless, ReAssure has accepted that it was at fault here. 
ReAssure has confirmed that it has applied the premiums to the pension as of the date they 
should have been paid, so that Miss D has not been financially disadvantaged. Im therefore 
satisfied that ReAssure had put right this error.
The second error was that ReAssure incorrectly advised Miss D it held £220, when she had 
paid it £300. I see that Miss D did have to speak with ReAssure a number of times about 
this, and provide it with her bank statements. Its apparent that she was caused unnecessary 
inconvenience by this matter. However, ReAssure paid Miss D £150 compensation for this, 
which I think was fair in all the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, as Im satisfied ReAssure Limited has 
taken steps to put the matter right, and has paid Miss D appropriate compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman