DRN-3788336
The complaint
This complaints about an equity release lifetime mortgage that Mr W took out (jointly with his 
wife, who has since died) in May 2005 with a predecessor lender now part of Aviva Equity 
Release UK Limited. He complains that Aviva levied an early repayment charge (ERC) when 
he sold his house, redeemed the mortgage and moved into new accommodation. The 
complaint has been brought by Ms M, Mr Ws daughter.
 
What happened
Mr W and his wife took the mortgage out in 2005. The terms of the mortgage provide that no 
monthly repayments are required. The intention is that the mortgage is due to be repaid if 
the last surviving borrower goes into full-time residential nursing care or after their death. It 
can be repaid voluntarily before either of those events have happened, but then an ERC is 
usually payable. 
Interest on the loan is rolled up into the outstanding balance and is compounded until the 
debt is repaid. All of this means that if the loan runs for a number of years, there can be a 
significant balance to be repaid. 
Mr Ws wife died in 2020, after which he found living alone extremely difficult and stressful. 
In 2021, Mr W sold and moved into a retirement apartment complex; Aviva levied an ERC on 
redemption of the mortgage. Ms M says that Avivas use of Activities of Daily Living (ADLs) 
to assess whether a borrowers change of accommodation is essential (in which case the 
ERC can be waived) is an unfair test.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld; Mr W asked for the case to be 
referred to an ombudsman for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal 
with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont 
replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions 
on how we investigate a complaint. 
We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference from anyone 
else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman service, and the 
remit those rules give us. Under our rules, we can consider a complaint from a consumer. 
Here, Mr W is the consumer and therefore the eligible complainant as set out in our rules.
Ms M has referred to this dispute as her complaint. But I must explain that, although Ms M 
represents Mr W, it is Mr W who is (or at least was) Avivas customer, so for the purposes of 
our rules, this is Mr Ws complaint, not Ms Ms. Its Ms Ms role is to bring the complaint on 
Mr Ws behalf, in the same way that other consumers might instruct a solicitor or accountant 
to represent them in a complaint. But this does not entitle her to air her own grievances 
about Aviva, because she is not Avivas customer; Ms Ms role is limited to putting forward 
Mr Ws complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive no doubt Mr Ws circumstances are difficult, but what I have to decide is whether Aviva 
has treated him fairly. The starting point is the terms of the mortgage agreement; Mr W, 
along with his wife, agreed to be bound by them when they took out the equity release 
mortgage in 2005. 
The mortgage agreement allows for the ERC not to be levied if the mortgage is being repaid 
either because the last surviving borrower has died or is required to move into full-time 
residential care. Ive used the word required because the agreement specifies in some 
detail how Aviva will assess whether such a move has happened by necessity rather than 
desire. In this case, theres no suggestion that Mr W meets Avivas qualifying criteria for an 
ERC waiver; its generally accepted that he doesnt. 
But thats not what this complaint turns on. Rather, Ms M has been at pains to say that the 
dispute is about her belief that Avivas criteria are fundamentally wrong and should not be 
used at all. Ms M says using ADLs can lead to unfair outcomes for vulnerable customers. 
The use of ADLs is, as a starting point, a regulatory matter. Its outside my remit to rule that 
Aviva should use different criteria from the ADLs it uses now when assessing whether an 
ERC waiver is warranted. The criteria Aviva used in Mr Ws case are the same criteria he 
accepted would be used when he entered into the contract. Whilst I note new contracts dont 
impose the ERC provision in the first three years, its not unfair of Aviva to apply the contract 
Mr W entered into.
I fully appreciate that Ms M believes that has produced an unfair outcome in Mr Ws specific 
case. Im not convinced thats the case, not least because in its final response, Aviva offered 
the option of a medical professional carrying out an assessment of Mr Ws circumstances. At 
the time of writing, thats not been taken up, but Aviva has confirmed to us that if Mr W did 
go down that route, the assessment would be retrospective. That is, it would focus on 
Mr Ws circumstances as they were at the time of the redemption, not as they are now. That 
seems quite fair to me.
Ive seen the newspaper article Ms M has provided, which records an occasion where Aviva 
did waive an ERC. I cant know the circumstances in which that happened, and in any event, 
a news report on a different consumers experience doesnt have a bearing on the case 
before me here.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman