DRN-3118539
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2009. Miss A and Mr D say Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (BoS) mis-sold them 
PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Miss A and 
Mr Ds circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations 
and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint. And they said that, although BoS 
says it didnt do anything wrong in relation to the commission on the policy, its made an offer 
as if it had.
Miss A and Mr Ds representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss A and Mr Ds. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Miss A 
and Mr Ds complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided BoS didnt need to tell Miss A and 
Mr D about the commission it received - so BoS doesnt need to pay back any of the 
commission Miss A and Mr D paid for the PPI. 
But in any event BoS has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI, so I dont think it 
needs to do anything more. Ive summarised my reasons for each of these conclusions 
below. 
 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
I think BoS made it clear that Miss A and Mr D didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out. I say this because firstly Miss A and Mr D took out PPI many years 
after theyd taken out their mortgage in 1990  so the two things happened at different 
times. Because of this I dont think Miss A and Mr D would have been under the 
impression they had to have PPI at this stage.
Secondly  while BoS no longer has all of the paperwork from the time of the sale, Ive 
seen some examples from around the time. And these show that a consumer would 
have understood they had a choice about PPI.
So taking everything into account, I think Miss A and Mr D chose to take out PPI and did 
so without undue pressure.
BoS recommended the PPI to Miss A and Mr D so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for them. And the evidence about Miss A and Mr Ds circumstances at the time, shows 
that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. For example Miss A 
as the sole policyholder was eligible for the cover and although she had some existing 
means she could have used to make the repayments on their mortgage if she wasnt 
able to work, I think they still had a need for cover. The policy would have paid out for 
longer than Miss As sick pay would have lasted and wouldve helped Miss A and Mr D 
out at what could be a difficult and perhaps uncertain time.
There was nothing about Miss A employment or occupation, which would have made it 
difficult for her to claim. And although Miss A says she was diagnosed with a medical 
condition some time before the policy was taken out, I dont think it was wrong for BoS to 
have recommended it. I say this because Miss A told BoS that her condition didnt affect 
her ability to work in any way. And this is supported by BoS records from the time of the 
sale which document that Miss A didnt have any health conditions when asked the 
question. Im mindful too that although Miss A told us about her condition she also ticked 
No to having any health issue at the time of the sale. 
I accept its possible the information BoS gave Miss A and Mr D about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks like 
they wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Miss A and Mr 
D as I concluded above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they were 
buying from the information they were given. At less than £20 a month it also looks like it 
was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went 
wrong. Because of this I dont think Miss A and Mr D would have declined the cover had 
BoS done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Miss A and Mr Ds circumstances at the time of sale and despite its 
limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. 
So I think they would have still thought they had some good reasons to take the policy 
out.
Overall, I consider that Miss A and Mr D would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy 
could provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. 
I also think the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting. 
And in those circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.Miss A and Mr Ds representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant BoS should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Miss A and Mr Ds representative has not said how these points apply to the specific 
facts and circumstances of Miss A and Mr Ds individual complaint  just that they apply to 
all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Miss A and Mr Ds particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold the mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss A and Mr D.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided BoS didnt need to disclose the commission it received  but in 
any event BoS has offered to pay back some of the cost of PPI, so theres nothing more it 
needs to do. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Miss A and Mr Ds representative has made a number of representations about this part of 
the complaint including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of 
the Consumer Credit Act on their complaint.
In summary they have said Miss A and Mr D should get back all the money they paid for the 
policy because: BoS failed to tell Miss A and Mr D about the high commission and profit-
share rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because 
they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Miss A and Mr D wouldnt 
have taken out the policy had they known about the level of commission and they should 
receive a refund of all the premiums they paid.
But in this case, BoS has told us that the commission for Miss A and Mr Ds PPI was less 
than half of what they paid for each premium. Weve looked at how BoS has worked this out 
and based on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in Miss A and Mr Ds case 
was less than half the cost of the PPI.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipAs thats the case, taking into account:
- the effect of section 140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin and the conclusion in that case; and
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
I dont think BoS needed to tell Miss A and Mr D about the commission. So it follows that I 
dont think the non-disclosure created an unfair relationship - I dont think BoS treated Miss A 
and Mr D unfairly. 
This means BoS doesnt need to pay Miss A and Mr D back any of the commission they paid 
for the PPI. 
But in any event BoS has offered to give back to Miss A and Mr D some of the cost of the 
PPI to compensate Miss A and Mr D as if it had treated them unfairly. So I dont think it 
needs to do anything more.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Miss A and Mr Ds complaint or make any 
award in favour of them for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax didnt need to disclose 
the commission it received, it doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Miss A and 
Mr D paid for the PPI.
But Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has offered to pay back some of the cost of the 
PPI to Miss A and Mr D. Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax should now make 
arrangements to pay Miss A and Mr D if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss A and Mr D 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 December 2021. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman