DRN-4080248
The complaint
Mr A complains about the way TSB Bank plc handled his section 75 claim.
What happened
In March 2021 Mr A ordered a used car, which was two years old and had travelled 2,225 
miles at the point of sale. The total price paid was £18,688 (this included accessories, tax 
and delivery). Mr A used his TSB Bank credit card to pay £500 towards the purchase. When 
the car was delivered, he discovered several issues, including chips to the paintwork and a 
tear in the sunroof windbreak, which he says werent brought to his attention during the 
video viewing of the car. Mr A also says when he ordered the car, he was told it would come 
with the comfort software update, but it didnt.
In April 2021 Mr A asked the dealership to accept rejection of the car, which it declined. 
Unable to resolve this with the dealership he contacted TSB Bank to raise a dispute under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. TSB Bank initially raised a chargeback on Mr 
As behalf, but this wasnt successful. 
Mr As dispute was passed to TSB Banks section 75 team for consideration.  In June 2022 
TSB Bank offered to pay Mr A £2,722.94 (the total quote for repairs) and sent him a cheque 
for this amount in November 2022, which he deposited. After which, Mr A continued to 
contact TSB Bank for an update on the outcome of his section 75 claim, it didnt respond.
Mr A complained to TSB Bank, in response it said he had accepted the payment for the 
quoted repairs in full and final settlement of his complaint. 
Unhappy with the way TSB Bank had handled his section 75 claim, Mr A brought his 
complaint to our service, he was unhappy with the time TSB Bank took to deal with his 
section 75 claim. He also said that he didnt think the payment from TSB Bank was in full 
and final settlement of his complaint. He wanted a refund for the cost of the car.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He didnt think the minor 
cosmetic issues highlighted by Mr A, meant the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. In addition, 
he didnt think there was enough evidence to show the car should have come with the 
optional system update, so didnt think this meant the car didnt meet its description or was 
misrepresented to him.
The investigator agreed that Mr A had experienced delays and thought TSB Bank couldve 
been clearer in its communications with him. In the circumstances he thought TSB Banks 
payment to cover the cosmetic and wear and tear repairs was more than fair. So, he didnt 
ask TSB Bank to take any further action.
Mr A disagreed; he asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here, 
I have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Mr A brought a complaint to our service about the chargeback, which has been looked at 
separately, which I wont reconsider as part of this decision.  
Section 75 
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or full, with a credit card, it 
might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to 
claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract 
or misrepresentation by the supplier. 
I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under 
Section 75. Rather, Im deciding whats a fair way to resolve Mr As complaint and whether 
TSB Bank needs to do anything else.
Mr A brought a complaint to our service about the chargeback, which has already been 
looked at separately by us, which I wont reconsider in this decision. 
My final decision
The relevant law implies a term into the contract between Mr A and the dealership that the 
car is of satisfactory quality and fit for purpose. If this isnt the case, then a breach of contract 
can be said to have occurred. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a 
reasonable person would expect, and includes fitness for purpose, description, appearance 
and finish, freedom from minor defects, and durability. Taking into account all of the relevant 
circumstances such as (amongst other things) the age and mileage of the car and the price 
paid. So, to uphold the complaint, I would need to be satisfied the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply, due to an inherent defect rather than general wear and tear.
Within a few days of delivery, Mr A identified a number of cosmetic issues with the car, he 
says these issues mean the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. Although the car Mr A was 
supplied with had a low mileage, it wasnt supplied brand new, but was two years old at the 
date of supply, so I wouldnt expect it to be completely free from cosmetic defects. Having 
considered all the photographs provided, I think the minor cosmetic issues highlighted are 
normal wear and tear commensurate with a car of that age, so I dont think these issues 
mean the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr A. 
Mr A says the cosmetic defects were not shown to him during the video viewing and TSB 
Bank agreed to pay the full cost of the invoice dated 25 April 2022, which covered the 
cosmetic repairs and several wear and tear and maintenance items, including replacing 
brake pads, and cleaning the car, which I dont think it was responsible for. Given that I dont 
think the cosmetic issues mean the car wasnt of satisfactory quality, I think TSB Banks offer 
to pay the full invoice was generous.
Mr A says the car also had electrical faults. Ive only seen an undated email quote for the 
drivers windows switch for a total of £133.21 and I can see Mr A raised this issue a few days 
after getting the car. Its not clear whether the garage repaired this, or whether Mr A paid for 
this repair yet, but I note this wasnt quoted in the 25 April 2022 invoice, so I think its more 
probable than not that this had already been repaired. Given that TSB Bank has paid the full cost of the invoice for cosmetic and wear and tear items, which I dont think it was 
responsible for, I dont think it needs to do anything else in respect of this.
I havent seen any evidence of any other electrical faults that Mr A says developed, nor has 
he provided anything to show these faults were either present or developing at the point of 
sale. And I note the invoice in April 2022 provided by Mr A makes no reference to any 
electrical/mechanical faults. So, Im not satisfied the electrical issues Mr A refers to mean the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality.
misrepresentation 
If Mr A was led to believe something that wasnt true, and which meant he would not have 
agreed to enter into the agreement if hed known the correct facts, I would ask TSB Bank to 
put him back in the situation he would have been in if he hadnt been given that information. 
I havent seen any evidence to show Mr A was promised the car would come with the 
comfort software update or was described as such. I think the messages between the 
dealership and Mr A indicate the upgrade was a chargeable option, but the dealership later 
agreed to provide the software upgrade, when it was trying to resolve his complaint. 
Even if I were to accept that Mr A was told the car would come with the comfort software 
update, Ive not seen anything to suggest the software upgrade was a key reason for Mr A 
buying the car. In the circumstances, I dont think there was a misrepresentation by the 
dealership, or a breach of contract because the car didnt match the description given, which 
TSB Bank can be responsible for. In any event, the garage completed the software upgrade, 
so I dont think TSB bank need to take any action with respect of this part of the complaint.
Settlement payment and customer services
Mr A says he received a cheque of £2,722.94 from TSB Bank without any explanation and 
although he deposited the cheque, he hasnt spent the money as he didnt accept the 
payment as full and final settlement of his complaint. He still wanted to be able to reject the 
car.
From what I can see I think TSB Bank could have been clearer in its communications with 
Mr A. However, I dont think Mr A receiving the cheque was completely out of context. TSB 
Bank had requested that Mr A provide an inspection report/quote for cost of repairs. Which 
he provided. It agreed to pay the full cost of the invoice, and Mr A sent numerous emails 
chasing up the payment. In the circumstances, I dont think it was unreasonable for TSB 
Bank to conclude Mr A had accepted the payment in settlement of his complaint, given he 
deposited the cheque. And if Mr A didnt accept the payment, I wouldve expected him to 
raise this sooner than he did.
Whilst there is no given timeframe for processing a section 75 claim. I do think Mr A 
experienced delays. I also accept that after TSB Bank agreed to cover the full cost of the 
repair invoice, Mr A did have to send several emails to chase the payment and I accept this 
wouldve been frustrating. Mr A was also chasing an update on his section 75 claim after he 
had received and deposited the cheque, which TSB Bank didnt respond to. And whilst I 
think it wouldve been helpful for TSB Bank to clarify it considered the claim to be closed 
earlier than it did. Im not persuaded TSB Bank needs to pay Mr A any compensation, given 
its generous offer to pay the full invoice for the cosmetic repairs, which I think were normal 
wear and tear and the cost of other maintenance items. In the circumstances, Im not 
directing it to do anything else in relation to Mr As complaint. 
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
Karen Dennis
Ombudsman