DRN-4358308
The complaint
In summary, Mr L complains that his former credit card provider, Vanquis Bank Limited sold 
a debt he had with it to a third-party. He doesnt have any confidence in the third-party 
company that now owns the debt or the company that is being used to manage the account. 
What happened
In 2023, Mr Ls account and the debt on it was sold by Vanquis to a third-party company. 
When Mr L found out that the debt had been sold, he complained to Vanquis. He explained 
his concerns about the company the debt had been sold to and the company administering 
his account. He asked Vanquis to purchase the debt back. In response, Vanquis said it had 
sold the debt correctly.
Mr Ls concerns were looked into by one of our investigators. They explained why they didnt 
think Vanquis had done anything wrong. Mr L didnt agree with what the investigator said, so 
the case has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint. Ill explain why. 
I do understand that Mr L has had a difficult time over the last few years. And Im very sorry 
to hear about the personal difficulties he has experienced and the problems that he has had 
in repaying the outstanding balance on his credit card. I can see from the information 
provided by Vanquis that a repayment plan had been in place for some time.
I do appreciate that Mr L has concerns about the third-party company the account has been 
transferred to by Vanquis and the company that administers the account. I can only consider 
in this case what Vanquis has done in transferring his account. If Mr L has any concerns 
about how the third-party companies, then he can raise those concerns with those 
companies, as and when any issues arise. If he remains unhappy with any responses, then 
he can refer those concerns to this service to consider. 
Although Mr L is unhappy about Vanquis decision to transfer his account, it wasnt wrong of 
it to do that. I say this because the terms and conditions of Mr Ls account did allow Vanquis 
to transfer his account to another business such as the third-party company Mr L has 
concerns about. And it isnt unusual or unreasonable for a business such as Vanquis to take 
such action if it thinks it appropriate for it to do so for commercial reasons. I do understand 
that Mr L will be unhappy with my decision, but for the reasons I have explained, I am not 
going to uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is not to uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman