DRN-2902318
The complaint
Mrs G and Mr G have complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc  trading as first direct (HSBC), 
mis-sold them a package of benefits, called First Directory, linked with their current account. 
HSBC charged them a monthly fee for these benefits and they think it should refund these 
fees to them and add interest. 
What happened
Mrs G and Mr G have been customers of HSBC for quite a long time. HSBC has told us that 
they opened their current account in May 1999 and that it sold them the First Directory 
package in January 2008. Subject to certain conditions, the current account itself could be 
free of charge, although if these conditions were not met, HSBC would apply a banking fee. 
This information from HSBC is not in dispute and I have taken it to be accurate
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mrs G and Mr Gs complaint and didnt think 
that HSBC had mis-sold the First Directory package to them. Mrs G and Mr G didnt agree 
with the adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review their case. So, it has 
come to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about Mrs G and Mr Gs
complaint. Ive looked into everything that Mrs G and Mr G and HSBC have told us or sent 
us about the case, and Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
In 2008, HSBC, along with other banks, was allowed to sell products like the First Directory 
package in two ways. It could do so without giving personal advice on an information-only (or 
non-advised) basis; or as an advised (or recommended) sale. In both situations, as well as 
giving Mrs G and Mr G a choice, I would have expected HSBC to tell them about the First 
Directory packages costs and benefits clearly; and in an advised sale I would also have 
expected it to check if the account was a reasonable match for their needs and financial 
situation. 
Both parties have told us that HSBC sold the First Directory package to Mrs G and Mr G 
during a phone call. HSBC has said it did so on an information-only basis whereas Mrs G 
and Mr G have told us that HSBC recommended the package to them. From what Mrs G 
and Mrs G have told us, Im certainly satisfied that they believed that HSBC was advising 
them, so I have considered this complaint as being about an advised sale. 
In this particular case, there is very little dispute that HSBC told Mrs G and Mr G about the 
cost and benefits of the First Directory package. Mrs G and Mr G have told us that they used 
the benefits as they knew they were paying for them. 
At the time HSBC sold Mrs G and Mr G the First Directory package, the main benefits 
included insurance for travel and mobile phones (HSBC later added use of a car breakdown 
service). I understand that Mrs G and Mr G travelled from time-to-time and owned mobile 
phones. So, I think that based on Mrs G and Mr Gs potential needs, it was reasonable for 
HSBC to recommend the package to them. However, by far the most contested part of this 
complaint is about whether HSBC gave Mrs G and Mr G a fair choice. Mrs G and Mr G have 
been very clear and consistent in telling us that HSBC failed to do this. 
In outline, Mrs G and Mr G have told us that during the phone call HSBC said they couldnt 
keep their fee-free account on its own and had buy the First Directory package or close their 
account with HSBC. Theyve said that at the time they thought the account was a new way 
of banking which they wanted to keep, so bought the First Directory package in order to do 
so. Theyve said that although First Directory package turned out to be useful, if HSBC had 
given them a clear choice to keep their account without buying the First Directory package 
they would have done so. HSBC believes it gave them such a choice, Mrs G and Mr G 
disagree. 
Its now over a dozen years since HSBC sold the First Directory package to Mrs G and Mr G. 
There is no recording of the phone call. Nor are there any detailed records from the time. So, 
I cant tell for sure what happened. Instead, I have considered the evidence that is available 
to work out what is most likely to have occurred. 
Firstly, I would to say that I fully and totally accept that Mrs G and Mr G are doing their best 
to remember what happened and to describe the events exactly as they recall them. 
However, after such a long time has passed, I think it would be wrong for me to rely entirely 
on memories, which can lose precision over the years. There are a number of factors which 
lead me to think its unlikely that HSBC told Mrs G and Mr G that they had to buy the First 
Directory package. In outline:
HSBC continued to provide accounts of the type Mrs and Mr G held without making 
its customers buy the First Directory package; I think its unlikely it would tell Mrs G 
and Mr G the direct opposite.
As well as the joint account at the heart of this complaint, I understand from HSBC 
that Mrs G and Mr G also had similar accounts in their sole names and it didnt sell 
them First Directory packages for those accounts; it would have been inconsistent for 
HSBC to insist they changed their joint account, but not the other two. (*)
HSBC has sent us a copy of a call script for the type of phone call concerned. Quite 
early on, the script says that HSBCs representative should check if customers want 
to proceed with the First Directory package and if not no further actions (is) 
required. It then goes on to say that the representative should tell the customers 
they can cancel the First Directory package within 14 days and receive a full refund. 
To me, both these statements imply that HSBC gave customers a choice during 
these calls. I doubt that HSBC left both out for Mrs G and Mr G. 
(*) During our investigation into this case, there was some debate about whether 
HSBC also sold First Directory packages alongside one or both of the sole accounts, 
as some charges fees appeared on one of those accounts. However, the charges 
transpired to be banking fees, not monthly fees for a First Directory package. 
Taking all these factors into consideration, I think its unlikely that HSBC told Mrs G and Mr 
G that they had to buy a First Directory package. I accept that it may have talked about the 
package enthusiastically, but this isnt the same as denying Mrs G and Mr G a choice. I think 
it probably did.So, in summary, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for HSBC to recommend the First 
Directory package account to Mrs G and Mr G, and I think it told them about the accounts 
cost and benefits. I also think it gave them a choice. I dont think that HSBC mis-sold the 
First Directory package to Mrs G and Mr G.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mrs G and Mr G s complaint that 
HSBC UK Bank Plc  trading as first direct, mis-sold them a First Directory package. I am not 
going to tell it to give them any money back. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman