DRN-3113605
The complaint
Mr T complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited gave him an incorrect settlement 
figure to clear his account balance.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
Mr T called Shop Direct on 7 July 2021 asking for a settlement figure on his account so that 
he could close it. He was told by the adviser the amount owed was £1,764.39 and was 
assured the figure would remain the same if he called the following day.
Mr T called back later that evening to pay the balance but couldnt as a department was 
closed. So, he called back the next day. He was then told the settlement figure was over 
£3,000. Unhappy with the amount quoted and the conflicting information, a complaint was 
raised.
Shop Direct confirmed the amount Mr T owed was different to what he received in the first 
call. They apologised for giving him wrong information and confirmed the correct settlement 
figure. They also sent him a cheque for £25 for what happened.
The complaint was referred to our service. In short, our investigator said:
The policy terms set out how interest is charged. And, under extended plan 
purchases, Mr T has to pay the interest in full even if its repaid early. 
So, although she acknowledged Mr Ts strength of feeling about the change in the 
settlement figure, she didnt think Shop Direct were acting outside the policy terms 
regarding the actual amount owed.
She didnt think £25 compensation was enough given the severity of the error. She 
noted the adviser took a long time trying to calculate the settlement figure - as some 
purchases did benefit from reduced interest if repaid early - and also assured Mr T 
that it wouldnt change. So, she thought Mr Ts surprise and upset was 
understandable when finding out the amount he owed was nearly double.
She recommended £200 compensation (a £175 increase) be paid. 
Shop Direct didnt think £200 was warranted for the incorrect/conflicting information given as 
Mr T hadnt been financial impacted as a result. They offered to increase the compensation 
to £100.
Mr T disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that Mr T received an incorrect settlement figure from Shop Direct in the 
first call. It appears this was miscalculated by the adviser at the time  possibly as some 
purchases on the account benefited from reduced interest being payable if settled early That 
said, Ive not seen anything to show the subsequent figure Shop Direct provided Mr T was 
wrong. So, it seems they corrected their mistake promptly (the next day) and provided him 
with the accurate settlement figure. 
While Shop Direct made a mistake, I dont think they need to honour the initial settlement 
figure. I think its fair for them to ask Mr T to pay what he is contractually obliged to. I 
therefore intend to focus on the impact Shop Directs mistake had on Mr T. 
Our investigator recommended £200 compensation but Shop Direct has only agreed to pay 
£100. I accept Mr T hasnt suffered a financial loss and so, I understand why Shop Direct 
think £200 is too much for an isolated mistake. But, Ive looked at Mr Ts specific 
circumstances and I agree with our investigator that £200 is appropriate in this instance. Let 
me explain why.
Mr T was very clear in his intention to settle his account so that he could close it. I therefore 
think it wouldve been very frustrating for Mr T to be told the next day that the amount he 
owed was nearly double  particularly when he was assured by the adviser it wouldnt 
change. To establish what went wrong, as well as confirming the actual amount owed, Mr T 
spent considerable time on the phone. And, while I appreciate this is no fault of Shop Direct, 
Mr T is a full-time carer for his wife. So, I think the inconvenience and upset Mr T 
experienced wouldve been greater due to the time he had to spend dealing with this matter 
given his caring responsibilities. For these reasons, I think a total of £200 compensation is a 
fair amount to recognise what went wrong and for the impact it had on Mr T. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct Shop Direct Finance Company Limited to pay Mr T £200. If any of this sum has 
already been paid, then Shop Direct Finance Company Limited only need pay the remaining 
amount. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman