DRN-4187846
The complaint
Mr V has complained about the service he received from Bank of Scotland plc, trading as 
Halifax, in respect of a balance transfer request.
What happened
Mr V has a credit card with Halifax. On 6 April 2023, he contacted it to proceed with a 
balance transfer offer, at a rate of 5.9%, for 24 months. Unfortunately, he was mistakenly 
told that he was entitled to an offer of 0%, for 12 months. This resulted in him being passed 
between different departments, before being told the 0% offer wasnt available.
Mr V complained to Halifax. He said he was misadvised, received poor service, and Halifax 
hadnt changed his April direct debit date. Halifax responded, saying it accepted it had given 
the wrong information and provided poor service. It offered a total of £150 compensation, 
£50 of which was paid. But it didnt think it had done anything wrong as regards the direct 
debit date.
Mr V brought his complaint to our service. In summary, he said:
£50 of the compensation was awarded before the issue with the balance transfer 
came to light;
the whole point of the transfer was to save money, but this didnt happen, as he 
couldnt change the repayment dates for the balances on the cards he wished to 
transfer over, resulting in costly overdraft fees and the use of emergency funds;
the transfer could have been done and saved him money, but our service is 
reviewing his complaint;
Halifaxs final response letter didnt deal with reimbursing bank charges, and didnt 
address all of his complaint points; and
nine phone calls in a day, plus follow-up calls, is excessive.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened, but thought that Halifaxs offer to 
put things right was fair. 
Mr V disagreed, so his complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator, and for the same reasons she gave. Ill explain 
why. Although Ive read and considered all submissions, Ill refer here to what I consider to 
go to the heart of the complaint, and to enable me to reach a fair outcome.
I can see that Mr V initially called about the 5.9% rate, so it must have been very 
disappointing to then be mistakenly told he qualified for the 0% rate. But Halifax corrected its 
mistake, and offered a further £100 compensation (in addition to a previous £50 for 
something else). Im satisfied that this is reasonable to address the distress and 
inconvenience caused. And although Halifax didnt specifically refer to the number of 
telephone calls, I think this sum is fair to encompass this. I cannot hold it to the 0% rate, as 
this was an error, and not something Mr V qualified for.
As regards the direct debit date being changed, this couldnt be done, as Mr V called on the 
day it was due. Lenders need notice to amend payment dates, so its reasonable it wasnt 
changed.
I know that Mr V wished to complin to our service, and await the outcome. But there was 
nothing to stop him proceeding with the 5.9% rate, particularly given that it was the one he 
had called up about. Although I sympathise, Im afraid it was Mr Vs choice not to proceed. I 
cant reasonably hold Halifax responsible for any losses that flowed from this.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman