DRN-3090470
The complaint
Mr P complains that a car he paid for using his Virgin Money credit card (which is issued by 
Clydesdale Bank Plc) was not of satisfactory quality. As the finance provider, he thinks that 
Virgin Money should reimburse him.
What happened
Mr P says that he bought a car as a gift for his brother. His brother paid a deposit of £100 
and he paid the balance of £3,300 with his Virgin Money credit card.
Within a few days of the purchase there were problems with the car. It was returned to the 
dealership twice. It was not repaired, and the dealership ceased trading a few months later.
Mr P contacted Virgin Money and requested a refund of the money he had paid. Virgin 
Money made a chargeback request, but it was not successful. It also considered whether it 
was liable to Mr P under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 but concluded that it 
was not, because the car had been a gift.
Mr P referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. Initially, she did not uphold Mr Ps complaint, but later changed her view. Whilst 
she agreed with Virgin Money that section 75 did not apply, she thought that the chargeback 
claim should have been approached differently and, if it had been, it would probably have 
been successful.
Virgin Money did not agree with the revised assessment, so the case was passed to me for 
further consideration.
I reviewed the case file and issued a provisional decision. In that decision I considered both 
section 75 and chargeback. 
I did not believe that section 75 could apply in this case. That was because the contract for 
the sale of the car was with Mr Ps brother, not with Mr P. Section 75 can apply where a 
cardholder has a claim against a supplier. In this case, however, I said that Mr P could not 
have such a claim; he paid most of the price of the car but did not have a contract with the 
seller.
As far as the chargeback was concerned, I thought that Virgin Money had acted reasonably. 
It had submitted a chargeback request on the basis that the car was defective. In her second 
assessment of the case the investigator had concluded that Virgin Money should have 
raised its chargeback request on the grounds that the car had been returned to the dealer 
and a refund had been agreed. 
Mr P did not accept my provisional decision. He said, in summary:
He did not know what evidence had been provided by the dealer to convince Virgin 
Money that the chargeback should not apply. 
Virgin Money should have made the chargeback request under both reasons he had 
indicated applied. 
The chargeback was reversed several months after it had been applied. By that time the 
dealer had gone out of business.
Virgin Money considered a section 75 claim as a response to the failed chargeback 
request. 
The dealership had agreed to a refund and the evidence he provided showed that to be 
correct. 
There is no evidence that the dealership agreed to repair the car or said that it was not 
defective. 
The car was never returned by the dealership and DVLA records indicate the dealership 
sold it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has not directly challenged my provisional findings about the application of section 75 
to this case. Indeed, he has commented that Virgin Money only considered section 75 
because the chargeback was not successful. 
For the record, however, I remain of the view that the evidence clearly shows that the 
dealerships contract was with Mr Ps brother and that section 75 does not apply in this case. 
Where a credit card holder makes a complaint that goods bought with a credit card are 
defective I would generally expect the card provider to consider whether section 75 might 
apply and respond accordingly to the complaint. And thats the case even if the complaint 
does not expressly mention section 75. 
I turn then to the question of chargeback. Mr P says that the dealership had agreed to 
provide a refund and that this should therefore have been the reason Virgin Money cited 
when making the chargeback request. Amongst the evidence he has submitted is a 
WhatsApp exchange with the dealership from 27 July to 1 August 2018. I assume the other 
party to the exchange is his brother, although I do not believe it makes any real difference to 
the outcome. Mr P also sent a recording of a call between his brother and the dealer, in 
which the dealer indicated he would respond to a letter from Mr Ps brother. 
On 27 July Mr Ps brother referred to a call the previous day and asked if the refund had 
been done. The response was Not yet, and the dealer went on to say it had raised a letter 
back regarding the refund and the loss we [the dealership] have encountered due to getting 
the car ready cambelt kit warranty and mot. Following further chasers from Mr Ps brother, 
the dealer said on 1 August that a letter had been sent out regarding the refund and the 
dealerships losses. 
The following day, 2 August 2018, Mr Ps brother wrote to the dealership to say that he had 
not received a reply to his letter of 24 July, in which he had sought to cancel the contract 
because of the defects with the car. He said that he was once again requesting a full refund. 
In my view that does not indicate a clear agreement to provide a refund, and certainly not 
one on which a chargeback could reliably be based.      
Mr P has asked about the evidence on which Virgin Money was persuaded that chargeback 
was not applicable. Chargeback is however a process administered by the card scheme  in this case Mastercard  not by card issuers. The decision not to uphold the chargeback 
request was not one made by Virgin Money. 
In fact, much of Mr Ps response to my provisional decision suggests that he feels Virgin 
Money should have carried out a more thorough and wide-ranging investigation of the 
dealership and the transaction. Chargeback is however primarily a process for dealing with 
payment disputes  for example, payments made without proper authority and duplicate 
payments. It is not intended to be an alternative method of resolving disputes between 
buyers and sellers of goods, even if it may sometimes have a similar effect. 
Equally, it is not for me to determine the outcome of a dispute between, in this case, Mr Ps 
brother and the dealership. What I have to do is to decide whether Virgin Moneys response 
to Mr Ps complaint was reasonable in the circumstances. In my view, it was. It attempted a 
chargeback on the basis that the car was defective; that was why the complaint arose in the 
first place. And it considered a section 75 claim but concluded that it would not be successful 
 albeit for reasons which I dont think were explained as well as they might have been.  
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Clydesdale Bank Plc to do 
anything more to resolve Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman