DRN-2656284
The complaint
Mr A complains that he was quoted the wrong exchange rate by Santander UK Plc 
(Santander).
What happened
Mr A visited a branch of Santander in September 2020. He wanted to make a payment of 
£900 in US dollars to his bank account overseas. He was quoted a rate of 1.29. He said to 
go ahead. He later found out that the rate used was 1.265.
Mr A complained. He said the rate wasnt what he was advised in the branch. He was 
offered compensation of £20 which he said wasnt enough. He said that Santander had 
breached security in crediting his account with the £20.
Santander replied. They apologised for the confusion in the branch. They said the wrong 
rate had been used. They honoured the rate of 1.29. They paid Mr A the difference between 
the two rates - £18.39, plus compensation of £20.  
Mr A accepted the outcome proposed by Santander but then decided to bring his complaint 
to this service. Our investigator said Santander had made an error and apologised. Theyd 
dealt with Mr As complaint and paid him compensation of £20 - and paid the difference in 
exchange rates - £18.39. He thought this was fair and reasonable. So, he didnt think that 
Santander should do anymore.
Mr A asked that his complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A was affected because due to an error in the branch of Santander, the wrong rate was 
applied to his currency transfer  he was quoted 1.29, but only 1.265 was used. So, he 
received less US dollars into his international account than he thought he was going to. He 
found out when he was advised by his bank two days later. While Santander apologised and 
paid him the difference, plus compensation of £20, he believes they should do more. And he 
says that theyve compromised security on his account by crediting it with £20.
My role is to decide whether Santander acted reasonably here. And I think they did. They 
admitted their mistake, apologised and put it right. I think the compensation was about right 
for what happened here and is in line with what wed expect to see.
Mr A had made some comments about a privacy breach when Santander credited his 
account with £20. Im not sure what he means by this  but clearly Santander, like all banks, 
need to have access to Mr As bank account in order to provide banking services to him. So, 
I cant agree that Santander did anything wrong here.
So, while Mr A will be disappointed by my decision, it is that Santander did all they could to 
resolve Mr As complaint, and I wont be asking them to do anymore.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman