DRN-3231932
The complaint
Mrs K complains about how Home Retail Group Card Services Limited (Home Retail)
administered her account following the expiration of a buy now pay later (BNPL) plan. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In April 2019 Mrs K bought an item for £299.95 and financed it through a BNPL plan 
with Home Retail. In brief, if she paid what she owed by 19 April 2020 no interest 
would be payable. If she didnt pay it all, some interest - known as deferred interest - 
would be payable. This is how BNPL plans work and I find the terms and conditions 
and the monthly statements make it clear.
Mrs K had £100.94 outstanding when 19 April 2020 passed, so Home Credit applied 
£44.78 of deferred interest. Mrs K argues this was unfair because she had problems 
with her emails which meant she didnt get her statement. But I dont find this was 
Home Credits fault. It was Mrs Ks responsibility to repay the balance if she wanted 
to avoid interest being applied, and she didnt do so by the agreed date. It follows 
that Im satisfied it was reasonable for Home Credit to charge Mrs K interest.
Mrs K paid the £100.94 on 19 May 2020 and says to be charged £44.78 interest for 
missing the due date by a month is unreasonable. However, as the terms and 
conditions and statements make clear, the interest Mrs K was charged was deferred 
interest, which is interest charged at a daily rate backdated to the BNPL start date. 
So no matter when Mrs K paid the £100.94, £44.78 interest had already accrued 
because she didnt pay it by the due date. I dont find Home Credit made a mistake 
with the amount of interest it charged Mrs K.
Mrs Ks May 2020 statement showed she had an outstanding balance of £47.72 and 
needed to make a minimum payment of £6.72 by 19 June 2020. Mrs K didnt make a 
payment, so a late payment charge was applied, and Home Credit most likely 
informed the credit reference agencies (CRAs) of a missed payment. Mrs K doesnt 
think this was fair. But part of her agreement with Home Credit is that she makes 
minimum payments by their due date. Mrs K didnt do that here, so I find Home 
Credit acted fairly and in line its agreement with Mrs K.
My understanding is Mrs K didnt make further payments and Home Credit eventually
registered the account as in default with the CRAs. I note from her response to the
investigator shes unhappy about this. I can understand why, but it was her decision 
not to make payments and I can see from Home Credits final response letter and 
internal notes she was made aware of the consequences. Im not going to require 
Home Credit to amend Mrs Ks credit file.
Im aware Mrs K may have been struggling as a result of the pandemic. I can see 
Home Credit recognised this in its final response letter and offered her a three-month 
Covid-related payment deferral, which Mrs K declined. Im satisfied Home Credit did 
enough to identify Mrs K might need help and offered her appropriate support.
Overall, I find Home Credit have administered Mrs Ks account as it should have, so I 
dont intend to uphold this complaint.
My provisional decision
I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
I invited both parties to respond with any further comments and evidence they wanted me to 
consider. Neither responded by the deadline I set. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no further comments and evidence have been provided, I see no reason to depart from 
my provisional decision.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2022.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman