DRN-3177605
The complaint
A Company which Ill refer to as S complains that American International Group UK Limited 
trading as AIG UK (AIG) unfairly declined a claim under its business protection insurance 
policy.
Mr N who is a director of S brings the complaint on Ss behalf.
What happened
S holds a business protection insurance policy with AIG. It made a claim on that policy to 
cover its losses arising from his business closure as a result of the national Government-
imposed lockdown in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
AIG declined the claim as it said COVID-19 isnt covered under the terms of the policy. S 
didnt agree. It said it thought the wording of the policy, specifically the wording for Notifiable 
Diseases, meant that the claim should be covered.
S complained to AIG but it explained that, although its policy would provide cover in the 
event of certain diseases causing closure, COVID-19 wasnt one of the named diseases. S 
wasnt happy with its response so brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator considered Ss complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said that, 
while he sympathises with Ss situation, he didnt think there was cover available under the 
policy. S didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Ss business, but I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why. 
S is looking to claim on its business protection insurance policy. These types of policies offer 
protection from risks common to business but there are a range of business protection 
insurance policies on the market covering a range of different risks. When considering 
whether AIG acted fairly in declining Ss claim, the starting point is to consider the specific 
policy it took out. 
Having reviewed Ss policy, I dont think there are any terms which provide cover for the 
closure of its business as a result of the Governments response to the national pandemic. 
However, I would like to explain why I dont think the parts of the policy which appear most 
relevant provide cover.
Ss policy included cover for Notifiable Diseases. The extension wording was amended by 
an endorsement  which states that it would provide cover for business interruption as a result 
of An outbreak of any Notifiable Disease occurring at the Premises or which is attributable 
to food or drink supplied from the Premises, or occurring within twenty five miles of the 
Premises, which by reason of the abnormal number of cases causes prospective guests to 
refrain from making bookings for accommodation, or gives legal grounds for guests to cancel 
bookings for accommodation already made.
The policy provides a definition for Notifiable Disease, which sets out a list of specified 
illnesses that are covered under the policy. However, COVID-19 isnt on that list.
I realise that COVID-19 wasnt something AIG would have known about when the policy was 
drafted, but there are other policies that were on the market that do provide cover for the 
pandemic  usually policies that cover all notifiable diseases, which are set out and updated 
on a Government defined list. In contrast, Ss policy sets out a specific list of illnesses which 
are covered by the policy. And having reviewed the policy wording, there is nothing which 
implies that it provides cover for other illnesses, including any new illnesses which might 
emerge. So I think the purpose of the policy is to provide cover in the event of the specific 
illnesses listed and I dont think the policy can or should fairly be interpreted as covering any 
illnesses that arent specified in the list set out in the policy.
Mr N has also commented that the list of diseases includes Viral Haemorrhagic Fever, 
which he says is defined as a diverse group of animal and human illnesses in which fever / 
haemorrhage are caused by a viral infection. So he thinks this would cover COVID-19.
The policy doesnt define Viral Haemorrhagic Fever, but it does have a specific medical 
classification and is caused by specific and distinct viruses, which are transmitted through 
bodily fluids, which is significantly different to COVID-19. And it appears as a separate 
disease to COVID-19 in the Governments list of notifiable diseases. So having considered 
the position carefully, Im not satisfied that Mr N has shown that COVID-19 can be 
considered to be a type of Viral Haemorrhagic Fever. And therefore I am not persuaded that 
COVID-19 falls within the term Viral Haemorrhagic Fever in the policy and I dont think it 
would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances to treat the policy as if it did.
Ss policy also provides cover for loss resulting from Denial of Access as a result of damage. 
However, I dont think anything in that wording extends to damage caused to the business 
itself by way of a specified illness or disease such as COVID-19, or even a Government-
imposed act. Rather, this term refers to physical damage or loss and I havent seen anything 
to indicate that COVID-19 caused damage to property  so I dont think this section covers 
Ss claim.
Mr N has referred to the Financial Conduct Authoritys test case. Ss policy has a definitive 
list of specified diseases and this kind of policy wasnt the subject of the test case, so it 
doesnt change my decision. And while Im sorry to hear about the financial impact the 
Government-imposed lockdown had on S, having taken everything into account and having 
considered the remaining terms of the policy, I dont think AIG acted unfairly in declining Ss 
claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Sara FalzonOmbudsman