DRN-4266901
The complaint
X is complaining that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt comply with the reasonable adjustments X had 
requested due to their disability.
What happened
X has a medical condition and theyve let Lloyds know that they require reasonable 
adjustments under the Equality Act 2010. Theyve asked not to receive post or phone calls 
from Lloyds.
X has raised a previous complaint about Lloyds with us, and on 29 June 2022 we also let 
Lloyds know that X had requested only to be contacted by email, rather than by post or 
phone. 
In August 2022 Lloyds posted a letter to X in error, which they had intended to send by 
email.
X complained to Lloyds, and they apologised and offered £250. But X didnt accept Lloyds 
offer and brought their complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. She thought that the £250 Lloyds had already 
offered was fair and reasonable compensation for what had gone wrong. But X didnt agree. 
So their complaint has been passed to me for review and a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the offer Lloyds have already made to resolve Xs complaint is fair. 
So, while Im sorry to disappoint X, Im not going to increase the compensation amount from 
what Lloyds have already offered. Ill explain why.
Ive taken the Equality Act 2010 into account here  given that its relevant law 
but Ive ultimately decided this complaint based on whats fair and reasonable. If X wants a 
decision that Lloyds have breached the Equality Act 2010, then theyd need to go to Court.
X has explained the impact of receiving letters in the post in their emails to Lloyds and to us 
 theyve said receiving post has previously caused panic attacks which led to an ambulance 
being called. And from what were aware of about Xs medical condition and its effect on 
them, Im satisfied that receiving post and calls does cause X significant distress. 
But in this case Lloyds apologised promptly for the error and offered X £250. Ive thought 
carefully about what happened here and I think £250 is fair and reasonable compensation, 
taking into account the significant impact on X of receiving post. 
I understand X no longer has an account with Lloyds but as Lloyds may need to contact X 
again about the settlement of this complaint Id stress that they should not attempt to call X 
or send letters by post.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC should pay X £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman