DRN-4290143
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Astrenska Limited (Astrenska) declined his travel insurance claim.
Any reference to Astrenska includes all its agents.
What happened
Mr H took out an annual multi trip travel insurance policy in June 2022. The underwriter on 
the policy is Astrenska. 
His trip started on 15 June 2022 and ended on 29 July 2022. During the trip, Mr H said his 
backpack was lost/stolen and so he submitted a claim to Astrenska.
Astrenska declined Mr Hs claim. It said from the information provided by Mr H, the backpack 
was left unattended and therefore there is no cover under his policy.
Mr H disagreed and brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into and 
didnt uphold the complaint. He said Astrenska declined the claim in line with Mr Hs policy 
terms and conditions and did this fairly.
Unhappy with the investigators findings, Mr H asked for the complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman. So, its been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). 
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
Ive started by looking at the terms and conditions of Mr Hs travel policy as this forms the 
basis of his contract with Astrenska. 
Page 20 and 21 of Mr Hs policy document states:
BAGGAGE
Special conditions
1. You must take care to keep your personal belongings and baggage safe.
What is not covered 
1. Loss or theft of personal belongings or baggage which you have left unattended.
Unattended is defined in the policy document as:
Unattended 
Where you are not in full view of or in a position to prevent unauthorised taking of 
your property unless it is in a locked room, safe, in a locked boot of a locked vehicle 
or in the luggage space at the back of a locked vehicle under a top cover and out of 
view.
Mr H said at first that he left his backpack behind after stopping for a drink and didnt realise 
it was missing until he was around 1km away. 
He then said he put his backpack down when he stopped to take photos and it would have 
been always within his sight. He only realised it was missing after he rode off on his bike. 
Mr H also explained that he didnt know whether it was lost or stolen as when he went back, 
it wasnt there and it was likely that it was taken while he was looking away.
Ive carefully considered what Mr H has said happened and the policy terms and conditions. 
I appreciate that Mr H says he no longer has his backpack. But its not entirely clear what 
exactly happened as Mr Hs version of events isnt consistent. In any case though, the policy 
term states that loss or theft of personal belongings or baggage which you have left 
unattended isnt covered. So, whichever version of events I consider, it seems the backpack 
was left unattended. He rode off on his bike and when he returned it wasnt there. My 
understanding is that it wasnt left in a safe place locked. Mr H wasnt always in full view or in 
a position to prevent unauthorised taking of his backpack. 
Mr H says that his entire policy amounts to fraud, and it has excluded him from covering his 
claim due to the fine print. I acknowledge Mr Hs comments. But we have to look at the 
evidence provided by both parties. The onus is also on the consumer to provide evidence to 
support their claim. Im not persuaded that, in the circumstances of this complaint, the 
evidence Mr H has provided is sufficient for me to say that Astrenska has declined the claim 
unfairly. 
Overall, based on the evidence available, I cant fairly conclude that Astrenska should pay 
the claim. Im satisfied that Astrenska has declined the claim in line with Mr Hs policy terms 
and conditions and has done so fairly and reasonably. It follows that I dont require 
Astrenska to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint against Astrenska Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman