DRN-2570721
The complaint
Mrs R says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In 1998 Mrs R took out a PPI policy to protect her mortgage repayments. The sale took 
place on the phone. The PPI gave her protection against accident, sickness and 
unemployment and she paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs R disagreed, so the complaint was passed 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs R says she was pressured to take PPI, it was a long call and the bank insisted she take 
the cover. She said she didnt want the cover but was badgered into agreeing. The bank 
disputes this saying its more likely than not the optional nature of the policy was explained 
before the sale was concluded. 
I cant know what was said on the call and the bank no longer has a copy of the script that 
would have been followed. But I can see that Mrs Rs mortgage completed several months 
before the PPI sale. So I think she would have known the PPI was a separate, optional 
product. And I can see she signed and returned the PPI application form that she received 
after the call. I dont think she would have done this if she hadnt wanted the cover. There 
was nothing on the form that I think could reasonably have led Mrs R to think it was 
mandatory. Ive thought carefully about Mrs Rs comments, but I also have to consider how 
long ago the sale was and how that might affect what she recalls. On balance, I think its 
most likely Halifax made it clear the PPI was optional and Mrs R agreed to take it. And I 
havent found enough other evidence to support her claim that she was pressured to do so.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mrs R, and it seems to have been suitable for her based on 
what Ive seen of her circumstances. Mrs R was entitled to between three- and six-months 
sick pay. But the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to her sick pay and for much longer (up to
12 months for all successful claims). It would have meant Mrs R could use any savings she 
had to cover other living expenses whilst not working, or to keep them intact for her future 
needs. Mrs R also said her parents would help, but that isnt a suitable alternative as its not 
guaranteed, and peoples circumstances can change. Mrs R had borrowed a large sum over 
a long period secured on her home and given the serious consequences of missing 
mortgage repayments, I think the PPI gave her valuable protection that wouldve
been useful if she was sick or lost her job.
Its possible Halifax didnt give Mrs R all the information she needed before
deciding to buy PPI. I dont know that it pointed out the main things the policy didnt
cover or when it gave full details of the cost and benefit. But she doesnt appear to have 
been affected by any of the main exclusions. And the PPI was reasonably priced for the 
benefit it offered, and it was apparently affordable. So I dont think better information about 
the policy wouldve changed her mind about buying it.
Overall, I cant find enough evidence to conclude that Mrs R has lost out because of
any problems with the sale.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mrs Rs complaint for the reasons set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman