DRN-3497021
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that they were unable to withdraw cash in branch with Nationwide 
Building Society.
 
What happened
Mr M visited a Nationwide branch and asked to withdraw £500 in cash. Mr M didnt have his 
Nationwide bank card with him. But Mr M had an app on his phone that had his Nationwide 
card embedded. Nationwide said it couldnt approve the withdrawal without supporting 
identification. 
Mr M complained and Nationwide sent him a final response. Nationwide advised it couldnt 
use Mr Ms phone to approve the withdrawal as its branch didnt have a chip and pin reader. 
Nationwide apologised for any inconvenience caused but didnt uphold the complaint. 
An investigator at this service looked at what had happened but didnt think Nationwide had 
acted unfairly. Mr M asked to appeal and said he had evidence on his phone to prove his 
identity when he visited the branch. Mr M also said Nationwide had unfairly withheld his 
money. As Mr M didnt accept the investigators view the complaint has been passed to me 
to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr and Mrs M feel Nationwide failed to keep pace with advances in technology 
and that it shouldve been possible to withdraw £500 in cash using a phone and apps. I take 
Mr and Mrs Ms point, but Nationwide is free to decide the process of approving withdrawals, 
including whether to ask for identification in order to proceed. 
Nationwide explains it didnt have a chip and PIN reader available in branch. I note Mr M 
feels this is unreasonable, but again, thats a decision its entitled to take in line with its 
commercial discretion. Mr M has told us he doesnt feel it shouldve been necessary to 
provide identification whilst visiting town and the branch. But Nationwides account terms say 
it can refuse a withdrawal request if its security controls require additional identification. Im 
satisfied thats what happened in this case. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs M but I havent been persuaded Nationwide acted unfairly 
when it declined to proceed with the withdrawal. As Im satisfied Nationwide dealt with 
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint fairly Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman