DRN-4191010
The complaint
Mr S complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds approved repairers damaged his 
vehicle while assessing the repairs it needed following an accident.
What happened
Mr S had insurance for his vehicle with Admiral. In September 2022 the vehicle was involved 
in an accident and Mr S says it sustained minor damage to the rear passenger door, rear 
passenger wheel arch and trim. He contacted Admiral to make a claim for the repairs and 
Admiral arranged for the vehicle to be taken to one of their approved repairers.
When the approved repairers started to strip the vehicle down to assess the repairs they 
advised Admiral that there had been previous repairs carried out, and these repairs were of 
very poor quality. The approved repairers said that because of this they werent able to carry 
out the repairs and a repair couldnt be guaranteed.  
Mr S was advised that Admiral were arranging an independent assessment of his vehicle to 
approve the repair costs relating to the accident and assess the safety of the vehicle. 
The approved repairers had removed the vehicles rear bumper when assessing the 
damage. Mr S disputes that this was necessary, as he says the bumper wasnt damaged in 
the accident. And he was unhappy that when he spoke to the approved repairers he was told 
they couldnt refit the bumper as it had split due to the filler used during the earlier repair. 
The vehicle was returned to Mr S after the independent assessment was carried out and he 
complained to Admiral that the rear bumper had been scratched and damaged while with the 
repairers. Admiral asked Mr S to provide photographs of the damage. He did this and 
questioned how the bumper had been handled by the repairers, providing photographs of 
the bumper being bent and part of it lying on the garage workshop floor. 
Some of the photographs showed yellow markings with comments on the earlier repairs. Mr 
S told Admiral that these markings, or the removal of them, had damaged the ceramic 
coating on the vehicle. And that the panel where these markings had been now appeared to 
be untreated and water sticks to the panel instead of running off.
The independent assessors report Admiral obtained is dated 25 October 2022. This states 
that in the accident the vehicle sustained light to moderate damage to the left-hand side. An 
illustration shows the damage being from the nearside rear door towards the rear bumper. 
The engineer says the vehicle has had some sub-standard repairs carried out to the 
nearside lower quarter panel, and the panel has been affixed with pop rivets, rather than 
being welded.
The report says that the poor repair needs addressing before the accident damage can be 
repaired, so a cash in lieu settlement was suggested. The total cost of repairing the 
accident-related damage was assessed at £1,765.58 including VAT, subject to any 
undisclosed damage. Details of the repairs required include work to the rear bumper.
Following receipt of the report Admiral offered Mr S a cash in lieu settlement of £1.265.58, 
the estimated cost of the accident-related repairs less his £500 policy excess.
Mr S maintained it hadnt been necessary for Admirals repairers to remove the bumper from 
his vehicle and this had been damaged by them, so he raised a complaint.
Admiral responded to his complaint on 22 December 2022. They said hed raised four 
complaint points: -
The approved repairers had said his vehicles bumper needed repairing, theyd 
removed this and caused damage, as the bumper had split.
The vehicle was returned to him with scratches to the rear bumper that werent there 
before. Mr S believed the bumper had been left on the floor.
The approved repairers had damaged the ceramic coating applied to the nearside 
rear of his vehicle.
He was unhappy the quote included the respray of the tailgate and replacement 
badges on the tailgate.
Admiral didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
In respect of his vehicles bumper they said this was damaged in the accident and required 
repair and repainting. It was necessary to remove it to carry out the repairs, and it was after 
it was removed that the poor prior repairs were discovered. And the split in the bumper 
referred to by Mr S was a result of the earlier deep filler repairs and were where the filler in 
the bumper had cracked.
They said the bumper should have been replaced, rather than filled, so neither they, nor their 
repairers, were responsible for the condition of the rear bumper. As the repair couldnt be 
completed the repairers had attempted to refit the bumper so the vehicle could be returned 
to Mr S. And they were satisfied that the repairers had done their best given the prior 
damage.
They also said the repairers had said that after it was removed the bumper would have been 
stored on a rack to prevent any damage occurring. Looking at the images hed provided they 
accepted that where the technician was showing the damage, it appeared that the other end 
of the bumper was near the ground. Theyd asked Mr S for images of the scratches. But 
none were provided, they said the repairers were denying causing this damage, and in the 
absence of any evidence, this complaint point wasnt upheld.
In respect of the yellow marking on the vehicle Admiral said that a yellow Chinagraph pencil 
had been used to identify areas of poor repair and where the paintwork was of an acceptable 
standard. And these markings wiped clean when removed from the vehicle. 
They said Mr S had been asked to provide a copy of a receipt or certificate confirming that 
his vehicle had ceramic coating, and as he hadnt provided this they couldnt uphold this 
complaint point.
In respect of his final complaint point Admiral said that when the vehicle was assessed the 
repairers established that there was damage to the nearside rear lower corner of the tailgate 
door. To repair this would involve sanding, repairing, and painting the tailgate door. And it 
would necessitate removing the lights, badges, and other furniture from the tailgate. Once 
removed the badges cant be replaced and new ones need to be fitted.The tailgate was partially stripped in preparation for repair before the earlier damage was 
found, but a full evaluation of the repairs had been carried out so this is why the tailgate 
repairs were included in the quote.
Mr S wasnt happy with Admirals response and complained to our service.
Our investigator considered the case. Initially she said that even though Admiral werent 
responsible for the pre-existing damage to Mr Ss vehicle, their repairers caused avoidable 
damage to his vehicles bumper while it was in their possession. And she said they should 
cover the cost of having the bumper repainted, or provide a cash in lieu settlement, and pay 
Mr S a further £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
She said she was satisfied there was pre-existing damage as this had been confirmed by an 
independent engineer, who also confirmed it was necessary for the bumper to be removed. 
But she was satisfied, based on the photographic evidence provided by Mr S, that the 
bumper had been twisted and bent while with the repairers. And that it hadnt been properly 
stored, so had been scratched while with them.
She said shed consider any further evidence from Admiral that the scratches to the bumper 
were pre-existing, or from Mr S that the structural damage to the bumper was caused by 
Admiral.
Mr S didnt accept our investigators opinion as he said hed had his vehicles rear door and 
wheel arch repaired and nothing beyond the door and the trim needed to be touched. So he 
doesnt accept the bumper was damaged and wants Admiral to prove that it was.
Our investigator responded to Mr S saying she was satisfied the bumper needed to be 
removed. As not only did the approved repairers say this, but it had been confirmed by the 
independent engineer Admiral had instructed. Shed reiterated that Admiral needed to cover 
the cost of repainting the bumper, but maintained the bumper was structurally unsound due 
to the earlier damage, and Admiral werent responsible for this.
Admiral also didnt accept out investigators opinion. They denied their approved repairers 
had mistreated the bumper and said the photographs simply showed a 
demonstration/evidence of the earlier damage. They also said the bumper needed replacing 
due to the earlier damage and was essentially salvage. They accepted there was no 
structural damage sustained to the bumper in the accident, the damage being due to an 
earlier incident and inappropriate repairs. 
Our investigator had required Admiral to cover the cost of having the bumper repainted, but 
they said that this had been included in the estimate of repairs and the independent 
assessors report. So Mr S had already received payment for this in the cash in lieu payment 
hed received.
Based on the further information provided by Admiral our investigator reviewed her opinion. 
As the settlement theyd offered Mr S included repainting the vehicles bumper, she said 
Admiral had already done what shed asked them to do, so they hadnt done anything wrong, 
and she wasnt asking them to do anything further.
The case has now come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S is unhappy that Admirals approved repairers removed the rear bumper from his vehicle 
when they were assessing his vehicle and says they damaged the bumper. Hes told us hes 
since had the accident damage repaired and there was no need to remove the bumper.
I cant comment on the repairs Mr S has had completed, as Ive not seen any evidence of 
these. But as both Admirals approved repairers, and the independent assessor they 
appointed, have both said it was necessary to remove the bumper to assess the accident 
damage, I cant say that this wasnt necessary.
The approved repairers and the independent assessor both also confirmed thered been 
earlier damage to the vehicle which hadnt been repaired properly. This included deep filling 
rather than replacing the rear bumper. 
Ive considered the photographs. I accept that when the mechanic from the approved 
repairers is shown bending the bumper, this was done to highlight the earlier damage. But I 
dont accept the repairers stored the bumper correctly. Another of the photographs clearly 
shows the end of the bumper on the ground. So I accept the bumper may have been 
scratched while it was with the approved repairers.
But this doesnt mean I think Admiral need to pay anything further to cover the cost of 
repairing and repainting the bumper. I say this for two reasons. Firstly the bumper had pre-
existing poorly repaired damage, and I accept the approved repairers and independent 
assessors opinion that it should have been replaced, and still needed to be. 
Secondly, based on the evidence Ive seen, I can only hold Admiral responsible for the 
scratches to the bumper Mr S says werent present before his vehicle went to the approved 
repairers. Admirals independent assessor included repainting the bumper in the estimate he 
prepared. Mr S has already been paid for this as the cost was included in the cash in lieu 
payment he received. 
Mr S hasnt provided any evidence to confirm his vehicle had a ceramic coating, or that this 
was damaged by the approved repairers. So this isnt something Im able to consider. And 
Admiral have explained why the tailgate needed respraying and the badges replacing and 
included the cost of this in the estimate. 
So I think Admiral acted fairly when they provided Mr S with a cash in lieu payment in 
respect of the repairs required to his vehicle, and Im not asking them to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint about 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman