DRN-3171037
The complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard did not return his positive 
balance on his account for a month.
What happened
Mr P says that he received a letter from Barclaycard in October 2020, informing him that his 
credit card account was in credit by over £3,600. Due to their terms and conditions not 
allowing an account to be in credit, Barclaycard sent him a cheque for the credit balance. Mr 
P deposited this into his bank account.
Mr P says that this showed as a pending credit but after a few days this disappeared from 
his account, so he contacted his bank. They said that the Barclaycard cheque had bounced 
but they werent able to explain why. Mr P raised a complaint with Barclaycard. 
As Mr P had not heard from Barclaycard after several days, he contacted them and 
explained to them that he needed the money back immediately, but they told him they would 
need to complete an internal investigation first. Mr P says this took about a month for him to 
receive his funds and he suffered from stress and anxiety during this time.
Mr P says that he has been in credit previously with Barclaycard on many occasions and 
never had any issues with them. He says without written notice, Barclaycard decided to 
withdraw funds from his account and immediately send him a cheque. This meant he didnt 
have access to these funds while he was waiting for the cheque to clear and he wasnt given 
the opportunity to transfer the funds elsewhere, which would have been quicker. Mr P also 
says that due to the pandemic he had lost his job and when this happened, he was badly in 
need of the funds and didnt have access to them. 
Barclaycard upheld Mr Ps complaint and credited him £300 to his account for the distress 
and inconvenience caused. Barclaycard explained that their systems had initially showed 
that the cheque had been cashed and cleared, but upon further investigation they saw the 
cheque had been returned unpaid.
Barclaycard explained that when they aimed to reissue the cheque, they faced further 
technical difficulties which prevented them from doing so. They said the issue had taken just 
short of a month to sort out and they apologised for the confusing information and they said 
it shouldve been resolved in a more timely manner.
Mr P did not feel the compensation which was paid was high enough, so he brought his 
complaint to our service. Our investigator did not uphold his complaint. She said that she 
agreed that Barclaycards service and delays were poor and they could have done more. 
She said the £300 paid was fair in the circumstances and in line with our services approach 
to compensation. 
Our investigator quoted the terms and conditions which showed Barclaycard were entitled to 
return the excess credit on the account. Mr P asked for an Ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset Id like to emphasise that this service is not the regulator. Nor do we act as the 
enforcer for the regulator. The regulator is the Financial Conduct Authority. Our service acts 
as an informal dispute resolution service for complaints about financial businesses. We look 
at the circumstances of individual complaints and, on a case by case basis, taking into 
account relevant industry guidance for example, make findings about whether a financial 
business has failed its customer in any way. Where we find it has, we make awards 
designed to make the business put things right with the complainant customer. Our awards 
are not designed to punish a business or to make it change the way it acts in order to protect 
other customers in the future. That is the role of the regulator.
Im satisfied that all parties agree here that Barclaycard let Mr P down. While they were 
entitled to return the positive balance back to Mr P as shown in their terms and conditions 
(even if they hadnt chosen to do so previously when Mr P was in credit), this took a lot 
longer than it should have done. And based on what Mr P has told us about his personal 
circumstances around this time, I can understand why he feels strongly about this issue.
Having looked at Barclaycards terms and conditions, Im persuaded that they should have 
paid the positive balance directly to his Barclays account. While the terms and conditions 
dont say that they wont pay a cheque, they do indicate that it would be paid directly to his 
account as the terms and conditions say if you have a Barclays current account, you 
authorise us to return the balance to that account. 
So Im persuaded if the money was paid directly into that account (or any other Barclays 
account Mr P has), it would have saved the need for a cheque to be sent to Mr P, the time it 
would take for a cheque to clear and it would stop potential issues happening, such as what 
did happen with the cheque bouncing and the technical issues preventing the reissue of the 
cheque. 
I know Mr P says that Barclaycard didnt write to him before they did this, but Im not 
persuaded that they needed to, based on their terms and conditions. I say this as the 
although the same condition says we will write to you before transferring the money to give 
you the opportunity to ask us to return the balance to another account, this is under the part 
where it says if you do not have a Barclays current account. So this part wouldnt apply to 
Mr P as he has a Barclays account. And as they sent a cheque, he would be free to deposit 
this with another financial institution if he wanted to.
Its my understanding that this issue was resolved after a month when Barclaycard paid the 
positive balance into his account. So while I understand there would be a short period of 
time Barclaycard would need to investigate if the initial cheque had been cashed or not, Im 
persuaded that once they knew Mr P genuinely hadnt received the money he was entitled 
to, they could have paid the money directly to his account which might have prevented some 
of the delays hes suffered.
So Ive considered the impact that this would have had on Mr P. Theres no doubt that this 
situation would have been distressing for Mr P as not only did he feel Barclaycard broke their 
terms and conditions, the complaint handler told him that this would be resolved and then Mr 
P faced further glitches which delayed him receiving the money. He also suffered the 
inconvenience of bringing this to Barclaycards attention and chasing up this issue when it 
wasnt resolved when he was led to believe it would be resolved. As our investigator has already explained to Mr P, compensation is a discretionary remedy 
that we sometimes award if we feel that a business has acted wrongfully and therefore 
caused distress and inconvenience to their customer over and above that which naturally 
flows from the event. When we recommend compensation, it is often modest and within our 
established guidelines.
Ive noted the strength of feeling that Mr P has that the compensation he received is too low 
based on his personal circumstances at the time, and Ive read all that Mr P has said about 
this. I know Mr P will disagree with me, but Im persuaded that the level of compensation that 
Barclaycard offered was fair. 
I say this as Barclaycards compensation is in line with what I broadly could have awarded 
him based on his personal circumstances at the time if Barclaycard had not upheld his 
complaint. So Im persuaded that the £300 Barclaycard paid him was reasonable based on 
him waiting for the positive balance to be returned to him for a month and the compensation 
is fair based on the inconvenience and distress Mr P suffered here. So it follows, I wont be 
asking Barclaycard to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman