DRN-2061363
The complaint
Mr H and Miss M complain about U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declining their claim under 
their home insurance policy.
What happened
On 18 December 2018, Mr H and Miss M made a claim for stolen lead flashing from the roof 
of their property which they believe was stolen on or around the evening of 14 December. 
They say the lack of flashing had caused rainwater to enter the property, causing part of the 
flat roof to collapse into the property, and damage to decor and laminate flooring. 
UKI initially declined the claim under an unoccupancy exclusion. But while it reviewed its 
decision, it advised Miss M to secure the roof to try and prevent further water damage. It has 
said no works were authorised and it didnt accept liability for the cost at this stage.
On 21 December 2018, UKI reconsidered the claim and agreed it shouldnt rely on the 
unoccupancy clause and said an agent was instructed to attend the property to assess the 
damage. But due to availability of agents over the festive period UKI were unable to send 
anyone to the property immediately  with the first available appointment on 5 January 2019.
Prior to this, between the 18  20 December, Mr H and Miss M engaged workmen to carry 
out work to secure the roof to protect the property. However, that work didnt stop solely at 
securing the roof; instead the damaged roof was removed and re-felted, prior to inspection 
or approval of the claim by UKI or its agents. 
So, in January 2019 upon UKIs visit, its agent was unable to establish if the flashing had 
been removed and if this was the cause of the water ingress. A few days after the visit, UKI 
asked for the estimates and invoices Miss M had told it she had. UKI received these mid-
February and on receipt of them it appointed a loss adjuster. 
UKI said it hasnt accepted the claim because it considers some aspects to be unproven and 
outside of the scope of the policy terms and conditions. It also has concerns that theres no 
evidence for some of the claim elements being related to the water ingress. And it considers 
it may have been wear and tear that caused the water ingress rather than the theft of the 
lead flashing from the roof. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said he felt the work Mr H and Miss M had 
done went beyond making the property watertight. And he didnt feel Mr H and Miss M had 
met the requirements of the policy when making the claim. 
Mr H and Miss M disagreed they said they felt the insurer failed to send an assessor within a 
reasonable time to allow works to start and prevent further damage and only the minimum 
was done to prevent further water ingress. They felt the insurer shouldve instructed them to 
record all works and said they werent claiming in order to gain betterment. 
They also say the insurers delay in sending an assessor and the need for the house to be 
healthy and habitable made it impossible for the assessor to truly gauge the nature of the 
damage when he visited the property. And they think theyve complied with the insurers 
requirements both in the policy and at the time of the damage. Theyve therefore asked for 
the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. So, the complaint has been passed to me 
to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator.
When I consider a complaint, the first thing I must ask is whether the damage claimed for is 
covered by an insured peril under the policy. Insured perils are things such as storm 
damage, escape of water, fire, theft and others specified within the policy. If the damage or 
loss was covered, Id then need to consider whether UKI had fairly applied its terms and 
exclusions when considering the claim.
Theft of lead and securing the roof
The crux of this complaint comes down to the steps Mr H and Miss M took allegedly without 
UKIs permission. So, Ive looked at the policys terms and conditions. Under the section 
claim conditions, it says:
For any claim you must:
 Give us any relevant information and evidence that we ask for, including proof of ownership 
or value of the lost or damaged item and written estimates for repair. You will have to do this 
at your own expense
 Allow us (or our appointed suppliers) to access or inspect the damaged items and/or 
property
 Immediately tell the police about any loss or damage by deception, theft, attempted theft, 
vandalism or malicious acts.
So, its clear theres certain information Mr H and Miss M needed to provide UKI for it to be 
able to assess the claim.
Mr H and Miss M have said the lead flashing on their roof was stolen causing water ingress. 
However, due to them having the work done prior to UKI having an opportunity to inspect the 
area and access the full damage, it has said it was unable to certify that any damage was a 
result of an insured peril. 
UKIs agent said he couldnt see any evidence that the lead flashing had been removed. So, 
he concluded the theft of the lead hadnt been proven, and he couldnt identify the cause of 
the water ingress. 
In addition, UKI has raised wider concerns as to the cause of the water ingress. To try and 
validate the claim UKI asked Mr H and Miss M to provide a copy of the chartered surveyors 
report that they had done when they purchased the property in July/August 2018. The 
survey highlights the flat roof is degraded with sideways lap movement and the photographs 
show the flat roof in poor condition. Although I note it says there was no evidence of leakage 
at the time of the survey. I think this does identify that the roof was in poor condition and I can understand UKIs concerns if the damage was as a result of the theft or was it down to 
gradual wear and tear which is excluded under the policy.
Mr H and Miss M have said they went ahead because the insurer failed to send an assessor 
within a reasonable time to allow works to start and prevent further damage. However, from 
what Ive seen Mr H and Miss M had the works completed with 2-3 days of making the claim 
and before UKI had even told them when it would be sending its contractor. 
So, I dont agree with Mr H and Miss M on this point. I also think Mr H and Miss M couldve 
called the insurer if they wanted or needed to do more thorough works, to check if they could 
and what they would need to do to evidence the specific damage. Especially as they had 
already been informed by UKI that the cost wasnt covered at this time. I appreciate Mr H 
and Miss M say they left the roof cavity inside the property open, but the agent was there to 
photograph and log the cause of the damage and that was no longer evident. 
Overall, for these reasons I dont think the claim conditions listed above were met 
satisfactorily. And in turn UKI has fairly declined cover as its unable to assess the claim as it 
was entitled to under the terms of the policy.
Laminate flooring 
An issue that has caused UKI concern is the lack of evidence for the laminate flooring that 
Mr H and Miss M advised was damaged due to the water ingress. They were unable to 
provide any evidence of the loss or ownership of the flooring. The photograph Miss M initially 
provided to UKI was of the flooring prior to any damage but it was established that the 
picture was of flooring in a different room to the one that had suffered the water damage. 
Miss M since explained shed been confused and sent the wrong information. But in addition 
to this Mr H and Miss M gave conflicting accounts about the existence of the laminate 
flooring in the affected area. Mr H had said there was none while Miss M had said there was 
some, but it had been removed due to the damage. 
I understand that this property wasnt being lived in by Mr H and Miss M at the time as they 
were doing extensive renovations, so its possible they mayve become confused. But Im 
satisfied UKI has fairly considered the evidence provided, including these inconsistencies, 
and I think its acted reasonably by saying there isnt the evidence to meet the requirements 
of the claim. 
Mr H and Miss M have since asked for this element to be removed from the claim if UKI 
wasnt happy with it. However, I can see no basis for it to do this, and understand why the 
lack of evidence and conflicting statements would be a concern to UKI. 
Other repairs/internal repairs
Mr H and Miss M also made requests for decorative works in the affected room including 
replacing the coving and painting the walls. The loss adjuster noted that the ceiling in the 
room had been re-boarded and the room had been re-wired so damage to walls appeared to 
be as a result of that rather than damp or water ingress damage. I havent seen that Mr H 
and Miss M have been able to provide evidence that the re-wiring was required because of 
the water ingress. 
Given that substantial renovation work was going on in the property and it already had 
concerns regarding the flooring I can understand why UKI had a concern regarding 
betterment  non water ingress related elements being folded into the claim to benefit the 
insured. I understand Mr H and Miss M disagree with UKI, but they havent provided any detailed records of the damage and specific work undertaken in relation to it. So, Im not 
persuaded UKI need to anything more in relation to the claim.
Overall handling
Mr R and Miss M have also raised concerns with how long it took UKI to send a loss 
assessor. I can see following the agents visit in January, UKI asked for copies of the 
receipts and estimates Mr R and Miss M told UKI they had, as well as a copy of their survey. 
These were not all received by UKI until mid-February and a couple of weeks later UKI sent 
the loss assessor. I dont think a two-week delay is unreasonable and I cant say UKI 
shouldve done this any sooner as they were trying to gather evidence to validate the claim. 
So, Im not persuaded that UKI made any error. 
In summary, I think Mr H and Miss M have prejudiced their own claim. Theyve had work 
done without authorisation and theyve been unable to evidence elements of the claim to 
allow UKI to assess it in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. I am therefore not 
upholding their complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr H and Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman