DRN-3407814
The complaint
Mr A complains that Capital One (Europe) plc registered a marker at CIFAS, the national 
fraud database.
What happened
Mr A had two card accounts with Capital One. He says that he was contacted by a third 
party who said that the amounts owing could be paid off for him. And then Mr A could repay 
back half of the money. Credits of £184.75 and £440.22 were made to his accounts in May 
2017. Mr A says that he became suspicious when the third party asked him to use a money 
transfer service to repay the amounts. And that he did nothing more about this because he 
had serious health issues. He wants the marker removed as he intends to work again in 
financial services.
Capital One said it hadnt made any mistake. It had received two charge back requests for 
the amounts involved. And the cardholder debited with the money had said that these 
werent genuinely made payments. It had written to Mr A in May 2017 to say that his facilities 
had been withdrawn. And that a CIFAS marker was added to the account.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that there was a 
high bar to register a marker. Mr A had said that he had received a phone call seemingly at 
random about his borrowing. When he was asked to pay money back he had doubts about 
the legitimacy and the person calling disconnected the call. Mr A said that due to a serious 
hospitalisation after being shot hed not been in the right frame of mind to make financial 
decisions. Our investigator noted though that despite the doubts Mr A had he did nothing to 
rectify things. And so, he thought Mr A was complicit in what happened.
Mr A didnt agree. He provided some medical evidence about an injury to his eye. He said 
that prior to receiving a call about his borrowing he had been involved in a horrific kidnapping 
and has had extensive injuries including to his eye. 
Hed agreed to what had been proposed about his borrowing. And he checked a few days 
later and saw the payments had been credited and didnt think much of it. He then realised 
that the payments had been returned and received a call saying he needed to make the 
money transfer. And realised something wasnt right. He then needed major surgeries and 
had hospital visits and treatments for two years. Capital One went completely from his mind. 
Mr A said he wasnt in the right health to deal with financial matters. He is now up to date 
with his finances. He said I am educated in financial services to a very high level and 
understand how fraud etc works I have worked in financial services for over 20 years and 
now I am unable to gain employment due to the CIFAS markers. He said that if he was 
healthy he would have done more research and on the payments being returned called 
Capital One and the police to report the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Capital One 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities.
I have considered the medical evidence Mr A has provided which clearly shows he has had 
a serious eye injury. Notably a medical note dated 10 October 2017 summarises findings 
then as left eye severe trauma from alleged assault with knuckle duster 5 weeks ago. The 
contact notes for Capital One record that a third party reported a health issue in July 2017 
for Mr A, and this related to a car accident leading to hospitalisation. Mr A has given his own 
testimony to our investigator and said that he couldnt talk for nine months and had treatment 
over two years.
Mr A has said he was called at random. Hes later said that the person calling knew his 
name and address and that he had two credit cards and the balances. The arrangement 
here he says involved a third party paying off his credit card balances. And then him 
benefitting from paying that third-party half of the amount back or he has also now said the 
amount over time at least. Frankly this doesnt make sense to me because the fraudster 
would have relied on Mr A making payments to benefit. And risked as here that the fraud 
would be discovered before Mr A made any payment. Mr A has given various periods of time 
before he was contacted to pay the third party but not that this was immediate. 
Mr A says he is very experienced in financial services. I dont think its most likely someone 
in that position would be taken in by this type of arrangement. There was no documentation 
Ive seen. He has given different details of when this happened in relation to any health 
issues. Hes told our investigator that he was already injured at the time of the first call. But 
also, that this happened one to two weeks before he was assaulted. Hes said he was able 
to call the person back and ask questions. In any event hed described being able 
subsequently to check and see that the payments had been made and then removed. He 
was unable to realise that the initial transaction was suspect. But he then was able to do so 
when it came to him being asked for money. And he says the day of that call coincides with 
the one on which he needed surgery and so he couldnt alert Capital One then or afterwards.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Im thinking about what is most likely. I 
dont doubt that Mr A had injuries and needed hospital treatment. But hes not persuaded me 
that these occurred such that he was unable to realise that these payments werent 
legitimately obtained. And I find his explanation of how the fraudsters sought to benefit lacks 
credibility. Hes been inconsistent over some of the details when discussing this with our 
investigator in calls separated by less than a month this year. I appreciate the passage of 
time may have affected his memory, but these differences make his testimony now less 
reliable. The medical evidence he does have supports his injuries and hospital treatment 
after these payments. And might account for him not being able to contact Capital One about 
things. But I find it most likely he was complicit in what originally happened. Capital One says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr A received fraudulent funds 
into his accounts. So, Ive looked at whether Capital One was fair to apply the marker, based 
on the evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the 
business must have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set 
by CIFAS. This essentially means that Capital One needs to have enough information to 
make a formal report to the police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are 
reasonable grounds to believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere 
suspicion. 
Having reviewed Mr As account of events and the evidence Capital One has provided, Im 
satisfied that Capital One had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In 
coming to this view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Mr A received fraudulent funds into his account and didnt report this to Capital One 
at the time.
- He would have had the benefit of this money in repaying his borrowing with this 
potentially allowing him to redraw funds from his account .
- Capital One had grounds to believe that Mr A had used fraudulently obtained funds 
based on the evidence it had.
I appreciate that Mr A will be very disappointed by my findings here given what is at stake for 
him and his serious health issues. But Im afraid I dont have a reasonable basis to require 
Capital One to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman