DRN-1617338
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Indigo Michael Limited (trading as Safety Net Credit (SNC)) 
should have recognised that his pattern of borrowing was dangerous, and it should never 
have continued to raise the credit limit available to him via his Safety Net facility in such an 
irresponsible manner. Mr G also says he was trapped in ever increasing debt with SNC, 
which resulted in him being forced to borrow money from friends and family each month.
What happened
Mr G approached SNC for a Safety Net facility in August 2015. This was a running credit 
account where a consumer could either request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would 
be deposited into their bank account once their account balance fell below a safety net 
amount of the customers choosing.
Mr G was initially given a facility with a £300 credit limit in August 2015. His limit was 
increased on a further 14 occasions with his final increase taking his credit limit to £1,000 in 
April 2018. The most recent correspondence from SNC shows there is an outstanding 
balance of £1,043.42, as of May 2019.
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Gs complaint. He thought the checks SNC carried out 
before granting this facility were proportionate. And that the information SNC gathered about 
Mr Gs circumstances suggested he would be able to afford the repayments he was 
committed to making.  
However, the adjudicator thought that SNC shouldve stopped Mr G using his facility from
11 February 2016. So the complaint was upheld from this point. 
It appears that Mr G agreed with our adjudicators opinion. SNC disagreed with the 
adjudicator and it made a number of points including;
 
SNCs product works in much the same way as a credit card. And like a credit card, 
the important factor is not the number of individual uses (in this case, withdrawals) 
but the outstanding balance, which was never greater than £1,320 and
Mr Gs SafetyNet facility was affordable at all times and it doesnt believe it to be fair 
to withdraw affordable credit lines from customers in the sort of manner it believes 
this service to suggest.
 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
To begin with, Mr G seems to have accepted our adjudicators findings that SNC wasnt 
wrong to approve his facility. So I no longer think this in dispute, and I have no reason to 
reach a finding about this in this decision. Instead this decision will focus on whether SNC 
shouldve have known that Mr G was having problems in 2016 and therefore not allowed him 
to continue to use the facility.
The relevant regulations in place at the time Mr G was given his Safety Net facility
Whilst Im not looking at what happened when the facility was approved, that doesnt mean I 
think SNC did everything it shouldve done. Indeed, I do think it was wrong to have allowed 
him to continue drawing down on the account from 11 February 2016.  For this reason, Ill 
explain below why the way he was using the account indicated he wasnt using it in a 
sustainable manner.  
Firstly, under the provisions outlined in CONC (6.7.2) SNC had to monitor a customers 
repayment record and take appropriate action where there are signs of actual or possible 
repayment difficulties
CONC sets out that SNC was required to monitor Mr Gs use of the facility and in addition to 
this, SNC has a fairly good indication of Mr Gs financial position, because throughout the 
time of him having the facility it had read only access to his bank account. 
When Mr G was initially granted his facility with a £300 limit, I dont think it was unreasonable 
of SNC to have believed that Mr G would repay the outstanding balance over a reasonable 
period of time, which could result in monthly repayments of around £20. After all, this is what 
it was expected, and the way this facility was designed. But if Mr G wasnt using the facility 
as intended, this could indicate to SNC that he was having wider financial problems.
In order to see whether I think it was fair allow Mr G to continue to drawdown, Ive 
considered the relationship between when repayments were made to SNC, the value of 
those payments and then when Mr G returned for further borrowing. After all, if Mr G was 
making significant repayments to SNC, and then quickly drawing down a similar sum again 
in a matter of days, this ought to have indicated that Mr G wasnt using the facility as it was 
designed to be used, and he therefore may not have been in a position to afford the 
repayments. Indeed, a pattern such as this may lead us to conclude that Mr G had to return 
to borrow more funds because making a payment to SNC left a hole in his finances that 
needed to be filled. 
Looking at the transactions leading up to February 2016, and in line with what the 
adjudicator thought, I think there were signs that Mr G was struggling and therefore SNC 
shouldnt have allowed him to continue to drawdown on the account. I say this as I think it 
was clear to see that Mr G was repaying what he owed and then drawing down further funds 
shortly after he made his repayment. 
By 11 February 2016, I can see Mr G had requested 41 drawdowns, mainly drawing down 
the full credit available to him. Although this in itself is a significant number, the relationship 
between the drawdowns and repayments is in my mind key. Mr G was repaying what he 
owed in full rather than repaying what he owed in instalments, which is not how the account 
was intended to be used. And then he was returning for further funds within a few days of 
repaying what he owed  mainly borrowing back up to the same amount as he had just 
repaid.I find the number of withdrawals he made, and the way Mr G used his facility, concerning at 
this point. This suggests to me that Mr G wasnt repaying the drawdowns in a sustainable 
manner, and he was using these loans as if they were payday loans, which they were not. 
SNC needed to be alert to this  especially as SNC were aware Mr G had a history of 
borrowing payday loans because there was a risk the lending was becoming unsustainable.. 
SNC had read-only access to Mr Gs bank statements throughout this period so it would 
have seen that he had continued to receive his normal monthly salary as well as regular 
monthly bank transfers into his account. These bank transfers were present on Mr Gs bank 
statements from the start of the borrowing relationship, and seemed to be extra income on 
top of Mr Gs normal monthly salary. So I dont think it was unreasonable for SNC to have 
considered the transfers as part of Mr Gs overall monthly income.
In addition to this, Mr Gs statements shows he was continuing to make payments for his 
utility bills as well as a £500 direct debt, travel and petrol, as well as what appears to be 
occasional repayments to his mortgage. 
From the start of the borrowing relationship, SNC could see from Mr Gs statements that he 
was regularly drawing out large amounts of cash of between £420 and £850, including £500 
in January 2016. These cash withdrawals represented a significant portion of Mr Gs income 
and suggested that he had regular expenses elsewhere which couldnt be seen on his bank 
statements. 
In addition to this, Mr Gs statements show he continued to take out short-term loans with 
other short-term lenders. He was mainly taking out a loan each month but had taken out 
three payday loans in December 2015 totalling £669. The repayment for these loans were 
due shortly after he took them out and were equal to a large portion of Mr Gs wages. This 
was likely to cause a knock-on effect with his other normal living costs as the repayments 
seemed to be more than his disposable income at this point.
Indeed, on 1 February 2016 Mr G took a payday loan of £500 and then shortly after the 
drawdowns started in February Mr G took a further £400 in payday loans. I think the fact that 
Mr G continued to borrow from other lenders during his time with SNC suggested that his 
financial situation wasnt improving and that there was still a need to cover a shortfall in his 
finances.
Having considered all of the information SNC had available to it about Mr Gs circumstances, 
I think by 11 February 2016, it was clear that the facility had become unsustainable. And 
allowing Mr G to increase his credit limit and continue using it was detrimental to his financial 
situation. I think this is further demonstrated by the way he continued to use the facility for a 
further two and a half years in the same manner.
I acknowledge what SNC says about this facility being like a credit card  it has also sign 
posted us to a press release from the Financial Conduct Authority about how credit card 
companies treat customers in persistent debt. Firstly, the press release that SNC has linked 
to was released in 2020  which is some four years after the point at which I think the 
complaint should be upheld. So I dont see how that press release can relates to this case. 
Even the footnotes to the press release relate to FCA policy statements that were after the 
events complained about. 
SNCs responsibility was to monitor for signs of financial difficulty, which I think had become 
apparent few months into the borrowing relationship. And once this had become known, 
SNC had a responsibly to not continue allowing Mr G to unsustainably use a facility that was 
causing further financial detriment  so by preventing further drawdowns. Overall, I think SNC shouldve withdrawn the facility from 11 February 2016 and not 
allowed Mr G to continue using it from this date. So I think Mr G has lost out as a result of 
SNCs actions.
What SNC should do to put things right
If the debt has been sold to a third party, SNC should, if it wishes, buy the debt back and 
then carry out the redress below. If it isnt able to, or doesnt wish to, buy the debt back then 
it needs to work with the third party to achieve the same results.
Remove all unpaid interest, fees and charges from the outstanding balance that were 
applied from 11 February 2016,
SNC should rework the account from 11 February 2016 so Mr G only has to repay 
the principal borrowed and it should treat any repayments made by Mr G to SNC 
(and the third party if applicable) as if it went towards the principal balance.
 
If and when Mr G had repaid enough to repay the principal, then any overpayment should be 
refunded to Mr G. To this overpayment 8% simple a year interest should be added from the 
date of the overpayment came due to the date of settlement*;
However, if after doing the above, an outstanding principal balance remains, SNC 
should try and come to an arrangement with Mr G to repay the balance. But Id 
remind the lender of its obligation to treat Mr G fairly.
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Gs credit file as a result of not 
stopping the facility from 11 February 2016 until the facility is closed,
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must give
Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im partly upholding Mr Gs complaint. Indigo Michael 
Limited should put things right for Mr G as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2020.
Robert Walker
Ombudsman