DRN-4155324
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as E complain that WorldPay Limited (WorldPay) declined a 
number of legitimate transactions on its account. 
In bringing this complaint E is represented by its director, who Ill refer to as Mr B. 
 
What happened
In 2005 E signed a Merchant Services Agreement (the Agreement) with WorldPay to 
process card payments made by its customers. 
From March 2022 Mr B began to notice a significant increase in the number of 
transactions that were being declined by WorldPay and returned to E with both soft 
and hard decline statuses. E has made a separate complaint to this service about 
the soft decline issue, and Ive reviewed that complaint under a separate reference. 
This review, therefore, deals with the hard decline transactions only. 
In March 2022 Mr B complained to WorldPay about those transactions. By way of 
explanation, these were transactions that had been declined and remained unpaid in 
spite of subsequent re-presentation.
Mr B told WorldPay that the effect of their actions was that E had suffered financial 
losses of approximately £30,000. 
After looking into things WorldPay suggested various measures to try and fix the 
problem  including, as I understand it, a substitution of various codes. WorldPay 
believed that by around May 2022 this had achieved the desired result. In particular, 
because according to WorldPay, they received correspondence from E saying that 
after the introduction of the code theyd suggested, failure rates were much reduced. 
However, according to WorldPay E contacted them again in August 2022 for 
assistance with its website construction and launch.  Discussions then took place up 
to December 2022 including in connection with the hard decline issue. During those 
discussions WorldPay suggested yet more fixes which were implemented. 
Mr B disagreed that Es issues were resolved. And he said that in fact WorldPay had 
been unable to provide clear answers about why E was experiencing the problems it 
was having. So, E had to engage IT experts to try and determine the reasons. In 
doing so, Mr B said E incurred significant costs which he believed WorldPay should 
cover. 
In their final response to the complaint WorldPay acknowledged the hard declines 
resulted from an error theyd made in the way Es security profile was configured 
within their systems. They said this then led to problems when in March 2022, a new 
and more robust customer authentication regime known as 3DSecure was 
introduced to comply with the European Unions Payment Services Directive 2 
(PSD2). 
And because WorldPay had configured Es account incorrectly, transactions that 
ought to have bypassed the new 3DSecure process as they were recurring 
transactions were, instead being caught. In effect therefore, the correct process for 
identifying recurring payment transactions which typified Es operations wasnt 
working as it should. In other words, these recurring payments were being identified 
as initial rather than recurring payments and as such were being caught by the 
3DSecure authentication process rather than bypassing it. The result was that such 
transactions ended up being hard declined. 
WorldPay believed that having looked into the problem and suggested various fixes, 
by December 2022 theyd been successful in resolving things for E. In other words, 
E was able to accept recurring payments which previously had been declined owing 
to the 3DSecure issue. And in addition, as part of their attempt to make sure the 
problem was finally corrected, Es recurring transaction agreements were migrated 
to a particular code. WorldPay said from that point onwards, there had been no 
declined transactions arising from the 3DSecure profile on Es account. And 
furthermore, that declined transactions that happened subsequently were for other 
reasons. 
That being said, WorldPay did nonetheless acknowledge that the problems E had 
experienced meant that E hadnt received the level of service it rightly expected from 
them. So, to compensate E, WorldPay refunded £1,200.00 to Es account and 
additionally paid an extra £500 in recognition of the inconvenience this matter had 
caused.  Beyond that, however, WorldPay didnt think they should pay further 
compensation. 
Es complaint remained unresolved however, and so, Mr B referred it to our service. 
Our investigator looked into Es complaint. He observed that historically E had always 
experienced high numbers of hard decline transactions. But he agreed with the parties that 
from March 2022 there had been a spike. He noted nonetheless that the numbers shown 
were artificially high, in part, because in some instances transaction attempts were 
duplicated which in turn gave the impression that the decline were in excess of what they 
truly were.
Having noted WorldPays acknowledgement that their error contributed to the hard decline 
numbers, he was satisfied by WorldPays evidence that those that were directly linked to that 
error were10 transactions altogether. And furthermore, that they took place between March 
and December 2022 by which time WorldPay had found a fix to correct things. The 
investigator was satisfied that this equated to an overall transaction value of £1649.90 which 
he believed WorldPay should refund to E.  
Regarding Es claim for the costs of engaging IT experts, the investigator noted an invoice 
dated 5 May 2022 for £72 that E submitted referencing work with WorldPay. He believed 
WorldPay should refund the amount. 
But the investigator didnt think that WorldPay should be held responsible for any other IT 
costs.  In particular the more substantial amount Mr B said E incurred of around £12,000. He 
wasnt persuaded those costs were incurred by E because of WorldPays error. Rather, he believed they were charges for IT work principally in connection with the building of Es 
website that had been commissioned in 2021. 
However, for what he believed would be a fair settlement of Es complaint the investigator 
recommended that WorldPay pay E the following: 
o£1,649.90 being the transactions that were unfairly declined
o£72 being the IT fee that E incurred on 5 May 2022.
oAn additional £500 compensation for the inconvenience caused to E, this being on 
top of the £500 inconvenience payment WorldPay had already made. 
WorldPay accepted the investigators conclusions. But E didnt. Mr B has asked for an 
ombudsman to review Es case and it has therefore been passed to me for that purpose. 
Mr B has provided further detailed submissions on behalf of E. However, those submissions 
have largely expanded on the arguments hed originally made on Es behalf  including the 
circumstances in which the IT experts came to be engaged and why WorldPay should cover 
their costs.  
I summarise what I regard as the key points Mr B has made - as follows: 
It is unfair that the investigator should limit the date range for compensating E for 
financial loss from March through to December 2022. Not least because although 
WorldPay did attempt to remedy the problems E was experiencing, nonetheless they 
persisted and have continued. So, E has incurred financial loss over a longer period. 
Compensation should be awarded to reflect that. 
Furthermore, the investigator understated the number of transactions that were 
unfairly declined because of WorldPays error. They exceeded the 10 transactions 
mentioned and valued at £1649.90.  And in any case the investigator had said in 
correspondence the actual figure was 46. E subsequently discovered that the hard 
declines issue had been occurring long before it was raised in March 2022 and they 
persisted beyond December 2022. 
E did engage various IT experts to build its website and it eventually settled on one in 
particular. Nonetheless that companys remit extended to identifying and fixing the 
payment processing issues E had been experiencing. Especially because WorldPay 
were suggesting the problems were of Es own making. 
Ultimately the IT company that conducted the bulk of the work was unable to fix the 
hard decline problems. But it at least identified they were being caused by an 
inherent defect at WorldPay. It took the company15 days at costs of £795 per day to 
reach that assessment. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Before I come to my final decision in detail, I will make one or two general points.
Firstly, although in the course of our investigation Mr B has sought to expand its scope to 
encompass events both preceding March 2022 and beyond December 2022, I do not think 
this would be fair. The events considered by WorldPay were those that took place between 
those two dates. Matters that remain of concern to E beyond those dates should rightly be 
referred to WorldPay to look into separately. They should then be the subject of a final 
response letter separate from that which was issued on 13 January 2023 which covered the 
March through to December 2022 period. 
Secondly, Ive acknowledged above that Mr B has made lengthy submissions in support of 
Es case. I thank him for the care with which hes prepared those submissions and the clarity 
of his presentation. Indeed, that is unsurprising because it is clear how strongly Mr B feels 
about this matter. Ive read and considered his submissions. But Ive confined my comments 
to what I regard as relevant. If Ive omitted to comment on specific points that Mr B has 
made it is not because I havent considered them. Rather, its because I dont think I need to 
comment on such points in order to reach what I think is the fair and reasonable outcome in 
all the circumstances of this case.   
Finally, its worthwhile also adding that in the course of my review where the evidence is 
incomplete or inconclusive (as indeed some of it is here) I reach my decision on the balance 
of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
I now turn to my review in more detail. 
It is not in dispute that E experienced a number of hard decline transactions on its account. 
Mr B said he first noticed and raised the issue of the increase with WorldPay in March 2022. 
WorldPay have acknowledged that some of those declines shouldnt have happened and 
resulted from an error they made, details of which Ive already mentioned. 
  
Theres broad agreement too that when the problem was first noticed in March 2022 and Mr 
B complained to WorldPay, WorldPay attempted to find a fix to the problem.  But the parties 
disagree on two main issues: 
Firstly, the extent of the hard decline transactions that resulted from WorldPays 
error. Mr B thinks the lost transactions were in excess of the 10 that have been 
identified. WorldPay disagree.
Secondly, whether WorldPay should reimburse E with the IT costs E said it incurred 
by having to engage experts to determine why the declines were happening. 
The extent of the hard decline transactions  
WorldPay agree they were responsible for some of the spike in hard declines from March 
2022. But they conclude there were 10 affected transactions linked to their error. They 
arrived at that view having regard to certain indicative codes such as 6 and R1. In other 
words, they were able to identify valid reasons for all the other declines apart from those 10. 
That evidence has been presented in the form of a spreadsheets which is considerable and 
detailed. It has been shared with E. The spreadsheet also shows re- presentations after 
initial declines. An example on the spreadsheet of that occurring would be in June 2022 in 
respect of a customer of E which I refer to as Mr W where multiple attempts were made to 
get the transaction through 3DSecure. But it kept failing and thereby inflated the decline 
numbers. So, having looked at the evidence and the wider circumstances, on balance I find it 
persuasively indicates the 10 transactions were those that were inappropriately declined and 
did represent losses that were incurred by E. I find that WorldPay should reimburse them to 
E.  
Although Mr B has challenged that number, Ive seen no persuasive evidence which 
supports that challenge.  I note he has pointed to a higher figure of 46 declines which the 
investigator had referred to in correspondence. But on close analysis of the 46 transactions, 
as explained above, the spreadsheet shows there were a number of duplicates arising from 
the multiple re-presentation of certain transactions.  
I note Mr B has also stated WorldPay didnt find a fix to the problems by December 2022 as 
they claimed. But I can see on the list of the inappropriate decline transactions that the last 
of them took place on 22 November 2022 in respect of a customer of E which I refer to as Mr 
R. That suggests on balance that between March and December 2022 the transaction 
declines that were linked to WorldPays error had been solved.  
Costs of hiring an IT company
I dont doubt that E did commission IT experts and they did engage with WorldPay in 2022 to 
find a fix to the hard decline problems. The question for me is whether that was the purpose 
for which they were commissioned. Im not persuaded that was the case. 
One particular company which I refer to as F seemed to have been the main expert that E 
commissioned. But Mr B acknowledges that F was engaged in 2021 to work on building Es 
website. And to that end work in association with WorldPay was envisaged. This doesnt 
support Es submission that it was in the aftermath of the hard decline problems E was 
experiencing, for which WorldPay had been unable to provide an explanation that experts 
such as F were called in. 
Evidence that E has shared regarding the commissioning of F shows the cost estimate for 
their engagement was £20,475. And in that cost estimate F described aspects of the 
intended work as:
Make Payment/Integrate WP  
That leads me to conclude that it was intended, that as well as the website construction, 
work in association with WorldPay to integrate payments systems was also envisaged and 
costs were already built in for that work.  
I further understand from Mr B that F was engaged because a previous IT company - which 
Ill refer to as G, was unable to fully carry out the work that was needed. 
It was perhaps inevitable that F would come to be involved in the hard declines issue as it 
spanned the period of its commission. And Im satisfied F did work with WorldPay to find a 
solution - including implementing the fixes suggested by Worldpay. However, Ive seen no 
evidence that F has submitted invoices to E for any extra costs over and above the £20,475 
that had been agreed for the work it was undertaking on behalf of E.  
In fact, invoices from F that E has shared with us described the work they were for as the 
CMS rebuilt project. And they were dated:   
25/10/21 for £9450
02/12/2021 for 9,45013/01/22 for £9450
23/11/22 for 9,990
Ive also seen correspondence from E to F where Mr B challenges Fs October 2021 invoice. 
He said : 
I think you may have jumped the gun on issuing this to us as it is not yet due. This is 
what was agreed with [name] your director  from his email dated 22 October 2021. 
3. A condition precedent for the second payment will be completion of the payment 
integration for (Worldpay). As at yesterdays date this condition has not been met.
This in my opinion lends further support to the conclusion Fs costs were compiled in 
anticipation of work that would be needed with WorldPay. I do not find that WorldPay should 
cover such costs.
By contrast the only separate invoice that E has provided for what seemed to be for work 
with WorldPay concerning a fix was another IT company which I refer to as G. As noted 
above it is dated 5 May 2022 for £72. G described the work in that invoice as being for: 
Worldpay fix (reduced to 2 hrs)
I find that it would be fair for WorldPay to cover this.
That leaves the question of inconvenience. 
Putting things right
Mr B has explained he spent a considerable amount of time dealing with WorldPay in the 
months following March 2022. Correspondence that Ive seen from F also explained that Mr 
B acted as the go between in obtaining suggested solutions from WorldPay to fix the 
problems. Im satisfied that the evidence points to significant inconvenience being caused to 
E which WorldPays £500 compensation doesnt fully recognise. And so for the reasons 
given by the investigator I consider that an increase by £500 in the amount is more 
appropriate 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint. In full and Final settlement I recommend that 
WorldPay Limited pay E the following: 
o£1,649.90 being the transactions that were unfairly declined
o£72 being the IT fee that E incurred on 5 May 2022.
o£500 compensation for the inconvenience caused to E  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman