DRN-3124924
The complaint
 Mr H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) declined his request for an overdraft of
£250. 
What happened
In January 2021, Mr H asked HSBC for an overdraft of £250. HSBC declined.
Mr H complained. He said that HSBC must have declined his request because of the high 
borrowing showing on his credit card with Bank A  which was itself caused by HSBCs error 
in asking for two amounts of £7,000 from Bank A in July 2020  when only one amount of 
£7,000 shouldve been transferred. He showed us a copy of HSBCs letter which referred to 
other borrowing facilities.
HSBC said that the overdraft request was declined because their credit scoring process had 
said so. This combined information from internal data, external credit searches and market 
data. The decision to decline Mr Hs request as based on a combination of all the 
information.
Mr H brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said HSBC had acted fairly. She could 
see that HSBCs records showed that the decline decision was based on low credit turnover 
going through Mr Hs account. Looking at his statements, she could see there wasnt a 
salary going into the account, and there were only sundry credits being paid in. So  she 
could see why HSBC declined Mr Hs request.
Mr H asked that his complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
Ive seen Mr Hs request for an overdraft of £250  and HSBCs records that showed how 
they assessed it. Mr H said he was earning a salary of £28,000 per annum and owned his 
own property. He lived with a partner and had no dependents. HSBC recorded acct always 
in credit. No returns (returned cheques). No spec trans, payday loans seen. However would 
prefer to see consistent higher credit t/o in the account at last 6 months prior to request.
So  it does look, on the face of it, that the request was declined because of the reason pf 
low credit turnover. I can also see that Mr Hs salary wasnt paid into his HSBC account  
which wouldnt have helped his request.
But  HSBC have also said to us and to Mr H  that they used also credit reference agency 
data  credit searches  as part of their assessment. Mr H has shown us his credit file. This 
shows that in September 2020 (just prior to his HSBC application) he had exceeded his 
credit limit with Bank A  the balance was £12,407 against a limit of £11,550. And before 
that, the search data showed a balance of £14,001 against the same limit. This was due to 
an error by HSBC  our service had investigated that separately. I can also see that HSBCs 
assessment recorded payday loans seen  while I cant see if there were any on Mr Hs 
credit search, this does suggest that HSBC looked at his credit file  and so wouldve seen 
the excess borrowing with Bank A. And - this would have had a negative effect on Mr Hs 
application.
Also  HSBC had agreed a balance transfer of £7,000 on Mr Hs credit card in January 2020 
 so it does look odd to decline an overdraft of £250 a year later. Equally HSBC may have 
been concerned about their own credit card debt  we dont know.
But for me  the critical issue is that HSBC wrote to Mr H in January 2021 when advising him 
of their decision to decline. And the letter said As part of the processing of this application 
we can see that you hold various borrowing facilities with either ourselves or other financial 
providers. As a responsible lender we must ensure that any borrowing we agree to is both 
affordable for you and in line with the income we see coming through your accounts with 
us,with your current level of borrowing and the income we see coming through your 
account, we are unable to agree any further facilities.
We asked HSBC about this letter  they couldnt explain why it referred to other borrowing 
and said again  that their decision was based on low credit turnover. But  I cant ignore 
this letter and it does indicate that HSBC had seen Mr Hs overall borrowing at other banks 
(and maybe HSBC) and taken this into account. And  as our investigation of Mr Hs other 
complaint shows  the excess borrowing was overstated due to HSBCs error. I think it is 
most likely HSBCs decision to decline Mr Hs overdraft application would have been 
influenced by this other error. So Ive made sure the redress awarded under that other 
complaint reflects the problems caused here. I dont think that HSBCs application process is 
wrong. Or that it was applied incorrectly in this case. The base data that the application 
referred to was wrong. And so the redress has to be awarded in the complaint where the 
actual error occurred.
Mr H says that the decline decision caused him more financial pressure at a time when he 
was trying to sort out the errors on his account at Bank A. He hasnt brought forward any 
specific costs or losses  but I can see that what happened must have been very frustrating 
for him. And so  I am upholding Mr Hs complaint, but the redress has been awarded with 
our investigation into Mr Hs other complaint.
Responses to the provisional decision:
HSBC had no comments. Mr H accepted the findings. So  I now need to make a final 
decision.
(continued)
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Because neither HSBC had no comments, and Mr H accepted the findings, I wont be 
departing from the provisional decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. The are no actions or redress as these are dealt with under the Mr 
Hs related complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman