The complaint
Mr A is unhapp y with how NewDa y Ltd has handled a complaint abo ut a declined transaction 
on his cred it card.
What happened
The background of this complai nt is well known to both partie s and has been detailed by 
our investigator previously. so, Ill summarise the key points Ive focused on within my 
decision. 
Mr A is unhapp y that a card transaction was declined when paying for a taxi fare which 
caused embarrassment. He raised a complaint with NewDay but it wasnt logged and it didnt 
adhere to the thre e to five working days it said it would take to contact Mr A about his 
complaint.
NewDay upheld Mr As complaint in part as detailed in a final response letter dated 4 August 
2020. It agreed Mr A was advised of an incorrect timescale of three to five working days to 
contact him about his complaint and offered £25 compensation. But despite checking 
various systems, it was unable to agree that Mr A had a card transaction declined or that he 
had raised a complaint. However, the compensation was later increased to £50 to reflect 
some incorrect information that was given to Mr A.
Our investigato r didnt uphold the complaint. He sai d there was one declined payment for 
£27 on 1 2 April 2020 and the evidence suggested the payment either didnt go through due 
to the rules of the Payment Services Directive (PSD), which NewDay is obliged to follow by 
law, or due to a processing error by the merchant. He d idnt feel NewDay has acted unfairly 
or unreasonably.
The investigator did feel, however, that a complaint should have been logged on 12 April 
2020 (the system note for this complaint wasnt found until afte r NewDay had issued its final 
response letter in August 2020) and Mr A would have been expecting a call b ack. But he felt 
the compensation offered by NewDay to recognise the failings in service wa s in line with 
what our servi ce would award in these circumstances (initially £25 b ut later increased to 
£50).
Mr A is unhapp y 
with the outcome of his complai nt as he doesnt feel the compensation 
offered is reasonable. So, the complai nt has been passed to me, an ombudsman to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Page 1 of 2
DRN-2578203Page 2 of 2Mr A has raised a number of issues in correspondence and calls with this service. My role 
here is to focus on what I consider to be at the heart of the complaint, and I will only 
comment on those things relevant to the decision I need to make. That may mean I dont 
comment on everything Mr A has said, but I can confirm Ive thoroughly read and considered 
all the evidence submitted by the parties in reaching my decision.
Regarding the declined transaction, I acknowledge the embarrassment Mr A said he 
experienced. Having looked at the evidence presented about the transaction, I dont feel the 
declinature is the fault of NewDay. NewDay is obliged to follow the rules of the PSD. And 
NewDay isnt responsible for any errors on behalf of the merchant. So, I wont be asking 
NewDay to do anything further on this point.
NewDay accepted Mr A was advised of an incorrect timescale of three to five workings days 
to contact him about his complaint. And I agree with the investigator that a complaint 
shouldve been logged when Mr A called to express his dissatisfaction about the declination 
of the card transaction. I can see this caused Mr A frustration, but Im persuaded £50 
compensation to recognise this impact on Mr A is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
Angela Casey
Ombudsman