DRN-2935174
The complaint
Mrs S complains that IGO4 Ltd renewed her motor insurance policy after her car had been 
written off. She wants it to stop pursuing her for payments. 
What happened
Mrs S was involved in an accident and she said her car was written off by her insurer and 
she declared it SORN. IGO4 automatically renewed her policy. But Mrs S made an 
indemnity claim for her first months premium. IGO4 told Mrs S it would cancel the policy, but 
an amount remained owing. IGO4 asked the insurer to backdate the cancellation to the date 
the car was declared SORN, but the insurer wanted further information.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought IGO4 
had sent Mrs S notice of the renewal and then confirmation that the policy had been 
renewed. But Mrs S hadnt then cancelled the policy. She thought Mrs S was required to 
insurer her car until it was declared SORN. And she thought IGO4 had reasonably asked the 
insurer to backdate the cancellation to this date. 
Mrs S replied that shed had calls from IGO4 each month and shed told it she didnt need 
the policy. But IGO4 said it hadnt made these calls. It thought they may have been made by 
its debt recovery agents. Mrs S didnt agree with the investigators view, so her complaint 
has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the brokers acted in line with its terms 
of business and fairly and reasonably.
When Mrs S first took out her policy in 2018, she agreed to accept IGO4s terms and 
conditions which included its fees for cancellation and renewal. The policy automatically 
renewed in 2019. Mrs S was then involved in an accident and made a claim. But I cant see 
that the insurer then declared her car to be a total loss. 
The policy then came up for renewal and IGO4 sent Mrs S her renewal notice by email. But I 
cant see that Mrs S told IGO4 that she didnt want the policy. IGO4 then sent Mrs S notice 
that the policy had renewed. Mrs S called IGO4 to discuss the claim, but she didnt mention 
not renewing her policy. 
After the first months premium had been taken, Mrs S asked her bank to return the 
payment. But Mrs S didnt tell IGO4 that she wanted to cancel her policy. So I think IGO4 
reasonably notified her of the non-payment and, when she didnt reply, IGO4 then notified 
Mrs S of the cancellation of the policy. I think this was in keeping with the policys terms and 
conditions.
Mrs S said her car was declared SORN and was parked on her driveway as she couldnt 
afford to insure it. But I cant see that she told ISO4 that the car was off the road and 
declared SORN. Nor can I see that the car was declared a write-off. So IGO4 had no reason 
to think she didnt need her policy. 
So I think IGO4 gave Mrs S notice that her policy would renew, but I cant see that she acted 
to stop this until after the first payment had been taken. So I cant say that IGO4 did anything 
wrong in renewing Mrs Ss policy. And nor can I say that IGO4 was wrong to have applied its 
cancellation fees as set out in its terms and conditions.
Mrs S said shed had monthly calls from IGO4, and shed told it she didnt need the policy. 
But I havent seen evidence that IGO4 called Mrs S. I think these calls were made after the 
policy had renewed and her debt had been passed to its collection agency. 
I think IGO4 has reasonably offered to set up a repayment plan to clear the balance 
outstanding. Its also asked the insurer to backdate the cancellation to the date the car was 
declared SORN if Mrs S provides proof that it was written off. I dont require it to do anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman