DRN-3251203
The complaint
Miss C complains that Starling Bank Limited wont refund a debit card transaction which she
says she didnt make or otherwise authorise.
Background
The particulars of this case are well known to the parties, so I dont need to detail them again
here. Instead, Ill focus on the key reasons for reaching my decision  our rules allow that.
In short, Miss C believed she was talking to a friend on social media who said they needed
financial support. To try and help, Miss C agreed to send money to this individual. But it
turned out that Miss C was in fact speaking to fraudsters posing as her friend. Its unclear
exactly what happened next, but Miss C remembers clicking on a website link that was sent
to her, which permitted remote access to her laptop via the application TeamViewer.
In the end, just under £3,000 was transferred from her Halifax bank account to her account
with Starling. Shortly afterwards, this money was used to fund a card payment of £2,763.21
from her Starling account. This payment went to an online trading website, into an account
set up fraudulently in Miss Cs name.
Miss C claimed that she didnt authorise this card payment and has lost the money that was
paid out of her Starling account, because she had no knowledge of this trading account. She
raised a complaint with Starling, as it was unable to stop the money leaving her account
even though she called the bank immediately after the transaction was initiated. Because
Starling declined to refund her, she brought her complaint to our service.
Ultimately, our investigator thought that Starling ought to have flagged the payment as
suspicious and questioned Miss C before it was let go. And had the bank stepped in, he
concluded that Miss Cs loss would probably have been prevented.
Starling doesnt agree. It submits that there are a number of discrepancies in Miss Cs
statement. Overall, the bank maintains that it cannot reasonably be expected to refund the
payment.
Provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 30 December 2021. I have copied the findings 
section of this decision below:
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint, I am minded not to uphold it.
I know my intended decision will be disappointing for Miss C. This is a finely 
balanced case and Id like to assure her that Ive duly considered everything thats 
been provided. But on account of the evidence, Im not currently persuaded that 
Starling ought to refund the transaction in dispute here. I say so for the following 
reasons:
relevant considerations
1. It doesnt appear to be in question that the disputed payment was authorised by 
Miss C for the purposes of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) in 
force at the time. It was made by using the legitimate security credentials 
provided by Starling. And it looks like theres common ground between the 
parties that this should be regarded as an authorised payment, even if Miss C 
believes she was the victim of a sophisticated scam.
2. However, for the avoidance of any doubt, Im satisfied Miss C gave the fraudster
information in the knowledge, and with the intention of, allowing money to be paid 
out of her account. She did so with the purpose of helping what she thought was 
a friend in need. Therefore, I find this to be an authorised transaction, for the 
purposes of the PSRs.
3. As a starting position, banks are under an obligation to follow their customers 
instructions. Banks have a duty to make payments or accommodate cash 
withdrawal requests correctly and promptly so that legitimate payments are made 
correctly. So, consumers who authorise a payment, even where that turns out to 
be fraud related or they were tricked into doing so, start off on the back-foot 
when it comes to getting that payment returned to them because the bank was 
following a valid instruction.
4. There are some situations where banks  taking into account relevant rules, 
codes and best practice  ought to have been on alert or notice that something 
wasnt right or should have looked at the wider circumstances surrounding the 
transaction before making the payment. So, Ive looked into what this means for 
this case and whether Starling should have done more to prevent this £2,763.21 
card payment. 
unusual or uncharacteristic activity
 
5. Having considered the recent activity of Miss Cs account, together with the 
particular circumstances of this case, I am satisfied there were reasonable 
grounds for Starling to suspect fraud or a scam, and therefore justify an 
intervention. Particularly, in light of the sum involved in relation to how Miss C 
normally operated her account. The disputed payment represented a sudden and 
uncharacteristic increase in her spending, which conflicted with her normal 
expenditure.
6. In my judgment, this was an unusual and uncharacteristic card payment for    
Miss C compared with her recent history on the account  which indicated that 
something untoward might be happening. Overall, I think that Starling ought to 
have identified the risk of harm.
causation
7. Having concluded that Starling ought to have intervened with this payment, next I 
need to determine what difference (if any) such an intervention wouldve made. 
This is otherwise known as causation. In order for me to require Starling to 
refund the disputed payment on the grounds of causation, I would need to be 
satisfied that the bank stepping in wouldve prevented the loss here.8. Its important to note that Miss C has not provided certain information when 
asked to as part of our services investigation. She has also, at times, changed 
her story. There is a lack of documentary evidence to consider because Miss C 
has explained that she deleted messages and material sent to her by the 
fraudsters. All of which, makes it more difficult to understand what really 
happened, and what probably would have occurred had Starling taken further 
steps before the payment was let go.
9. When asked whether she disclosed the one-time passcode (OTP) that was sent 
by Starling as a precaution before the payment could be made, Miss C initially 
submitted that she did not divulge such a passcode to anyone. But conversely, 
she later conceded that she did in fact pass this information to the fraudsters.
10. Whats more, it remains unclear why money was moved from Miss Cs account 
with Halifax to this account with Starling. Because, according to Miss C, the 
fraudsters were able to control her online banking facility with Halifax and send 
her funds from this bank to Starling. In simpler terms, the fraudsters had access 
to Miss Cs money before it reached Starling and were able to make payments 
out of that account  which begs the question, why was it necessary to send the 
money to Miss Cs Starling account at all.
11. In situations like these, where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory, I need to decide the complaint on what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened in light of all the available evidence and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
12.  When considering how Miss C says the scam unfolded, the use of the 
application TeamViewer was an important factor. Without TeamViewer being 
used, the payment could not have been made based on Miss Cs statement. 
Theres compelling evidence that the occupier of the laptop device where 
TeamViewer was used would first had to have given over certain passwords for it 
to be installed (as it was not already present before the scam took place). So, 
unless persuasively rebutted with strong evidence, I must consider that Miss C 
was aware that a remote access application was in use on her laptop, for the very 
reason that she had to take certain steps to permit it being there.
13. When posed questions about this, Miss C hasnt responded in full. In particular, 
when asked for details about how the fraudsters managed to remotely access her 
laptop (using TeamViewer), Miss C hasnt been forthcoming with this information. 
In the absence of this part of her statement, I must instead rely on the available 
evidence.
14. If Miss C thought she was talking to a friend, it seems likely to me that a request 
to download or put in place an application to facilitate remote access to her 
computer wouldve caused her to think twice about the need to do so. From what 
shes described, Miss C thought she was simply sending money to a friend in 
need  which doesnt explain why downloading and/or using new applications 
wouldve been necessary.15. Especially, because its evident that Miss C was competent at sending money to 
different accounts. Looking at her recent statements leading up to the disputed 
payment, she frequently sent money from her Starling account to different 
beneficiaries. These required her to use her online/mobile banking facility to 
instruct a faster payment from her account. Therefore, its unclear why she 
allowed TeamViewer to be used here, as the evidence strongly suggests she 
wouldve known that she could send a friend money using the same methods she 
had before, without the need for any further applications.
16. With this in mind, it seems highly likely that the introduction of TeamViewer ought 
to have caused real suspicion for Miss C. Indeed, in her previous submissions to 
our service, she made it clear that she shut down her laptop immediately after 
TeamViewer was introduced by the fraudsters, having been very concerned 
about why it was needed.
17. Although, having said that, based on Miss Cs subsequent version of events, the 
OTP was issued by Starling after the fraudsters already had remote access to her 
laptop. I therefore cannot ignore that Miss C allegedly had concerns about being 
asked to allow remote access to her device  yet, still disclosed a passcode sent 
by her bank.
18. In terms of where the payment ended up, we know it went to the online platform, 
Koinal. This website facilitates the purchase and trade of certain commodities, 
such as cryptocurrency. Its not in question that Koinal required an account to be 
created, in order for the payment to be held there (before it was then moved on 
by the fraudsters). When considering the information needed to create such an 
account, its evident that Miss Cs identification (ID) was necessary. Her 
passport was used, along with other information.
19. I accept that details such as her name and address may have been known to the 
fraudsters  conversations had been had leading up to the payment date, 
whereby such information couldve been inadvertently given by Miss C. Even so, 
the interception of a copy of an official document such as a passport is altogether 
different in my view. And based on Miss Cs statement, this was not given over by 
her. Rather, it was taken.
20. Its not entirely clear how this happened. At times, Miss C has explained that she 
immediately closed down her laptop to prevent remote access to it. Therein, 
preventing the interception of any information contained on her device. But on the 
other hand, Miss C later said that the fraudsters must have used the remote 
access to find a picture/copy of her passport which was stored on her laptop.
21. If I were to accept this most recent version of events, there is no plausible 
explanation for how the fraudsters knew a copy of Miss Cs passport was held on 
her laptop  Miss C hasnt said that she told the fraudsters that she stored such 
information on the device.22. It is possible that the fraudsters may have chanced that they would be able to find 
what was needed to send a payment to Koinal by accessing Miss Cs computer 
files. But this sounds like a sophisticated scam, that involved multiple 
conversations and clever techniques. So, gambling on the successful interception 
of a unique document like a passport seems inconsistent with how the scam had 
been engineered up until that point. All in all, I find it unlikely that the fraudsters 
would have jeopardised being able to take this sum of money by relying on first 
being able to find a suitable copy of Miss Cs ID. Not least, when the fraudsters 
appear to have already had access and control of money held in her Halifax 
account.
23. All of this casts doubts on causation. I must follow the evidence and, ultimately, 
Miss C has not persuasively proven her case having been given a fair chance to 
do so. After all, I am faced with a conflicting version of events from Miss C. For 
me to accept her side of things and uphold the complaint, I would need to place 
considerable evidential weight on her testimony. But in fairness, her statement is 
slightly vague and self-contradictory regarding what are critical elements to a 
case of this kind. I therefore cannot safely conclude that an intervention from 
Starling wouldve made a material difference here.
24. This is not, however, the same as dismissing Miss Cs statement  and I hope 
Miss C can appreciate that it would not be reasonable, nor fair of me to uphold 
this complaint based solely on her testimony if on balance the evidence suggests 
otherwise.
Responses to my provisional decision
Starling accepted my provisional findings and had nothing further to add. 
Miss C reiterated her disappointment about how Starling handled her account with this 
transaction. In particular, she maintains that the bank ought to have done more to stop the 
payment being let go. For completeness, she did not provide any supporting evidence 
following my provision decision. 
Now that both parties have responded, the case has been returned to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I continue to appreciate Miss Cs disappointment, in my initial review I had already 
considered the argument she has put forward following my provisional decision. Without new 
supporting evidence or information to make me think otherwise, I do not see the need to add 
to what Ive already set out in my provisional findings.
It remains that Miss C needed to explain her case so that it could be reasonably decided that 
Starling was liable for her losing this money. However, taking everything into consideration, I 
am still of the opinion that there are too many unexplained parts to Miss Cs version of what 
happened for this to be safely concluded. To that end, its my judgment that it would be 
unfair to hold Starling responsible for the loss Miss C says she has incurred. 
So, where I am satisfied that no material evidence or arguments have been put forward 
since my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings.  My final decision
For the reasons set out above and before, my final decision is that I do not uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman