DRN-3610206
The complaint
Mrs O complains about a claim she made under a mobile phone insurance policy with 
Assurant General Insurance Limited.
What happened
At the end of March 2022 Mrs O let her daughter use her phone on a night out as she 
wanted to take quality photographs. Mrs O was told by her daughter that the phone was 
missing and possibly stolen. Mrs O reported the loss of the phone to Assurant and the 
police.
But it was subsequently found at the venue Mrs Os daughter had gone to, appearing to 
have been dropped and damaged after being run over by a vehicle.
Mrs O told Assurant on her first call that another SIM card had been used in the phone on 
the night it was lost. And in a subsequent call the SIM cards were discussed. 
Assurant says that Mrs O told the claims-handler that a different SIM card was in the phone 
when it was lost. Assurant refused the claim, as it said Mrs O had provided them with 
misleading information. Assurant says Mrs O knowingly provided conflicting accounts of 
the usage of her phone and SIM card at the time of the loss. Assurant also cancelled the 
policy.
Mrs O wasnt happy with Assurants response. She said that shed tried to provide the 
information they wanted but there were some language barriers. And that theyd 
misunderstood what shed said. The mobile phone had been lost and damaged and she 
feels Assurant should have dealt with her claim. She referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said that Assurant should reconsider the claim. He said the policy terms 
require fraud to be established for Assurant to refuse a claim and there was not enough
evidence of fraud. He said Assurant should reconsider the claim and pay Mr T £150
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Assurant havent responded to the investigators outcome, so Mrs Os complaint has been 
referred to an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint. 
Assurant has declined Mrs Os claim on the basis shed made a fraudulent claim as her 
account about the phone varied. But Im not satisfied that Assurant has done enough to
establish this and will explain why.
Ive listened to the phone calls made by Mrs O, in the first call, Mrs O explains that the 
phone went missing on a night out. But doesnt say that the phone wasnt in her possession 
when it went missing. There was some discussion about what had happened to the phone 
and the claim handler asked Mrs O about the SIM card that was in the phone at the time it 
went missing. Mrs O said no another card was in . The claim handler didnt ask about the 
other SIM card and referred back to the SIM card for Mrs Os phone number ending 020.  
And I think its clear from this call that Mrs O is struggling to fully understand the questions 
shes being asked. 
From this call Mrs O is passed onto the assessment team and this reinforces my thinking 
that Mrs O doesnt fully understand the process, terminology, or technology that she is being 
asked about. And I dont think the claim handler takes the time to explain what he is trying to 
establish or why. In the end Mrs O gives up and ends the call. Later its confirmed which SIM 
card was in the phone at the time it went missing. And its this contradictory information that 
Assurant has based their decision to refuse the claim and cancel the insurance policy.
Assurant declined Mrs Os claim because shed given mis-leading information and quoted 
their terms and conditions. Ive considered these terms and conditions, they say:
If false or inaccurate information is provided and fraud is identified then we may : 
 Reject the claim and we may cancel your policy. If an excess has been paid this will be 
returned.
Im persuaded that the incorrect information Mrs O gave was true to the best of her
knowledge at the time. Shes provided evidence that the phone she was claiming for 
belonged to her even though she wasnt clear about the SIM card within the phone itself. 
This misinformation related to the usage of the phone prior to its loss and the SIM card it
contained. It doesnt relate to the actual circumstances of the phones loss, or the amount 
shes claiming for the phone. 
Mrs O was getting information from her daughter and when she called Assurant I dont think 
she was privy to all the circumstances of how the phone was lost/damaged. Mrs O initially 
believed the phone had been stolen but its now known following contact with the venue 
where the phone was lost, and details about the way the phone was damaged.
So, I dont consider that she knowingly provided false and misleading information to 
Assurant that would have caused a claim to be paid which wouldnt have been paid if correct 
information had been given. So, I dont think Assurant can say that fraud has been identified.
I consider that Assurant is rejecting Mrs Os claim based on the information she gave being  
contradictory rather than the circumstances of the loss. And I dont consider that the nature 
of the contradictory information given by Mrs O to Assurant affects whether she has a valid 
claim or not, or how much is paid. 
Putting things right
As I dont think Assurant has identified fraud, I dont think they have been fair or reasonable 
in declining Mrs Os claim and cancelling her insurance policy. So, I  think Assurant should 
reinstate Mrs Os insurance policy, re-consider Mrs Os claim subject to the other terms and 
conditions of her policy should she look to pursue it. I think this had been a distressing time for Mrs O, she not only lost her phone but has had to 
consider the implications of having an insurance claim rejected as being fraudulent and her 
insurance policy cancelled. So I agree with our investigator that Assurant should 
compensate Mrs O £150 for the distress and inconvenience this has caused. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Assurant General Insurance Limited to:
reinstate Mrs Os mobile phone insurance policy;
reconsider her claim, should she make it, subject to the terms and conditions of her 
policy; and
pay £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused to her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman