DRN-3421362
The complaint
Mrs Fs complaint relates to a mortgage she has with Bank of Scotland plc (BoS). Shes 
unhappy about how BoS behaved when she asked for help due to financial difficulties; in 
particular that it wouldnt convert the mortgage to an interest-only basis. She is also unhappy 
that BoS hasnt chased the joint borrower for a contribution to the mortgage payments, given 
it knows about her financial difficulties.
What happened
Mrs F and her ex-husband took out the mortgage in 2014 to purchase their home. The 
mortgage was taken out on a repayment basis and had a two-year interest rate product 
attached to it. New interest rate products were arranged throughout the term with the one 
attached at the time of the complaint due to expire at the end of July 2021.
In June 2021 Mrs F contacted BoS. She explained that she had split with her husband and 
he was not assisting her financially. The interest rate product on the mortgage was due to 
end the following month and she felt that BoS was not helping and was forcing her into 
worse hardship. She explained she couldnt allow the mortgage to go into arrears due to the 
effect it would have on her employment, but this meant that she wasnt paying other bills and 
was having difficulty feeding her family. She asked that she be allowed to set up an 
arrangement before the mortgage went into arrears (for example changing to interest-only 
with the repayment vehicle being selling the property or extending the term) or be allowed to 
add a new interest rate product to the mortgage. 
BoS responded to Mrs Fs concerns in its final response letter of 25 June 2021. It explained 
that where there was a marital dispute, it usually needed both borrowers to agree any 
changes to the mortgage. However, given Mrs Fs circumstances, it would escalate the 
request for help to reduce her monthly outgoings, without the other borrower being involved, 
but she needed to complete an income and expenditure exercise first. It explained that the 
whole process might take a few weeks, but it would bear in mind that the current interest rate 
product ended the following month. BoS also explained that it couldnt convert the mortgage 
to an interest-only basis unless there was a suitable repayment vehicle in place, and selling 
the property (thereby making her homeless) was not considered a suitable vehicle. 
A few days later Mrs F called BoS and an assessment of her income and expenditure was 
done. It was established that Mrs F couldnt afford the mortgage payments. The request for a 
new interest rate product was escalated to senior management to see if a new rate could be 
agreed without the other borrowers agreement. 
BoS approved a new interest rate product being added to the mortgage without the consent 
of the second borrower. Mrs F was written to on 14 July 2021 confirming that was the case 
and setting out the options available to her. She was asked to confirm which option she 
wanted. The new interest rate product was attached to the mortgage on 1 August 2021, 
following the old product expiring.
The following day Mrs F had a conversation with BoS about changing the mortgage into her 
sole name. She was told that this could happen if the mortgage was shown to be affordable 
on her sole income and Mr didnt object. 
On 27 July 2021 Mrs F telephoned us and told us about her concerns with how BoS was 
treating her. She explained that the matter was ongoing and she would keep us updated and 
forward relevant documentation when it was received from BoS.
In January 2022 Mrs F contacted BoS asking if a Property Adjustment Order was submitted, 
whether BoS would remove the second borrower from the mortgage. 
BoS sent Mrs F a letter on 7 January 2022 answering her questions about a Property 
Adjustment Order. It confirmed that if there was a Court Matrimonial Order transferring the 
title to her sole name, then it has to accept that. If that happened then it would consider 
changing the mortgage too, but that would be a business decision. That said, given shed 
been paying the mortgage for some time on her own, it was entirely possible BoS would 
agree.
On 21 January 2022 Mrs F asked whether BoS would be willing to allow her to take over the 
mortgage and increase the borrowing by £60,000 in order to facilitate the other borrower 
being bought out. Different options were discussed, and Mrs F said shed seek independent 
financial advice.
Following Mrs F receiving independent advice, she asked if BoS would change her mortgage 
to an interest-only basis until some issues regarding payments from her ex-husband were 
sorted out. It was anticipated that it could be up to 18 months before the situation was 
resolved. It was explained that BoS couldnt just convert the mortgage, Mrs F would need to 
apply for a new mortgage on that basis and she would need to evidence that she had an 
adequate repayment vehicle. Mrs F said that she couldnt make such an application as her 
income wasnt enough to be granted a mortgage at that time. 
Mrs F again contacted us and confirmed that she wanted us to consider her complaint about 
how BoS was treating her.
Mrs F subsequently decided that she wasnt happy with what shes been told and the fact 
that BoS wasnt chasing her ex-husband for payments. BoS issued a final response letter on 
1 March 2022. It explained that while the mortgage is being paid, it wouldnt contact either 
party about payments. If the account fell behind, then it would chase both of the borrowers 
for the outstanding arrears. The issue of what the two borrowers each paid toward the 
mortgage was a civil matter and not something the bank would get involved in. In addition, 
BoS said that it wouldnt go over the issue of changing the mortgage to an interest-only basis 
again as dealt with it in its June 2021 final response letter.
Mrs F wasnt happy with BoS responses and asked us to consider her concerns again on 
27 July 2022. When she did so, she explained that she was trying to improve her financial 
position and still wanted the mortgage changed to an interest-only basis to help her improve 
her situation. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. She was satisfied that the process to add a new interest rate product to the 
mortgage was reasonable, given the difficulties between the borrowers. She also explained 
the difference between a temporary interest-only concession and a permanent conversion to 
that basis, and what the lenders approach would be. She didnt think it was unreasonable of 
BoS to have declined Mrs Fs request to change her mortgage to an interest-only basis. In 
addition, as each borrower was jointly and severally liable for the mortgage payments, if the monthly payments were being made, it was not for BoS to get involved with the 
arrangements between the borrowers. If Mrs F was in dispute with her ex-husband, it was for 
her to deal with the matter directly with him or via the courts. 
Mrs F didnt consider the investigators conclusions were fair, given her circumstances. She 
asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman. Our investigator confirmed that she 
understood Mrs Fs circumstances were difficult, but that the problems appeared to have 
been caused by difficulties with Mrs Fs ex-husband, rather than because BoS had treated 
her unfairly.
Mrs F went on to say that she didnt think certain information had been considered and that 
her situation needed to be looked into more closely. She said that:
BoS hadnt taken into account that no mortgage payments had been missed and the only 
reason she was asking for the mortgage to be converted to an interest-only basis was 
due to financial hardship.
She has struggled to maintain the mortgage payments since the spring of 2021 on an 
income much smaller than the combined income available at the time the mortgage was 
taken out.
Her ex-husband is jointly liable for the mortgage and service charges on the property and 
shouldnt be allowed to just walk away. It is unreasonable for us to endorse BoS only 
chasing her ex-husband for payments if the mortgage goes into arrears.
She considers it is unfair of BoS to encourage her to default on the mortgage and ruin 
her credit rating, so that BoS will chase her ex-husband for a contribution to the 
mortgage.
She has little money left after the mortgage is paid and has payment arrangements for 
her utility bills as shes fallen behind on payments. She said the situation is not 
sustainable.
She considers BoS should either contact her ex-husband to pay his share of the 
mortgage or allow her to change it to an interest-only basis. She isnt saying she wont 
pay, but rather she doesnt want to be put into a box and told she doesnt fit with its 
lending criteria.
When she sought independent financial advice she was told the amount of equity in the 
property would repay the mortgage at the end of the term, but BoS said that option 
wouldnt be considered as selling at the end of the term was not an acceptable 
repayment plan. 
Mrs F also set out her opinion of BoS position in relation to contract law and the bills of 
exchange act, and what this would mean if she took BoS to court.
Our investigator considered Mrs Fs further comments, but she didnt change her 
conclusions about the complaint. Mrs F maintained her request for the complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly explain our role to Mrs F. We consider disputes between financial businesses 
and their customers. We dont act on behalf of complainants and we have to be impartial 
when we review a complaint. This means that we will consider the evidence, including the 
opinions of both parties, and come to our own conclusion about whether a mistake has been 
made or not. I would also confirm that in order to uphold a complaint I must be persuaded 
that a financial business has done something wrong. In order to award redress or 
compensation I have to be satisfied that the complaint has suffered a loss because of an error by the financial business, be that financial or non-financial. It is on this basis that I have 
reviewed Mrs Fs complaint.
There are three distinct complaint points in this case and I will review each in turn. The first 
is that Mrs F was told that because of the disputes between her and her ex-husband, BoS 
normal policy would be to require both of them to agree to any changes to the mortgage.  
This is not an unusual requirement by a lender where there is a marital dispute and it is put 
in place for the protection of both borrowers. Indeed, Mrs F expressed concern at one point 
that her ex-husband might borrow against the property without her agreement. The 
requirement for both borrowers to be involved is to protect against such situations. So I dont 
think that BoS was unreasonable in this policy and considering that it should, in general, 
apply to Mrs Fs mortgage. 
However, in light of her reported financial difficulties BoS agreed to look into the situation 
further and, if appropriate, to override the need for Mrs Fs ex-husbands agreement to a new 
interest-rate product being added to the mortgage. Again, think this was reasonable. BoS 
completed its assessment and agreed to a new product. While this took a few weeks, I dont 
think that was unreasonable in the circumstances. I also note that the new product was 
applied to the mortgage immediately after the old one expired.
The next issue is Mrs Fs request to have her mortgage changed to an interest-only basis. 
She has asked for this to happen in different ways  a permanent change with the sale of the 
property being used as the way of paying off the mortgage or for specific periods of time 
ranging up to two years.
If a borrower wants to change their existing mortgage or take out a new one on an 
interest-only basis, the lender has to ensure it is lending responsibly. In general, based on 
guidance from the industry regulator, selling a property at the end of the term to pay a 
mortgage off is not considered an acceptable repayment strategy. This is because it 
effectively means that the borrower needs to make themselves homeless in order to repay 
the debt and, in most cases, is unlikely to have enough equity to purchase an alternative 
residence. As such, when a lender is considering agreeing borrowing on an interest-only 
basis it has the responsibility to ensure that the customer has a realistic repayment vehicle in 
place that isnt going to make them homeless. So when Mrs F asked about converting her 
mortgage to an interest-only basis, BoS wasnt wrong to tell her that her proposed 
repayment strategy wasnt acceptable and that she would need an alternative strategy in 
place for it to agree the change. 
As for temporary changes to an interest-only basis such concessions would usually only be 
granted for a short period; usually a matter of a few months. In order to agree such a 
concession, a lender would need to be persuaded that it will actually help the borrower and 
at the end of any such concession there was the realistic likelihood of the customers 
financial position having improved and them being able to afford the mortgage going 
forward. The fact that a consumer wants something doesnt mean that a lender has to agree 
to it. It must be something that will help them in resolving their financial difficulties, and not 
simply delay those difficulties being dealt with.
Mrs F has asked BoS for a temporary change to interest-only for periods ranging from 18 
months to two years, in order for financial arrangements with her ex-husband to be altered 
by the courts/agencies and latterly for her to be able to obtain employment. I dont wish to 
upset Mrs F, but there is no guarantee that her endeavours in either respect will be 
successful and if they were, when either of those things would happen. So its not clear that 
providing this type of concession would actually help Mrs F overall and there is no clear 
timescales for any such success. I am not persuaded, in all the circumstances, that BoS acted unreasonably when it declined 
to convert the mortgage to interest-only. That said, just because it was not appropriate for 
such a concession when previously asked, it doesnt mean that it may not be in the future. 
That would be for Mrs F to explore with BoS going forward.
The final issue is the matter of the payments to the mortgage. As our investigator explained, 
both Mrs F and her ex-husband are both liable for each payment in full. It is their 
responsibility as joint borrowers to make arrangements between them for the payments to be 
made. Mrs Fs ex-husband does have a liability for ensuring the mortgage is paid, and if it is 
not, BoS has confirmed it would pursue him for the missed payments and any arrears, but it 
would equally pursue Mrs F in those circumstances. If the payments are being made, a 
lender wont interfere with whatever arrangements have been made (or not) between the 
borrowers to enable that to happen. 
I know that Mrs F wont be happy with this conclusion, but it is not for BoS to determine what 
financial arrangements should be in place between Mrs F and her ex-husband. That that is a 
matter for the courts and relevant agencies. It would also be inappropriate for BoS to 
interfere with anything the courts or those agencies were doing or considering doing.
I note Mrs F has said that BoS not being willing to pursue her ex-husband for a contribution 
toward the mortgage payments means that it is encouraging her to let the mortgage fall into 
arrears. I dont consider that it is doing that. BoS simply explained what actions it would and 
wouldnt take in different situations. Mrs F is clearly in a very difficult position, but BoS isnt to 
blame for that and I dont think it has treated her unfairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs F to accept or reject my decision before 
25 May 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman