DRN-3194995
complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Miss M says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Miss Ms 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here
According to AXAs records Miss M paid a total of around £38 for PPI during the policys 
lifetime.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Miss Ms representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Ms. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Miss Ms 
complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think AXA made it clear that Miss M didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out. I say this because this was a sale by phone several months after Miss M took 
out her store card  the two things happened at different times. Because of this I dont 
think Miss M would have been under the impression that she had to have PPI at this 
stage.
So taking everything into account, I think Miss M chose to take out PPI and likely did so 
without undue pressure.
Miss M says AXA recommended PPI  AXA says it didnt recommend the PPI to Miss M. 
Looking at what happened in this case, Ive not seen enough to say that Miss M was 
advised to take out PPI. This means AXA didnt have to check that the PPI was right or 
suitable for Miss M. But it did have to give her enough clear and timely information so 
she could decide for herself if it was right for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Miss M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Miss M  for example she 
was eligible for the cover and she wasnt affected by the significant exclusions on or 
limits to the cover. 
Although Miss M says she had some medical conditions some time before the policy was 
taken out, because they happened more than 12 months before she took out the policy, I 
dont think she was caught by the existing medical condition exclusion. Its also the case 
that the things Miss M told us about were treated successfully at the time and theres 
nothing to suggest they caused her ongoing problems, which affected her ability to work.
I dont think the cover was too dissimilar to what Miss M reasonably thought she was 
buying from the information she was given and it also looks like it was affordable  so it 
seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. Because of this I 
dont think Miss M would have declined the cover had AXA done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Miss Ms circumstances at the time of sale and despite its 
limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. 
So I think she would have still thought she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Miss M would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently 
close to what its likely she thought she was getting and I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. And in those 
circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Miss Ms representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant AXA should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Miss Ms representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Miss Ms individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Miss Ms particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
This means AXA doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 February 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman