DRN-4351593
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard has recorded incorrect 
information on his credit file.
What happened
Mr M had a credit card account with Barclays Bank PLC trading as Barclaycard 
(Barclaycard). Barclaycard defaulted the account in August 2018 after Mr M entered into a 
debt management plan with a third party.
In October 2021, Mr M complained to Barclaycard saying they had incorrectly recorded 
missed payments on his credit file for May and June 2018. Barclaycard acknowledged the 
complaint but didnt issue their final response letter on the merits of it.
Mr M referred the complaint to us. Our investigator upheld it. He said Barclaycard had 
reported incorrect information to Mr Ms credit file and recommended that they corrected this. 
Our investigator also recommended that Barclaycard pay Mr M £100 for not responding to 
his complaint, despite saying they would investigate it.
Barclaycard agreed to pay Mr M £100 but said they hadnt been reporting the missed 
payments to his credit file and hadnt reported anything until September 2018. Barclaycard 
asked us to provide evidence of the missed payments, which our investigator then sent.
However, it then took Barclaycard several months to reply. When they did, Barclaycard said 
theyd been in touch with one of the credit reference agencies whod told them missed 
payments had only been recorded on Mr Ms credit file for September and October 2018.
Mr M has since sent in evidence which he says shows that missed payments are still being 
recorded for May and June 2018. Hes also pointed out that missed payments should not be 
showing for September and October 2018 because his account was defaulted by 
Barclaycard in August 2018.
As the complaint remains unresolved, its been passed to me for a decision.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 25 August 2023, in which I said the 
following and which now forms part of my final decision:
Ive seen evidence from Mr M in the form of a screenshot from his credit report that his 
credit file is currently showing missed payments for May and June 2018. Ive also seen from 
the account statements that Barclaycard sent to us that Mr M made the minimum payments 
towards his credit card in those months. So, no missed payments should be shown.
Our investigator has sent the screenshot showing this information to Barclaycard however 
we have not had their comments. I note that theyve previously said that theyve been told by 
one of the credit reference agencies that theyve only been recording missed payments for 
September and October 2018. But Mr M has presented compelling evidence that missed 
payments are still being recorded for May and June 2018.
The difficulty here is that I cant be reasonably sure where the fault lies. It could be for 
example that the credit reference agencies have misinterpreted the data Barclaycard has 
sent them. And I note Barclaycard seem adamant that they havent recorded missed 
payments for May and June 2018. It could also be true that Barclaycard have, and have 
continued to make, the error. I note also that Barclaycard sold the debt some time ago to a 
third party, so its even possible that the third party is the one who has made the error.
I think the fairest way to resolve this is for Barclaycard to contact both of the credit reference 
agencies that are reporting Mr Ms data for this account, and clearly set out that no missed 
payments should be recorded for May and June 2018. I also am not persuaded that missed 
payments should be recorded for September and October 2018. As Mr M says, Barclaycard 
defaulted the account in August 2018, so there is no need for missed payments to be 
reported after then as the account had in fact been terminated (otherwise why would a 
default be recorded?). So, I think Barclaycard needs to make that clear to the credit 
reference agencies as well.
If, having done that, incorrect information remains, then Mr M may wish to take this further 
with the credit reference agencies.
Ive also considered how long this dispute has remained unresolved. And that is Im afraid in 
no small part to Barclaycard failing to engage with Mr M and with us on numerous occasions 
over several months. I think this has caused Mr M further inconvenience. I am currently 
inclined to say that Barclaycard should pay Mr M £250 in recognition of this, which includes 
the £100 they originally agreed to pay.
My provisional decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard to contact 
the credit reference agencies as set out above, and to pay Mr M £250 in compensation.
I asked Mr M and Barclaycard to send me any further evidence or comments to consider. 
Mr M replied saying he agreed with my provisional decision. Barclaycard didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has sent me anything further to consider, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional decision. So, for the reasons given in my provisional decision, I uphold this 
complaint.
Putting things right
Barclaycard should contact the credit reference agencies that are reporting data about this 
account on Mr Ms credit file and ask them to remove missed payment markers in 2018 for 
May, June, September and October. They should also pay Mr M an amount for the 
inconvenience this matter has caused him. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard to:
contact both of the credit reference agencies that are reporting Mr Ms data for this account, and clearly set out that no missed payments should be recorded for May, 
June, September and October 2018; and
pay Mr M a total of £250 for the inconvenience hes been caused by their failure to 
engage adequately on this complaint. This total includes the £100 already agreed 
following our investigators view. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman