DRN-2542708
The complaint
Mrs E has complained about the way MetLife Europe d.a.c. has dealt with her claim. 
What happened
Mrs E has an income protection policy through her employer, underwritten by MetLife. This 
would pay a benefit if Mrs E was unable to work due to illness or injury. 
Mrs E became absent from work in August 2017 and made a claim. MetLife accepted the 
claim and started to pay. However, it reviewed its decision in February 2019 and requested 
updated evidence from Mrs Es GP. Following this, it arranged an assessment which found 
Mrs E was able to work and so no longer met the definition of incapacity. It stopped paying 
the claim. Unhappy with this, Mrs E complained and referred her complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think MetLife had done anything wrong 
as the GP evidence was lacking in detail and MetLife had carried out an independent 
assessment which commented on Mrs Es ability to work. 
Mrs E disagreed and provided a further letter from her GP which confirmed she was unable 
to work. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
MetLifes policy terms and conditions define incapacity as follows:
they are unable to perform, due to illness or injury, the material and substantial 
duties required of them in their own occupation which they were performing 
immediately prior to them being incapacitated.
In January 2019, MetLife requested updated medical evidence from Mrs Es GP. This 
showed Mrs E hadnt met with her GP between June 2018 and February 2019. MetLife didnt 
think the evidence was sufficient to continue supporting a claim and so it arranged a chronic 
pain abilities determination (CPAD) assessment.
A CPAD assessment was carried out in July 2019 which assessed Mrs Es limitations, 
restrictions and her physical abilities. The report found: 
Mrs E could constantly sit, reach out, reach up and stoop
She could frequently stand, walk and climb stairs
Normal power was demonstrated in both upper and lower limbs
She demonstrated a normal range of movements 
Pain level reduced from severe to moderate at the conclusion of the testing
She wasnt suffering from any cognitive impairments that would prevent her from 
returning to her role on a full-time basis
Mrs E says the assessment was very broad and not appropriate to her condition. But in the 
absence of any further supportive and ongoing medical evidence in her GP records, I think it 
was appropriate for MetLife to arrange this assessment which commented on Mrs Es 
function. 
Mrs E also says MetLife should have requested a detailed letter from her GP. But I think the 
CPAD assessment was appropriate for Mrs Es condition and the sort of evidence I would 
expect to see in a case where payment of a claim is being terminated. 
Mrs E provided a further report from her GP during this investigation which confirms she is 
unable to work. However, I dont think the report goes into sufficient detail to contradict the 
findings of the independent assessment which commented on Mrs Es functions. And so I 
dont think MetLife needs to overturn its decision. 
I appreciate Mrs E will be disappointed with my decision. But Im satisfied that MetLife acted 
appropriately by arranging an independent examination before terminating the claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman