DRN-2762207
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C took out a Nationwide mortgage in 1991. Then in 1992, they took out a PPI 
policy alongside a further advance on that mortgage. Mr and Mrs C paid for the PPI with a 
regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered Mr C, in case he was off 
work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Cs case. 
Having done that, I have not found this policy to have been mis-sold  Ill explain why.
This sale was around three decades ago, and the accounts involved have long since closed. 
So its unsurprising that the original records of the sale arent still available. Indeed, under 
data protection rules, Nationwide was required to dispose of Mr and Mrs Cs data rather than 
hold onto it for too long. Ive thought carefully about whats most likely to have happened 
based on the limited information I have.
Mr and Mrs C were able to provide their offer of further advance, and they pointed out that 
the special conditions mentioned PPI. They felt this supported their recollection that they 
were told the PPI was compulsory. I can certainly appreciate why they thought to bring this 
up. But their offer of further advance came at the end of their application process, when 
Mr and Mrs C wouldve already picked what type of loan and related insurances they 
wanted. The document was setting out what Mr and Mrs C would have already chosen. 
Here, it looks like it was just letting them know that their cover would get set up once the 
further advance completed. Further, if the PPI had been a compulsory part of the lending, 
I might have expected the policys cost to be included in the loan figures  but here it was 
not. And theres nothing in the document which says that the PPI was compulsory.
Ive not seen any evidence which shows that Nationwide misled Mr and Mrs C into buying 
PPI. Ive not seen any wider problems with Nationwides sales process from the time, either. 
Further, this sale was too long ago for me to reasonably require Nationwide to be able to 
produce evidence from the time to defend itself now. And I also note that by 1992, Mr and 
Mrs C had already been granted their original Nationwide mortgage without PPI, which 
would have indicated to them that they didnt have to buy PPI to get their secured borrowing. 
Overall, I dont think I have a fair basis on which to conclude that Nationwide misled Mr and 
Mrs C. I think its more likely that Nationwide followed a relatively normal sales process, 
offered Mr and Mrs C a choice, and that they chose PPI at the time  though I can 
understand if they no longer recall doing so after so many years.
This was a non-advised sale  Nationwide didnt give Mr and Mrs C tailored advice about 
buying PPI, so it didnt have to check whether it was right for them. It did have to give Mr and 
Mrs C clear information about the PPI, so they could decide for themselves whether it was 
right for them.
Its possible that the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs C about PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. Here, Mr C was eligible for the PPI and wasnt affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover. The PPI wouldve paid out on top of his work benefits and 
covered him for far longer. And ultimately, if Mr and Mrs C fell behind on their mortgage they 
couldve lost their home. So the PPI couldve really been useful for them in protecting their 
home. The policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out in a claim. And 
the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr and Mrs C could cancel it at any time 
without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely to have put them off 
taking out the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman