DRN-2976017
The complaint
Mr K complains Barclays Bank UK PLC allowed his account to go overdrawn. Hes unhappy 
that hes now being pursued for a debt as a result.
What happened
Mr K held a current account with Barclays. He opened it in 2013, in branch, as a 
Young Persons Account (YPA). It was important to Mr K that the account not be given an 
overdraft facility  and he made this request clear at the time.
 
In 2015, Mr Ks account was automatically converted to a regular current account. Thats 
because hed reached 18 years old and was no longer eligible for a YPA. No formal 
overdraft was agreed when this happened, but while the account was open Barclays allowed 
certain card payments to be processed although there werent enough funds available at the 
time. As a result, Mr Ks current account did become overdrawn on several occasions.
 
From around May 2015, Mr Ks account remained in an overdrawn state. After some time, 
when no repayment was made, the bank closed Mr Ks account. Barclays sent Mr K a letter 
in October 2015 which explained his account had been closed, repayment of the debt was 
still required and  if the debt wasnt settled  it could be passed to a third party.
 
Some years later, in November 2020, Barclays sold Mr Ks debt to a third party  which Ill 
refer to as P. When P contacted Mr K about the debt, he complained. He believed hed 
been mis-sold the current account because hed specifically requested an account that 
couldnt be overdrawn. In March 2021, P passed Mr Ks complaint back to Barclays so it 
could investigate.
 
Barclays sent its final response letter to Mr K on 8 April 2021. In it, the bank said guaranteed 
payments must be honoured  and thats why it had allowed certain transactions to be 
processed at the time, despite no overdraft being in place. Barclays also said Mr Ks account 
had been closed in-line with its terms and conditions  and that his debt was now with P. 
Finally, the bank did acknowledge its service couldve been better. So, it offered Mr K £75 
compensation.
  
Mr K remained unhappy and he referred his complaint to our service. An investigator here 
considered what had happened  but she didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong. In 
summary, she said:
Barclays hadnt acted unreasonably by allowing guaranteed payments to go through;
the debt hadnt been unfairly passed to P; and
the banks offer of £75 was a fair way to compensate Mr K for how it had handled his 
complaint. 
Mr K disagreed with the investigators findings, he still didnt think Barclays had acted fairly in 
the circumstances. So, he asked for an ombudsmans decision and the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint. Ill explain why. 
From what Ive seen, Mr Ks account was overdrawn several times between 2013 and 2015.
Mr K has said Barclays shouldnt have allowed payments to be processed if there wasnt 
enough money in his account. In support of his position, hes explained the transactions 
Barclays approved werent for anything particularly important  so he doesnt understand 
why the bank allowed them to be processed.
 
While I can understand Mr Ks point of view, what the transaction is for isnt something 
Barclays would necessarily monitor. Certain transactions Mr K made were guaranteed by the 
bank  which means Barclays will allow them to be paid irrespective of the account balance.
 
As our investigator explained, this can occur when merchants process payments  generally 
for small amounts  which dont require the banks authorisation. It can also happen when a 
merchant initially takes a nominal amount and then pushes the remainder through at a later 
date. And it seems thats what happened with Mr Ks account. So, regardless of what they 
were for, because some transactions Mr K made were guaranteed, I cant say Barclays was 
wrong to allow payment to debit his account.
 
Mr Ks account never had an arranged overdraft. But the terms and conditions applicable at 
the time (both when the account was a YPA and a regular current account) explain what can 
happen if Barclays needs to make a payment for a guaranteed transaction when sufficient 
funds arent available.
Moreover, Ive also seen that Barclays wrote to Mr K when it allowed such transactions to 
debit his account. These letters were sent to the addresses the bank held for Mr K at the 
time and explained a payment had been made, as well as notifying him that his account was 
overdrawn. So, I think this wouldve made Mr K aware of how his account operated.
 
I recognise Mr Ks frustration over the issue. He says it wasnt made clear at the time  or at 
any point when he visited a branch  that some payments can still go through even without 
available funds. But, put simply, the fact is it was his responsibility to monitor his account 
and the payments he authorised from it. And while I cant know for sure what was said to 
Mr K in person, Im satisfied the terms and conditions of his account set out how things 
worked, and that Barclays wrote to Mr K each time a guaranteed transaction had been paid 
 giving him the opportunity to bring his account back into credit. So, with all of that in mind, I 
cant fairly conclude Barclays did something wrong.
Barclays closed Mr Ks account in 2015. The account had an overdrawn balance outstanding 
at the time, and Ive seen the bank wrote to him in October 2015 setting out what further 
action could be taken  including recording information with credit reference agencies or 
passing the debt to a third-party. 
This letter, much like the others, was sent to the address Barclays held for Mr K at the time. 
But theres nothing to suggest he took any steps to repay what he owed. So, I dont think 
Barclays acted unreasonably when it eventually passed Mr Ks debt to P.
 Mr Ks understandably concerned about the impact to his credit file, and hes provided a 
copy. Having reviewed it, Ive not seen that Barclays has recorded any adverse information. 
Its possible the bank did do so at the time given Mr K hadnt repaid what he owed, which it 
wouldve been entitled to do. But if a default, for example, was recorded  the length of time 
thats now passed could be the reason its no longer there.
 
In any event, Barclays has confirmed it no longer owns Mr Ks debt  instead, P does. 
From what Ive seen P hasnt recorded a default for the debt either. But, if Mr K is unhappy 
with what P is reporting, hell need to contact it and raise that issue directly.
Lastly, Mr K was also unhappy with how Barclays handled his complaint  specifically when 
it provided him copies of statements which showed an incorrect account name. Barclays 
apologised for this and it offered £75 compensation, which Mr K accepted. And, in the 
circumstances, I think thats a fair and reasonable amount.
To sum up, I know Mr K will be disappointed with my decision. But, for the reasons Ive 
explained, I dont think Barclays acted unfairly or unreasonably. And I dont find that it mis-
sold the account to him. So, I dont require it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman