DRN-3961699
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) acted 
irresponsibly by providing him with an overdraft facility. He says Halifax failed to provide 
support when he was struggling to manage his overdraft and was in financial difficulty. Mr L 
would like the debt written off. 
What happened
Mr L held an account with Halifax. Mr L applied for an overdraft in July 2018 and February 
and December 2019. The first two applications were declined and the last application for a 
£1,000 overdraft was successful. 
Mr L complained to Halifax that approving an overdraft facility for him was irresponsible, led 
to financial difficulty and that Halifax should have offered support sooner.
Halifax didnt agree that the lending was irresponsible but upheld Mr Ls complaint regarding 
the support it offered. It said it should have stepped in sooner when there were signs of 
financial difficulty on the review date in December 2020. It offered to settle his complaint by:
Refunding overdraft fees and interest from 16 December 2020; 
This amounted to £227.72 and was applied to Mr Ls outstanding overdraft debt; 
Halifax would back date the default to reflect what wouldve happened had it taken 
action in December 2020. 
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that what Halifax had already 
agreed to do was a fair way to settle the complaint. 
Mr L disagreed. He wants the outstanding debt to be written off and has asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Halifax has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mr L is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have. But for complaints about funds which shouldnt have been provided this isnt straight 
forward as the funds were provided and, in most cases  such as here, have long since 
been spent.
So we look to try and find some other way to put things right. And where a business 
increases or continued to allow a consumer to use a credit facility which it should have 
realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the position theyd 
be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that credit. This means wed 
normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any credit from the 
point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. 
In this case after reviewing Mr Ls statements and overdraft application information up until 
16 December 2020 (the point where Halifax has agreed to refund overdraft charges), Im in 
agreement with our adjudicator that there wasnt anything in the information Halifax had 
which suggested Mr L wouldnt be able to repay the overdraft within a reasonable period of 
time and that he shouldnt be approved for the overdraft requested. 
Halifax have told us that Mr L was previously declined an overdraft on two occasions due to 
adverse credit information but by the time he put in his December 2019 application there 
was no longer adverse information showing. And that based on the monthly income declared 
of £1,400 and expenditure of £350 and credit scoring it was able to agree the overdraft 
requested. Having viewed Mr Ls statements before the overdraft was agreed I cant say 
there was any signs of debt elsewhere and there were regular incoming credits which were I 
think were enough to support an overdraft of £1,000. Indeed, I can see that Mr L didnt even 
use his overdraft for the first 11 months he had it. And Mr L himself accepts that he could 
initially manage the overdraft. 
So I think Halifax checks went far enough and I dont think the decision to grant Mr L the 
overdraft requested was irresponsible based on the information it had. 
I can see Mr L only started using his overdraft in November 2020 and that Halifax has 
already agreed to settle Mr Ls complaint from the following month (16 December 2020) 
when Mr Ls overdraft was due for a review. Halifax has refunded all overdraft charges and 
interest caused by the overdraft facility from the review date. Mr L has been left with an 
outstanding balance and is unhappy with this, but Halifax has already done what Id normally 
expect it to do here had I found it had done something wrong.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
continued to provide credit it shouldnt have, we can and will tell it to do something different 
or something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what would be fair and reasonable 
to do in the circumstances of that individual case.
Mr L would like to Halifax to write off the balance of his overdraft and says the irresponsible 
lending has caused him financial hardship. But this is a reason for upholding his complaint 
rather than a reason for departing from our normal approach to putting things right such as 
his. 
All the interest, fees and charges Halifax shouldnt have added have been removed from 
what he now needs to pay. So what Mr L is left with to repay are the funds which he used 
and benefitted from and I dont agree that the interest, fees and charges have left him with a 
debt that he wouldnt otherwise have been left with. 
In these circumstances, and bearing in mind Mr L spent the credit, I think its perfectly fair 
and reasonable to expect Mr L to repay these funds. And I dont think that Mr Ls 
unhappiness at having a balance to repay on his overdraft, even after his complaint has 
been upheld, is in itself a compelling reason for me to depart from our usual approach here.Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what Halifax has already done to put things right 
for Mr L is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his case and Im not persuaded 
further compensation is warranted, so Im not requiring Halifax to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Bank of Scotland plc has already done 
to put things right for Mr L is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case and I do 
not uphold his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman