DRN-2461532
The complaint
Mrs B says AXA France IARD mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs B bought the policy in 2003 at the same time as taking out a store card.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint because he didnt think AXA had given Mrs B enough
information about the policys cost and benefit. AXA disagreed with the adjudicators opinion
so the complaint was passed to me for review.
I issued a provisional decision for the complaint on 24 November 2020 and said that I didnt 
intend to uphold it. Ive summarised my provisional findings below:
Mrs B had told us she was entitled to full pay from her employer for six months if she 
was off work sick. After that she was entitled to full pay on a monthly basis up to 
twelve months, subject to management discretion.
The adjudicator thought Mrs Bs sick pay meant it was unlikely she wouldve thought
the policy was good value for her if shed had better information about its cost and
benefit.
But from what Id seen, I couldnt be sure that Mrs B wouldve definitely received 
twelve months full pay if shed been off sick for that length of time. Thats because 
after the first six months, any further sick pay was subject to management discretion.
The PPI policy wouldve paid out for twelve months if Mrs B was off work sick.
When I took these points into account, on balance I thought it was unlikely Mrs B 
wouldve made a different decision about buying the policy if shed had better 
information about its cost and benefit.
The store card application Mrs B signed was completed to show that she wanted the
PPI. So I thought she wouldve realised she had a choice about buying the PPI. Id
seen nothing to suggest AXA didnt make Mrs B aware that the PPI was optional.
.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs B so it didnt have to check if it was suitable
for her. That meant it didnt have to ask about any other means Mrs B might have
had to cover her repayments.
It was possible the information AXA gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it
should have been. But it was unlikely Mrs B would have been affected by any of the
main things the policy didnt cover. So I didnt think better information about the
policys exclusions and limitations wouldve stopped her buying it.
Mrs B and AXA didnt make any further representations in response to my provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any further evidence or arguments from the parties, I dont intend to depart 
from the position set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman