DRN-1900769
 
The complaint
Mr V complained that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) didnt send him statements 
that it had agreed to issue to him.
What happened
Mr V said his employer had asked him to supply bank statements as part of a random 
security check. His employer wanted these documents within four weeks. Mr V rang RBS to 
get those statements about a week later, on about 24 or 25 July. RBS hasnt been able to 
find that call, but Mr V says that isnt when he ordered the statements. 
Mr V told us he rang again on 26 July, and ordered statements then. Hes complained 
separately about the service he received on that call, so I wont deal with that issue here. 
Mr V thought the statements would arrive within two weeks. They didnt arrive, so he 
complained, and was supplied with transaction history reports. Fortunately, these were 
accepted by Mr Vs employer, but Mr V said he was unable to work for four days, and felt 
that those lost earning were as a result of RBSs error. 
RBS said it didnt dispute that Mr V had ordered statements around the end of July. It said it 
had found an internal error which meant statements werent sent to his address. It 
apologised for this, and paid him £100 compensation. 
RBS said its branch had supplied statements to Mr Vs address, and confirmed that he 
received them on 13 August. The usual process is for statements to be ordered through the 
third party debt management agents who were managing Mr Vs account. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said it sounded, from what 
he could hear on the call from 26 July, as if Mr V had called the day before, but hadnt 
ordered statements then. Our investigator said he understood why Mr V thought, after the 26 
July call, that the statements had been ordered. But he said that the call handler never 
actually confirmed that they had been sent. 
Our investigator said it wasnt clear if Mr V needed to talk to the third party agent who was 
managing his account in order to request those statements. He hoped that wouldve been 
made clear before the end of the call, which unfortunately was terminated. Our investigator 
appreciated this was frustrating for Mr V.
Our investigator said that RBS appeared to have worked on the assumption that Mr V had 
ordered statements on 24 or 25 July, and paid compensation on that basis. 
Our investigator said he could see Mr V raised a complaint on 6 August. RBS ordered 
statements, and they were received in branch on 9 August, and with Mr V by 13 August. So 
he did receive the statements within the timescale hed told us he required them in. As it 
wasnt clear that statements were actually ordered on either of the calls, and as the statements were supplied in the timescale required, our investigator said he wouldnt ask 
RBS to do any more. 
Mr V said hed never suggested the statements were ordered before 26 July, and hed 
confirmed on his call with our investigator that they were ordered on 26 July. He said from 
memory that the call handler was clear the statements had been ordered. So he wanted an 
ombudsman to look at this complaint. This case was then passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I didnt propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Ive listened carefully to the call that Mr V had with RBS. Mr V did say he spoke to 
someone yesterday who located his account, so I think he had called the day before. 
Mr V says he didnt order statements on that previous call. But he was adamant that 
they were ordered on this call, and that he was told they were on their way.
Once the call handler found the account, Mr V gave the dates of the statements he 
needed to the call handler. I can hear the call handler typing at this point, and he 
spoke to Mr V to confirm the specific dates he needed. He checked Mr Vs address, 
then said It can take 7-10 working days.
The call handler offered to put Mr V through to the collections team, but I think he did 
this because Mr V said he wanted to sort out the arrears on his account. 
Whilst the call handler may not have made any clear and unequivocal statement that 
the documents Mr V had requested were on the way, I was left with the clear 
impression after listening to this call that the call handler had ordered them for Mr V.
It seems likely that the call handler did try to order the documents. I think its worth 
returning here to what RBS said when Mr V complained about this. It told us that there 
was an internal error, which meant the statements didnt reach Mr V. I think that, 
although RBS got the dates wrong, it had correctly set out why Mr V didnt get the 
statements. It has paid him £100 to say sorry for that. I think thats consistent with 
what I wouldve awarded for this element of Mr Vs complaint, if RBS hadnt already 
paid this. 
Mr V complained when he didnt get the statements he was expecting. And RBS 
ordered transaction history statements to be sent to the branch for him. They arrived 
there on 9 August, and were posted out to Mr V, who confirmed on 13 August that 
hed received them. So, like our investigator, I think that Mr V did get access to his 
statements within the timescale hed been given by his employer. Because of that, I 
dont think that RBS has got to pay Mr V for any lost earnings.
I know Mr V will be disappointed, but I dont think that RBS has to do any more now 
than it already has done. And that means I dont think this complaint should be upheld. 
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Neither side replied within the time limit I gave. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I havent changed my mind.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman