DRN-2982609
The complaint
Mr W (through a representative) has complained that Morses Club PLC (Morses) gave him 
unaffordable loans. 
What happened
Mr W took five loans from Morses between August 2014 and December 2016. A summary of 
his borrowing, based on the information provided to us from Morses can be found below:
Loan 
numberDate taken Date repaid Loan amount
1 16/08/2014 05/02/2015 £100.00
2 04/12/2014 24/06/2015 £200.00
3 05/02/2015 22/01/2016 £200.00
4 24/06/2015 23/12/2016 £200.00
5 23/12/2016 06/07/2018 £200.00
These loans were due to be repaid over term of either 33 or 34 weeks. 
The adjudicator didnt think Mr Ws complaint about loans 1 and 2 should be upheld. But the 
adjudicator did uphold the complaint about loans 3 to 5 because by loan 3, Mr W was 
committed to spending a significant portion of his declared income servicing his loans with 
Morses. 
It appears that Mr W agreed with our adjudicators opinion.
Morses agreed with the adjudicator about loans 4 and 5 and it offered to settle the complaint 
in line with the adjudicators recommendation. However, it didnt agree that loan 3 should be 
upheld. In summary it said;
loan 3 looked affordable based on what Mr W declared for is income and expenditure
Mr W repaid loans 1 and 2 without any problems and so there was no indication loan 
3 would be unsustainable for him
when loan 3 was granted, Morses took into account that loan 2 was outstanding; and
in Morses view, less than 15% of Mr Ws declared income going towards a 
repayment is not significant. 
 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time these loans were provided.
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr W 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr W. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become or was becoming 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Morses was required to establish 
whether Mr W could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre
unlikely to be able to do so without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint. 
Loans 1 and 2
The adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint about these loans, and Mr W doesnt appear 
to disagree with the outcome. So, I wont comment further on these loans, or the level of 
individual checks Morses completed before approving them, as I dont think there is an 
ongoing dispute about them. 
Loans 4 and 5
Morses has already accepted something went wrong when these loans were approved, 
because it has agreed to settle them in line with the adjudicators recommendation. So, like 
loans 1 and 2, I no longer think there is an ongoing dispute about them. So, I wont be 
making a finding about this lending. But I have included these loans in what Morses needs to 
do to put things right. Loan 3
The adjudicator upheld Mr Ws complaint about these loans, because in his view, Mr W was 
committed to paying Morses a significant portion of his declared income and that led to the 
loan being unsustainable for Mr W. Taking into account the individual circumstances of the 
case, I agree with the adjudicator and Ive explained why below. 
Mr Ws third loan was taken on the same day that loan 1 was repaid, and with the 
overlapping payments for loan 2, Mr W was committed to paying £20 per week, compared to 
£15 a week when Mr W had loans 1 and 2 outstanding. So, Mr Ws indebtedness and 
weekly commitments had increased. 
Added to this, when loan 3 was approved, Mr W declared a drop in his weekly income 
compared to loan 2. It had fallen from around £180 per week to £150 per week. I think this is 
a significant decrease. And his weekly expenditure had only slightly decreased from £80 at 
loan 2 to £75 at loan 3. For loan 3, Morses was aware, based on what Mr W declared, that 
his income was being squeezed, he wasnt earning as much, but his outgoings hadnt 
decreased in line with the income. So, Mr W had less money to pay for basically the same 
outgoings. While committing to take on a further loan for 34 weeks.  
Morses says, that when it asked about Mr Ws expenditure this included the payment of £10 
per week that he needed to pay Morses for loan 2. However, the application form doesnt 
suggest that is the case. Whereas later application forms have a specific section to note 
down other loan repayments. 
Even if I accept that Morses factored the repayment of loan 2 into its affordability 
assessment for loan 3, which did show that Mr W was able to afford this loan, I still dont 
think Morses ought to have granted this loan.  
In my view, given what Mores knew about Mr W there was a significant risk that he wasnt 
going to be able to fully meet his existing commitments without having to borrow again. 
Which has led me to conclude that Mr W wouldnt be able to sustainably make his weekly 
repayments for this loan. 
So, looking at what has happened, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint about this loan as well. 
Ive outlined below what Morses has to do to put things right, on top of what it has already 
agreed.  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Mr W from loan 3, as Im satisfied it ought to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr W may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr W in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr W would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morsess liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses should:
refund all interest and charges Mr W paid on loans 3 to 5;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date
they were paid to the date of settlement*; and
remove any negative information about loans 3 to 5 from Mr Ws credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to take off tax from this interest. Morses
must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint in part.
Morses Club PLC should put things right for Mr W as Ive directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman