DRN-3107487
The complaint
Mr H has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc caused unacceptable delays in transferring 
his Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) funds to a new provider. Mr H has said that the 
delays resulted in a substantial financial loss, for which hed like to be compensated.
What happened
HSBC was the trustee for Mr Hs SIPP provider  Brewin Dolphin  and at the beginning of 
2020, Mr H decided to move his SIPP to James Hay, with investment management to be 
provided by Raymond James Investment Services. This was to be done on an in specie 
basis, whereby the assets wouldnt be disinvested and then reinvested  rather the assets 
would simply be moved and reregistered within the new SIPP. 
Mr H signed a letter of authority on 18 January 2020 which enabled Raymond James to 
obtain information regarding his SIPP. This was received by HSBC on 18 February 2020, 
and HSBC processed this the following day.
Unfortunately, HSBC wasnt able to match Mr Hs signature with the one they held on their 
records and the address for the new SIPP provider was different to that which was held on 
the FCAs register. And so HSBC needed to conduct further checks. 
HSBC provided the requested information to Raymond James on 31 March 2020, but by this 
time it was over 30 days old. This included the valuation it had sought from Brewin Dolphin. 
Much of the requested information was also missing, and so the information request was 
sent back to HSBC on 3 April 2020.
HSBC then received a new valuation on 15 April 2020, but didnt send this to Raymond 
James until it had been chased on 6 May 2020. On 9 June 2020, Mr H signed the transfer 
discharge forms, but HSBC said that they didnt receive these until 1 July 2020.
On 2 July 2020, HSBC requested a valuation for Brewin dolphin for the in specie transfer, 
and also sought verification that the new SIPP could accommodate the stock which Mr H 
held in his portfolio. This was confirmed to HSBC on 30 July 2020.
HSBC sent Brewin Dolphin instructions to proceed with the in specie transfer on 13 August 
2020, and on 21 August 2020 the transfer began. On 24 September 2020, Brewin Dolphin 
confirmed that the transfer had completed.
There remained cash of around £183,000 in the original SIPP, and this was sent to the new 
SIPP on 28 October 2020. A small amount of residual cash was also then transferred on 16 
November 2020.
Mr H had complained during this process, through Raymond James, on 20 April 2020, 
saying that the process was taking too long and that Mr H was concerned as Brewin Dolphin 
had confirmed that it wasnt actively managing his portfolio. In its response of 9 October 
2020, HSBC acknowledged Mr Hs frustration with the time it had taken to complete, but it 
said that aspects of the transfer process were beyond its control.
It accepted that Mr Hs experience was not ideal, however, and offered Mr H £200 in 
respect of this.
Dissatisfied with the response, Mr H referred the matter to this service on 21 October 2020, 
saying that the process had taken too long and that his son, with whom he shared the same 
attitude to investment risk, had capitalised on investment growth with Raymond Jamess 
investment service of around 24% between 6 April 2020 and 23 September 2020. 
This compared with around 11% on the portfolio he held, and he therefore considered that 
hed missed out on 13% additional growth. On the value of his own pension funds, this 
meant that the net difference would have been growth of just under £156,000. 
One of our investigators considered the matter, but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he noted that, due to the early checks which needed to be made on the basis of 
discrepancies with the signatures and Raymond Jamess address, several different HSBC 
departments were involved and this meant that there were delays in providing the requested 
information.
He also noted other specific delays in the process which he thought had been caused by 
HSBC. But he also said that, although there were failings demonstrated by HSBC, there 
were also other delays incurred by the other parties to the transfer, for example the initial 
months delay in the letter of authority being received by HSBC, and the further delay 
between providing Raymond James with the required information on 6 May 2020 and the 
transfer discharge form being signed on 9 June 2020  with this not then being received by 
HSBC until 1 July 2020.
The investigator thought that, even if HSBC had dealt with the matter more swiftly, there was 
no guarantee that Raymond James would have itself proceeded in a timelier fashion. He 
also noted that the transfer was being processed during a particularly challenging period, 
coinciding with the beginning of the Covid pandemic. This, he said, had exacerbated the 
issues between different departments within HSBC.
With regard to the losses claimed by Mr H, the investigator noted that Mr H had requested 
an in specie transfer, which meant that the delays wouldnt have caused him financial loss 
through being disinvested for any period of time. But he thought that there was a potential 
loss of opportunity to invest differently, which he said may or may not have resulted in a 
higher pension fund value.
He said that, having checked the industry standard for in specie transfers, he though it could 
take between three and six months for this to complete. Mr Hs application to transfer was 
received in July 2020, he said, and it completed in October 2020. 
However, he thought Mr H should be compensated for the avoidable delays caused by 
HSBC, and so he recommended that it pay Mr H a total of £300 in respect of this  so £100 
in addition to the £200 already offered by HSBC.
Mr H disagreed, however, saying the proposed compensation sum was derisory, and 
expressing concern that Raymond James hadnt been contacted during the investigation for 
its comments.
The investigator replied, saying that although he appreciated what Raymond James had 
said, and would take into account any further commentary it wished to make, he was 
considering the complaint against HSBC. And he remained of the view that a total sum of 
£300 was appropriate in this instance.Mr H rejected the investigators conclusions, however, saying that the transfer should have 
completed within three months rather than nine. He also said that the investigator had only 
considered HSBCs views and hadnt consulted Raymond James. He didnt think the 
substantial financial loss hed suffered had been fairly considered and he said that hed 
contacted a particular individual at HSBC several times in February 2020 to enquire about 
the delay, but hadnt been given any of the reasons set out in the investigators assessment.
As agreement couldnt be reached, its been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive firstly noted what Mr H has said about Raymond James not being 
asked to provide further commentary  but both Mr H and any party he wishes to involve 
have had the opportunity to provide such commentary in response to the investigators 
assessment. 
Ive also made several further enquiries as to the details of the case, which has provided 
additional opportunity for Mr H and/or his representative to make any commentary on the 
matter if it wished to do so. Mr H has, for his part, requested that our investigation be 
brought swiftly to a conclusion, and as Im confident that I can now decide the outcome of 
the complaint on the basis of available evidence, Im issuing this decision.
Addressing the merits of this case, therefore, I think its accepted by all the parties that the 
transfer could have been completed sooner than it was, and HSBC has acknowledged that it 
was responsible for some of the delays. That said, Ive noted the investigators comments on 
the unexplained delays which seem to have been caused by other parties to the process  
so again, this has been Mr Hs, or his representatives, opportunity to explain why they feel 
this isnt the case.
But even if it could be demonstrated that HSBC, rather than another party, was responsible 
for delays in addition to those identified above, I dont think an award beyond a payment for 
the frustration Mr H would have felt at the time taken to complete the transfer  and along 
the lines recommended by the investigator  would be warranted here. 
To clarify, Mr Hs position is that, had the transfer completed sooner, he would have been 
able to capitalise on the levels of fund growth enjoyed by his son, whose portfolio was also 
being managed by Raymond James and with whom he said he shared the same attitude to 
investment risk. 
So I firstly need to think about whether Mr H would in fact have invested in the same way 
had the transfer completed sooner. And in my consideration of this, I think its fair to say that, 
although Mr H asserts that he has the same attitude to investment risk as his son, their 
circumstances are likely to be quite different, notably in terms of their age and the fact that 
Mr H has been drawing on his pension assets for many years. Generally speaking, if an 
individual is in drawdown, the more regard is given to safeguarding a proportion of the 
pension fund so that the fund isnt being exposed to levels of market volatility which could 
significantly affect those benefits in payment  along with there being little time to recoup any 
losses.
Nevertheless, on the basis that Mr H was ultimately assessed as being suitable for the same 
kind of portfolio as his son, and that Mr H did ultimately invest in the 25% defensive/75% 
growth portfolio, I accept that its possible he would have done so at an earlier point, had the transfer completed sooner.
Ive then considered the actual growth figures which have been cited at various points in the 
course of the complaint. Mr H said in his initial complaint submission that his son achieved 
24% growth in a period of just over five months, from April 2020 to September 2020. And 
this was achieved by investing in a 25% defensive/75% growth portfolio (which was slightly 
reduced by direct investment in four assets  Hothschild, Regent Pacific, Blue Prism and 
Reunion). 
Mr Hs representative has said that the Raymond James portfolio into which Mr H would 
have been invested  and was invested once the transfer had completed  was more 
focussed on growth and investment in the USA than had been the case with his Brewin 
Dolphin portfolio. I note that the latter consisted of some 28 investments, spread across fairly 
mainstream assets of fixed interest, equities, property and cash, and wouldnt be considered 
particularly out of the ordinary. 
Mr Hs representative has further said that this level of growth was actually achieved over 
the whole of 2020, rather than over just five months, but Ive also noted both the 
performance chart and other documents which indicate that the portfolio in question did 
increase by the percentage conveyed to us by Mr H between April 2020 and September 
2020.
And so, had Mr H invested in the Raymond James portfolio sooner, he would have 
participated in that kind of fund growth.
But I also need to take into account that Mr H made a conscious decision to transfer in 
specie, rather than decide to disinvest and then reinvest according to further advice, or as 
has been asserted, in the same way as his son  a process which would have taken a much 
shorter amount of time to achieve as there would have been no need to reregister the 
assets. Had this been the case, Mr H would have been able to invest in the 25% 
defensive/75% growth portfolio sooner.
And I think this reasonably means that, until Mr H had transferred, he was keen to maintain 
his existing portfolio, which I dont think is to be unexpected, given what Ive said above 
about its well diversified nature. And it should be noted that it returned 11% growth over the 
five months in question, which equates to an annualized growth rate of over 26%. It may 
have been the case that the alternative portfolio strategy performed better, but this could 
also have had quite a different result. The diversification of Mr Hs existing portfolio reduced 
the exposure to potentially higher returns which could have been achieved by investing in a 
way which focussed more on overseas equities and growth, but by the same token reduced 
the prospect of magnified losses. 
The emailed complaint of 20 April 2020 said that Brewin Dolphin had confirmed that it wasnt 
managing Mr Hs portfolio, and that this was causing Mr H concern, especially during such a 
volatile period. But Mr H could have cancelled the in specie transfer at any point, and chosen 
to disinvest for the sake of reinvesting with Raymond James. If it was Mr Hs intention to 
invest in the same way as his son, this would have been the way of both achieving this and 
alleviating any concerns he held regarding the lack of management of his portfolio.
That he decided not to, instead preferring to continue with the in specie transfer, in my view 
reasonably indicates, as Ive said above, that Mr H at that point remained prepared to retain 
his existing portfolio. And the market volatility mentioned in the complaint email may well 
have had an influence on this.
SummaryMr H had opted to transfer in specie, and so as far as HSBC was concerned, although it 
needed to expedite the process as quickly as possible (which it didnt  see below), it could 
nevertheless be confident that Mr H wasnt incurring losses which might be caused by being 
disinvested and out of the market. As such, I dont think HSBC was reasonably on notice 
that Mr H wished to invest differently. 
And although concern was expressed in the complaint email of April 2020 that Mr Hs 
portfolio wasnt being actively managed, there was no mention that the in specie transfer 
needed to happen quickly so that Mr H could disinvest and reinvest in a different portfolio. 
This would in any case have seemed somewhat counterintuitive. If Mr H had wanted to 
change the bulk of his investments, it would have been pointless to transfer in specie in the 
first place  as alluded to above. 
Overall, therefore, I accept that there may have been a loss of opportunity here, as noted by 
the investigator  Mr H may have invested in the same way as his son sooner. But on the 
basis that Mr H opted to transfer in specie instead of disinvesting and reinvesting in line with 
a different investment strategy, and maintained this course of action when the alternative 
was readily available, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to uphold the complaint 
about notional investment losses on the basis of what is known about the performance of the 
alternative portfolio with the benefit of hindsight. 
But HSBC did cause some unnecessary delays in the in specie transfer, as Ive said above. 
And even though this didnt result in Mr H being disinvested for any period of time, I think Mr 
H would quite reasonably have been frustrated by this. As such, I think the recommended 
total of award of £300 is about right.
Putting things right
HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Mr H a total of £300. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Mr H the 
total sum of £300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman