DRN-3941389
The complaint
Mr C complains about how Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays 
Partner Finance (BPF) has administered the loan he has with it.
What happened
Mr C is represented in his complaint by his wife, but to make this decision easier to read, Ill 
refer to everything thats been said or sent on his behalf as if Mr C had done it himself.
In 2014 Mr C purchased a kitchen from a retailer I will call W. The purchase of the kitchen 
was paid for using the loan with BPF. Under the terms of the loan it was not activated 
straightaway upon the parties signing the agreement. Rather, the loan would only be 
activated once certain conditions were met. Moreover, once the loan was activated the loan 
repayments were deferred for a year. However, if Mr C chose to make repayments and pay 
off the loan in full during the one-year deferral period, then those repayments would be 
interest free.
Mr C and W entered into a dispute about the quality of the kitchen. The dispute was initially 
against W, but then later BPF was added to the dispute too. Mr C instructed solicitors to 
represent him in this dispute. 
While the dispute about the quality of the kitchen was ongoing Mr C was under the 
impression that his loan had not be activated, and as a result he did not have to make 
repayments. Moreover, he was also under the impression that the loan would not be 
activated unless and until the dispute was over and the kitchen was completed. Mr C tells us 
that is what the solicitors hed instructed had told him. These solicitors no longer represent 
Mr C. Mr Cs dispute about the quality of the kitchen remains ongoing although it is not the 
subject matter of this complaint.
Moreover, Mr C indicates that BPF told him that the account will only be activated upon 
receipt of notification from [W] that a signed satisfaction/delivery note has been received. 
You will then receive a welcome letter, which is when your 12 month BNPL period will start." 
Mr C took this to mean the loan would only become repayable once the kitchen was finished, 
which it is not. Moreover, Mr C says he never received any such welcome letter.
In any event, Mr C had intended to pay off the loan in full during the one year payment 
deferral period. In that way he would have avoided paying any interest. Mr C considers he 
has missed the opportunity to do this, and this is unfair and that it is BPFs fault. Therefore, 
Mr C wants BPF to remove the interest from what he owes so he can pay just the capital 
amount. 
Further, Mr C became aware that BPF had asked the credit reference agencies to register 
adverse information on his credit file about his repayment history re the loan. In Mr Cs 
opinion this is not justified in the circumstances. It follows that Mr C wants BPF to instruct the 
credit reference agencies to remove this information.
In addition, once he became aware the loan was active, Mr C made a lump sum payment to 
BPF of £5,000 but it did not respond to let him know it had received this payment despite 
being asked to do so.
BPF sees matters very differently from Mr C. It agrees that when the dispute between Mr C 
and W first started in 2014 it agreed to not to activate the loan and it told Mr C this. However, 
it points out, in its view this was a goodwill gesture only it was not obliged to do this. In any 
event, BPFs stance is that it never told Mr C that it would not activate the loan until his 
dispute with W was over and the kitchen was complete. It adds it is not responsible if his 
solicitors told him this.
But in August 2016 W told BPF that Mr C and W had come to an agreement about how to 
resolve the dispute about the quality of the kitchen. On this basis W had written to Mr C to 
tell him the loan was going to be activated (this is not disputed by either party). In response 
to this, in September 2016 BPFs records show it sent Mr C a welcome letter letting Mr C 
know it was activating the loan. However, BPF does accept it told Mr C it would not activate 
the loan without a signed satisfaction/delivery note. But BPF does not indicate if it ever 
received one.
Further, BPFs records show it sent Mr C a number of notices of arrears once the 
repayments became due and none were received. In addition its records also show that Mr 
C called it in April 2018 to complain about the arrears letters. During this call BPF reiterated 
that Mr C was liable to make the repayments despite his ongoing dispute with W. BPF also 
let Mr C know that his credit file could be adversely impacted if he chose not to make the 
repayments. But he did not make any repayment until 2020.
For all of these reasons BPF did not agree it had done anything wrong in relation to 
demanding the loan repayments with interest or asking the credit reference agencies to 
register information about Mr Cs repayment history.
Dissatisfied with BPFs response Mr C complained to our service.
Once Mr Cs complaint was with us BPF sent us information to show that it had confirmed to 
Mr C that it had received his payment of £5,000.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Cs complaint. She did not recommend that Mr Cs 
complaint should be upheld.
BPF accepted our investigators recommendation, Mr C did not. In summary, he repeated 
his previous stance. He also underlined that from his perspective he had never had the 
benefit of the 12 month interest free period that he was entitled to. 
The complaint could go no further at this stage, so I was asked to take a fresh look at Mr Cs 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. Rather. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Mr C and BPF disagree about many of the key issues in this complaint. Where the evidence 
is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on 
the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened 
in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Initiation of the loan There is no disagreement that BPF told Mr C that it would not activate the loan until a 
number of conditions were met. One of these is that BPF agreed that the loan would not go 
live until it had received a signed satisfaction/delivery note. And it appears that BPF accepts 
it never received one. But I dont think for this reason alone BPF should have been 
prevented from activating the loan and subsequently charging interest. I say this for a 
number of reasons which I set out below.
The need for the signed satisfaction/delivery is not the only relevant condition. BPF also 
agreed it would send Mr C a welcome letter. I recognise that Mr C says he never received 
this. But BPFs records, which I have no reason to doubt on this point, indicate the letter was 
sent by email.  So on balance I think BPF did send the welcome letter to Mr C. I also think 
that when Mr C received notice for W in 2016 that the loan was going to be activated this put 
him on notice.
Further, Mr C already had the kitchen that the loan was meant to pay for. I recognise that Mr 
C was unhappy with the quality of the kitchen and did not think the kitchen was complete. 
But just because he was disputing these issues did not mean that he was entitled not to pay 
for the kitchen until that dispute had been resolved. Those are two separate issues. 
Moreover, I am satisfied that it was fair and reasonable that BPF was entitled to seek 
payment for the kitchen that had been supplied and which he was presumably using.
I also recognise that Mr Cs solicitors might have told Mr C he did not have to pay for the 
kitchen until the quality dispute was all settled and the kitchen complete. But BPF is not 
responsible for what Mr Cs solicitors may have said to him about this point. And Im 
persuaded that nothing that BPF said to Mr C directly about this could reasonably have 
given the impression that he did not have to pay until the quality dispute had ended and the 
kitchen work was all finished.
I might think differently about this point if I was persuaded that BPF had not done enough to 
let Mr C know that it had activated the loan after having told Mr C it was inactive. However, I 
am satisfied that the welcome letter and the subsequent correspondence that BPF sent 
about the arrears meant BPF did enough to reasonably alert Mr C that his loan had been 
activated. It also follows that I dont agree that Mr C did not get the interest free period he 
contracted for. He got it he just did not use it. 
Moreover, the parties appear to agree that Mr C and BPF had a phone call in 2018 where Mr 
C complained about the arrears. Im satisfied at that point BPF explained the loan was active 
and what the consequences could be for Mr C if he did not start making his repayments. But 
Mr C appears not to have taken action at this point which could have lessened his losses. 
This was his choice to make, but I cant reasonably hold BPF responsible for Mr Cs choice.
For all of these reasons I think it is fair and reasonable that BPF activated the loan when it 
did. It also follows I have no proper basis for telling BPF that it must not charge interest on 
the repayments and must reimburse Mr C for any interest he has already paid it.
Credit file
Financial businesses are expected to ask the credit reference agencies to register accurate 
information on their customers credit files. As far as I am aware the information BPF has 
asked the credit reference agencies to register on Mr Cs credit file is accurate. That is it 
reflects the reality of his payment history in relation to the loan.
But Mr Cs objection is that the information should never have been registered because his 
repayments were not due or alternatively he was not given fair notice that the loan had been 
activated therefore he did not know he was not keeping to his repayment obligations under 
the loan. 
However, I have found above that BPF did not act inappropriately in activating the loan. 
Moreover it did give him sufficient notice of this. It follows I have no proper basis to tell BPF it must ask the credit reference agencies to remove the adverse information about his 
payment history from his credit file.
£5,000 payment
Mr C indicates BPF never acknowledged this payment. However, BPFs records, which I 
have no reason to doubt on this point, indicate BPF had a conversation with Mr C about this 
payment and how this impacted on the outstanding balance.
It follows that I am not persuaded that it is fair or reasonable to find that BPF has to do 
anything further here.
I can well understand if Mr C is very dissatisfied with the outcome of his complaint. It 
appears that he is very upset by this whole matter and feels very let down. But my decision 
brings to an end our powers in trying to resolve his dispute with BPF informally. Im sorry if 
this disappoints Mr C.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman