DRN-3351474
The complaint
Miss S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund a disputed transaction made from her 
account. 
What happened
Miss S has an account with Lloyds.
On 11 August 2018 a Chip and PIN payment was made using Miss Ss debit card to a retail 
store Ill call S.
Miss S explained that on 12 August 2018 she received a text message from Lloyds advising 
her that a new mobile device had been set up on her account. She opened a link in the 
message but didnt add any personal details. Lloyds have explained that they dont send 
links via text message.
Miss S has explained that she hasnt shared her card or PIN with anyone, and she keeps her 
card at home, or in her bag or wallet. 
Miss S complained to Lloyds about the transaction  however the bank didnt uphold her 
complaint. In summary they thought it more likely than not Miss S authorised the disputed 
transaction. 
Miss S didnt accept Lloyds response  so complained to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into Miss Ss complaint but they didnt think Lloyds acted unfairly in 
declining to refund the transaction.
Miss S didnt accept our investigators conclusion. In response Miss S said:
She understands that Lloyds need to prove that she made the payment
CCTV evidence of the transaction should be obtained
As Miss S didnt accept our investigators conclusions its been referred to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally, Lloyds can hold Miss S liable for the disputed transaction if the evidence suggests 
that its more likely than not that she made or authorised it herself. 
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Miss Ss genuine card and PIN were 
used to make the disputed transaction. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is 
not, on its own, enough to enable Lloyds to hold her liable. So, I also need to think about 
whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Miss S consented to the 
transaction being made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Lloyds to conclude that Miss S 
authorised the transaction. This is because:
For a fraudster to carry out the disputed transaction theyd need access to Miss Ss 
card and PIN. Miss S has explained that she hasnt shared her PIN with anyone and 
nobody has access to her card. So, I cant see a plausible explanation for how 
Miss Ss card and PIN were compromised. 
Miss S has explained that she received a text message from Lloyds on 
12 August 2018 and clicked on a link. Lloyds have explained that they didnt send the 
text message  and its possible it was sent by a fraudster. However, even if I 
concluded that this was the case, the message was sent a day after the fraudulent 
transaction occurred and as Miss S didnt provide any personal details this wouldnt 
explain how a fraudster obtained either Miss Ss card or PIN.  
The disputed transaction was carried out at a retailer called S. Miss S carried out 
genuine transactions at S prior to the disputed transaction, and for amounts almost 
as significant. 
After the disputed transaction Miss S still had a balance of over £1,300. Id usually 
expect a fraudster to utilise the entire balance of an account if theyd gained access 
to a customers card and PIN. But this didnt happen in Miss Ss case. 
Miss S has mentioned that CCTV could have been obtained for the disputed transaction. Its 
possible that a copy of the CCTV for the disputed transaction would show someone other 
than Miss S carrying it out. However, Miss S doesnt need to have carried out the transaction 
herself for Lloyds to hold her liable. The bank is also entitled to hold Miss S liable if she 
consented for someone else to carry it out on her behalf.
For the reasons Ive outlined above on balance I think that Miss S authorised the disputed 
transaction. And it follows Lloyds can hold Miss S liable for the disputed transactions. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman