DRN-3409761
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) rejected his claim against it under Section
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
Mr R bought solar panels for his home in December 2016. The purchase was funded by a
loan from Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the
installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr
R into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
Mr Rs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the benefits of
the panels were mis-represented to the consumer, and that fair redress would be for the loan
to be restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be
based on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions
on future performance. Ikano didnt respond so the case was passed to me.
I issued a provisional decision on 3 March 2022, where I explained by intention to not uphold 
the complaint. In that decision I said:
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has caused Mr R. I recognise Mr R feels
strongly that the solar panels were mis-sold to him. And because of this, hes been
financially dis-advantaged. But for me to agree, I need to be satisfied, based on the evidence
available to me, that Mr R was mis-led at the point of sale. So, I need to be satisfied Mr R
had no reasonable way of knowing the solar panels were not likely to be self-funding. And in
this situation, I dont think thats the case.
That is because the contract for the sale of the solar panels sets out the cost and the
estimated benefit of the panels very clearly, and the benefits did not begin to approach the
cost.
Immediately above the signature box, in the middle, it says in bold capital letters Estimated
total 1st year benefit and next to that on the right are two alternative figures, of which the
higher is £416.59. I think this figure is made clear; it is not buried in some fine print. To the
left it says the finance amount is £7975, payable over ten years. This document was signed
by Mr R immediately below those figures, and so I think that the installers salesman did
enough to bring this information to his attention.
The interest of the loan does not appear on this document, and so I can understand why Mr
R may have overlooked this. However, I think one tenth of the amount borrowed would
clearly come to £797.50 each year. And that is almost double the stated benefit figure for the
first year. And I think this is made reasonably clear.
For these reasons, I am not persuaded that the installer misled Mr R about the benefits and
costs of the panels. I think it was made reasonably clear that the panels would not be self-
funding during the term of the loan, which ought to have cast substantial doubt on anything
Mr R may have been told by the salesperson. And so, I dont think Ikano need to do anything 
more on this occasion.
Neither Mr R or Ikano provided any further comments or additional information in relation to 
my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to change my initial decision. My decision remains the 
same that Im not persuaded that the installer misled Mr R about the benefits and costs of 
the panels, for the reasons already provided above. Because of this, I dont think Ikano need 
to do anything more on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint about Ikano Bank AB (publ).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman