DRN-2037555
The complaint
Mr Bs representative, a Claims Management Company (CMC), complains on his behalf that 
he was given unsuitable investment advice by Zurich Assurance Ltd (the business). 
What happened
In August 1999, Mr B was advised to invest £50 a month in the Maximum Investment Plan 
(the plan)  effectively an endowment plan made up of 10 identical mini policies  which 
included life cover to make it qualifying for tax purposes. This meant Mr B would be entitled 
to the proceeds without tax, providing the plan was in place for a minimum of 10 years and 
life cover was 75% of the total amount invested. In this case Mr B had life cover worth 
£4,500. 
Mr B maintained the plan until maturity in 2009. In total he paid in £6,000 and received back 
£6,136.40. 
The following was recorded in the fact find:
Mr B was 45 years of age, married and with four dependent children.
Mr B was a self-employed trader with an income of £25,000 a year. 
The household monthly income was £2,000, with an expenditure of £1,500 and a net 
monthly disposable income of £500.
Mrs B and his wife owned their own home  worth £250,000  with an outstanding 
mortgage of £45,000 in respect of which they had a mortgage endowment plan.  
Mr B had £20,000 held on deposit (with two separate banks but its not clear).
Mr B had £175,596 worth of life cover over five separate policies. 
He wanted to start a savings plan for a rainy day or a deposit for a house for one of 
his daughters.  
He could afford to save £50 a month for period of 10 years. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Its not clear how Mr Bs attitude to risk was calculated however given his lack of 
investment experience the recommendation to invest in a low risk investment doesnt 
seem unsuitable. 
The Illustration document shows the rates of return at different growth rates of 4%, 
6% and 8%. But this shows that Mr B would only break even if the plan grew by 4%, 
because the charges led to a reduction in yield. 
The Illustration document says: Putting it another way, leaving out the cost of life 
cover and sickness benefits, this would have the effect of bringing the investment 
growth used from 6% a year down to 2.6% a year.
In this instance, the £6,000 invested by Mr B made a return of £136.40 just breaking 
even. Given the policy charges there was a good chance that the investment 
wouldnt make a positive return.
Although the Illustration was provided its unlikely Mr B wouldve been fully aware of 
the deductions to the potential yield.
He cant see that other investments were discussed, such as PEPs, ISAs or cash 
deposit accounts. 
At the time Bank of England base rate was 5% and the plan was projecting 2.6% as 
a possible middle yield.  
Whilst Mr B was able to invest £50 a month in a tax efficient low risk product, the cost 
of the deductions makes it unsuitable. 
Given that the Bank of England base rate of 5%, he wouldve done better investing in 
a savings account. In the circumstances hes been financially disadvantaged. 
Zurich disagreed with the investigators conclusion and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
It short, it made the following key points:
The investigator agrees that from a risk-based perspective the recommendation was 
suitable. 
Mr B had an endowment mortgage so wouldve been familiar with an endowment 
style savings product.
The adviser was satisfied that an asset backed investment was appropriate for Mr B 
and that he accepted the volatility of the asset backed investment. This coupled with 
the documentation provided  namely the risk factors, charging structure and 
Illustration  meant that Mr B fully understood the risk involved and what the product 
could offer by way of returns. 
Mr B being presented with the possible returns made an informed decision to invest 
in this product. 
Whilst the plan matured with what was at the lower end of the projections, this is no 
surprise given that the plan matured shortly after the 2008 economic downturn. 
The adviser wasnt obliged to discuss products that were outside of what was offered 
by Zurich and Mr B was free to shop around.
Given the above its unable to agree that Mr B wasnt aware of the deductions to the 
potential yield, and that this means the advice is unsuitable.   
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
going to uphold this complaint.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the business says Im not 
persuaded that the recommendation was suitable. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr B could afford to invest £50 a month in a tax efficient plan that was 
considered low risk, in my opinion the cost of the deductions made it an unsuitable 
recommendation. It seems that even if the product was likely to reach the medium growth rate of 6%, which 
was probably unlikely, that figure in real terms was closer to 2.6% owing to deductions not 
including life cover. Given the Bank of England base rate at the time, Mr B was probably 
better off putting his money in a savings account where he wouldnt be subject to charges 
particularly for life cover which it seems he didnt want or need.  
I note that the CMC says Mr B wasnt interested in life cover. I also note it was recorded that 
Mr B felt he had adequate life cover in place at the time, so its not clear why a savings plan 
with life cover was recommended. 
Despite Mr B being married and having a young family Im unable to say that additional life 
cover was something that he needed. Im mindful of the details Mr B provided for several of 
his existing policies, and Ive seen nothing to suggest that he wanted more life cover. 
I appreciate the point about the qualifying status of the plan, but I dont think in this instance 
this aspect outweighed Mr Bs need for his savings to do well. I also appreciate the adviser 
could only discuss products sold by Zurich, but thats no excuse to sell something thats not 
suitable. 
I appreciate that Mr B was provided with certain policy documentation, but I dont believe 
theres a correlation between the level of documentation provided by Zurich and the level of 
Mr Bs understanding of the risks over and beyond what hed be likely to perceive, on the 
face of the papers, as fairly generous rates of return. 
In other words, notwithstanding the documentation provided, I think Mr B wouldve generally 
placed greater emphasis on the advice that he received. 
Im not upholding this complaint because of the poor returns  over which we have no 
jurisdiction  or because Mr B didnt appreciate the volatility of an asset backed investment 
(which he might not have). 
Im upholding this complaint because of the impact of the charges on Mr Bs savings and 
returns which I dont think he was aware of or understood, including the cost for life cover 
that he didnt need.
This issue is separate to the plan maturing just after the 2008 economic crisis that will have 
impacted not only on the plan but also on financial market generally. 
Putting things right
I recommend Zurich Assurance Ltd pay Mr B compensation of D + E, where:
A = the premiums invested up to the date of surrender;
B = a return on each premium at Bank of England base rate + 1% compounded 
yearly, from the date it was paid to the date of surrender;
C = the surrender value Mr B received;
D = (A + B) - C, representing the investment loss at the date of surrender; and
E = simple interest at 8% per year on D, from the date of surrender to the date 
compensation is paid.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint.Zurich Assurance Ltd should calculate redress as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman