DRN-3738518
The complaint
Mr P complains about three loans provided to him by Everyday Lending Limited, trading as
Everyday Loans, (ELL), which he says were unaffordable. This complaint has been brought 
to this service on Mr Ps behalf by a claims management company. But for ease I shall refer 
below to all actions being taken by Mr P.
What happened
ELL agreed three loans for Mr P. The proceeds of Loan 2 were used to repay Loan 1. Mr P 
repaid Loan 2 from his own money. Some of the information ELL provided about the loans is 
shown in the table below.
Loan 
numberStart date End date Loan amount Monthly 
repaymentsTerm 
(months)
1. 17/1/2015 15/5/2015 £1,000 £102.75 24
2. 15/5/2015 22/10/2015 £3,300 £253.82 24
3. 29/7/2016 Unpaid £5,000 £346.67 36
Mr P says that because ELL continued to approve loans that were unaffordable, he got into 
further debt and suffered financial hardship as a result.
ELL didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. In its final response letter, it concluded that the checks 
completed were reasonable and proportionate and that the loans were sustainable over the 
respective loan terms as he had disposable income. It believed Mr P would have been able 
to make the repayments to his loans without undue difficulty over the life of the credit 
agreements.
Our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator recommended that Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. He thought ELL 
ought to have realised Mr P was having difficulty managing his finances from the outset and 
that it was unlikely he would have been able to sustainably make his repayments for each of 
the loans without taking out further borrowing.
ELL disagreed with the adjudicators view. In summary, it said with regard to Loan 1 that    
Mr P had a very good disposable income amount of £785 but his discretionary spending was 
high. There was nothing on his credit file to suggest he was struggling with his creditors.  
With regard to Loan 2, it said that Mr P had told it that hed taken out payday loans for an 
unforeseen emergency situation and overstretched himself. Loan 2 was required to clear 
these. With regard to Loan 3, it said in response to the adjudicators statement that Mr Ps 
income fluctuated, that the average of the last four weekly payments it had used was 
£1,591.17. And even if it had averaged all of the last 12 weekly payments, this would be 
£1,406.75 which still left a disposable income of £205.07. As Mr P was paid weekly, his loan 
repayments were also to be paid weekly at £86.67 per week. So, the variable income wasnt 
an issue. With regard to Mr Ps more regular payday loans, he had told it that these had 
been for car repairs and because hed had time off work. Loan 3 was to be used to clear the 
payday loans.
The adjudicator responded to say that his assessment was based on Mr Ps overall financial 
circumstances at the time of lending. Although Mr P may have had £785 disposable income 
based on ELLs monthly expenses calculations, his bank statements showed he wasnt 
managing his finances well, using short term borrowing or borrowing from his mother, to not 
stay overdrawn. With regard to Loan 3, his loan repayments had increased but his income 
appeared to have reduced.
ELL disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, as an ombudsman, 
to review and resolve. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr P
and to ELL on 6 September 2022. I summarise my findings:
Id said that where the evidence was incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it 
was here), I would reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I 
considered was most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
I noted that when ELL lent to Mr P the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook. 
Id said that ELL would bel be aware of the relevant regulations and how we considered 
irresponsible lending complaints, so I wouldnt go into detail on these points. 
Id thought about whether ELL completed reasonable and proportionate checks when 
assessing Mr Ps applications to satisfy itself that he would be able to make his repayments 
without experiencing adverse consequences. Id thought about the information it knew, and 
what it ought reasonably to have known.
Loan 1
Loan 1 was for £1,000. Id noted that ELL gathered some information from Mr P about his 
income and it estimated his expenditure by using 35% of Mr Ps net income. It carried out a 
credit check and also asked Mr P for information about his credit commitments. In addition, 
ELL asked Mr P to provide two months bank statements. 
Mr P said he was using the loan for car repairs. He lived with his parents and in his 
employers accommodation. He paid no rent or board. Mr P told ELL that he would pay £250 
each month to reduce the loan balance more quickly.
Mr P was entering into a significant commitment with ELL. He would need to make monthly 
repayments of around £103 for 24 months. So, I thought it was right that ELL wanted to 
gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Ps financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I thought that the checks Id described above 
allowed ELL to form a detailed view of Mr Ps finances, and I thought that the checks ELL did 
were proportionate. 
ELL said that Mr Ps average net monthly income was £1,679.55. It calculated Mr Ps 
monthly living expenses and credit commitments to total £790.84. So, it said that Mr P had a 
disposable income of £785.95 after taking into account its loan repayments. Id reviewed ELLs credit checks. These appeared to show that Mr P had no active accounts.
Id reviewed the list of credit commitments ELL had compiled. This included a loan, two 
current accounts, a credit card and a utility loan. I could see that the list didnt include a 
monthly amount for Mr Ps credit card. But ELL would have seen from each of Mr Ps bank 
statements that hed paid around £490 to the lender each month. So, I didnt think ELLs 
calculation of Mr Ps financial commitments was likely to be accurate and this meant that 
hed have less disposable income than it had calculated. But it still appeared that he would 
have had around £300 disposable income each month after the loan repayment was made.
Id also reviewed the bank statements Mr P provided to ELL. I could see that he was in 
receipt of the monthly income ELL used in its calculations. 
I could also see on the statements that Mr Ps overdraft limit was exceeded for two days in 
the two months period. In itself, I didnt think this was enough to raise any particular 
concerns. But I could also see that Mr P was spending more than his income. Hed needed 
to borrow two payday loans during the two months period, although each of these was 
repaid within ten days. Hed also borrowed a loan for £1,500 to be repaid over 12 months 
which hed told ELL was for a car. 
I could also see that Mr P appeared to be spending a relatively large amount (over £1,000 
each month) on discretionary expenditure (which included cash withdrawals) and 
significantly less than this on essential living costs as he wasnt paying anything for board. 
And I thought ELL might have reasonably expected Mr P to reduce his discretionary 
expenditure, if necessary, to make his loan repayments.
Looking at everything in the round, and on balance, I hadnt seen enough to find that ELL 
ought to have declined to lend Loan 1 to Mr P and I wasnt persuaded that ELL had lent 
irresponsibly on this occasion.
Loan 2
Mr P had taken out Loan 2 around four months after Loan 1. The loan was for £3,300 and 
the repayments had more than doubled to £253.82. But ELL said that Mr P was voluntarily 
making increased monthly payments of £250 to Loan 1. So, it appeared that he was able to 
make payments of around this amount. 
ELL had used around £442 from the loan proceeds to repay Loan 1. Mr P had received 
around £828 from the loan proceeds. Mr P said that the loan was also to be used for debt 
consolidation and ELL paid around £2,029 to two of Mr Ps creditors directly from the loan 
proceeds. 
Mr P was still living with his parents and in his employers accommodation and paid no rent 
or board.
Id again noted that ELL gathered some information from Mr P about his income and it 
estimated his expenditure by using 35% of Mr Ps net income. It had carried out a credit 
check and also asked Mr P for information about his credit commitments. In addition, ELL 
had again asked Mr P to provide two months bank statements. 
I thought that the checks Id described above allowed ELL to form a detailed view of Mr Ps 
finances, and I thought that the checks ELL did were proportionate. ELL said that Mr Ps average net monthly income was £1,726.27. ELL calculated Mr Ps 
monthly living expenses and credit commitments to total £1,393.04. It said that Mr P had a 
disposable income of £840.49 after taking into account its loan repayments and the loans to 
be consolidated. 
Id reviewed ELLs credit checks. Id noted that he had two loans and a credit card as well as 
two current accounts. I thought ELL might have had some concerns that the two current 
accounts and the credit card balances were very near their respective credit limits.
Id also noted ELLs list of Mr Ps credit commitments which were higher than ELL had seen 
in its credit checks. But I could also see that he was using Loan 2 to repay two high cost 
lenders and thereby reducing his monthly credit commitments by £658. After the debt 
consolidation, I could see that Mr P was left with a disposable income around the amount 
ELL had calculated.
Id also reviewed Mr Ps bank statements. I could see that Mr P was in receipt of the income 
ELL used in its calculations. I could see that Mr Ps overdraft limit was exceeded for two 
days in one month and five days in the second month which might have raised some 
concerns. Id also noted that Mr P had again borrowed two payday loans and borrowed from 
family. I could see from ELLs account notes that Mr P explained that payday loans had been 
used to pay for a family members funeral and he had overstretched himself. This appeared 
a plausible explanation. The loan purpose to help him clear them made his situation more 
comfortable.
I could also see that Mr P was spending a relatively large amount on discretionary 
expenditure and significantly less than this on essential living costs as he wasnt paying 
anything for board. And again, I thought ELL might have reasonably expected Mr P to 
reduce his discretionary expenditure, if necessary, to make his loan repayments.
After the consolidation of the two accounts Id mentioned above, and on balance, overall, I 
hadnt seen enough to find that ELL ought to have declined to lend Loan 2 to Mr P and I 
wasnt persuaded that ELL lent irresponsibly on this occasion.
Loan 3
Id noted that Mr P repaid Loan 2 around five months after taking it out. And around nine 
months later he took out Loan 3. The loan amount was £5,000 and the monthly loan 
repayment amounts had increased to £346.67.
Mr P said that the loan was to be used for debt consolidation and a holiday. ELL paid £1,909 
to two of Mr Ps creditors directly from the loan proceeds. Its account notes indicated that it 
expected Mr P to repay his two payday loan providers and that he would be left with no 
creditors after that. I couldnt see from the information received from ELL that it had made 
this a condition of the loan. So, it couldnt be sure that the loans would be paid off.
Id again noted that ELL gathered some information from Mr P about his income and it 
estimated his expenditure by using 35% of Mr Ps net income. It carried out a credit check 
and also asked Mr P for information about his credit commitments. In addition, ELL again 
asked Mr P to provide two months bank statements. 
I thought that the checks Id described above allowed ELL to form a detailed view of Mr Ps 
finances, and I thought that the checks ELL did were proportionate. But simply performing 
proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needed to react appropriately to the 
information shown by those checks. Those results might sometimes lead a lender to 
undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. So, Id looked at the results 
of ELLs checks to see whether it made a fair lending decision.
ELL said that Mr Ps average net monthly income was £1,591.17. ELL calculated Mr Ps 
monthly living expenses and credit commitments to total £1,161.91. It said that Mr P had a 
disposable income of £332.58 after taking into account its loan repayments and the loans to 
be consolidated. 
Id noted that Mr P was now in a different job and was a tenant paying monthly rent of £355. 
ELLs account notes indicated that Mr P was working as a temporary worker for a company 
via an agency and that he hoped to be taken on permanently by that company. But Id seen 
from Mr Ps bank statements that he was paid weekly and that his income varied significantly 
each week. Id not seen anything to show that Mr P was guaranteed to be taken on 
permanently, nor what his salary would be. Id calculated from the 16 weekly salary 
payments on the bank statements that Id seen that Mr P earned an average of around 
£1,363 each month, which was significantly less than the monthly income calculated by ELL.
Id reviewed ELLs credit checks. These showed the two credit card accounts which were 
being paid by ELL from the loan proceeds. The balance of one of the accounts was very 
near its credit limit. But perhaps more worryingly the checks showed that Mr P had taken out 
seven payday loans from 6 April 2016 to 23 June 2016 ranging in size from £50 to £417. I 
thought the results of ELLs credit checks ought to have caused it some concerns as they 
suggested that Mr P was struggling to manage his money as shown especially by his recent 
frequent use of and apparent reliance on payday loans. I could see that ELL did have 
concerns about the payday loans Mr P had taken out and asked him about the reason for 
these. Mr P explained that hed taken time off in March 2016 and needed money for car 
repairs. I didnt think this explanation was sufficient to explain the use of payday loans from 
April 2016 to June 2016. In its account notes, ELL said that the payday loans were an 
obvious issue and that Mr P had gambled some of the payday loan proceeds.
Id noted that ELL had said that the loan was sustainable over the term as Mr P had a 
disposable income. But this assumed Mr Ps need for credit wasnt an ongoing one. Id noted 
from Mr Ps bank statements that hed taken out at least 12 payday loans since 1 April 2016. 
And ELL would have been aware from the credit checks for Loans 1 and 2 that Mr P had 
been using payday loans the previous year. It appeared that Mr P was reliant on expensive 
short term loans to meet his existing spending. It seemed to me there was a risk here that  
Mr P would need to borrow to meet his repayments on this loan, as he was currently doing 
so for his existing spending and that would likely have a significant adverse effect on his 
financial situation.
Id also reviewed the bank statements Mr P had provided to ELL. They covered a period of 
almost four months. Id calculated that Mr P was spending an average of around £1,050 
each month between May 2016 and July 2016 on rent and living costs. This would have left 
around £310 monthly disposable income which wouldnt have been enough to pay the loan 
repayments on Loan 3. Id not included his credit card or loan repayments in these amounts 
as ELL expected these to be repaid from Loan 3. Mr P had also borrowed an average of 
£566 on payday loans from April 2016 to July 2016. 
Altogether, I didnt think ELLs checks went far enough given Mr Ps circumstances. It didnt 
seem to have used the bank statements it had to verify its estimate of his monthly 
disposable income to ensure that Mr P would have enough funds to be able to sustainably 
make the loan repayments over 36 months. And as Id said above its account notes 
indicated that it was already concerned about his use of payday loans.So, had ELL considered fully the information it had received, I thought it would have learned 
that the loan wasnt likely to have been affordable for Mr P and so I considered it was 
irresponsible to have agreed it. 
So, I thought ELL made an unfair lending decision here and I intended to say that Mr Ps 
complaint about Loan 3 should be upheld. 
Subject to any further representations by Mr P or ELL, I intended to uphold Mr Ps complaint 
in part and say that ELL should put things right as follows.
Putting things right  what ELL needs to do
I understand that Loan 3 hasnt been repaid. In order to put Mr P back into the position he 
would have been had the loan not been agreed for him, ELL needs to ensure that Mr P only 
repays the principal borrowed on the loan. In other words, Mr P shouldnt repay more than 
the capital amount of £5,000 he borrowed. So, ELL needs to:
a) treat all payments that Mr P has made towards the loan as payments towards the
principal amount borrowed;
b) if Mr P has made payments above the capital amount of £5,000, then these should be 
refunded to him, along with simple interest at the rate of 8% per year on these amounts from 
the date they were paid to the date of settlement*;
c) if Mr P hasnt made payments above the capital amount of £5,000 and there is still an 
outstanding capital balance then ELL needs to treat Mr P fairly and sympathetically in this 
matter. This may mean agreeing a mutually agreeable repayment plan with him; and
d) remove any adverse information about Loan 3 from Mr Ps credit file.
If ELL has sold the outstanding debt on the loan, it should buy it back if it is able to do so or 
chooses to do so and then take the steps listed above. If ELL isnt able to buy the debt back 
or chooses not to, then it should liaise with the new debt owner to bring about steps a) to d) 
above.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to take off tax from this interest. ELL must give   
Mr P a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one. 
Mr P responded to my provisional decision to say he accepted it.
ELL hasnt provided a response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry
practice at the time.
Given that Mr P and ELL have given me nothing further to consider, I see no
reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I
uphold this complaint in part and require ELL to take the steps set out above under the 
heading Putting things right - what ELL needs to do.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order Everyday Lending Limited, trading as Everyday Loans, to put things right 
as Ive set out above under the heading Putting things right  what ELL needs to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman