DRN-3677981
The complaint
Mr G complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AMEX) incorrectly told him  
a companion travel voucher had been extended when it hadnt. He would like £14,854 
compensation for the flight he lost out on  as a result.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions::-
Theres no dispute that AMEX wrongly advised Mr G on several occasions that his 
companion travel voucher , due to expire in November 2021, would be extended to 
May 2022.. AMEX has explained that it cant decide if such vouchers can be 
extended  thats a decision for the airline in question to take. As I understand the 
airline would only allow extensions in extreme circumstances such as a medical 
emergency which wasnt the case here. So, I dont believe the voucher would have 
been extended
Mr G has told us he intended to travel first class to Australia so lost out by not being 
able to book a flight the cost of which would have been  £14,854. He hasnt provided 
any evidence of an attempt to book tickets to that destination at that cost. However  I 
dont accept he has lost out by this sum. The  voucher was non extendable so he 
wouldnt have been able to use it to  travel to Australia at the time he wanted So I 
dont think its reasonable to compensate him by this sum.
I do believe Mr G would have tried to use to use the voucher if he knew it would 
expire. I have seen details of the voucher scheme for the airline in question. This 
makes it clear that the voucher is available when a card member purchases another  
flight just  with Avios points  I dont know what points Mr G has . Additionally, 
bookings are subject to availability and its clear  from the customer contact notes that  
Mr G was restricted as to when he could fly. So, its impossible to say if, and what  he 
could have used the voucher for had he been given the correct information
I do think some compensation is appropriate for the misleading information given to 
Mr G and the fact he probably missed taking a flight somewhere. AMEX has credited 
Mr Gs account with £175 and given him 5000 Avios points. Mr G wouldnt have been 
able to take the flight he wanted  as his voucher couldnt be extended. Its impossible 
to say what other flight he may have taken if he were able to do so at an earlier date. 
On this basis I feel the compensation AMEX has already provided is fair. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman