DRN-3927105
The complaint
Mr M opened a fee-paying URCA with Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (BOS) in 
June 2008. Mr M says that he believed that he had to take out this account in order to get an 
overdraft.
What happened
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and they didnt think BOS had mis-sold the URCA. 
Because Mr M didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ms complaint. Having done so, I dont 
think that BOS mis-sold the URCA. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I have considered whether Mr M was given a fair choice in taking out this account. I 
should stress, where there is a dispute about what has happened, I must base my 
assessment on what is most likely to have happened at the time. And to do that, I have to 
base my assessment on everything that is available. Firstly, I note that Mr M had held a fee 
free account with BOS prior to when he took out the URCA. So I think he would have known 
that in general fee-free accounts were available from BOS.
Mr M said that he was told that he had to take out the URCA in order to get an overdraft. But 
I can see that he had and used an overdraft prior to agreeing to the account and I cant see 
that the limit changed at the time of the sale. So overall I dont think it likely that Mr M agreed 
to the URCA to obtain something he already held. Mr M has said that he was not aware that 
he had an overdraft facility, but he would have had to have applied for one in order to 
receive one and all his bank statements wouldve shown that he held an overdraft facility. So 
I think that he wouldve been aware that he held an overdraft and that they were available on 
free accounts. So I think its more likely that Mr M agreed to the URCA because of the 
benefits that it came with.
The main account benefits at the time it was taken out, was an interest free overdraft buffer 
of £300, mobile phone insurance, travel insurance, breakdown cover and home emergency 
cover. I note that Mr M did travel, drove, contacted the home emergency provider and based 
on him registering mobile phone handsets, I think he couldve used the mobile phone 
insurance if he wished to do so.
So I think Mr M could use enough of the benefits that overall, while I do appreciate what Mr 
M has said about the sale itself, on balance I think its more likely he agreed to the account 
because he was attracted to the overall package of benefits.
I am satisfied that this was a non-advised sale and therefore BOS did not need to ensure 
that the account was suitable for Mr M. It did though have to give Mr M enough information 
to decide this for himself. I think that the main benefits wouldve been outlined to Mr M to 
make the account seem attractive. I accept that Mr M may not have been given all the 
information about all of the benefits of the account, but I cant see anything specific that Mr 
M was not told that I think wouldve changed his decision to take out the account.
On balance, I think Mr M agreed to upgrade the account, knowing that he didnt have to. And 
I think its more likely he did so because at the time he was interested in the benefits on the 
account, although I accept that Mr M may no longer recall this.
I understand that this will be disappointing for Mr M. Its clear that Mr M feels strongly that 
the account was mis-sold and I can see that, with hindsight, the account may not have 
provided value for money. But I cant say that an account was mis-sold just because Mr M 
may not have received value for money, I can only say an account was mis-sold if something 
went wrong during the sales process. And in this instance, I dont think that this was the 
case.
My final decision
I dont think BOS mis-sold the URCA. I therefore dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman