DRN-4156040
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as H, complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc have not done enough 
to help it recover a payment that it had made in error. 
In bringing this complaint, H is represented by its director, who Ill refer to as Mr S. 
 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so, I wont repeat it in detail. 
Briefly, Mr S has told us that:
In November 2022, H was invoiced by a company from whom it had received various 
services. The invoices totalled over £8,600. 
In December 2022, Mr S paid the invoices but unfortunately, in error, he made the 
payments to the wrong company  which Ill refer to as B.  B was the customer of 
another bank. 
Subsequently, H had to settle the correct companys invoices and the duplicated 
payments have meant H is out of pocket by over £8,600.
In January 2023 Mr S contacted HSBC to let them know about the error. He 
requested their help in retrieving the payments which had gone to the account that B 
held at the other bank.
HSBC havent been able to recover the money. Mr S believes that theyve been 
insufficiently robust in their attempt to do so and therefore, should refund the 
duplicated payment in full. 
HSBC didnt think they needed to do so. They said in circumstances like this, they do try to 
recover funds albeit on a best endeavour basis. They said they contacted Bs bank and 
asked it to return the funds. But the bank told them it wasnt able to do so because B had 
gone into liquidation, and its account closed. So, Bs bank wasnt able to help. 
HSBC did, nonetheless, suggested H might consider reaching out to the liquidators to see if 
they could do anything for H.
H didnt think HSBCs response was satisfactory and on Hs behalf Mr S referred it to this 
service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He was satisfied that HSBC had used their best 
endeavours to recover the funds from Bs bank and had followed the correct process in 
doing so. But since B had gone into liquidation, the request for the funds needed to be made 
to the liquidators.
H didnt accept the investigators opinion. On its behalf Mr S said that although he 
understood the investigators reasons for arriving at the conclusions he did, nonetheless, 
hed like an ombudsman to consider the matter. In particular, because the financial impact 
on H, has been significant. And furthermore, HSBC accepted what Bs bank told them about 
the status of Bs account, without challenge. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive (as indeed some of it is here) I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
What has happened in this case is unfortunate. Mr S has acknowledged that in his attempt 
to pay the company that provided services to H, in error he made the payment to B. I 
understand and sympathise with H that it is now out of pocket by a significant amount of 
money and that it has been impacted by what has happened. 
It hasnt been suggested that HSBC did anything wrong, in relation to the transaction. Its 
accepted by H and HSBC that Mr S simply made an error. And although H does not dispute 
that HSBC tried to recover the funds, Hs argument is that HSBC did not do enough. Rather 
that they took at face value what Bs bank told them instead of challenging it.
Ive thought about Hs argument. 
The attempt to recover the funds that were incorrectly paid to B seems to have taken place 
against the background of Bs entry into liquidation.
Looking at the timeline of events, it seems Mr S made the payments on 15 December 2022. 
And although it isnt clear when he realised, hed made the error, according to HSBCs 
records, Mr S contacted them on 27 January 2023 to report what had happened.
There is no dispute HSBC attempted to recall the funds by contacting Bs bank. Hs belief is 
that HSBC should have challenged what they were told at the time. It seems that B went into 
liquidation on 4 January 2023. This was sometime before Mr S raised his concerns with 
HSBC on 27 January 2023, which then led HSBC to contact Bs bank.     
   
I have no reason to doubt that the account would have been closed as HSBC were advised. 
I see no reason therefore for HSBC to have doubted and challenged what theyd been told. 
But even if Bs account wasnt closed, given the timeline of events, it is doubtful HSBC 
would, in any event have been able to secure the return of the funds from Bs bank in light of 
Bs liquidation on 4 January 2023. And in view of the liquidation, it wasnt unreasonable for 
HSBC to suggest that H might like to contact the liquidators to see if there was any prospect 
of the money being returned. In the circumstances Im not persuaded HSBCs decision to 
decline Hs request for a refund of the money that was paid to B in error was unfair or 
unreasonable.   
  
My final decision
In view of all that Ive said above and whilst I am sorry to disappoint H, my final decision is 
that I do not uphold this complaint   Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman