DRN-4208410
The complaint
Mr O complains that a car acquired with finance from MotoNovo Finance Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
In September 2022 Mr O was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase 
agreement with MotoNovo. At the point of supply the car was around 5 years old and had 
covered around 55,000 miles.
When the car was delivered to Mr O, he noticed that an error message was displayed on the 
dashboard which said check AdBlue  see owners manual. Mr O filled the AdBlue tank but 
the error message didnt clear.
Mr O contacted the dealership, who advised him to keep driving the car and that the error 
message would clear on its own.
After a week the error message changed to engine start not possible in 476 miles. Mr O 
contacted the dealership, who referred him to a Mercedes specialist garage.
Mr O took the car to the specialist garage in October 2022. The AdBlue error message was 
cleared. Mr O says the garage noticed a rattling noise coming from the engine and alerted 
him to a possible timing chain issue. Mr O contacted the supplying dealer who advised him 
that the noise was normal for a diesel engine. 
In February 2023, Mr O noticed two alerts on the dashboard. One was to check the brakes 
and the other was a collision assist warning. Mr O also noticed that the engine oil was low. 
He took the car to the specialist who had looked at it previously. Mr O says that the specialist 
noticed the rattling noise from the engine again and advised him not to drive the car because 
it could be a timing chain fault. The specialist filled the engine oil, booked the car in for a 
further inspection and advised Mr O to contact MotoNovo.
Mr O complained to MotoNovo. MotoNovo arranged an independent inspection of the car. 
the inspection report concluded that the car had faults but that these wouldnt have been 
present or developing at the point of supply.
Based on the findings of the inspection report, MotoNovo didnt uphold Mr Os complaint.
Mr O remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said he was persuaded that the noisy timing chain 
had been evident since the car was supplied and that this meant the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied. The investigator said that because the business 
had already had one opportunity to repair the car, MotoNovo should allow Mr O to reject the 
car.
MotoNovo didnt agree. It said it had spoken to the dealership, who told them that Mr O 
hadnt complained about the timing chain before. MotoNovo said that if there had been a 
fault with the timing chain at the point of supply Mr O wouldnt have been able to cover 8,000 
miles in the car.
MotoNovo said that the dealership hadnt agreed to accept a rejection of the car but that it 
had offered to replace the AdBlue sensor and the timing chain at no cost to Mr O.
Mr O said he wasnt happy to accept repairs because of his concerns that there could be 
further faults with the car. He said he wanted to reject the car.
MotoNovo still didnt agree. It said there was no evidence that the timing chain was faulty in 
October 2022 and that the independent inspection report had concluded that the fault wasnt 
present or developing at the point of supply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. The legislation says that the quality of the 
car includes things like its general condition, as well as things like fitness for purpose, 
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
The car supplied to Mr O was around 5 years old and had covered around 55,000 miles. So 
its reasonable to expect that it would require repairs and maintenance sooner than, say, a 
brand new car.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs with a car within the first 6 
months of the point of supply, its assumed that the fault was present or developing at the 
point of supply and its generally up to the business to put things right. The business is 
allowed one opportunity to repair the fault. If the repair isnt successful, then the consumer 
can ask to reject the car.
Where a fault occurs outside of the first 6 months of supply, the burden of proof is reversed 
and its up to the consumer to show that the fault was present or developing at the point of 
supply. 
Ive reviewed the available evidece e about the issues which Mr O experienced with the car. 
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the car had faults. I say this because the 
independent inspection report dated 20 April 2023 states that the engine management light 
was illuminated, the brake pad warning light was illuminated and the collision prevention 
warning light was illuminated. A diagnostic test showed that the AdBlue system was 
inoperable, and a loud rattling noise could be heard from the engine, which the engineer said 
was timing chain related. The report also identified an oil leak from the rear of the engine at 
the cam cover.
Ive gone on to consider whether the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied.
MotoNovo rely on the independent inspection report, which concluded that the faults werent 
present at the point of supply. MotoNovo said that if the timing chain was faulty at the point 
of supply, it wouldnt have been possible for Mr O to have driven the car for 8,000 miles.
Ive read and considered the inspection report. However, Im persuaded that the fault with the timing chain was present or developing at the point of supply. I say this because the 
Mercedes specialist has provided a diagnostic dated 23 March 2023 which specifically 
references the timing chain rattling when the car was inspected in October 2022, which was 
only around 1 month after the point of supply. 
Based on the evidece from the Mercedes specialist, Im persuaded that the timing chain was 
rattling when the car was inspected on 4 October 2022. Because this is within the first 6 
months of the point of supply, the legislation says that it can be assumed that the fault was 
present or developing at the point of supply. I dont think the independent inspection report is 
sufficient to rebut this assumption because the engineer doesnt specifically address why the 
timing chain was rattling in October 2022. 
On balance, Im satisfied that the fault with the timing chain was present or developing at the 
point of supply. It follows that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Ive gone on to consider whats a fair and reasonable resolution to Mr Os complaint. Mr O 
has told this service that he reported the rattling timing chain to the supplying dealer in 
October 2022 but that he was advised that this was a normal noise for a diesel engine.
MotoNovo has said that the dealership has told it that Mr O didnt complaint about the timing 
chain in October 2022.
On the balance of probability, I think Mr Os version of events is more likely. The Mercedes 
specialist (to whom Mr O was referred by the supplying dealer) identified the timing chain 
rattling in October 2022. Given the potentially serious nature of this fault, I think its more 
likely that Mr O contacted the supplying dealership at this time.
Because Im satisfied that Mr O raised concerns about the timing chain in October 2022, and 
because Mr O had already been referred to the Mercedes garage for a fault with the AdBlue 
and it was this same garage that identified the timing chain issue, I think the business has 
already had a reasonable opportunity to repair the fault as per the relevant legislation. I dont 
think its fair to allow the business any further opportunities to repair the fault. In the 
circumstances, Mr O should be allowed to reject the car.
Putting things right
To put things right, MotoNovo Finance Limited must;
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr O
Refund the deposit of £6000
Refund all monthly payments made by Mr O save for 9 x monthly repayments to reflect a 
deduction for fair use 
Pay 8% simple interest per year on all amounts refunded calculated from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
Pay £100 compensation to Mr O for distress and inconvenience
Remove any adverse information from Mr Os credit file in relation to the agreementMy final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Motonovo Finance Limited must take the 
steps Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman