DRN-3604262
The complaint
Ms C and Mr Cs complaint is about their joint Virgin One account with The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc (RBS), which was used to mortgage their former marital home. Ms C is 
unhappy that RBS told her in 2017 that she couldnt pay off the mortgage, change it to just 
her name or be removed from the account due to charging orders that had been attached to 
the property title. When she was told this, she says she asked about reducing the interest 
paid on the mortgage, but she was told that there was nothing she could do. 
Subsequently, Ms C has been told that there are no charging orders against the property 
title, but rather restrictions were placed on it. In addition, she was told by RBS in May 2020 
she could have paid capital off the mortgage and formally reduced the borrowing facility, 
which would have reduced the interest rate charged. Ms C said that the incorrect information 
about the restrictions had meant that shed had to stay in the property, had to stay linked to 
her ex-husband and paid more in interest.
What happened
I issued a decision on 14 July 2022 regarding our jurisdiction in relation to Ms C and Mr Cs 
complaint. I concluded that we were not able to consider the part of the complaint about the 
information Ms C was, or was not, given about reducing the interest rate paid on the 
Virgin One account. As such, I have only detailed information below that is relevant to the 
complaint I am considering.
Mr C and Ms C took out their Virgin One account in 2005 in order to buy their home. The 
mortgage had a borrowing facility of £57,000 over a term of 25 years. It was arranged on a 
capital and interest basis, where the debt was meant to be paid off over the term. The 
borrowing facility was subsequently increased.
Mr C and Ms Cs relationship ended in 2010 and Ms C remained in the property and appears 
to have taken responsibility for paying the mortgage. 
In 2012, 2015 and 2017, the courts placed charging orders against the property title due 
debts owed by Mr C. 
Ms C contacted RBS several times between August and October 2017. RBSs notes say that 
shed told it that she was struggling with her half of the mortgage payments and was going to 
have to stop working because of illness. She provided detail of her then current income and 
what it would be when she stopped working. She asked about changing the mortgage from 
joint to Mr Cs sole name; alternatively she wanted to know about the options to sell at a 
shortfall. There appears to have been some discussion about changing the mortgage to 
Mr Cs sole name no longer being possible due to his financial situation. In relation to the 
sale of the property, RBS explained that if that happened, Mr C and Ms C would be jointly 
liable for any amount left outstanding. When she asked for advice about what to do, she was 
told they were unable to provide her with advice but explained where she could get it.
In November 2017 discussions started about Ms C buying her own property. It was 
confirmed that she had the deposit to allow her to take a mortgage of approximately £42,000 
on a purchase of just over £120,000. This appears to be the first mention in RBS records of 
Ms C having a significant lump sum available to her. There was no mention of it being used 
to pay the existing mortgage off.
Ms C has told us RBS notes arent accurate. Shes said that she called wanting to know 
how to pay off her mortgage, as shed just been given a large lump sum by a relative. She 
was told that she couldnt pay off the mortgage because of the charging orders. She was 
also unable to remove either herself or Mr C from the mortgage because of those orders. 
Ms C has also said that she asked about reducing the interest rate on the mortgage and was 
told this wasnt possible because of the type of account.
On 30 April 2020 Ms C called RBS. Its notes of the call say that she asked about removing 
Mr C from the mortgage in July 2018, but had been unable to do so because her income 
wasnt sufficient to support the application. Ms C said she was then given funds by her 
brother to pay into the account, but she wasnt told at that point that if she reduced the 
borrowing facility to 50% of the property value, it would reduce the interest rate applied to the 
mortgage. She said that she wasnt given information/options to make the right decision and 
was, therefore, paying a higher interest rate than she needed to be. RBS records of calls 
made on the account doesnt include a call from Ms C in July 2018.
A complaint was registered in Ms Cs name and on 6 May 2020 RBS sent her an 
acknowledgement letter. 
On 13 May 2020 Ms C called RBS again. In that call she discussed with RBS the possibility 
of selling the mortgaged property, but keeping the mortgage account going in just her name 
in order to buy a new home. RBS said this wasnt possible with the Virgin One account, and 
Ms C would need to look at a different type of mortgage to enable her to buy a new home. 
Further discussions were had about Ms Cs plans and she mentioned that she might borrow 
money from her brother for the deposit. Ms C was recorded as having transferred £13,100 of 
her sons money into the account, with the intention of this money being withdrawn at a later 
date.
On 15 May 2020 RBS responded to the complaint about Ms C having been told that there 
was nothing she could do to reduce the interest rate she was paying on the mortgage. 
On 15 October 2020 Ms C spoke to RBS about the possibility of further borrowing on the 
account to deal with the charging orders. 
On 30 October 2020 Ms C called again with new complaint points. In this call she told RBS 
that in September 2017 she had made it aware that she had £75,000 available to her and 
had wanted to pay off the mortgage, but was told she couldnt. This was because of charging 
orders attached to the property title. However, she had now found out that they were 
restrictions, not charging orders, and so believed what shed been told in 2017 was wrong. 
Ms C was also of the belief that two of the restrictions had been obtained by RBS, which she 
felt was a conflict of interest. In addition, she said she had discovered that RBS wouldnt 
allow her to increase the borrowing facility because of what it described as charging orders, 
thereby trapping her sons money that had been used to reduce the account balance. 
RBS responded to the second complaint in its final response letter of 4 December 2020. It 
confirmed that there were charging orders registered against the property and that they 
stopped her from making changes to her borrowing. As such, RBS had given Ms C the right 
information and it didnt uphold the complaint. 
Ms C wasnt happy with RBS response to her complaints and ask us to consider them.  One 
of our investigators looked into the matter and concluded that we couldnt consider all of the complaint. This was because Ms C hadnt referred the part of the complaint addressed in 
RBS final response letter of 15 May 2020 within the six-month timescale set out in the letter 
and our rules. The investigator didnt consider the delay had been caused by exceptional 
circumstances. 
The investigator went on to consider the merits of the complaint point first raised in Ms Cs 
telephone call of 30 October 2020. She was satisfied that at the time Ms C spoke to RBS in 
September 2017 about possible changes to the mortgage, there were charging orders 
attached to the property title. In light of that, and the outcome of the subsequent affordability 
assessment it undertook at the time, the investigator didnt think RBS position on changing 
the mortgage was unreasonable.  
Ms C remained unhappy with the investigators conclusion. She raised a new complaint point 
about the borrowing facility having not reduced as originally planned. She reiterated her 
recollections of the discussion that was held in 2017 about paying off the mortgage, 
including that this was the first time she had become aware of the charging orders. 
Our investigator considered what Ms C had said, but it didnt change her mind. There was 
further discussion between Ms C and the investigator, but agreement couldnt be reached. 
As such, it was decided that the complaint should be referred to an ombudsman for 
consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
At each stage of our process we review our jurisdiction to consider a complaint. I have done 
so again in this case and I remain satisfied that we are unable to consider the point relating 
to the reduction of the interest rate applied to the mortgage.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Cs recollection of the discussions that took place with RBS differs slightly from what 
RBS records indicate was the case. While I dont doubt Ms Cs recollections are genuinely 
given, the value of contemporaneous evidence is that it should reflect what was said and 
agreed at the relevant time. It is not fool-proof of course, and it is always possible 
information might be recorded incorrectly, but it is typically more reliable than peoples 
individual recollections at a distance of time, which, although given in good faith, can 
sometime be inaccurate. So unless there is a compelling reason to believe the information is 
inaccurate, we generally attach some weight to it.
I will firstly comment on the matter of the charges placed on the property title. I am satisfied 
that the initial information Ms C was provided, that they were charging orders, was correct. 
The existence of the charging orders would mean that Mr C couldnt be removed from the 
title deeds and, therefore, the mortgage unless the related debts were repaid. So I dont 
think RBS was wrong to explain to Ms C that the charging orders restricted what could be 
done with the mortgage. 
Nor was it unreasonable for RBS to explain that the type of mortgage Ms C had couldnt be 
transferred to a new property. Generally, mortgages cant be transferred to a new property  
while interest rate products can be, a completely new mortgage usually needs to be applied 
for and arranged. Affordability would then need to be assessed, as it would be if changes 
were made to the existing mortgage in the form of either Mr C or Ms C being removed from 
it. As lenders are required to ensure that a mortgage is affordable, it wasnt unreasonable for 
RBS to want to make such an assessment if changes were proposed. If the mortgage was 
then determined to be unaffordable, or adverse credit issues meant an individual didnt fit with RBS criteria, it would not have been unreasonable for it to tell Ms C that the changes 
were not possible.
While Ms C has said that she was denied the opportunity in 2017 to repay the mortgage, it 
appears that the only mention of a lump sum being used was as a deposit if she were to buy 
a property in her sole name. 
While I know that Ms C wont be satisfied with my conclusions, I dont think RBS gave her 
incorrect information her or acted unreasonably in its dealings with her about changes to the 
mortgage.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr C and Ms C to accept or reject my decision 
before 1 September 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman