DRN-2877040
The complaint
Mr S complains on behalf of his company, that I will refer to as B, that QBE UK Limited 
unfairly declined his claim on his property owners insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S is the director of B. It owns a building that contains a commercial property on the 
ground floor and the two flats above it which it rents out. It has insurance with QBE to cover 
the whole building.
In June 2017 Mr S made a claim on Bs insurance after a previous tenant caused damage to 
the building. He damaged the CCTV cameras and ripped up the felt covering on the flat 
roofs, which caused water ingress.
QBE sent out a contractor to inspect the damage. At this stage Mr S had already paid for 
repairs to the roof to prevent any further damage. Following the visit QBE requested further 
information from Mr S to validate the claim. This included crime reference numbers and 
invoices for the repair work to the roof. 
Mr S provided an invoice for the repairs carried out and a further quote for additional repairs 
he said were needed for another section of the roof. He also provided details from the police 
and crime reference numbers. 
In June 2018 QBE accepted his claim and agreed to reimburse the cost of the repairs to the 
roof that were carried out, the damage to the inside of the property and the damaged CCTV. 
However it didnt agree to pay the costs presented on the invoice for additional roof repairs, 
as it said the work quoted for had already been carried out in the initial repair work.
Mr S was unhappy with this as he thought the additional repairs should be covered as they 
were needed as a result of the malicious damage by the ex-tenant. He made a complaint to 
QBE.
QBE didnt uphold the complaint as it maintained that the additional work Mr S was claiming 
for had already been included in the original repairs. Mr S didnt agree, he said only patch 
repairs were carried out to the area and now full repairs were required. 
As a result of this QBE conducted a full investigation into the additional costs being claimed 
for. This involved interviewing Mr S, as well as obtaining additional information about the 
company who had quoted for the extra work. It concluded that Mr S had claimed for 
additional costs that had already been included in the previous claim. It therefore declined 
the entire claim, relying on the fraud condition in the policy. 
Mr S didnt think this was fair as he maintained that the additional costs he was claiming for 
were for required repairs. He brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said he thought QBE had 
done enough to show that the additional costs being claimed for were already included in the 
first invoice, so he thought it was fair to decline the whole claim.
Mr S didnt agree and asked for Bs complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
QBE has said that it thinks Mr S has exaggerated Bs claim for malicious damage by 
submitting an additional invoice that represented work that had already been covered 
elsewhere in the claim. Based on this, it has relied on the fraud condition in the policy to 
decline the entire claim.
Where a claim is found to be fraudulent, under the policy, QBE is entitled to decline the claim 
in its entirety. This means even if it believes just one part of the claim is fraudulent, it doesnt 
have to pay for the other parts even if those are not.  
In cases where fraud has been alleged, our role is not to decide whether fraud has been 
committed, but to decide whether the business acted fairly and reasonably when reaching its 
decision to rely on a fraud term in a policy to refuse a claim. We understand that accusing 
someone of fraud is a serious matter. So its important that a business has enough weight of 
evidence to make its decision fair and reasonable. 
So while QBE has acted inline with the policy when declining Bs whole claim, I need to 
decide if it has acted fairly and reasonably by applying the fraud condition in this case. 
QBE has provided a number of reasons why it doesnt think the invoice submitted was a true 
representation of the repair costs under the claim. The ones I consider to be most relevant 
are as follows:
It wasnt able to validate the company that quoted for the work.
There were inconsistencies in the information Mr S provided.
Mr S was unable to satisfactorily prove that the work was in addition to work that had 
been carried out.
I have considered each of these below. 
Unable to validate the company
QBE has said that it has doubts about the legitimacy of the company that provided the quote 
for the additional work. It said it was unable to find any evidence that the company existed 
and when it spoke to the person listed on the invoice, they didnt know anything about the 
company.
Ive looked at the evidence provided by QBE, as well as carrying out my own searches. And 
I agree there is no evidence of a registered company in the name given on the quote. So I 
understand why QBE had concerns.
QBE has also said it has called the number on the invoice and spoken to the person named 
(Mr A). They say Mr A confirmed their name but said they werent aware of the company on 
the invoice. They confirmed they own a different company (K) and when they confirmed the 
address of K, this was the address of the commercial property owned by Mr S. While Ive not been able to listen to the call made by QBE, I have no reason to doubt its 
account. Further, on a search of Ks name, I can see that Mr A is registered as a director. So 
it seems the information provided is correct.  
So I think QBE has done enough to show that the details of the company on the quote arent 
accurate. As the name of the business isnt associated with the listed phone number or 
person named. So I agree this casts doubt on the legitimacy of the contents of the quote.
Inconsistencies and lack of proof
QBE has also said there are a number of inconsistencies in the details given by Mr S about 
the claim. And that he has changed his account when different evidence arose.
I can see from the interview notes that when Mr S was first asked about his relationship with 
Mr A he said he was only aware of him through the company that had quoted for the work. 
He said I did not have any other dealings with him in any other capacity. 
However QBE later discovered that Mr S had previously been a registered director of K 
alongside Mr A. When asked about this Mr S confirmed this was true but offered no 
explanation about the reason for the previous conflicting account he had given. 
QBE has also said there were discrepancies between the explanation Mr S has provided for 
why the additional work in the quote is required. From the correspondence provided I can 
see that at first he said that it was for repairs to the kitchen roof. However QBE pointed out 
that repairs to the roofs were included in the first invoice for works completed in 2017. After 
this Mr S said patch repairs were carried out in 2017 but a full repair wasnt carried out until 
2018 and this is what the second quote was for.
Ive looked at the photos provided by QBEs contractor. These were taken in 2017, after the 
first repairs were carried out but before the work relating to the second quote. I agree with 
QBE that there is no evidence of either patch repairs or damage that needed attention on 
either of the roofs. 
QBE put this to Mr S and he hasnt provided an explanation for why these patch repairs 
werent visible in 2017. I can therefore understand the concerns it has about the accuracy of 
the quote presented as part of the claim.  
So when I consider everything together, I think QBE has provided enough evidence to show 
that that the quote that Mr S has provided is most likely not an accurate reflection of the 
costs of the claim. For these reasons I think its made a reasonable decision based on the 
facts of the case. And I think QBE has acted fairly and reasonably by relying on the fraud 
condition in the policy to decline Mr S claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Bs complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman