DRN-3366814
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that Monzo has decided not to refund them their remaining 
losses after they were the victims of an investment scam. The funds were sent to two 
separate accounts held with Monzo.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S say they were persuaded to invest funds after coming across someone on a 
social media website. They sent £1,000 and were told that after a few hours their investment 
had performed well and in order to release the funds, the trader would need a payment of 
£4,000 and so they transferred this amount to the scammers as well. 
They say they realised after a few hours, that they had been scammed and contacted their 
two banks to report the matter.
In summary: 
- Mr and Mrs S were scammed and on 28 December 2020 and sent payments totalling 
£5,000 to scammers. Mrs S sent £4,000 from her account with Bank A. And Mr S 
sent £1,000 from his account with Bank B.
- Monzo received a report of fraud from Bank A on 29 December 2020 and the Monzo 
account was blocked on the same day whilst it investigated. Monzo provided an 
update to Bank A on 12 January 2021 to say it was still investigating. On 21 January 
2021, Monzo contacted Bank A to say £1.46 remained in the account. Bank A 
initiated a request for the remaining funds to be returned.
- Monzo received a report of fraud from Bank B on 11 January 2021 and responded 
the following day to confirm no funds remained. Monzo confirmed the account in 
question had already been blocked on 30 December 2020. 
Mr and Mrs S complained to Monzo (in addition to their own banks) on 26 January 2021 to 
say they been scammed totalling £5,000 and the money had been received into two Monzo 
bank accounts.  
Mr S has let us know that he received a full refund from Bank B. And Mrs S has accepted an 
offer from Bank A for a 50% refund of the funds she sent as part of this scam. So Mr and 
Mrs Ss losses are limited to half of the payment made from Bank A which is £2,000.
Mr and Mrs Ss banks are signed up to the Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code). And Monzo, while not a signatory, has also agreed 
to abide by the principles of the CRM Code.
 
The CRM Code was implemented to reduce the occurrence of APP scams. It sets out what 
is expected of the Sending Firm when payments are made which includes a consideration 
of whether a customer met their requisite level of care when making the payment. And it also 
sets out the obligations for the Receiving Firm to prevent, detect and respond to the receipt 
of funds from APP scams in order to prevent accounts from being opened, or used, to 
launder the proceeds of APP scams. Where there is a failing by either the Sending Firm or 
Receiving Firm, they may be required to reimburse the customer. And the customer may 
also be required to share some responsibility for the loss if it is determined that they also 
failed to meet their requisite level of care under the CRM Code.
Ultimately Mr and Mrs S were unhappy with Monzos lack of response to their own banks 
reports of fraud, that Monzo didnt recover their funds and didnt prevent the accounts being 
opened for fraudulent purposes in the first instance. 
Monzo didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. It said it acted appropriately when actioning 
the requests from Mr and Mrs Ss banks. It didnt have any concerns with the account 
holders when the accounts were first opened and took appropriate on the accounts, 
following the fraud reports.
Monzo added that the customers successfully applied for their accounts with genuine ID 
documents and passed all relevant checks.
Unhappy with the response from Monzo Mr and Mrs S brought their complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into things, in summary he said:
- Hed considered the complaint and Monzos actions in light of the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM). Whilst not a signatory to the code Monzo has agreed 
to its provisions, which say as the receiving bank, to a payment sent as part of an 
APP scam, it should: 
oTake reasonable steps to prevent accounts from being used to launder the 
proceeds of APP scams.
oHave procedures to prevent, detect and respond to the receipt of funds from 
APP scam; and
oWhere the receiving Firm identifies funds where there are concerns that they 
may be the proceeds of an APP scam, it should freeze the funds and respond 
in a timely manner.
- Having considered the above he was satisfied that the correct account opening 
procedures were followed, and at that stage, there wasnt anything to suggest the 
accounts would later be used for fraudulent purposes.
- There wasnt anything in relation to the account activity prior to the payments being 
made by Mr and Mrs S, that ought to have caused concern for Monzo so that it 
needed to have intervened. 
- By the time Monzo was made aware of the fraud, the majority of the funds had left 
the accounts. So Monzo couldnt have done anything to prevent Mr and Mrs Ss 
losses. And it did take action as soon as it was notified of the scam. It also updated 
both Bank A and Bank B with its progress and the status of any remaining funds 
which is expected of them.
The investigator didnt uphold the complaint against Monzo. Mr and Mrs S said they would 
like the case looked at by an ombudsman. And so, the complaint has been passed to me to 
consider.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator for largely the same 
reasons. 
To clarify, this decision focuses solely on the actions of Monzo  as the Receiving Firm of 
the accounts where Mr and Mrs S made payments to. 
Among other things, regulated firms receiving payments like Monzo, are required to
conduct their business with due skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2)
and to comply with legal and regulatory anti-money laundering and countering the financing
of terrorism requirements.
Those requirements include maintaining proportionate and risk-sensitive policies and
procedures to identify, assess and manage money laundering risk  for example through
customer due diligence measures and the ongoing monitoring of the business relationship
(including through the scrutiny of transactions undertaken throughout the course of the
relationship).
And, more generally given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, as
a matter of good industry practice at the time, I think firms should reasonably have had
measures in place to detect suspicious transactions or activities that might indicate fraud or
financial abuse (something also recognised by the Banking Standards Institutes October
2017 Protecting Customers from Financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse 
Code of Practice).
And Im satisfied that this good practice requirement meant not just looking out for situations
where a customer might be the victim of fraud, but also situations where the customer might
be the perpetrator of fraud or a money mule.
Also relevant in this case, as mentioned earlier, is the CRM Code that Monzo have agreed to 
abide by the principles of.
The relevant considerations for Receiving Firms under the CRM Code sets out the following:
CRM Code: Payment Journey  Receiving Firm
 
SF2 Receiving Firms should take reasonable steps to prevent accounts from being 
used to launder the proceeds of APP scams. This should include procedures 
to prevent, detect and respond to the receipt of funds from APP scams. 
Where the receiving Firm identifies funds where there are concerns that they 
may be the proceeds of an APP scam, it should freeze the funds and respond 
in a timely manner.
Prevention
SF2(1) Firms must take reasonable steps to prevent accounts being opened for 
criminal purposes.
Detection
SF2(3) Firms must take reasonable steps to detect accounts which may be, or are 
being, used to receive APP scam funds.Response
SF2(4) Following notification of concerns about an account or funds at a receiving 
Firm, the receiving Firm should respond in accordance with the procedures 
set out in the Best Practice Standards.
In considering all of the above, and to determine if Monzo met the standards required of it 
under the CRM Code, I have looked at whether Monzo opened the receiving accounts 
correctly, whether there was anything in the way the accounts were being used that should 
have given Monzo any cause for concern and finally; once notified of fraud did it act 
appropriately and in a timely manner. And if I consider there were failings in relation to any of 
the above, I have to consider whether Monzos acts or omissions fairly resulted in Mr and 
Mrs Ss losses.  
I would like to point out to Mr and Mrs S at this point, that while Monzo has provided our 
service with information about the receiving bank accounts  it has done so in confidence. 
This is to allow us to discharge our investigatory functions and Monzo has provided that 
which is necessary for the determination of this complaint. Due to data protection laws our 
service cant share any information about the beneficiaries, the receiving bank accounts or 
any investigation and action Monzo subsequently took. However, I would like to assure Mr 
and Mrs S I have thoroughly reviewed and considered all the information provided before 
reaching my decision.
Prevention  the account opening process
To help decide whether or not a bank failed to prevent the loss of an APP victim when
opening the beneficiary account, we would generally ask to see evidence that; it correctly
followed its account opening procedures; carried out checks to verify the identity of the
named account holders; and did its due diligence when opening the accounts.
Im satisfied that Monzo didnt make any errors when opening the accounts, it completed the 
correct ID checks and due diligence and Im satisfied it had no reason to be concerned that 
the accounts werent genuine at the time. 
So Im satisfied Monzo has taken reasonable steps to prevent the accounts being opened for 
criminal purposes and it didnt miss an opportunity to prevent Mr and Mrs Ss losses when 
opening the accounts.
Detection  account activity 
The primary duty of a bank is to follow their customers instructions and make payments as
directed in line with the mandate  which is usually set out in the terms and conditions of the
account. The CRM Code sets out that Firms must take reasonable steps to detect accounts 
which may be, or are being, used to receive APP scam funds. This ties in with long standing 
regulatory and legal obligations Banks and Building Societies have to monitor their business 
relationships and to be alert to other risks - such as fraud, which would include giving 
consideration to unusual and out of character transactions.
Prior to the payments from Mr and Mrs S, I cant see that there was any suspicious activity 
on the accounts that means Monzo failed to prevent or detect the receipt of fraudulent funds. 
Im also satisfied there was no notification of fraud on the accounts prior to the payments Mr 
and Mrs S made into the accounts and no other red flags where it could reasonably be 
argued that Monzo might have had sufficient grounds to suspect fraud and refuse execution 
of their customers payment instructions.So, from what Ive seen, Im satisfied Monzo has demonstrated that it has taken reasonable 
steps to detect accounts which may be, or are being, used to receive APP scam funds. I also 
dont think Monzo ought reasonably to have had concerns where I would have expected it to 
have intervened, so I cant fairly say that it could have prevented Mr and Mrs Ss losses in 
this way either.
Response to the notification of fraud
The Best Practice Standards set out that a Receiving Firm must take appropriate action, in a 
speedy manner, upon notification of APP fraud and notify the Sending Firm if any funds 
remain for recovery.
As Ive set out from the timeline of events, Monzo acted quickly in response to the reports of 
fraud. Unfortunately, Mr and Mrs Ss funds had already been moved on by the time it was 
notified. So, Im satisfied Monzo couldnt have done anything to prevent Mr and Mrs Ss 
losses. And Im satisfied it notified the sending banks with regular updates.
So, taking the above into consideration Im satisfied, following notification of APP fraud, 
Monzo responded in accordance with the procedures set out in the Best Practice Standards. 
And I dont think I can fairly say Monzo didnt do enough to respond to the alleged APP 
fraud.
Summary 
Overall, while Mr and Mrs S were the unfortunate victims of a scam, Im satisfied that Monzo 
met the standards required of it under the CRM Code. I also dont think Monzo couldve 
done anything more as the Receiving Firm to have prevented the loss of Mr and Mrs Ss 
money. And it responded appropriately once notified of the fraud. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs S, but Im satisfied that Monzo 
doesnt need to refund them for their remaining losses. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ss 
complaint against Monzo. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Sophia Smith
Ombudsman