DRN-3284095
Complaint
Mrs F says that Clydesdale Bank Plc (Clydesdale) treated her unfairly when it continued 
adding unarranged overdraft fees to her account after re-debiting a payment which had 
previously been refunded.
Background
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Fs concerns. She didnt think Clydesdale had done 
anything wrong when allowing the payment in question from Mrs Fs account. However, the 
investigator didnt think that it was fair and reasonable for Clydesdale to have continued 
adding unarranged overdraft fees for as long as it did. So overall the investigator 
recommended the complaint should be partially upheld. Mrs F didnt think this went far 
enough and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Clydesdale has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mrs F is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of her 
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. In this case, Mrs F has been left with an outstanding 
balance even though all of the unfair unarranged overdraft charges added from November 
2019 have been refunded. So while Mrs F has been left with a balance and she might be 
unhappy with this, Clydesdale has done what Id normally expect it to do here.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a firm to put things right, we can 
and will tell it to do something different and/or something more if theres a strong reason to 
say thats what would be fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual 
case.
Mrs F says Clydesdale should do something different here. She says Clydesdale shouldnt 
have allowed the payment in the first place and so it should write off the entire balance. Ive 
thought about what Mrs F has said. But the payment in question was temporarily refunded to 
her in July 2019, pending an investigation, because she disputed having authorised it in the 
first place. Mrs F would have been told that there was a possibility the transaction would be 
debited again pending the outcome of a fraud investigation.
And as there was no dispute that Mrs F did initially authorise the transaction in question  
she believes that it shouldnt have been taken because she changed her mind about her 
holiday booking, Clydesdale debited the amount from Mrs Fs account. And Clydesdale has 
already, quite correctly, explained that this is a matter she needs to take up with the holiday 
company if she remains unhappy. 
Equally, as Mrs F did initially authorise the transaction and Clydesdales investigations 
showed this, I dont think that it was unreasonable for it to attempt to reclaim the funds from 
Mrs F in November 2019  albeit it would have been helpful to provide additional notice of 
this. I know that Mrs F is unhappy that this happened when there were no funds in her 
accounts. But as this was for a transaction that had been authorised some time previously, I 
dont think this means that Clydesdale shouldnt have debited the funds. 
Its clear that there was a mix up in the amount of notice Mrs F was given before the 
payment was once again taken and Clydesdale continued adding unarranged overdraft 
charges for longer than it should have done. But Clydesdale has already paid compensation 
for the first of these matters and as Ive explained it has now also agreed to refund the 
unarranged overdraft fees which it unfairly added too. 
In these circumstances and bearing in mind it was entitled to authorise the payment in 
question, I think its perfectly fair and reasonable to expect Mrs F to repay the remaining 
balance. And I dont think that Mrs F perhaps being unhappy at having a balance to repay is 
in itself a compelling reason for me to depart from our usual approach here.
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what Clydesdale has already done to put things 
right for Mrs F is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of her case. As this is the case, 
Im not requiring it to do anything more and I leave it up to Mrs F to decide whether to accept 
its offer.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Clydesdale Bank UK Plc has already 
agreed to do to put things right for Mrs F is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of her 
case. So Im not requiring it to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman