DRN-4345515
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) voided 
their home insurance policy following a claim for water damage.
What happened
As the circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, Ill summarise what happened.
Mr T got in touch with LV in January 2022 about water damage to the kitchen ceiling 
below the bathroom.
LV appointed a surveyor, B, to inspect the damage. B said it had dealt with a claim 
from Mr and Mrs T in 2017, which was settled by making a cash payment. It thought 
the damage seen in 2022 was in the same area as it was in 2017. LV asked Mr T to 
explain what had happened.
When Mr T didnt do so, LV said hed tried to deceive it into providing a financial 
benefit twice for the same damage. It voided the policy from the date of the claim, 
which means treating the policy as if it didnt exist from that point. As a result, it didnt 
take the claim further.
Mrs T said Mr T had been very unwell during the claim, including having time off work 
for stress, and couldnt recall the earlier claim when getting in touch with LV in 2022. 
All correspondence during the recent claim had been with Mr T and his state of mind 
meant he was unable to deal with it. And, as a result of having to declare a voided 
policy, new home insurance was too expensive for them to buy, so their home had 
remained uninsured since the policy was voided.
Our investigator thought LV had acted fairly. He said LV had shown some of the 
damage was the same during both claims. But Mr and Mrs T hadnt shown there had 
been a further leak. Whilst Mr T had been off work with stress in early 2022, there 
wasnt any evidence to show why hed been unable to recall the earlier claim.
Mrs T disagreed and ask for an Ombudsman to review their complaint. She made a 
number of points, which Ill summarise:
oMr T had been off work for almost three months with severe stress. 
Symptoms of this include difficulties with concentration and memory.
oThe FCA has published guidance on dealing with vulnerable customers, 
which hasnt been taken into account.
oAll of LVs correspondence was with Mr T. Given his illness at the time, its 
clear why he didnt engage with LV. Mrs T was unaware of the 
correspondence or the impact on the claim and policy.
oMrs T recalls carrying out some work after the 2017 claim  replacing the 
bathroom floor and painting the kitchen ceiling.
oAnd she says there was a second leak in 2022, which meant work was 
carried out to a pipe or pipes.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
LV has voided the policy by relying on a policy term. Ill quote the relevant parts:
You must not commit fraud.
You are committing fraud if you, or anyone else insured by this policy or acting on 
your behalf, knowingly:

Make a fraudulent or false claim in full or in part:
oBy providing false information in order to influence us to accept a 
claim;
oBy exaggerating the amount of the claim; or
oBy supplying false or invalid documents in support of a claim.
The policy term goes on to say that if fraud is established, LV wont pay a claim under the 
policy and may cancel or void the policy. The onus is on LV to show it would be fair to rely 
on the policy term.
LVs argument is essentially that Mr and Mrs T have knowingly claimed for the same 
damage twice. So Ive considered the evidence LV has provided about this  as well as the 
circumstances Mrs T has described.
Bs reports from 2017 and 2022 both show damage to the bathroom floor and kitchen ceiling. 
B notes the bathroom flooring was replaced between the claims and thats clear to see. B 
said the damage to the kitchen ceiling was the same though. Looking carefully at the photos 
in both reports, I can see why. The 2022 damage is very similar and, where it differs, it 
seems the 2017 damage has worsened. Mrs T says she recalls the ceiling being painted, but 
not repaired or replaced. So I think its likely the ceiling damage is largely the same.
Mr and Mrs T said there was a leak from a pipe beneath the bath in 2022  and that caused 
new damage. But they havent provided any evidence to show a pipe was repaired, 
replaced, or otherwise put right in 2022. So its not clear there was a new leak.
That means theres no evidence of a new leak, or new damage to the kitchen ceiling. So I 
can understand why LV thought Mr and Mrs T were claiming for the same problem twice.
Mrs T says Mr T was very unwell during the 2022 claim because he was suffering from 
severe stress which impacted his memory. When he called LV in 2022, he had no 
recollection of the earlier claim. Shes pointed to guidance about dealing with vulnerable 
customers and asked LV and this Service to take it into account.
Mrs T has provided evidence to show Mr T was signed off work for around a month in 
January 2022 for work related stress. No further medical evidence has been provided to 
support what Mrs T has said about the severity or length of Mr Ts illness. I understand the 
symptoms of stress can vary widely from person to person. And the impact of it can range 
from mild to severe. So, without further medical information, I dont have any objective 
evidence about Mr Ts particular symptoms and the impact on him specifically.
I bear in mind that if Mr and Mrs T could evidence a pipe repair in 2022, that would likely 
show they werent claiming for the same problem twice  regardless of Mr Ts mental health. And if there wasnt a new leak in 2022, I would have to be persuaded that the impact on Mr 
Ts mental health was so significant that it had severely impaired his memory of events and 
he was effectively unable to understand what he was doing or saying when he contacted LV. 
I cant rule out that possibility, but I dont have any evidence to show that was the case. So, 
on the strength of the available evidence, Im not satisfied that was likely what happened.
I know Mrs T feels strongly that LVs communication ought to have been with her, as well as 
with Mr T, given theyre joint policyholders. It isnt always necessary to communicate with 
both policyholders. But for a matter as serious as voiding the policy for fraud, I would usually 
expect that to happen. LV could have done more to act fairly and reasonable here and I think 
its accepted that.
However, even if LV had written to Mr and Mrs T jointly, Im not persuaded that would likely 
have made a difference. Through LVs complaint process, and referral to this Service, Mrs T 
has had the same opportunity to comment and provide evidence that she would have had if 
LV had contacted her.
Overall, Im satisfied it was fair for LV to rely on the policy term above to void the policy and 
not take the claim any further. So I wont be requiring it to take any action.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman