DRN-4089643
The complaint
Mrs N complains that Blantyre Credit Union Limited trading as Thistle Credit Union asked for 
unnecessary information to evidence the source of the funds she used to pay off her loan.  
What happened
Mrs N had a loan with Thistle and attempted to pay the remaining balance in full on 30 June 
2022. The remaining balance was £11,124.59. Mrs N was informed that due to the large 
deposit being made in one lump sum, Thistle would require proof of the source of the funds. 
Mrs N sent screenshots of her current account with the entries redacted, other than the entry 
showing the funds being transferred to Thistle. However, Thistle explained they would need 
an unedited pdf of the statements so they could confirm the source of the funds, as a 
screenshot was not secure enough. 
Mrs N disagreed with this as she felt it was an invasion of her privacy to provide copies of 
her statements. She explained this to Thistle and felt she had provided enough for them to 
clear the loan. She asked for a complaint to be raised and asked for her address to be 
updated as per the screenshot of the statement provided. 
Thistle investigated Mrs Ns complaint and issued a final response on 2 August 2022 in 
which they explained they had frozen the interest on the loan account for eight weeks but 
they still required a pdf of the statement from where the deposit came from showing the 
transfer leaving the account. However, as they had not updated Mrs Ns address, she did not 
receive this letter. It wasnt until December 2022 when Mrs N checked her credit file that she 
realised the loan was still marked as unpaid and in arrears.
Mrs N referred the complaint to our service and our Investigator was able to mediate 
between both parties. Mrs N eventually agreed to provide the statements initially requested 
and in return, Thistle agreed to return the funds to Mrs Ns current account, minus the 
contractual payments that had been missed and £64 in interest. They also agreed to amend 
Mrs Ns credit file to clear any arrears. Mrs N has now re-started her monthly contractual 
payments. 
Our Investigator issued a view in which they explained that while they agreed Thistle could 
have done more to let Mrs N know they had not updated her address and could have 
realised sooner that the final response had been sent to an incorrect address, they also felt 
Mrs N could have done more to chase a response from Thistle when she did not receive one 
as expected. 
In any event, as Thistle had waived all interest that would have accrued while the complaint 
was ongoing, minus £64 which accrued between complaints, as this totalled over £800 they 
felt this was compensation enough for any perceived error made by Thistle. 
Mrs N disagreed with this and felt she should still receive compensation for the issues she 
faced. As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to 
me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the Investigator for largely the same reasons. I think the steps 
Thistle has taken to remedy the complaint is more than I would have expected them to do in 
the circumstances, and I dont recommend they take further action. Ill explain why in more 
detail. 
Mrs Ns complaint began when Thistle asked her for an unredacted pdf of her statements 
showing the source of the £11,124.59 deposit to clear her loan account. I appreciate Mrs N 
feels this is an invasion of her privacy however I dont think that Thistles request was an 
unreasonable one. 
Considering the size of the deposit and the requirement on Thistle to ensure they are 
complying with the relevant regulations, I think it was reasonable that they made sure they 
were fully aware of the source of the funds in question. They have explained that a screen 
shot can be manipulated which is why they required a pdf, and on balance I think this was a 
reasonable request in the circumstances. With this in mind, I dont think Thistle made an 
error when it asked Mrs N for further information about the source of the funds. 
Mrs N has said her address was not updated as she expected it to, which led to the 
complaint letters not being sent to her correct address. I can see that Mrs N did mention in 
an e-mail shorty after making the large deposit that she would like them to amend the 
address as per the screenshot of the account she provided. 
I do agree that Thistle could have made it clearer that in order to update the address, they 
needed a pdf of either the statements or a bill for the correct address. And that they could 
have realised once Mrs N did not respond to their complaint letters that the update request 
had not been completed.
I also have to consider that Mrs N had requested a copy of her terms and conditions for the 
account and raised a complaint at the same time she asked for her address to updated. 
When she did not receive the terms and conditions or a response to her request, I think she 
could reasonably have realised that something was wrong and contacted Thistle. I also note 
that when Thistle made Mrs N aware in December 2022 what was needed in order for her 
address to be updated, she did not provide this until our involvement months later. Which 
suggest she may not have provided the required documents in June 2022 to update her 
address. With this in mind, I think both parties are partially responsible for the address not 
being updated in a timely manner.
The main area where I feel Thistle may have acted unreasonably is when it did not return 
Mrs Ns funds to her when she made it clear she was unwilling to provide the information 
they had requested. I appreciate they have said they needed confirmation of where to send 
the funds back to, but I do think they could have e-mailed Mrs N sooner to discuss the 
options for this. However, if I were to agree an error was made here, the recommended 
redress would be compensation. As Thistle has already waived the interest Mrs N would 
have incurred on the loan totalling just over £800, this is far greater than any compensation 
award I would have recommended. 
I appreciate Mrs N sees compensation a separate award, however I have reviewed the 
complaint and the action Thistle has taken holistically and in the round. Having done so, considering the interest that has been waived, I dont think Thistle needs to pay any 
additional compensation.
Thistle has agreed to amend Mrs Ns credit file so no missed payments appear on it. Im 
aware that there have been issues ensuring this has been completed correctly but that both 
Thistle and Mrs N have been in contact with the credit referencing agencies to ensure this is 
rectified as soon as possible. As Mrs N has been put back in the situation she would have 
been in had she provided the relevant documents in July 2022, I dont think Thistle needs to 
do anything further to remedy the complaint.  
My final decision
I do not direct Blantyre Credit Union Limited trading as Thistle Credit Union to take any 
further action to remedy Mrs Ns complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman