DRN-3725423
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that GE Money Home Lending Limited has rejected the claims that 
theyve made under the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Theyre being represented in their 
complaint by a legal adviser.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C entered into credit agreements with a finance provider (thats now part of GE 
Money Home Lending) in December 2002 and March 2003 to pay for a timeshare. Mr and 
Mrs C complained to GE Money Home Lending in May 2021 that the timeshare company 
wasnt permitted or authorised to arrange the loans, the sales processes werent clear, lawful 
and transparent and income assessments werent carried out.
GE Money Home Lending responded to that complaint in July 2021 but Mr and Mrs Cs 
representative complained to this service in December 2021 about a number of issues, 
including that the timeshares had been misrepresented to Mr and Mrs C, there was no 
evidence that credit checks were conducted, the high interest rates indicated an unfair 
relationship and about the sales processes. That complaint was forwarded to GE Money 
Home Lending and it said that the complaint was outside of this services jurisdiction. It said 
that GE Money Home Lending stopped being regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority in 
December 2019 and that the complaint was made after that time.
Our investigator said that Mr and Mrs Cs complaint about GE Moneys response to their 
claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act falls outside of this services jurisdiction. 
She also said that the credit agreements were repaid in March 2007 so Mr and Mrs C 
werent arent able make a claim under section 140A of that Act. 
Mr and Mrs Cs representative says that the purchases that Mr and Mrs C are complaining 
about occurred when GE Money Home Lending was regulated and its unjust to say that just 
because its no longer regulated it should be absolved from liability. It says that this service 
isnt required to follow the relevant law, guidance and practice but to reach an evaluative 
assessment of the merits of GE Money Home Lendings decisions. It has also provided 
further information about Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Ive issued a separate decision in which Ive explained why this service doesnt have the 
power to consider Mr and Mrs Cs complaint about GE Money Home Lendings response to 
their section 75 claim. In this decision Ive set out my findings on its response to their section 
140A claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint is about GE Money Home Lendings response to their section 
140A claim. Section 140A gives a court the power, amongst other things, to require a 
creditor to repay any sum paid by the debtor under a credit agreement if it determines that 
theres an unfair relationship between the debtor and the creditor. 
GE Money Home Lending says that Mr and Mrs C repaid the loans in March 2007 so its 
relationship with them ended in March 2007  and Ive not been provided with any evidence 
to show that the relationship continued after March 2007. Section 140A hadnt come into 
force in March 2007 so I dont consider that Mr and Mrs C can make a claim under section 
140A in these circumstances. 
I sympathise with Mr and Mrs C for the issues that theyve had with their timeshare and the 
difficulties that theyve described, but I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these 
circumstances for me to require GE Money Home Lending to refund to them any of the 
money that they paid under the credit agreements, to pay them any compensation or to take 
any other action in response to their complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint about GE Money Home 
Lendings response to their section 140A claim. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman