DRN-3842958
The complaint
Mr T complains to ITI Capital Limited about delays and service when transferring his ISA to 
another platform.
What happened
Mr T first became a customer of ITIs in the summer of 2020 when his previous provider 
went into administration. ITI took on some of the previous providers clients, and this 
included two accounts Mr T was connected to  one was a joint account with his wife and 
another was his individual savings account (ISA). The focus of this complaint is on Mr Ts 
stocks and shares ISA.
Mr T had some problems with ITIs handling of his account, and made the decision to 
transfer his ISA away to a new provider. From what I can see, Mr T first mentioned his 
intention to leave on 11 September 2020. I cannot see ITI replied to this email, and Mr T 
repeated his request on 16 September. 
ITI replied the next day on 17 September to acknowledge Mr Ts intention to leave. They 
confirmed theyd changed the status of his account and so hed be able to submit a form with 
his instructions. They mentioned he ought to give them certain details about his new 
provider. Mr T replied the same day to query the form as it asked for his bank details. Mr T 
didnt want to take the money outside of his ISA, just to move it within its wrapper. He 
emailed ITI again the next day reiterating similar points. 
ITI responded on 25 September, but they didnt deal with Mr Ts specific points and instead 
referenced that the form remained outstanding. Despite this, I can see that on 
28 September, ITIs systems show that Mr Ts transfer out request had been recognised.
Mr T wrote to ITI on 7 October to let them know that his new provider hadnt heard from 
them yet. He asked them to confirm whether theyd received anything from the new provider, 
whether the forms were correct given the various reference number changes theyd gone 
through, whether hed be charged the October custody fee and whether the account would 
close after the transfer had completed as this was what he wanted. 
Mr Ts new provider wrote to him on 29 October to explain they were experiencing ongoing 
difficulties in progressing transfers with ITI given they were not responding within a timely 
fashion. They suggested he chase ITI too in the hope of expediting things. 
Mr T wrote to ITI on 1 November to complain about the delay given his new provider had told 
him they hadnt heard from them. He wrote again two days later on 3 November and again 
on 5 November. 
Mr T wrote again on 14 December to point out ITI hadnt replied to him within the timeframes 
theyd set out in their literature. He also explained that the stress, anxiety and worry was 
having a bad impact on his mental health. 
On 19 January 2021, ITI sent stock from Mr Ts portfolio to his new provider. And on 
26 January, his account showed that his cash balance of around £33,000 had been 
transferred too.
Mr T wrote to ITI on 9 February  three weeks had passed since the cash balance appeared 
to have been transferred, yet his new provider had told him they were yet to receive it, 
despite chasing. Mr T was quite concerned given that the cash in his joint account had been 
received within a week.
Given the problems were continuing, Mr T asked for our help. He referred to the ISA 
guidelines which mentioned 30 days for transfers, yet his had taken around 100 days so far 
with no end in sight. He mentioned the time hed spent in chasing things up and the toll the 
stress, worry and sleepless nights were taking on his wellbeing, especially given his age. 
Mr T continued to chase ITI about the missing cash while he waited for our help. I can also 
see Mr Ts new provider emailed ITI on 2 March telling them Mr T had told them to expect 
the cash. 
The £33,000 eventually arrived with Mr Ts new provider on 11 March  this meant the 
transfer had taken five and a half months. 
Despite the transfer having completed, Mr T continued to reach out to ITI to confirm whether 
his account had been closed. On 16 March, he asked for a final closing statement and 
confirmation the account was closed. ITI replied the next day to say theyd marked his 
account as inactive rather than close it given, in their experience with other clients whod 
transferred from the former provider that had gone into administration, sometimes there was 
additional cash to add to accounts. 
Mr T wasnt happy with this  he explained that he didnt expect to receive anything further 
from the former provider, so he repeated his ask for the account to be closed and 
confirmation to be shared with him. On 17 March, ITI said theyd asked their third-party 
provider to close the account. 
On 12 April, Mr T received an email to let him know about changes to account numbers. He 
replied to query this, given his account ought to have been closed  so no change in number 
was warranted. ITI replied the next day to explain they had to keep records for seven years 
before deleting personal data. Mr T replied soon after to clarify that he hadnt been asking 
about data protection  instead he wants his account closed yet he could still log in and do 
things like download a statement. 
It doesnt appear ITI replied. So on 18 May, Mr T emailed again as he could still log in to his 
account. The next day, ITI emailed Mr T with a screenshot from their third-party provider to 
show the account was closed. But Mr T replied the same day to confirm he could still log in, 
view reports, view his personal details and download statements. He also said nothing 
mentioned the account was closed. Mr T remained concerned about what hed seen  firstly 
because an open, yet dormant, account could attract inactivity fees and secondly because of 
the risk of identity theft.
ITI replied the same day to ask whether Mr T was able to trade on his account  Mr T replied 
to confirm there didnt appear the facility to trade. But that this was besides the point, as 
perhaps the account could be reactivated. So he still considered the account not fully closed. 
One of our investigators had a look into what had happened and issued her findings in 
February 2022. She agreed ITIs service had fallen short of what shed have expected. She 
acknowledged the delays in the round along with a clerical error with the cash balance. She thought ITI should compensate Mr T for the distress and inconvenience and suggested £300 
to put things right. 
ITI accepted our investigators findings in April. There was however some confusion 
thereafter as Mr T was involved in a second complaint regarding the joint account with his 
wife. ITI had paid some compensation in that case, and in thinking they were complying with 
the settlement for this case, they paid Mr T £50.
Our investigator clarified this with ITI in May, but as things remained unresolved some 
months on the matter was passed to me. I reviewed Mr Ts complaint and thought a higher 
compensation award was due. I said:
It appears that the investigators findings are not in dispute  ITI agreed to her 
suggested compensation and Mr T appeared to accept too, given he has been 
chasing for the payment to be made. The case has come to me because ITI have yet 
to settle with Mr T, around seven months after they agreed to do so. 
Given both parties seem to be in agreement with our investigators view, I dont 
intend on addressing all the issues in detail and instead confirm that I broadly agree 
with them. Despite this, in making my decision I have considered the file afresh and 
while I agree the case should be upheld, I instead think compensation of £700 should 
be paid so I am issuing provisional findings allowing both parties to make a final 
comment. 
Mr T instructed his ISA transfer on 28 September 2020. HMRC guidelines are that a 
stocks and shares ISA transfer should complete within 30 days. That did not happen 
here, given Mr Ts cash finally arrived on 11 March 2021. In the meantime, I can see 
Mr T put a considerable amount of effort into chasing things up with ITI. He contacted 
them several times throughout October, November and December 2020  and he 
referenced the stress, anxiety and worry he was experiencing, and how this affected 
him personally. Much of his contact went unanswered. 
In addition to the delays and communication generally, I note Mr T was especially 
concerned to see his £33,000 left ITI on 26 January 2021 yet didnt arrive with his 
new provider until 11 March, over six weeks later. The issue here seems to have 
been ITIs fault as they instructed a transfer of £33,253.8 rather than £33,253.84. ITI 
failed to pick up on this error which caused the six week delay. In fact, they emailed 
Mr T twice, on 10 February and 2 March, to say the problem wasnt theirs  they said 
the money had been sent so if it wasnt showing with the new provider, this wasnt 
something they could influence. They suggested he work things out with the new 
provider. 
And even after the transfer was complete, again Mr T went weeks while waiting for 
confirmation his account was closed. Though there were sporadic responses from 
ITI, it still appeared Mr Ts account was open some eight weeks after him asking for 
closure.
My view is that the impact the delays and level of service is greater than our 
investigator assessed it to be. It is clear Mr T spent a considerable amount of time in 
engaging with the transfer  he sent multiple emails, many of which went 
unanswered, and it was he who clarified the errors which ITI had made on more than 
one occasion, even with the settlement wed asked them to pay. 
In addition to his time, I can also appreciate the considerable concern hed have felt 
during the six weeks where a large sum of money appeared to have gone missing. Mr T has told us about the toll the stress, worry and sleepless nights have taken on 
his wellbeing. And I also recognise that at the time of instructing the transfer, Mr T 
was over 80.
Where our service establishes that an error has been made, we have to consider the 
impact this had on the complainant, and Im persuaded that a sum of £700 would be 
a better figure to recognise what happened in this case.
I then explained that interest would be payable on a late settlement, that ITI should close 
Mr Ts ISA and acknowledged that £50 compensation may have already been paid. 
In addition to my findings, I asked Mr T what he did with his cash once itd transferred as I 
wanted to understand whether thered been any financial loss by way of missed opportunity 
on an investment hed been waiting to make. 
In response to my provisional decision, Mr T explained that he had indeed been waiting to 
invest the money and did think missed opportunities had disadvantaged him financially. 
Despite this, he didnt want to pursue a claim for additional compensation given the time it 
would take for him to go through his statements. Instead, he accepted my provisional 
findings.
ITI didnt reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I explained that I felt a higher award of £700 for distress and 
inconvenience would be a fairer sum to compensate Mr T in the circumstances. Having 
reconsidered this case in full and in the absence of any new or contrary submissions from 
the parties, I see no reason to depart from this conclusion.
Putting things right
It is my decision that ITI should pay Mr T £700 to recognise the distress and inconvenience 
caused when handling his ISA transfer and closure request. 
My understanding is that owing to confusion with another matter, ITI paid Mr T £50 on 
28 April 2022 in relation to this complaint. If this is correct, ITI can deduct this sum from the 
award I am now making.
Should Mr T accept my final decision and ITI not pay him within 28 days of them being 
notified of his acceptance, I direct ITI to pay simple interest on any sum outstanding at a rate 
of 8% per year from the date of my decision until the date of settlement. 
In addition, if it has not already done so I require that ITI close Mr Ts ISA and send him the 
confirmation he requires. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ts complaint against ITI Capital Limited and that they should 
put the matter right as outlined above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman