DRN-4489480
The complaint
Ms H complains about the management and administration of her 30 Day Notice Cash ISA 
by Aldermore Bank Plc (Aldermore).
What happened
Ms H received a message from Aldermore which said:
Weve increased your variable interest rates [effective from 31 March 2023]

All issues of the 30 Day Notice Account have increased to 3.20% AER

Ms H took the above to mean that the interest payable on her 30 Day Notice Cash ISA had 
increased, which it hadnt.
On 11 April 2023 a financial institution that I will call Y contacted Aldermore requesting 
immediate transfer of the balance on Ms Hs 30 Day Notice Cash ISA balance.
On 12 April 2023 at 10:27 the above request was accepted and authorised by Aldermore.
On the same day at 15:20 Ms H contacted Aldermore to say; I require you to PLACE A 
CLOSURE NOTICE on my ISA so NO PENALTY is applied when ISA funds are moved to 
[Y].
On the same day at 18:30 Y confirmed it was ready to accept the transfer of Ms Hs 30 Day 
Notice Cash ISA balance.
On 13 April 2023 Aldermore sent Y the sum of £1,002.95 being the balance of Ms Hs 
30 Day Notice Cash ISA of £1,005.22 less a £2.27 interest deduction.
On the same day, but after the sum of £1,002.95 had been sent to Y, Aldermore reviewed 
Ms Hs message sent to it on 12 April 2023.
On 16 April 2023 Aldermore issued Ms H with a final response letter (FRL) addressing a 
complaint that she had raised that its variable interest rate increase message was unclear 
and misleading and that she shouldnt have suffered a £2.27 interest deduction on the 
transfer of her 30 Day Notice Cash ISA balance to Y. Under cover of this FRL Aldermore 
said it believed it had acted appropriately and that it wasnt upholding Ms Hs complaint.
On 22 April 2023 Ms H referred her complaint to our service for investigation.
On 12 June 2023 Aldermore issued Ms H with a second FRL. Under cover of this FRL 
Aldermore said it was satisfied that it had done nothing wrong in deducting £2.27 interest 
from Ms Hs 30 Day Notice Cash ISA balance on transfer to Y, but for any confusion its 
variable interest rate increase message might have caused it was prepared to pay Ms H 
£25, which it did.
 
Ms Hs compliant was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it 
shouldnt be upheld. In summary she said:
£25 for any confusion Aldermores variable interest rate increase message might 
have caused was more than fair
the setting of interest rates is a commercial decision and something our service has 
no power to influence
Aldermore did nothing wrong in applying a £2.27 interest deduction on transfer of 
Ms Hs 30 Day Notice Cash ISA balance to Y.
Ms H didnt agree with the investigators view so her complaint has been passed to me for 
review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I can confirm that Ive come to the same outcome as the investigator and for 
broadly the same reasons. There is also very little I can usefully add to what has already 
been said.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
variable interest rate increase message
Im satisfied that Aldermores variable interest rate increase message wasnt unclear or 
misleading. But even if I had concluded that it was, given how quickly Aldermore corrected 
Ms Hs understanding of the message I can confirm that I wouldnt have awarded her 
anything more in compensation for this particular issue than Aldermore has already paid her.
interest rate setting
A business is entitled to make commercial decisions around the level of interest it offers on 
savings or charges to borrowers. And as pointed out by the investigator, this isnt something 
we would generally interfere with.
Here Im satisfied that Aldermores decision not to increase the interest rate payable on the 
30 Day Notice Cash ISA is one that it isnt appropriate for us to interfere with, or get involved 
in. I say this because Im satisfied that in not raising the rate Aldermore wasnt in breach of 
the 30 Day Notice Cash ISA terms and conditions and given that Ive seen no persuasive 
evidence that Aldermores commercial decision wasnt exercised legitimately.I appreciate Ms H might like an explanation from Aldermore as to why it didnt increase its 
30 Day Notice Cash ISA interest rate, but Aldermore is under no obligation to provide this. 
But in any event, I cant see that a lack of an explanation from Aldermore on this issue has 
caused, or will cause, Ms H a financial loss or a level distress and inconvenience that would 
warrant the making of a financial award by me.
£2.27 interest deduction
I can understand Ms Hs frustration in discovering that on the transfer of her 30 Day Notice 
Cash ISA balance to Y she suffered a £2.27 interest deduction, especially given the content 
of her message to Aldermore dated 12 April 2023.
But having considered everything the parties have said and submitted I cant see that 
Aldermore did anything wrong in deducting this sum. Furthermore, and for the sake of 
completeness, I would add that Im satisfied that:
the 30 Day Cash ISA terms and conditions allow for the £2.27 interest deduction and 
for the transfer to be managed and administered in the manner that it was
Aldermore received instructions from Y to make the transfer immediately and 
Aldermore did nothing wrong in acting on those instructions
on Aldermore reviewing Ms Hs message, sent on 12 April 2023, the transfer had 
already been made (inclusive of the £2.27 interest deduction)
Aldermore did nothing wrong in reviewing Ms Hs message sent on 12 April 2023 on 
13 April 2023, this being within one business day as advised
even had Aldermore reviewed Ms Hs 12 April 2023 message immediately the 
transfer, having been authorised, could not, as I understand it, be cancelled
I accept that Ms H will be disappointed but having paid her £25 Im satisfied that Aldermore 
need do nothing further.
My final decision
My final decision is that Aldermore Bank Plc, having paid Ms H £25, need do nothing further.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2024.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman