DRN-3942763
The complaint
Mr N complains that the value of a holding of shares in his Interactive Brokers (UK) Ltd (IB) 
account fell disproportionately. He feels this is due to IB failing to correctly execute a related 
corporate action.  
What happened
Mr N had a holding of 582 shares, in a company Ill refer to as X. In May 2022 X announced 
a subscription rights offer  one right for every share held, three shares for each right. 
The rights were applied to Mr Ns account on 27 May 20022 and IB sent notification of the 
offer through its usual channel, its Client Portal message centre. In total, three messages 
were sent, one in May and two in June 2022. However, Mr N didnt take up the offer prior to 
it expiring on 6 June 2022 and the rights were removed from the account in early July 2022. 
In August 2022 Mr N queried the value of his holding in X with IB. He was unhappy, as set 
out above, as he felt the value appeared to have fallen disproportionately when compared 
with the general market price of X shares.
IB explained the rights offer and how it had worked. It said it was satisfied it had 
administered the corporate action correctly and that Mr N had been informed about it in line 
with its terms and conditions. It didnt think here was anything to suggest the valuation of his 
holding was incorrect.
Mr N referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator explained that IB offered an 
execution-only service, so although it had given Mr N reasonable notification of the rights 
issue, it couldnt have advised Mr N in any way or acted on his behalf without any instruction 
from him. So, any reduction in the value of Mr Ns holding X had not been the fault of IB.
Mr N didnt accept the investigators view. He felt she had misunderstood the crux of his 
complaint, which was around the valuation of the holding and why it had dropped by around 
50%, rather than the corporate action itself. He questioned whether the value of all holdings 
in X had fallen by a similar amount. 
In response, the investigator provided Mr N with some general information relating to Xs 
share price, but she explained that our consideration of complaints looked at individual 
circumstances and, in that respect, she reiterated that she didnt consider IB had acted 
incorrectly in administering Mr Ns shareholding.  
Mr N continued to question the loss of value, stressing again that he didnt feel the 
notification and handling of the corporate action was the key issue. He asked whether the 
value of his holding dropped by half just because he hadnt told IB that he wanted to keep 
100% of it? And if he had told IB that he didn't want the value to be reduced, would it have 
preserved 100% of the value? And when he did lose the value, who ultimately gained from 
it?
As no agreement could be reached, the matter was referred to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As noted, Mr N feels that the loss of value of his shareholding is the crux of the complaint. Ill 
come on to that point, but for completeness I think its important to first confirm that Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that IB failed to deal with the rights issue correctly. Although not obliged 
to by its terms, it nevertheless sent several notifications to shareholders about the matter in 
a timely manner, which clearly explained the situation and gave ample time for Mr N or any 
other shareholder to consider the information and decide about how they wished to proceed.
Mr N didnt take up the offer to subscribe to more shares. Whether that was due to him not 
reading the messages or whether it was a more active decision, him not doing so wasnt the 
fault of IB. It had no authority to act on his behalf or to presume how he might want to 
proceed. It should be remembered that the cost of subscribing fully to the rights offered to 
Mr N as a result of him holding 582 shares (which at the time of the offer were valued at 
around EUR 1,000) wouldve been 582 x 3 x EUR 1.17 (the subscription price), so EUR 
2,042.82. So quite a significant investment decision relative to the value of his existing 
holding. 
But in any event, it seems that its not the corporate action itself, or IBs handling of it, that is 
Mr Ns main concern. Its that the value of his holding decreased significantly  he suggested 
around 50% - over the period in question. And further, that this could perhaps have been 
avoided by him responding to IB. 
As noted, Mr N held 582 shares. Im not sure precisely which figures and dates Mr N has 
used to determine the suggested 50% drop in value. But its certainly the case that following 
the start of the rights issue at the end of May 2022 Xs share price fell considerably, by as 
much as around 40% at one point, across the following two months. Coupled with this was 
the fact that for the duration of the subscription period, Mr Ns account had the rights applied 
to his account and he wouldve been able to see their value, which was just a little less than 
the value of his actual shareholding, so effectively giving a temporary doubling of the 
account balance. Once the rights were removed having lapsed the account balance 
wouldve dropped accordingly. 
I cant be sure which of these issues, or maybe others, led Mr N to conclude that 50% of the 
value of his shareholding had simply been removed by IB or X. But Im satisfied thats not 
the case. The value of his 582 X shares simply fluctuated with the market, albeit possibly 
more than usual in light of the rights issue. Im satisfied Mr Ns shares didnt incorrectly or 
unfairly lose any value, and also that nothing wouldve been any different with the share 
price if he had contacted IB and acted upon the rights issue. As noted, doing so wouldve 
incurred him the additional cost of buying the new shares.   
I hope this information has to some degree helped to put Mr Ns mind at rest. But in any 
event, ultimately the purpose of me reviewing this matter is to determine whether IB acted 
incorrectly or unfairly in any way. And having looked at everything, Im satisfied it did not. So, 
I wont be directing it to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman