DRN-1313900
 
The complaint
Miss B complains about how Advantage insurance Company Limited handled her claim 
made on her motor insurance policy following the theft of her car. She wants £1,000 further 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
What happened
Miss Bs car was stolen and later recovered damaged and undriveable. Advantage 
investigated the circumstances and its independent assessor couldnt find evidence of theft-
related damage. Advantage eventually declined the claim. The car was returned to Miss B. 
But she noted that the interior was damaged as a window had been left open at the salvage 
agent. The car was returned with the battery and some pipes disconnected and Miss B 
incurred a cost to have this investigated. 
Advantage agreed that it had caused three weeks delay in the claim. It paid Miss B £200 
compensation for this. It paid Miss B £150 compensation to put right the damage caused by 
the open window. And it reimbursed Miss B the inspection costs shed incurred.  
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought 
Advantages offers of compensation for the delays, the interior damage and the inspection 
was fair and reasonable. But he thought Advantage should pay Miss B a further £100 
compensation for the extra trouble and upset caused by the car being returned with the 
pipes disconnected. 
Advantage replied that Miss Bs car was undriveable when it was taken from the salvage 
agent, so she wasnt caused any additional upset by the pipes being disconnected. It said 
this was done for safety reasons. And it said Miss Bs car was later scrapped as it was too 
costly to repair. So it said it hadnt caused Miss B any further loss.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Bs representative told us that they were not complaining about Advantages decision to 
decline the claim, so Ive not considered that further here. But I have considered Miss Bs 
experience of the handling of her claim.
Advantage agreed that there had been an avoidable three weeks delay in the claim when 
the claim handler went on holiday and the claim wasnt picked up by another handler. I can 
see that it took some time for Advantage to complete its claim validation and investigations. 
But I dont think this is unusual in theft claims and I cant hold Advantage responsible for any 
delay caused by the police. 
So I dont think Advantage needs to compensate Miss B for any further delays. Its paid her 
£200 compensation for the delay. I think this is fair and reasonable as its in keeping with 
what Id award in similar circumstances.
Miss Bs car was returned to her in a worse condition than when it was recovered to 
Advantages salvage agent. A window had been left open and there was water damage 
inside the car. The battery and some pipes had been disconnected and Miss B paid to have 
this checked out. 
Advantage accepts that it caused the interior damage and should have told Miss B that 
some pipes were disconnected. To put things right, its paid Miss B £150 compensation for 
the interior damage and reimbursed her the inspection fee. I think this goes some way to 
restore Miss Bs position. But I dont think this compensates Miss B for the impact this further 
damage had on her. 
Advantage said the car was undriveable and the repair costs were many times what the car 
was worth. It pointed out that Miss B had the car scrapped in any case. So it thought it didnt 
need to compensate Miss B further. 
But I disagree. I think Miss B could reasonably expect her car to be returned to her in the 
same state as when Advantage took it. I think she had the additional trouble of finding out 
what had happened to her car whilst it was in Advantages care. I think this caused Miss B 
additional stress on top of the other issues she experienced with the claims process.
Putting things right
Our investigator recommended that Advantage should pay Miss B an additional £100 
compensation for the trouble and upset this caused her. I think thats fair and reasonable as 
its in keeping with what Id require in similar situations.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Advantage insurance Company Limited to pay Miss B an additional £100 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its level of service.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman