DRN-3754450
The complaint
Mr J complains that Interactive Investor Services Limited (IISL) didnt provide him a 
statement for his account when he asked for it, and that it took too long for it to provide him 
with his Subject Access Request (SAR). He also complains that he wasnt given assistance 
to transfer out his investments in 2021, and this caused him to sell all his shares. 
What happened
In 2021 Mr J decided to transfer his stocks and shares ISA away from IISL to a different firm. 
In his complaint, Mr J says that he had been trying to obtain assistance from IISL for a 
number of years about how to transfer his ISA away, but IISL did not help him or facilitate 
the transfer as per his instructions. He says he got fed up and decided to liquidate the stock 
he held and eventually transferred the cash to another firm. He said doing so meant that he 
lost ISA benefits and incurred a tax liability which he had to pay. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Js complaint but didnt think IISL had done anything 
wrong. In short, she considered that the email Mr J had sent in 2019 was not an instruction 
to do something, but merely a request for information. And she said that before Mr J 
liquidated his shares in 2021, there was no evidence that he had requested any assistance 
from IISL.
Mr J didnt agree. He disagreed with the investigators conclusions that he was or shouldve 
been aware of the process for initiating ISA transfers  he said that if he had been aware, he 
would never have gone ahead and liquidated his shares, thereby causing him to also suffer 
the tax consequences. He said he was left with no alternative. He disagreed that he hadnt 
provided instructions to IISL, and said that the evidence showed he was consolidating his six 
different ISAs  he said there was no reason why hed consolidate all of them but not the 
one from IISL. He said that he was told by the new ISA providers that he needed to check 
with IISL for charges and its process, but it was not willing to help. He said that at the time, 
he had over £200,000 in the ISA for which he was paying charges but earning no interest 
and couldnt simply let his money dwindle away by IISLs failure to assist him. Mr J 
maintained that the evidence showed he was looking to move his investments away from 
IISL, but it was not letting him to do this in order to continue charging its fees. 
Mr J also said that the investigator hadnt taken into account his vulnerability  he said that 
at the time he was vulnerable and needed help, and the investigator had ignored the many 
times he had asked IISL for help and it had declined. Mr J also felt that the investigator 
hadnt properly taken into account IISLs past mistakes. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Js submissions and Id like to take this opportunity to express my 
sympathy for his profoundly difficult circumstances and for the impact this matter has clearly 
had on him. Its clear to me that he feels very strongly about his complaint, and Ive no doubt 
that pursuing it has been challenging. 
However, despite my sympathy, my role requires me to decide this matter impartially  
taking into account the evidence available, the standards IISL is expected to adhere to and 
the submissions Ive received from both IISL and Mr J. 
In doing so, Im satisfied that the investigator has clearly explained matters to Mr J. Mr J held 
an execution-only account with IISL, which essentially meant that it was his responsibility to 
understand the terms of the account and the process he needed to follow in order to transfer 
his investments elsewhere. Ive seen the evidence from IISL and Im satisfied it was 
reasonably straightforward to find this information. 
However, the regulator requires firms, such as IISL, to ensure they treat their customers 
fairly and make adjustments for individual circumstances  so in Mr Js case, Id expect IISL 
to have followed these principles and assisted him where relevant. 
Whilst I dont wish to disbelieve Mr J, in taking account his testimony Im also bound to take 
into account the contemporaneous evidence available to me. This evidence does not show 
any requests in 2021 from Mr J. The only request for information from Mr J that I have seen 
was from March 2019. This was not an instruction to transfer, but a number of questions 
which IISL said it answered as part of its handling of his service complaint at the time. Ive 
previously explained in a jurisdiction decision why Im not able to make findings on this  Ive 
included this here for context. 
But Ive seen insufficient evidence that Mr J requested assistance in transferring out his 
investments in 2021 and was denied that assistance from IISL. Furthermore, Im not 
persuaded IISLs actions caused Mr J to decide to sell his investments and move everything 
to cash. As a result, Im satisfied that IISL did not delay or fail to execute Mr Js instructions 
and therefore it wouldnt be fair to ask it to pay compensation. 
In relation to Mr Js other complaint points, I dont have anything to add to what the 
investigator already explained. Its clear to me that there was some confusion around Mr Js 
change of address and where correspondence needed to be sent. I can see that IISL did 
initially comply with Mr Js requests for statements and these were sent to his new address. 
IISL acknowledged sending the SAR to his old address and re-sent that as well as the 
statements which Mr J had not received. 
Taking all this into account, Im not persuaded Mr Js complaint should be upheld. I know this 
will come as a disappointment to him, but I hope he understands the reasons why Ive 
reached this decision. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman