DRN-2013217
 
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Gresham Insurance Company Limited declined his claim for 
subsidence under his buildings insurance policy.
Mr R has been represented by his son, also Mr R, throughout the complaint. When referring 
to Mr Rs son, I will call him Mr R1.
What happened
Mr R1 noticed some cracks to his fathers house in 2019. He notified Gresham of this as he 
intended to make a claim on Mr Rs buildings insurance policy. 
Gresham sent an expert to Mr Rs house in June 2019. The expert said there was no 
evidence of subsidence or any other insured peril. Because of this, Gresham declined the 
claim. 
Mr R1 was unhappy with this so Gresham asked the expert to attend again. A different 
expert from the same company visited the house in early July 2019 and compiled a more 
comprehensive report. Again, it was said that there wasnt any evidence that the house was 
suffering from any recent or progressive subsidence movement. The report also contained a 
drainage report. This indicated some damage to a joint on a drain at Mr Rs house but said 
this damage hadnt caused any subsidence. Gresham confirmed their decision that the claim 
would be declined. 
As Mr R1 continued to be unhappy with this, Gresham agreed to send another expert from a 
different company to Mr Rs house. This visit took place in August 2019. Similar to the other 
reports provided to Gresham, this expert concluded that there hadnt been any recent 
movement to Mr Rs house. And any cracks that were present were longstanding. However, 
to help with Mr R and Mr R1s peace of mind, the expert offered to carry out six months of 
ground monitoring to determine the level, if any, of any ground movement once the defective 
drain had been repaired. Gresham maintained their decision to decline the claim.
Mr R1 complained to our service. He said Gresham were wrong to decline the claim and the 
cracks had only just been noticed. He also said Gresham had contacted his father during the 
process, when Mr R1 had made it clear they should only contact him. His father is unwell, 
and the contact caused unnecessary distress to him. Mr R1 wanted Gresham to apologise to 
Mr R for this.
Our investigator agreed with Greshams decision to decline the claim for subsidence. She 
said all the reports confirmed there was no recent subsidence damage present at the house. 
She said it was a good idea for Gresham to monitor the house for six months to assess if 
there was any movement as a result of the damaged drain. With regard to Gresham 
contacting Mr R when Mr R1 had asked to be the sole contact during the claim, our 
investigator agreed that it would have caused Mr R undue distress. She asked Gresham to 
write a letter of apology to Mr R.
Mr R1 didnt agree with our investigator on his fathers behalf. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Rs buildings insurance policy covers him for a range of perils, including subsidence. But 
in order for Gresham to accept a claim from Mr R, one of the perils must be the reason for 
any damage. What I have to decide is whether Gresham have acted fairly by declining 
Mr Rs claim because an insured peril isnt the reason for the damage. And in this case, Im 
satisfied Gresham have acted fairly. 
Gresham have arranged three visits to Mr Rs house by two different companies and 
experts. And each expert report has confirmed that there isnt any subsidence damage to the 
house. The first two reports are quite brief with their assessment, although the second one 
did point out the damage to the drain for Mr R and Mr R1 to report and arrange the repairs 
for. 
But the third report is comprehensive and is the report that Im most persuaded by. The 
expert has explained that Mr R1 told him that he became concerned about movement at the 
property ten years prior to reporting this to Gresham. And the report backs that information 
up. It mentions slight cracking to the right-hand external wall and adjacent cross walls. And 
that these cracks are longstanding ones. 
The report also mentions cracking in other areas, such as the external gates and the 
boundary wall. And it confirms that these cracks are also longstanding, along with the 
weathering of some mortar joints which have contributed to the deterioration of the wall. 
Because of this, Im satisfied Gresham have acted reasonably by declining Mr Rs claim. 
There is no evidence in any of the reports that suggest there is subsidence at the house. 
In order for Mr R and Mr R1 to have some peace of mind, the third expert has agreed to 
undertake six months of monitoring once the defective drain has been repaired. This will 
allow any ground movement to be assessed and will help Mr R and Mr R1 understand that 
the house isnt subsiding. Im satisfied this is a good idea by Gresham and is a reasonable 
thing for them to do. Once the monitoring is completed, or if Mr R or Mr R1 is unhappy with 
the progress, they can raise that with Gresham as a new complaint. 
Its a shame that Mr R was contacted during the claim process by Gresham and their 
representatives. Mr R1 had made it clear that he was to be the sole contact throughout the 
process as Mr R is unwell. So, I can understand why Mr R would have been felt some 
distress during this time. Our investigator has asked Gresham to write a letter of apology to 
Mr R, as requested by Mr R1. I agree thats a reasonable thing for them to do and urge them 
to do so, if they havent already. My final decision
For the reasons above, Im upholding the complaint about the service Mr R received from 
Gresham Insurance Company Limited. They need to write Mr R a letter of apology, if they 
havent already done so. 
Im not asking Gresham Insurance Company Limited to do anything more in relation to their 
decision to decline Mr Rs claim for subsidence. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2020.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman