DRN-2646597
The complaint
Mr R complains Ageas Insurance Limited didnt pay him enough to repair his car after he
claimed on his classic car insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr R was hit from behind, so he claimed on his policy. Ageas reviewed the claim and
appointed an engineer to inspect Mr Rs car. The engineer inspected Mr Rs car and said it
was repairable and provided an estimate of £5,034 for the cost of repairs. The engineer also
recommended Ageas Pay Mr R a cash in lieu of repairs due to the possibility of problems
obtaining parts and corrosion issues.
Mr R didnt think this was enough to repair his car, so he got another engineer to inspect it.
The second engineer agreed the car was repairable but said the total cost of repairs would
be difficult to determine because they couldnt confirm the cost of parts. However, they said 
the likely repair cost wouldnt be more than £10,000.
Ageas increased its offer to £8,500 but Mr R still didnt think this was enough. He contacted
a couple of garages to quote for the work. He was provided a written quote of £18,000 and
told by another garage repairs could cost around £23,000. As Mr R wasnt happy with
Ageas offer, he complained.
Ageas looked into his complaint and didnt uphold it. It said the offer made was in line with
the engineers reports and if the repair cost more, Mr R should send a quote and it would
consider it. Mr R wasnt happy with this, he said hed provided a quote and Ageas
disregarded it. Because of this Mr R referred his complaint here.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 11 February 2021 where I said:
Mr Rs policy covers him for the loss or damage up to the market value of his car
immediately before the loss. The policy goes onto say in the event of a claim Ageas will do
one of the following: repair the damage; pay Mr R the cost of replacing or repairing the
damage; or replace what is lost or damaged.
In this case Ageas has chosen to pay Mr R the cost to repair the damage in the accident, it
says its done this as there is corrosion which is preventing it repairing his car. Ive therefore
looked at whether its fair and reasonable to do this in the circumstances and Im not
persuaded it is.
I say this because neither of the engineers reports explain there is extensive corrosion
which needs fixing before the accident damage can be repaired. Ive noted there is corrosion
in the pictures of the engineers report Mr R provided, but Ive not seen enough to persuade
me this is stopping a repair being carried out or what the cost to repair it would be. Also,
Ageas engineers report says there is no pre-accident damage and the car was in good
condition for its age and mileage. Because of this Im not persuaded Ageas has shown there
is pre-accidental damage (corrosion) preventing it repairing Mr Rs car.
Ageas engineers report also said it recommended a cash settlement due to the likely
difficulty of obtaining parts because of the age of Mr Rs car. I therefore think this is more
likely the reason a cash settlement was offered over Ageas repairing the car. As Ageas
thinks it would be difficult to obtain the parts, I dont think its fair to expect Mr R to try and
obtain them if Ageas cant.
Ive also considered the quotes Mr R provided, one of them is verbal and a ball park figure
so I dont find it persuasive. The other for £18,000 just quotes for labour and no parts at all.
So I dont find that persuasive either. As Ageas doesnt think it can repair Mr Rs car, and its
not been possible to determine an accurate cost of repair due to the difficulty in getting parts
I think the fair and reasonable way to put things right is for Ageas to exercise the third option
under the policy.
Ageas should therefore deal with Mr Rs claim as if his car is a total loss and pay him the
market value. Due to Mr Rs car being a classic car the trade guides wouldnt be able to
value it. Both Mr Rs engineers report and Ageass engineers report valued Mr Rs car at
£30,000 before the accident. Mr R has also said he would like to retain the salvage if his car
is deemed a total loss. Therefore, to put things right Ageas should pay Mr R £30,000 for his
car, minus its salvage value.
I can see Mr Rs engineer valued the salvage at £15,000, I think this is a fair amount to
deduct from the total loss settlement. I also noted that Ageas have made an interim payment
to Mr R of £8,500. If you deduct the £15,000 and the £8,500 from the total loss value. It
means Ageas needs to pay Mr R £6,500, plus interest at a rate of 8% simple per year
calculated on this amount from the date of the accident to the date it makes payment to
compensate him for not having the money. 
Mr R responded to say he thought the salvage valuation was too high, because of this he no 
longer wanted to retain the salvage. Ageas responded to say it didnt agree with my 
provisional decision but accepted there was a lack of evidence around the corrosion. Ageas 
and said it would like to appoint an engineer to inspect the car again. 
Our investigator spoke with Mr R to let him know about Ageas offer of having another 
engineer inspect his car. Mr R declined the offer, he said the car hadnt moved for two years 
and so had deteriorated during that time. Because of this Ageas asked our investigator what 
salvage value Mr R believed his car had. Mr R responded to say he thought it was around 
£2,500-£3,000, but said he no longer wished to keep it. 
Our investigator let Ageas know that Mr R no longer wanted to keep the salvage and that 
unless Ageas had any more evidence it wanted to provide, I would look to issue a final 
decision along the similar lines as my provisional decision, but the redress wouldnt include 
Mr R keeping the salvage. Ageas didnt respond to this by the date requested. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the responses and Im not satisfied that its fair and reasonable for Ageas to 
inspect Mr Rs car again. I say this because there have been two engineers inspect it 
already and this was over two years ago. Im therefore not persuaded that another report 
completed two years later, after the car has deteriorated during that time, is going to be as 
accurate about the condition of the car as those done at the time. 
As Mr R has said he no longer wanted to keep the salvage, the fair and reasonable way to resolve this complaint is for Ageas to pay Mr R the market value of £30,000 for the reasons 
explained in my provisional decision. As Ageas has already made an interim payment its fair 
and reasonable to deduct that amount from the market value of £30,000 along with any 
policy excess. Ageas should also add 8% simple interest per annum to the additional 
amount it pays to compensate Mr R for not having the money. This should be calculated 
from the date of accident to the date of payment.   
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint. 
Ageas Insurance Limited needs to pay Mr R the market value of £30,000 for his car in line 
with the policy terms, minus what its already paid and the policy excess. 
Ageas Insurance Limited also needs to add 8% simple interest per annum to the additional 
amount it pays, calculated from the date of accident until the date of payment. If Ageas 
Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income 
tax from the interest, it should tell Mr R how much its taken off. It should also give Mr R a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman