DRN-4311701
The complaint
Ms B and Mr H are unhappy U K Insurance Limited trading as Churchill (UKI) declined a
claim made under their home emergency policy.
Where Ive referred to UKI below, this also includes any actions or communication from their
agent acting and handling the claim on their behalf.
What happened
Ms B and Mr H have a home insurance policy which also provides home emergency cover,
underwritten by UKI. In January 2023 there were no lights in the landing or bedroom of
Ms B and Mr Hs home, so they contacted UKI.
An appointment was made for later that day. However, after inspecting the electrical failure,
the claim was declined. This is because UKI said there were still plug sockets in operation so
a lamp could be used for lighting, and partial failures of the electrics wasnt covered.
Ms B and Mr H complained to UKI about what had happened. UKI said that the policy
specifically excluded partial failures of the electrical system, so they said the claim decision
was correct. However, they accepted there was a delay in the inspection appointment taking
place, and poor communication, so they paid £75 compensation.
As Ms B and Mr H remained unhappy, they approached this service.
One of our investigators looked into things but she didnt uphold the complaint. She said she
didnt think an emergency had occurred in line with the policy terms as there was only a
partial failure, which she said is excluded. And she thought the compensation UKI had
already paid was reasonable, so she didnt recommend UKI do anything further.
Ms B and Mr H didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
I was minded to reach a different outcome to our investigator, so I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial findings before I 
reached my final decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive reached a different outcome to our investigator, Im issuing a provisional 
decision to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial findings before I 
reach my final decision.
Ms B and Mr H have home emergency cover, and this includes, amongst other 
things:
Youre covered for
Electrical supply
We will pay the cost of emergency assistance needed if the permanent 
electrical supply to your home fails.
And emergency assistance is defined as:
Work carried out by an authorised repairer to temporarily or permanently 
deal with an emergency, carry out emergency repairs or prevent further 
damage.
But not: 
Repairing paths and driveways that need to be lifted to deal with the 
emergency.
And emergency is defined as:
An incident in the home that happens during the period of insurance and which 
needs to be dealt with quickly to avoid:
Making the home unsafe or insecure for you
Damaging the home and its contents, or
The home losing its main source of heating, lighting or water (hot or 
cold).
And electrical supply is defined as:
The permanent electrical wiring system supplying power to your home from 
the mains service through your electricity supply meter.
In January 2023 Ms B and Mr H reported a failure of the lights in their bedroom and 
landing. They also made UKI aware that Ms B had a fractured leg, so the lighting was 
particularly important for her mobility and safety.
UKI arranged for an engineer to attend. However, the claim was subsequently 
declined by UKI. They said the failure of the lights wasnt covered under 
Ms B and Mr Hs policy due to them still having plug sockets in operation, so it was 
only a partial failure, and UKI said a lamp could be plugged in for lighting.Therefore, UKI said it wasnt an emergency, and they also said a partial failure of 
electrics was specifically excluded under Ms B and Mr Hs policy. However, I dont 
agree with either point. Ill explain why.
Based on the wording and definitions above, Im satisfied there was an emergency 
as the lighting had failed, and the failure was to the electrical supply as it was to 
permanent wiring from the mains. So, I think an emergency did occur, and UKI cant 
rely on this alone to decline the claim.
When declining the claim, UKI also outlined the following exclusion which they say is 
in the policy:
We dont cover:
Any temporary electrical wiring
Wiring that is outside your home
The electrical supply to outbuildings or garages that arent attached to 
your outbuilding
Or
Partial or intermittent failure of the internal domestic electrical system
The failure of the lighting didnt occur to temporary wiring, wiring outside the home or 
a garage or outbuilding. Therefore, none of the first three points of the exclusion 
would apply, so I dont think UKI can decline the claim on this basis alone.
However, importantly, only part of the exclusion UKI referred to (those three points 
above) actually appears in the policy. The following exclusion relied on by UKI 
doesnt actually appear in the policy wording:
Partial or intermittent failure of the internal domestic electrical system.
If this exclusion was in the policy wording then it might be reasonable to decline the 
claim, given there was only a partial failure to the electrics, and plug sockets were 
still in operation. But that exclusion isnt actually in the wording applicable to 
Ms B and Mr Hs policy. So UKI cant rely on a non-existent exclusion to decline the 
claim.
Based on the remainder of the wording, Ms B and Mr H had an emergency as 
defined in the policy, as their lighting had stopped working, and the policy doesnt 
require a total failure before it is considered an emergency. So, I dont think UKI 
acted fairly by declining the claim based on the exclusions actually contained in the 
relevant policy, as I dont think any of those actually apply here.
Its unclear if Ms B and Mr H have since had repairs completed, or if the lighting issue
remains. So, in response to my provisional decision, Id ask Ms B and Mr H to clarify 
this. And depending on what the responses are (and unless anything changes as a 
result of the responses to my provisional decision), Im minded to direct UKI to either:
If the issue remains unresolved, reconsider the claim under 
Ms B and Mr Hs home emergency policy and applicable terms.Or:
If Ms B and Mr H have already paid for repairs to be completed, 
reimburse the costs they incurred in having the lighting issue resolved, 
subject to evidence of works and costs, and the policy limit of £500.
Add 8% simple interest to the reimbursement from date of payment of 
the invoice to date of settlement.
When UKI originally maintained the claim decline, they offered £75 compensation. 
This was to take into account poor communication and a delay in the first 
appointment taking place. And I think that amount of compensation is sufficient for 
that part alone.
However, as Ive outlined, Im minded to conclude that UKI has acted unfairly by 
relying on exclusions which dont exist in Ms B and Mr Hs policy to decline the claim. 
And the claim was declined at a point when Ms B had a fractured leg and depended 
on good lighting for mobility and safety.
So, I think that by UKI unfairly not dealing with the home emergency claim at the 
time, this has impacted Ms B and Mr H and I think further compensation is warranted 
for this. Unless anything changes as a result of the responses to my provisional 
decision, I intend to direct UKI to pay a further £125 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused, taking the total amount to £200.
So, I was minded to uphold the complaint in part and to direct UKI to either reconsider the 
claim in line with the remaining terms. Or reimburse the cost of repairs (up to the policy limit 
and subject to evidence of works) with 8% simple interest. And in addition to both options, 
provide a further £125 compensation, taking the total amount to £200.
The responses to my provisional decision
Ms B and Mr H responded and said they were pleased with the provisional decision. 
UKI responded and said they accepted the provisional decision and recommendations.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive thought carefully about the provisional decision I reached and the responses to it. 
As neither party has provided anything in response which would lead me to depart from the 
provisional decision I reached, my final decision remains the same as my provisional 
decision, and for the same reasons.
In my provisional decision, I proposed two different ways for UKI to put things right, 
depending on whether repairs had gone ahead, or the issue remained unresolved. 
Ms B and Mr H didnt clarify the current position when they responded to my provisional 
decision.
So, my final decision remains the same as my provisional decision, with the two alternate 
remedies depending on the current position. If Ms B and Mr H accept my final decision, 
theyll then need to liaise with UKI to arrange the appropriate option of settlement depending 
on whether repairs have or havent been completed.My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part and direct U K Insurance Limited 
trading as Churchill to:
If the issue remains unresolved, reconsider the claim under Ms B and Mr Hs home 
emergency policy.
Or:
If Ms B and Mr H have already paid for repairs to go ahead, reimburse the costs they 
incurred in having the lighting issue resolved, subject to evidence of works and costs, 
and the policy limit of £500.
Add 8% simple interest* to the reimbursement from date of payment of the invoice to 
date of settlement.
And:
Pay Ms B and Mr H a further £125 compensation, taking the total amount to £200.
* If U K Insurance Limited trading as Churchill considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms B and Mr H how much its 
taken off. It should also give Ms B and Mr H a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so 
they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman