DRN-4390768
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy with BUPA Insurance Limiteds decision to not pay his claim in full.
What happened
Mr F has private medical insurance with BUPA. In September 2022, Mr F sadly suffered a 
stroke and was taken to hospital for treatment. Mr F was in hospital for 35 days, during 
which, he made a claim so he could be treated in a private facility. His claim was declined 
because BUPA said it wouldnt cover outpatient treatment, or rehabilitation treatment, 
without initially being treated privately. Mr F also made a claim for hospital cash benefit 
which he said was significantly and unnecessarily delayed. Mr F is unhappy with the overall 
customer service received and the outcomes of both claims. 
BUPA said Mr Fs policy doesnt cover him for the first claim. It said Mr F had to be treated 
as a private inpatient before it would consider his claim for rehabilitation physiotherapy. It 
also highlighted there was a limit on that element of cover of £500, which likely wouldnt 
have been enough to cover the treatment he received, and so, treatment on the NHS 
wouldve been better for him in the circumstances. 
BUPA accepted itd caused unnecessary delays handling Mr Fs hospital cash benefit claim. 
It said there were missed opportunities where it couldve thoroughly investigated the claim, 
which ultimately meant it couldve paid it sooner than it did. It eventually paid the full 35-day 
claim and Mr Fs associated costs. It also paid £750 compensation to acknowledge the 
distress and inconvenience caused by the delay. 
Our investigator agreed with BUPA that the first claim wasnt covered by the policy terms. 
But she also said BUPA shouldve paid the hospital cash benefit sooner than it did, because 
she was satisfied BUPA had all the necessary information to assess and settle the claim in 
December 2022 and noted it wasnt paid until February 2023. She thought the compensation 
paid was a fair reflection of the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr F disagreed with her findings. In summary, he said the policy wasnt there to support him 
in the way hed hoped and he felt let down by BUPA. He said BUPA shouldve accepted his 
initial claim and by not doing so, has left him questioning the relevance of his private medical 
insurance. Hed like more compensation because of that. And so, its now for me to make a 
final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. My reasons for doing so are similar to those 
already explained by our investigator; BUPA declined Mr Fs claim for private treatment fairly 
and I think the compensation awarded adequately reflects the level of distress and 
inconvenience for the delay in paying the hospital cash benefit. Ill explain why. 
The relevant rule here is the Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) which 
says that BUPA must handle claims promptly and fairly and mustnt reject a claim 
unreasonably. 
I think its important to recognise private medical insurance doesnt cover every eventuality, 
or medical condition and that policies are subject to limitations for those reasons. Mr F 
suffered a stroke in September 2022 and whilst I accept the seriousness of his condition, I 
think the correct course of action was taken to stabilise and treat him, as Mr F was given 
emergency care by the NHS. I say that because there are no private A&E hospitals and 
given Mr F suffered a stroke, he received care by the NHS as everyone in the UK would. I 
wanted to highlight this as Mr F has made arguments about BUPA not doing enough to offer 
treatment for his stroke and so for the avoidance of any doubt, there wasnt anything BUPA 
couldve done to arrange treatment for symptoms where emergency medical care was 
required.  
BUPA was made aware of Mr Fs situation in October 2022. Mr F wanted to know whether 
BUPA was able to offer any support with his recovery at this stage but was told cover wasnt 
available because he wasnt treated at a private facility. This prompted Mr F to question the 
usefulness of his policy, given he didnt have the option to receive treatment in that way. But 
for the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied this would never have been possible in these 
particular circumstances, because of the urgency and severity of his illness. I know thats a 
contentious point for Mr F, and hes made several arguments about why he thinks BUPA 
shouldve done more in relation to that claim, but private medical insurance isnt designed to 
replace the NHS, rather its to work alongside and supplement it where appropriate and safe 
to do so. In Mr Fs case, his stroke meant he needed to be treated as an emergency and 
receive the relevant level of care. Ive also considered BUPAs policy terms which say; 
You have the Essentials cover level which means that your benefits do not cover out-patient 
consultations or therapies before day-patient treatment or in-patient treatment, you will need 
to choose whether to pay yourself for a private out-patient consultation or therapy or use the 
NHS. If you decide to pay yourself call us and we can talk through your options and help you 
find a recognised practitioner covered under your benefits in case you should go on to need 
day-patient treatment or in-patient treatment.
Given what Ive just explained, Im satisfied BUPA declined Mr Fs claim fairly because its 
acted in accordance with those terms. Mr F wasnt treated privately and therefore 
rehabilitation treatment isnt covered in these particular circumstances. 
NHS Cash Benefit
Mr Fs policy offered cash benefit for each day he spent in hospital. BUPA has paid 
£1,878.42 to Mr F. This figure includes the £50 for each of the 35 days he was in hospital, 
plus associated court costs. It also paid £750 compensation for the overall distress and 
inconvenience caused. I should say its not in dispute that BUPA couldve handled this claim 
better than it did. Im satisfied it caused unnecessary delays and that this had a significant 
impact on Mr F. I say that because Mr F said hed planned to use that money to pay for his 
private rehabilitation and so it was important he receive it in good time. BUPA also accepted 
it missed the opportunity to investigate the claim properly.
Mr F had tried on a few occasions, 9 and 27 January and 7 February 2023 to get BUPA to 
pay his claim and gave all the necessary information to BUPA by early December 2022. 
However, BUPA didnt assess this correctly and at times, ignored Mr Fs continued attempts 
to get his claim resolved. In these circumstances, Im satisfied BUPA didnt adhere to the 
principles of ICOBS as it didnt pay Mr Fs claim promptly. Mr F was left with little choice but 
to begin court proceedings against BUPA on 13 February, however, I note both parties were able to resolve the issue without the need for a court hearing and BUPA paid the claim in full 
and covered Mr Fs court fees  which I thought was fair  10 days later. 
I agree that compensation was due given the distress and inconvenience caused and Im 
satisfied BUPA has taken that seriously because its already paid £750 to Mr F for the impact 
of its mistake. Its for those reasons I dont think it needs to pay anything more, because I 
feel the compensation already paid is enough in these particular circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman