The complaint  
Mrs Z complains about the charges applied to her Stocks and Shares ISA by 
Nationwide Building Society.  
To make things right she would like a refund of all the charges shes paid Nationwide since 
2007.  
What happened  
Mrs Z  is unhappy about the charges applied on her ISA plan that she took out in 2007 
without any financial advice. She feels that prior to the industry regulators (the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) intervention these charges have been concealed within her 
portfolio.  
Mrs Z feels as if shes paying for services that she doesnt need or is already paying 
a different business for.  
Nationwide hasnt upheld the complaint. In short, it says:  
It has complied with the FCAs regulations in receiving the  fees.
Statements have been provided showing the charges that applied, first by Legal &
General and then by  Aegon.
Although it was the product provider, it also provided service and advice if  wanted.
Its unable to refund any charges because theyve been correctly  applied.
Just because Mrs Z has chosen to invest without advice doesnt mean its charges
are either irrelevant or  incorrect.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didn t think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:  
Policy documentation was provided at the point of sale that made clear the charges
that would apply. The Key Features Document (KFD) made clear that there was an
Annual Management Charge (AMC) of  1.5%.
Hes satisfied that Mrs Z agreed to these charges at the outset before proceeding
to invest.
Mrs Z initially paid Nationwide an AMC which comprised of the  following:
oA fund manager fee which was for providing and administering the fund. The
UK Growth Fund Mrs Z initially invested in was co -managed by Schroders
and Fidelity, then L&G and later  Aegon.
DRN-1827748o A service charge for the business  in this case Nationwide  that acts as an 
intermediary between the customer and the fund mana ger and provides a 
means of  investing.  
o The cost of advice (to be paid by the service provider) would be paid out of 
the AMC if advice given  not in addition to it  and the amount would depend 
on the size of the  investment.  
 Despite the change in fund managers, Nationwide remained the service provider that 
facilitated the investments and therefore was entitled to a portion of the  fees.  
 Although Mrs Z didnt use all services that were available to her, Nationwide 
still facilitated the investment and th erefore was entitled to the fees it  charged.  
 The KFD also made clear the charges on the investments over 1, 3, 5, and 10 years, 
so Nationwide was clear about the impact the charges might  have.  
 Hes satisfied that Mrs Z has been sent documentation  including letters and 
annual statements  that mad e clear the breakdown of the  charges.  
 He doesn t believe that Nationwide have hidden the charges from Mrs Z and 
only revealed them because of changes brought in by the  FCA.  
 Hes seen no evidence to suggest that Mrs Z had been charged the same 
fees multiple  times.  
 It would be unreasonable to recomme nd that Nationwide refund the charges from 
2007 that it received legitimately, in agreement with Mrs Z, in the course of 
providing a  service.  
 
Mrs Z disagreed with the investigators conclusion. In summary, she made the following 
key points:  
 
 She took ou t the ISA on a non -advised  basis.  
 She wasnt sent the KFD stating that Nationwide wasnt the investment manager, or 
that Schroders were the investment/fund managers  and that Nationwide was still 
collecting a fee from them. If she was, she wouldnt have  gone ahead with the 
investment.  
 Theres no consistency within the financial field. She was verbally told  before she 
completed the application form  by a third -party business with whom she was 
investing whod be her investment manager and any charges that applied.  
 Nationwide can t absolve itself of its responsibility just because it has information 
contained within the documentation provided  99% of customers dont understand 
the information contained within  this. 
 That fact that the FCA has intervened means that many customers like her dont 
understand the  KFD.  
 She thought Nationwide was the fund manager and not some other  business.  
 The ombudsman service and the FCA should ensure consistency in the way that 
businesses communicate crucial information such as the fee structure  and the name 
of the investment  manager.  
 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review.  
 
 
What Ive decided  and why  
 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circ umstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons, Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  
 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im not persuaded that Mrs Z was paying 
optional charges without her knowledge or any charges that Nationwide wasnt providing a 
service for or wasnt entitled to receive.  
 
But before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mrs Zs strength of feeling about this matter. She has provided 
submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. H owever, I 
hope she wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, 
and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.  
 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence p resented by Ms O and Nationwide, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.  
 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry practic e but Im not bound by it. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.  
 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, it seems that the policy was taken out on a 
direct basis in 2007. In o ther words, it was sold without financial advice. I note that neither 
party disputes this.  
 
Therefore, I think its likely Mrs Z invested in the ISA of her own volition  probably in 
response to marketing material or simply because she just knew what she wanted. So, Im 
unable to consider the suitability of the investment, and I dont think either party is asking 
me to.  
 
I believe the onus was on Mrs Z to make sure the i nvestment was suitable for her 
circumstances including the fees that shed be paying. So, if theres anything that she didnt 
understand or was unsure about, it was up to her to ask for clarification or seek independent 
financial advice elsewhere.  
 
Im sat isfied she received documentation from Nationwide that wouldve made clear the 
nature of the charges  which Ill come back to later. That notwithstanding, if Nationwide 
being the fund manager was so important to Mrs Z I would expect her to have confirmed 
this point before going ahead, particularly as this was a non -advised sale.  
 
On the face of the evidence I dont think Mrs Z disagrees with paying fees, as long as 
theyre necessary to maintain her investment. In other words, its the transparency 
surround ing the fees, and knowing what shes paying for, and not paying double, thats at 
the heart of this complaint.  
 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I m satisfied Nationwide made clear it was 
charging 1.5% AMC fee for  amongst other things  monthly service charges and recurring 
management charges. And Im satisfied Mrs Z agreed to this by virtue of signing the 
relevant forms and having been supplied wi th the relevant documentation from the outset. 
Despite what she says, Im unable to agree that the policy documentation was unclear, 
unfair or misleading. I note Mrs Z signed the following declaration:  
 
I confirm that I have read and agree to the current Key Features including the Simplified 
Prospectus and terms and conditions document for the fund(s) that I have chosen and this  declaration. I understand that the investment will be managed in accordance with the 
Scheme Prospectus.  
 
Over time I think Mrs Z will have received correspondence from Nationwide, as referred to 
by it then from L&G and then AEGON, when they subsequently took over Mrs Zs 
investment.  
So, despite what Mrs Z says, I think it wouldve been reasonably clear from the  
annual statements she received that Nationwide was still receiving fees from her 
account.  
 
Im aware that Mrs Z says she was aware she was paying management charges, but that it 
was unreasonable for Nationwide to charge her for a service she wasnt aware of or wanted, 
especially after her investment was taken over in 2008 and again in 2016, when she 
believes Nationwide had no part to play in his investment.  
 
Thats where I think the issue lies, in that Nationwide still had a part to play in Mrs Zs 
investm ent contrary to what she believes. Despite what she says, its role didnt cease just 
because her investment was taken over by L&G and later AEGON. And based on what 
Nationwide says I dont think these were optional fees which Mrs Z had to expressly opt i n 
to pay either. But I will consider that in due course below.  
 
Im satisfied the position regarding the charges that were being paid to Nationwide was 
made reasonably clear to Mrs Z, not only through the KFD when she took out the 
investment in 2007, but w hen it was taken over in 2008 and 2016 and the period in 
between.  
 
I know from having dealt with similar complaints in the past, that for example in 2008, the 
investments were taken over by L&G, Nationwide still retained responsibility for servicing 
and financial advice when requested. And that Nationwide was still chargi ng Mrs Z for 
services that it was still providing such as:  
 
 The expertise of a team of investment specialists who review the range of funds on 
panel and reviewed their performance to ensure they performed in line with the 
investors  expectations.  
 Overs ight of the investment committee who meet to review and act on any 
recommendation by its investment  team.  
 And contact with the investor in case the funds are not performing as well as 
expected and to make  recommendations.  
 
That said, I can understand why  Mrs Z thinks it wasnt as clear about exactly where this 
money was going  bearing in mind the regulation was changed in order to make the 
charges transparent. Incidentally this change effected all businesses in a similar position and 
wasnt unique to  Nationwide.  
 
In the circumstances, Im satisfied Mrs Z wasnt paying for optional extras, and was 
unlikely to be charged for services without her consent. The initial 1.5% AMC  later 
reduced  seems to have been made up of a number of smaller and separate ch arges  
including for fund management and administration as well as fund platform / panel  
payable to the business providing the relevant service.  
 
 
I note in its final response letter, Nationwide explained:  
 
This Nationwide charge was initially paid as commission, which was part of (and not in 
addition to) the Annual Management Charge that was itself quantified from outset to be 
1.50%. Later the commission percentages were disclosed and your May 2013 Confirmation  Note for your new £500 investment, for example, showed the commission to Nationwide to 
be 0.80% for the Mixed Investment Fund and 0.88% for the UK Select Equity Fund that you 
invested into. That year, the lower 0.50% Service Charge replaced commission for new 
investments (not top -ups), for new contributions from April 2014 and later still, in 2016, your 
older commission paying funds (paying variable commissions) were all converted to pay the 
fixed Service Charge, so from then on, all your investments were s ubject to this payment to 
Nationwide. Payment of these changes all followed and complied with Financial Conduct 
Authority guidelines and the various changes to guidelines made and were implemented by 
Legal & General whod taken over as the product provider  at the time. Numerous letters and 
annual statements were issued by them as the product provider (after 2008) and by Aegon 
(after 2016), which made reference to these charges and the fact they were paid to 
Nationwide. It was therefore not this year that th e Service Charge was first revealed, as 
thats been done from outset in varying ways over the years. The only change implemented 
this year was to show a calendar year total for the charge for the previous calendar year, 
rather than for the statement peri od as it had previously been shown. For a long time, its 
been made clear that the Service Charge is 0.50% per year though, which is lower than the 
amount of commission you previously paid.  
 
I think historically the 1.5% would have been payable to Nationw ide almost in its entirely. But 
in 2016, when the ISA transferred to the new administrator AEGON, Nationwide and L&G 
became entitled to a portion of the 1.5% that previously Nationwide had been paid. It was 
simply now being apportioned in a different way w ith the charge being split between 
Nationwide and L&G, with Nationwide receiving a smaller portion. I dont think this means 
Mrs Z has ended up paying more  in other words two payments  following the transfer and 
so Im unable to say shes suffered a fin ancial loss on this  basis.  
 
I think Mrs Z was only making one payment but to the new administrator and the overall 
1.5% remained the same even after the transfer to the new administrator. And because Mrs 
Z remained invested in what looks like funds that we re only available on the Nationwide 
panel, it remained entitled to that portion of the 1.5%, despite a change in the administrator. 
In other words, it looks to me like Nationwide was still the business that facilitated the 
investment.  
 
Mrs Z might be unhap py that the documentation supplied by the new administrator at the 
time of transfer in 2008, and subsequently in 2016, didnt specifically mention any 
commission she would have to pay Nationwide. But this is not something I can consider in a 
complaint agai nst Nationwide as the business responsible for the sale of the investment.  
 
Unless Ive misunderstood the issue, it seems Mrs Z can in choose to stop paying the 
annual service charge and Nationwide has told her how to go about this, and what it might 
entai l, but she should be aware she will no longer receive the service that shes currently 
getting, and she may have to choose new funds to invest in. I dont think thats what Mrs Z 
really wants but its a matter for her and she might benefit from getting fin ancial advice.  
 
I appreciate Mrs Zs overall concerns with the situation and recognise she will be 
disappointed Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. But having given the 
matter careful consideration, I dont feel able to conclude that this  complaint should be 
upheld.  
 
I note what the investigator says about the RDR  which came into force around January 
2013 and ruled out trail commission  but I note it only applies to new investments sold after 
this time. But in any case, for the reasons that Ive set out above, I dont think Mrs Z is 
entitled to any refunds because none of the charges that she was paying were for optional 
extra services.  My final decision  
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Z to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 June 2020.  
Dara Islam  
Ombudsman  