DRN-3004214
The complaint
Miss B on behalf of the estate of Mr B complains that Santander Uk Plc told her incorrect
information which has led to extra costs for the estate.
Miss B is being helped in the complaint by Mr M. But for ease of reading, Ill treat
submissions and comments he has made as being made by Miss B.  
What happened
Miss B is a daughter of the late Mr B. Miss B contacted Santander to close his account after
his passing, but Santander had already paid the funds to another party who claimed to be Mr
Bs next of kin.
Miss B spoke to the branch manager. She says that she was told that she would need to
obtain a grant of probate to prove that she was entitled to the funds in Mr Bs account. Miss
B says she was told that Santander would cover the costs of her getting the grant of probate
and she believed Santander would pursue the unauthorised person who claimed the money
for these costs.
Miss B got the grant of probate and this proved she was entitled to execute her late fathers
will. She informed Santander that the solicitors bill was for £1871.40 but Santander said they
would not pay this bill, so Miss B complained to the bank.
Santander initially didnt uphold her complaint. They said they had correctly followed their
procedures. They also said they believed it was a civil dispute between the unauthorised
party and Miss B.
Miss B did not accept the outcome so contacted Santander again. Santander replied and
said that as it had been advised that this information was provided in a branch and due to
the length of time since this advice was given, they were unable to determine why this was
advised to her. They said they have taken her word in good faith that this is what she was
told. Santander said they would arrange a cheque to be sent to Miss B for £250 as a way of
an apology for the incorrect information given. Miss B did not accept the outcome of the
complaint so brought it to our service on behalf of the estate of Mr B.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He said that Santander had followed their
bereavement closure process correctly. He also said that while Miss B said Santander
agreed to cover the costs for a solicitor, he was unable to verify what was said and the cost
of a solicitor to obtain a grant of probate wasnt necessary.
Our investigator explained that he had seen a testimony from the branch manager who Miss
B spoke to. This says the branch manager informed Miss B that a grant of probate would
need to be obtained through a solicitor at a personal cost to herself and he said at no point
did he inform Miss B that the cost of the grant of probate could be reclaimed. Miss B on
behalf of the estate of Mr B asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint.  
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties dont agree on what happened here, so Ive looked at all of the information
available to me in order to decide what is a fair and reasonable outcome of the complaint.
The first thing Ive looked at is whether Santander followed their own bereavement process.
Im satisfied that they have. I say this as our investigator shared with Miss B on behalf of the
estate that for estates that were valued at less than £50,000, Santander wouldnt normally
need a grant of probate. But as somebody had already signed a declaration to say that they
were Mr Bs next of kin then Santander say they would need a grant of probate to prove who
was actually entitled to execute the will when it is in dispute. So because somebody had
already accessed the funds then Santander would always need a copy of a grant of probate
(and the will) to see whether Miss B was entitled to the funds.
So while Im persuaded that Santander have followed their process in asking for the grant of
probate, Im not persuaded that they have been clear about who should pay for the costs of
obtaining a grant of probate. I say this as Miss B is adamant that she was led to believe that
Santander would pay these costs. But the branch manager is also adamant that he never
told Miss B this. So Ive considered other factors here in considering what would be a fair
outcome and Ill explain them below.
The letter which Santander sent to Miss B on 2 June 2020 states I am unable to determine
why this was advised and therefore have taken your word in good faith that this is what was
advised. Ive also considered Santanders submission to this service as they said that when
the complaint was dealt with at the earlier stages, the complaint handler did not contact the
branch manager for his testimony. Santander said the complaint handler incorrectly
assumed the member of staff would not recall his conversation with Miss B due to the time
which elapsed. But he confirms he did not inform Miss B the costs incurred in obtaining a
grant of probate would be met by Santander.
So there does appear to be a contradiction here. Santander have said in a formal letter that
they have taken Miss Bs word that she was advised that she was told Santander would
reimburse her costs but then has also said that the branch manager hasnt told her this. The
reality here is that I cant evidence whether this was explained to Miss B or not.
Ive listened to a call that Santander made to Miss Bs representative. The call handler does
state I do apologise for you being given the wrong information by the bank. This is in
relation to the call handler explaining that they wouldnt pay for the costs Miss B incurred for
obtaining the grant of probate. It does appear here that even the call handler believes that
Miss B had been told incorrect information about what the bank has said regarding paying
the solicitors bill. So I am persuaded that the reasonable thing for Santander to do here is to
acknowledge there has been a lot of different information which theyve given to Miss B here
and to provide compensation to the estate for this.
Ive considered what would be a fair outcome here. The solicitors bill comes to £1,871.40.
But I dont think its fair that Santander should be held liable for the full amount of this  even
if they did say they would cover the solicitors costs.
I say this because the bill shows there are other duties that the solicitor has carried out for
Miss B on behalf of the estate. Im satisfied that these would need to be carried out by a
solicitor regardless of what Santander told Miss B. I think the fairest thing to do here is to ask
Santander to pay for some of these costs. I say this as they should not be responsible to payfor the other duties which the solicitor has carried out. Ive looked at the complaint form that
Miss B on behalf of the estate of Mr B submitted to our service and this says probate cost
me nearly £900.
This is broadly in line with what I would expect a grant of probate to cost using a solicitor to
obtain this. So I do think its fair that Santander should pay the estate £450 based on
acknowledging in a final response letter they gave Miss B wrong information about solicitors
costs and the telephone call where the call agent apologises for Miss B being given wrong
information from Santander. The reason why I have not awarded the full cost of the probate
costs is because of the testimony from the branch manager who remembers the incident
clearly and states he told Miss B the costs would need to be met by herself. As the two sides
are so far apart in what happened then Im persuaded the fairest thing to do here is split the
costs for probate down the middle  for ease Ive rounded the costs to £900.
I am aware that Santander have said in their final response letter that they would send a
cheque to Miss B for £250 to reflect the further distress that she has suffered from the
incorrect information. But I cant consider this payment as part of my award or deduct this
from any compensation I award. This is because this complaint is being brought on behalf of
an estate whereas the compensation that Santander said they would pay was for Miss B as
an individual. So for the reasons Ive already given, I intend to ask Santander to put things
right for Miss B on behalf of the estate of Mr B.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Both parties queried the compensation I intended to award. Santander said that 
Miss B was the sole beneficiary if the payment had been made to the estate rather than to 
her directly, those funds would have been paid to her by the estate. They said in view of this, 
as she has already received the sum of £250, they felt the further payment should be £200, 
making a total of £450. Miss B asked if the total I intended to award included the £250 that 
had already have been paid or was extra.
In light of what Santander said about Miss B being the only person being entitled to the 
award, I asked Miss B for a copy of the will as my intention was that the fairest thing to do 
here was to split the approximate probate costs between Santander and the estate of Mr B 
for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision. Miss B confirmed that she is the sole 
beneficiary of the will.
I explained to Miss B that because of this, the award would be an extra £200 as she had 
already received £250. Im satisfied that this is the fairest outcome as it means she would 
receive half of the probate costs in total. Miss B said if I am still suggesting £200 after seeing 
the will then she will proceed. Santander accepted this proposal in response to my 
provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my provisional decision then my final decision and reasoning 
remain the same  apart from my clarification of the compensation awarded. It follows that Ill 
now be telling Santander that this is what it needs to do to put things right here.  
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I suggested Santander pay Miss B on behalf of the estate of Mr B 
£450. As Miss B confirmed she is the sole beneficiary of the will then the £250 she received will be deducted from this award for the reasons Ive previously given. So Santander should 
pay Miss B on behalf of the estate of Mr B an additional £200.  
My final decision
Santander UK Plc should pay Miss B on behalf of the estate of Mr B £200.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr B 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman