DRN-2262189
The complaint
Mr R complains that Society of Lloyds (SoL) acted unfairly and unreasonably when dealing 
with his claim under a legal expenses insurance policy. He wants matters put right.
What happened
Mr R had a legal expenses insurance policy with SoL. He made a claim under the policy for 
legal assistance in recovering an outstanding debt. While a default court judgment was 
obtained, ultimately the claim was declined as the panel solicitor said that there was less 
than a 50% chance of recovering the money from the defendant (having instructed agents to 
investigate amongst other steps) and the legal costs to use land owned by the defendant 
jointly with another to pay would be disproportionate. Mr R was told that he could pay for a 
second legal opinion, which if it was supportive of his position would be considered by SoL 
and the cost repaid to Mr R; he also could fund the costs of enforcing the judgment himself.
Mr R complained and said that SoL should pay the costs of using the land to get the debt 
paid as it only allowed the claim to initially proceed because of its existence. SoL pointed out 
that the terms and conditions of the policy said only claims with a greater than 50% chance 
of success and enforcement of any successful claim were covered. It noted that the debt 
was £1650 and the defendant was unemployed, and had been advised that the costs of 
valuing land owned by the defendant and getting a charging order and an order for sale 
would cost far more than the debt itself. The policy stated that legal costs had to be 
reasonable and proportionate and SoL said it was entitled to rely on this and the professional 
advice it had received. 
Mr R complained to this service and said SoL should pay for the valuation of the land owned 
by the defendant as it had allowed judgment to be obtained. The investigators view was that 
SoL wasnt at fault. He said that the policy did require reasonable prospects of success for 
both the claim and enforcement, and it was reasonable for an insurer to rely on legal advice 
given by a suitably qualified lawyer. As the advice changed to reduce the prospects of 
success, the investigator said it was fair and reasonable for SoL to decline to continue to 
fund the claim.
Mr R disagreed. He said that it wasnt reasonable for SoL to say it was disproportionate to 
take steps to enforce the judgment against the defendants land now but not at the start. The 
investigator said that the information gathered after judgment had been obtained by the 
solicitors led to their advice that the prospects of success to recover the debt was around 
50%, and this service couldnt consider complaints about legal advice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When I refer to SoL, Im also referring to its agents. The relevant rules and industry 
guidelines say that SoL has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And it 
shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy. Theres no dispute between the 
parties about this  both accept that in order to be covered, Mr Rs claim must have greater 
than 50% chance of both success and enforcement and the legal costs must be 
proportionate and reasonable compared to the amount Mr R is seeking from the defendant.
What Mr Rs complaint is really about is whether SoL has acted fairly and reasonably in 
withdrawing cover in light of further information and advice from the solicitor. Insurers are not 
qualified lawyers and its fair and reasonable for them to rely on the advice given by suitably 
qualified lawyers, provided that theres no obvious error which a layman should spot. 
In Mr Rs case, the solicitor throughout was concerned about the enforcement of his claim. 
She pointed out that the defendant at most only might own part of a tiny piece of land, the 
value of which was unknown. SoL paid for advice from both a barrister and the solicitor, and 
for investigations into the defendants financial position. It was not until judgment was 
obtained and the defendant was examined in court that SoL was plainly advised that on 
balance the solicitor had now concluded enforcement did not have reasonable prospects of 
success, but if a cheaper option was of interest, bailiffs could be sent.
Mr R complains that SoL wasnt willing to keep spending money on his claim. But bearing in 
mind SoL had by this point spent a significant sum of money, relying on the advice it had 
received from a solicitor, I think a person spending their own money would reasonably think 
the time had come to stop. The land has been described as very small and is jointly owned; 
theres no evidence to think that it is worth much and to be able to sell it, several court 
applications would be required, increasing costs. The defendant has another outstanding 
judgment which appear to not have been paid. Insurers are entitled to act as a reasonable 
person spending their own money on a claim would act and the policy specifically says costs 
must be proportionate to the claim. I also note that Mr R could obtain his own valuation of 
the land or second legal opinion, but hasnt.
Theres no obvious error in the advice given to SoL by the solicitor, who is suitably qualified 
to give such advice. But it wasnt until after the examination in court of the defendant that the 
solicitor advised the prospects of success of recovering the debt was now 50% and that 
taking the steps Mr R wished would be disproportionate. In the circumstances, I cant say 
that SoL has acted unfairly or unreasonably in withdrawing cover and Mr R at least now has 
the judgment in his possession which he can enforce at a later date at his own cost.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 
9 February 2021.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman