DRN-1543891
The complaint
Mr M complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) imposed unfair 
charges at the end of his finance agreement.
What happened
In September 2016 Mr M acquired a car funded by a hire purchase agreement. In this he 
agreed to an annual permitted mileage of 15,000. The agreement allowed MBFS to make a 
charge for any excess mileage. The agreement also required Mr M to return the car in a 
good condition and set out in some detail what this entailed.
In September 2019 Mr M voluntarily terminated the agreement and the car was collected. It 
was also inspected and four damaged alloys were recorded. MBFS charged Mr M £470 for 
this damage. The mileage of the car on its return was 32,473 which was significantly less 
than the agreed mileage.
Mr M complained to MBFS and said that as he had done fewer miles than he had agreed the 
cars value was enhanced so the charge for the alloys should be foregone. MBFS rejected 
his complaint and so he brought the matter to this service. It was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt agree.
He acknowledged Mr Ms position, but he said he couldnt ask a finance company to reduce 
or waive damage charges due to a car being returned under mileage. He explained that 
damage charges and mileage charges are two separate areas and cant be taken into 
consideration together. Mr M didnt agree and said that this was unfair and it was a matter of 
principle. It was wrong of MBFS to be allowed to charge for excess mileage, but not to give 
credit for lower mileage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the strength of feeling shown by Mr M, but I dont consider I can uphold his 
complaint. I will explain why.
Mr M entered into a contract under which he agreed to pay for damages which went beyond 
fair wear and tear. Details of what was acceptable wear and tear was set out for him and this 
is in line with the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association guidelines. I am satisfied 
the charge was fair in the light of the damage to the alloys.
The contract also set out the annual permitted mileage and I presume the figure of 15,000 
miles per annum was agreed by Mr M. The contract does not say that if he does fewer miles 
that he will be given a refund. If it had done then I would agree that MBFS would be obliged 
to refund some of the money paid by Mr M. But there is no clause or section in the 
agreement that requires it to do so.
Mr M agreed an annual mileage and if he did fewer miles that was his choice. MBFS may 
benefit by obtaining an increased auction price, although I do not know what price it actually 
received. However, there is nothing in the agreement which Mr M signed that requires it to 
offset any possible increase in value against the charges for the damages. Mr M had the 
choice when he acquired the car to choose a range of funding options and he chose hire 
purchase and the terms and conditions which come with that agreement.
I have every sympathy with Mr M, but I do not consider I can uphold his complaint
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman