DRN-4165325
The complaint
Mr D has complained about how Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) dealt 
with a claim under his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr D made a claim for storm damage to a wall. He complained to LV and then to this service 
about the claim. An ombudsman at this service issued a decision. He didnt uphold the 
complaint. He said the settlement offered by LV was reasonable. Mr D accepted the 
decision.
Mr D complained again to LV. When LV replied, it accepted the payment for the claim had 
been made late and that there were other issues with the claim. It offered a total of £400 
compensation.
When Mr D complained to this service, our investigator didnt require LV to do anything 
further. She said some of the issues werent for this service to consider and she couldnt 
consider issues that were part of the previous complaint looked at by this service. She said 
the claim settlement hadnt been paid within a reasonable time, but that LVs offer of £400 
was appropriate in the circumstances to address this and the other issues raised.
As Mr D didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Mr D holds strong views about LV, his claim and his complaints. As part of my 
decision, I wont be looking at issues covered in the complaint considered by another 
ombudsman. Im aware of what the decision covered and the points Mr D raised in relation 
to it. I wont be commenting on these in my decision.
Mr D has raised a range of issues, some of which can be dealt with by this service. Im also 
aware Mr D has raised issues with other organisations and that he was also given 
information by this service about what we could consider and other places he might be able 
to direct some of the issues. This service isnt the regulator and it isnt our role to investigate 
the wider business practices of a business. 
Im also aware that, for Mr D, his claim and concerns have been ongoing for some time. 
However, my decision is limited to the period covered by the complaint, which is since the 
complaint that was covered by the previous ombudsmans decision and the final response to 
his further complaint being issued.
I have focussed my decision on the issues that, in my view, I can consider as part of this 
complaint. These relate to the time taken by LV to process the claim settlement and its 
response on Mr Ds concerns about the time taken by LV to respond to questions he asked, 
LV making contradictory decisions and inaccurately considering information. Mr D was also 
concerned about the amount of compensation offered. Complaint handling itself isnt a 
regulated activity but, more broadly, I have also considered the complaint response overall.
From what Ive seen, LV accepted that it didnt issue the settlement as quickly as it should 
have. It also accepted that a claims handler had made an error, that there were erroneous 
statements, Mr Ds builder had incorrectly been quoted as saying something he hadnt and 
the cost to LV had been unnecessarily referred to. It said feedback had been provided. I note 
that LV told Mr D it still concluded that its decision on the claim, on the balance of 
probabilities, remained the right one. In my view, LV considered the issues raised by Mr D 
and acknowledged issues with what it considered and the time it took to pay the settlement. I 
think the way LV responded to the complaint was reasonable in the circumstances. 
LV also offered Mr D £400 compensation. Mr D has outlined the impact on him of LVs 
service. So, Ive considered whether the level of compensation was appropriate given the 
time period the complaint covered and the issues identified. I should also note that it isnt the 
role of this service to punish a business, including through the amount it pays in 
compensation.
Having looked at what happened, including the information and evidence provided by both 
parties, I think the £400 compensation LV offered was appropriate in the circumstances. This 
amount is in line with what I would have required LV to pay had it not offered this.
Having considered the circumstances of this complaint, I dont require LV to do anything 
further in relation to it.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that Liverpool Victoria Insurance 
Company Limited does not need to do anything further in relation to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman