DRN-3408141
The complaint
This complaints about a mortgage Ms C used to hold with Bank of Scotland plc (BOS). The 
mortgaged property was taken into possession in 2018 and sold shortly afterwards. Ms C 
complains that BOS delayed the possession unduly causing her additional distress and 
financial loss. Shes seeking compensation of £120,000.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Ms C and BOS. Im also aware that 
the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, a copy of which has been sent 
to all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all the details here. Our decisions are published, 
and its important that I dont include any information that might result in Ms C being 
identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary in my own words and then focus on giving the 
reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll 
be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint.
Ms C took the mortgage out in 2006; in 2008, a suspended possession order was granted by 
a court in proceedings brought by BOS in respect of mortgage arrears. In 2015, Ms Cs 
financial position worsened after she lost her employment and started up her own business. 
No payments were made to the mortgage after August 2015. 
BOS didnt take legal action immediately, but in March 2018, it sought permission from the 
court to enforce the 2008 possession order. That was granted, BOS took possession and 
sold the property. Ms C made two complaints at the time; one was about BOS refusing her 
request to have the property returned to her, the other about how BOS marketed the 
property in possession. Both complaints were referred to this service for consideration; 
neither was upheld.
In 2020, BOS contacted Ms C to say it was reviewing the period that legal action had been 
on hold; in her case that was between late 2015 and early 2018. BOS invited Ms C to say if 
the delay had caused her additional expense or distress. After considering what she said, 
BOS sent her a cheque for £200. Ms C complained, claiming that this delay had made life 
much worse for her and asked for £120,000 compensation.
BOS declined the claim and Ms C referred her complaint to us. Our investigator thought 
BOS offer of £200 was fair; he said that if Ms C had wanted the possession proceedings 
concluded sooner, she had options at the time to either sell the property herself or even 
surrender it voluntarily to BOS. Ms C asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, these are my conclusions, and the reasons for them.
The complaints Ms C made previously are different from this, and I havent revisited the 
merits of them. However, they are relevant to the context of this complaint, in particular the 
one about BOS refusing Ms Cs request to have the property returned to her after it had 
been taken into possession. That complaint was made in the spring of 2018, just after the 
order had been enforced. 
Something has clearly changed Ms Cs mind, as shes gone from wishing in 2018 that BOS 
hadnt taken possession at all to complaining in 2021 that it should have taken possession 
sooner. In my view, the most likely cause of Ms Cs chance of mind is BOS contacting her to 
say it was reviewing the period between 2015 and 2018 when legal action was on hold. 
However, in deciding this complaint, I cant take account of any hindsight that the intervening 
years have brought. If I did conclude that BOS should have taken possession sooner than it 
did, Id then have to assess how Ms C would have felt at the time. 
We dont expect a lender to enforce a possession order at the earliest opportunity. There 
may be occasions where its the appropriate thing to do, but more often than not, lenders 
should regard enforcement as a last resort after it has explored all other avenues to try and 
help a borrower keep their home. In my view, thats what BOS did in Ms Cs case. In all the 
circumstances, not enforcing the possession order sooner than March 2018 didnt amount to 
unfair treatment on BOS part, and thats the test I have to apply.
Ms C takes issue with our investigator flagging up the potential actions she could have taken 
to mitigate her situation, but he was right to do so. If Ms C had genuinely wanted the arrears 
situation resolved sooner than it was, alternative courses of action, such as selling or 
surrendering the property, were available to her. An entry in BOSs contemporaneous notes 
from October 2017 indicates Ms C was contemplating a sale, but nothing appears to have 
come of that. 
It seems to me the most likely reason why Ms C didnt do sell or surrender the property is, as 
I alluded to earlier, that she didnt want to leave her home sooner than she did. Thats 
completely understandable; its also corroborated by another contemporaneous note from 
December 2017 recording Ms C specifically asking BOS not to enforce the order. In that 
context, I think it more likely than not that if BOS had enforced possession sooner, Ms C 
would not have suffered any less stress than she actually did.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a material effect on 
the outcome. I can see from Ms Cs submissions how strongly she feels. Thats a natural, 
subjective reaction, and entirely understandable when youre as close to a situation as Ms C 
has been here.
But I have a different remit. I have to be objective, and impartial, and sometimes that means 
stepping back from the fine detail, taking an overview and deciding what is fair, reasonable 
and pragmatic in all the overall circumstances of the case. It also means that Im not required to provide answers to every specific question that comes up if I dont consider doing 
so will affect the overall outcome.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman