DRN-2690420
Complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Metro Bank PLC (Metro) didnt do more to help him when he was the 
victim of a scam.  
Background
Mr P has an account with Metro. In 2017, he was carrying out online research and looking 
for the best way to invest his savings. He found what appeared to be the website of a 
legitimate firm offering an investment bond. The terms on which this investment was being 
offered looked suitable for Mr Ps needs, so he called the number on the website. After a 
discussion, he agreed to transfer £25,000 into the bond. He phoned Metro to ask it to make 
the transfer. Unfortunately, Mr P hadnt been talking to a legitimate firm. His online research 
had led him to a fake website. Hed transferred his savings to a scammer. 
Around one year later, Mr P wanted to check on the progress of this investment but wasnt 
able to contact the company hed dealt with. After further enquiries, he realised he must 
have fallen victim to a scam. He contacted Metro Bank to let it know what had happened. He 
asked it to retrospectively cancel his transfer and reimburse him. Metro Bank said that, as 
Mr P had authorised the transfer, there was nothing it could do.
Mr P was unhappy with the response he received from Metro Bank, so he referred his 
complaint to this service. It was looked at by an investigator who upheld it. The investigator 
agreed that Mr P had authorised the payment, but he said that the transfer was unusual and 
out of character and that, according to good industry practice, Metro ought to have 
questioned the payment further with Mr P before processing it. 
The investigator thought that Metro ought to have asked Mr P about his investment 
experience, how he found this particular investment opportunity, whether hed taken financial 
advice and for general information about the investment. If it had done so, the investigator 
thought Metro wouldve been able to prevent the scam from taking place. 
Metro Bank disagreed with the investigators view. First, it disputed that the transaction was 
out of character. Mr P had made a small number of five-figure transactions in the past. It 
cited examples of these but conceded that they were smaller than the ones hed made to the 
scammer. It said that the questions the investigator thought shouldve been asked by the 
Metro employee were intrusive and many customers would object to being questioned in this 
way. 
It also noted that the scam appeared quite professional  the website Mr P visited looked 
legitimate and he was supplied with authentic looking documentation when applying for the 
fake investment. Metro speculated that Mr P might have opted to make the transfer anyway, 
even if an employee had questioned it with him. 
In later submissions, Metro said that the investigator needed to bear in mind that the BSI 
Code hadnt come into force at the time of the scam. Any standards contained in that code 
therefore couldnt be considered when determining what constituted best practice. It also 
cited a section of the judgement in the case of Philipp v Barclays Bank in support of its 
argument that it shouldnt have been expected to ask Mr P detailed questions regarding the 
payment.
Because Metro disagreed with the investigators view, the complaint has been passed to me 
to consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
The relevant considerations that are applicable in cases such as these have been set out at 
length by my colleagues in other final decisions, but for the avoidance of doubt Ill repeat 
them here.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations 2009 (PSRs) and the terms and conditions of the customers 
account. That was the case in April 2017, and remains so now, and I have taken that into 
account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
In addition:
Regulated firms like Metro are (and were) required to conduct their business with 
due skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard 
to the interests of its customers (Principle 6).
Firms also have a longstanding regulatory duty to take reasonable care to establish 
and maintain effective systems and controls for compliance with applicable 
requirements and standards under the regulatory system and for countering the risk 
that the firm might be used to further financial crime (SYSC 3.2.6R, which has 
applied since 2001). And over the years, the FSA and its successor the FCA have 
published a series of papers setting out non-exhaustive examples of good and poor 
practice found when reviewing measures taken by banks to counter financial crime.
The 2012 thematic review paper Banks defences against investment fraud  
Detecting perpetrators and protecting victims (the 2012 paper) sets out such non-
exhaustive examples. The FSA also explained in the 2012 paper that whilst it 
focused on investment fraud it was of some relevance to other types of fraud as well. 
Specifically, it said we have a regulatory remit to tackle investment fraud, which has 
prompted our particular interest in this area, although the lessons of this report can 
be applied to banks handling of other types of fraud and criminal conduct affecting 
their customers.
Firms are required to comply with legal and regulatory anti-money laundering and 
countering the financing of terrorism requirements. In 2017, those requirements 
included maintaining proportionate and risk-sensitive policies and procedures to 
identify, assess and manage money laundering risk  for example through customer 
due diligence measures and the ongoing monitoring of the business relationship 
(including through the scrutiny of transactions undertaken throughout the course of the relationship).
The law itself also recognises that a bank may in limited circumstances be liable to its 
customer if it makes a payment in circumstances where it has reasonable grounds 
(although not necessarily proof) for believing that the payment instruction was an 
attempt to misappropriate the funds of its customer (known as the Quincecare duty). 
I am mindful, however, that the courts have interpreted Quincecare narrowly and the 
circumstances of this complaint are different to that case. For the avoidance of doubt, 
I am not suggesting Quincecare applies in this case, I refer to it only to make the 
point that the broad legal position that a bank is expected to process payments that a 
customer authorises is not absolute and Quincecare (like the other matters I have 
referred to here) is an example of that.
Taking all of these things into account, I consider that at the time of the payment in April 
2017, Metro should fairly and reasonably:
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Ive taken all this into account when deciding whether Metro acted fairly and reasonably in its 
dealings with Mr P when it processed this payment. And having done so, Im persuaded that 
Metro ought to have recognised that the payment was uncharacteristic. It shouldnt have 
allowed the payment to be processed until it asked Mr P some questions to satisfy itself that 
he wasnt at risk of financial harm.
In its submissions, Metro referred to the judgement in the Philipp v Barclays Bank in which a 
judge took a particular view about the extent of the Quincecare duty. For the avoidance of 
doubt, I dont think the Quincecare duty applies here. And notwithstanding what the judge 
said in the context of deciding a narrow point of law, I have a duty to resolve this complaint 
on the basis of what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, 
taking into account not just the law, but also the regulators rules and guidance, relevant 
codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. In 
short, the same standards that Ive described in more detail above.  
The payment was for a large sum and being made to a new payee. I accept that Mr P had 
made five-figure transactions before. But for significantly lower sums than £25,000. And the 
examples cited by Metro were transfers between accounts held by Mr P. Furthermore, this 
payment represented a significant proportion of the outstanding balance.
In its response to the investigators view, Metro has pointed out that Mr P had previously 
made transfers which represented an even greater proportion of the outstanding balance on 
his account. But to be clear, I think its the combination of factors here that shouldve 
triggered closer attention from Metro (i.e. the value of the payment, that it was to a new 
payee and that it represented a large proportion of Mr Ps balance) rather than one single 
factor in isolation. I think these were clear triggers that ought fairly and reasonably to have 
prompted closer attention from Metro. 
I think good industry practice meant that Metro should have questioned the payment with Mr P before processing it. That wouldnt have necessarily required a detailed examination of the 
circumstances leading up to Mr P making the payment. It shouldve asked him about the 
purpose of the payment, how hed found out about the investment opportunity and what the 
purported risks and returns were. Mr P wouldve told the Metro employee that he was 
expecting a return of around 43% over three years without any risk to his investment. This is 
an unusually generous return, particularly given that it was apparently available risk free. 
Metro argued that, since the fake investment was so believable, even if it had intervened and 
questioned it with Mr P, its likely hed have been comfortable proceeding with it regardless. 
But I think its significant that the receiving account was also held with Metro. It ought to have 
known that the receiving account was not in the name of an investment provider, but an 
entirely unrelated third party. 
This shouldve caused significant concern that Mr P was at risk of financial harm. While 
Metro might not have been able to tell Mr P who controlled the receiving account, if it had 
checked it couldve known with some certainty that this wasnt a legitimate payment and that 
it was likely an attempt to defraud Mr P. It therefore shouldnt have processed the payment 
without further investigation. And if a bank employee had told him that the receiving account 
wasnt that of the reputable investment firm he believed it was, its extremely unlikely hed 
have made the payment. 
Finally, the investigator recommended that Metro pay Mr P £300 in recognition of the 
distress and inconvenience that was caused to him. He has detailed the impact this scam 
has had on him and, although most of that distress undoubtedly resulted from the criminal 
acts of the fraudsters, I think Metro could have done more to protect him. I consider it fair 
and reasonable that Metro should pay an additional £300 compensation in respect of that 
additional distress and inconvenience.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. Metro Bank PLC now needs to:
Refund the £25,000 to Mr Ps account. 
Add 8% simple interest per annum from the date the payment left his account until 
the date it pays him the settlement.
Pay him £300 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused to him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman