DRN-3726167
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Harvey & Thompson Limited (H&T) unfairly sold jewellery she had 
pawned in return for a loan.
What happened
Between 2014 and 2018 Mrs M pawned items of jewellery at H&T in return for various fixed 
sum loans which each ran for six months. Under the terms and conditions of the loans, Mrs 
M could either repay the loan early (and receive a rebate of interest) or repay the total 
amount at the end of the six months and collect the items. If the property was not redeemed 
at the end of the loans term, then it may be sold at auction to fully repay the credit amount. If 
the item sells for more than the loan amount, then any surplus obtained is repaid to the 
customer but if it sells for less, then the loan amount and interest is removed, and the credit 
agreement settled.
In October, November and December 2016 Mrs M pawned items of jewellery and entered in 
to three fixed sum loans. Each loan was for a six-month period. Mrs M says that 
unfortunately she was unwell and hospitalised and so unable to redeem the items. She says 
she contacted H&T and asked for extensions but was unfairly refused. The items were 
forfeited and sold at auction. 
Mrs M also says that H&T had undervalued the items and believes it would have unduly 
profited by their sale as the price of gold was high at that time. She says she has now lost 
items which were of great sentimental value to her.
H&T says that it kept the items for four months after the six-month loan terms ended and that 
it attempted to contacted Mrs M by both letter and phone but received no response from her. 
H&T says that the items were sold at auction but there was no surplus due to Mrs M from the 
sales prices that were reached.
Mrs M complained to H&T that it had irresponsibly agreed the loans to her as it hadnt 
ensured the credit agreements were affordable for her. H&T didnt uphold Mrs Ms as it said 
this credit agreement was a specialised secured loan and affordability wasnt part of the 
decision process unlike an unsecured loan.
Mrs M was unhappy at H&Ts handling of the loans that had resulted in items of her jewellery 
being sold when she had been experiencing financial difficulties. She said H&T should have 
treated her sympathetically when she wasnt able to make the payments. Mrs M said it would 
be fair for H&T to reimburse her the interest she had paid.
Our investigator didnt recommend Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. She said that H&T 
had operated the loans in line with the terms and conditions which were set out in each of 
the agreements and therefore didnt think H&T had acted unfairly.
Mrs M disagreed with the view of our investigator. She said although she was aware of the 
terms and conditions, she had been a loyal customer and H&T should have shown her more 
compassion in the circumstances. Mrs M also said she thought H&T had unfairly profited 
from her by undervaluing the items and selling them when the price of gold had been high.
As the parties were unable to agree the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry Mrs M has had a difficult time and that pieces of jewellery that held great 
sentimental value to her were sold when she wasnt able to keep to the terms of the fixed 
sum loans secured against them.
Mrs M says that H&T should have been aware she would struggle with the fixed sum loans it 
had provided to her and that it should have treated her with more sympathy and compassion 
when she found herself in very difficult financial circumstances.
In respect of checks for affordability by H&T, I cant reasonably say that it was obliged to 
make these before deciding whether a credit agreement was sustainably affordable by Mrs 
M. This is because when borrowing via a pawnbroker, the loan is secured against an item 
and if the loan cant be repaid then the item is used to clear that debt. Because of this there 
is no requirement to check affordability as part of the decision process.
While I accept the interest rate for these loans was very high, both the rate applied and the 
actual amount of credit that was to be paid is clearly set out in the agreement.  And Mrs M 
also says she was aware of the terms and conditions she was entering into, so Im satisfied 
she knew how much she would be paying in respect of each of these loans. Im also 
satisfied that Mrs M understood that if the loan wasnt repaid by the end of the term then the 
jewellery would pass to H&T who would then sell it to cover the credit borrowed and the 
interest that had been applied to that amount.
Im aware Mrs M strongly feels that the value placed on the jewellery by H&T was 
significantly lower than its true value. But I havent seen any evidence as to how much the 
jewellery was worth and I think it would be reasonable to assume H&T wouldnt apply retail 
prices when entering into this type of credit agreement. I think its also reasonable to say that 
by signing the agreement Mrs M had accepted the amount lent against each of the pieces of 
her jewellery. 
Mrs M says that as a valued customer, H&T should have shown more sympathy and 
understanding about her financial difficulties. She says she explained she had been 
hospitalised so couldnt pay the loan but was declined an extension in which to repay the 
amount and redeem the jewellery. While I appreciate the change in Mrs Ms financial 
circumstances was unexpected and she was very distressed to lose her items, I dont think 
H&T acted unfairly in forfeiting it and selling it at an auction. H&T was entitled under the 
credit agreements to sell the jewellery and clear the various fixed sum loans secured against 
those items.
Ive seen that H&T did not immediately send the jewellery for sale but held the items for an 
additional four months before passing on for auction. It had also attempted to make contact 
with Mrs M using the contact details it had for her. I havent seen that Mrs M doesnt appear 
to have responded to the voicemail messages or correspondence that was sent to her. 
So, I although Im sorry Mrs M was unwell and has been upset at losing items that had held 
a sentimental as well as financial value for her, I cant say that H&T has acted unfairly. It 
delayed selling the jewellery for four months despite the agreements terms and conditions and tried to make contact with her over the fixed sum loans terms having come to an end. I 
think H&T was entitled to take the action that it did and Im not upholding Mrs Ms complaint. 
My final decision
While I appreciate my decision will be of disappointment to Mrs M, Im not upholding her 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman