DRN-3937040
The complaint
Mr C and Miss F complain about how AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited handled 
and settled a claim they made under their home insurance policy for storm damage.
What happened
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 3 January 2023  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained why I was minded to partially uphold Mr C and Miss 
Fs complaint. I said:
What happened
Mr C and Miss F hold a household insurance policy, which is underwritten by the AA. They 
say, between 26 and 27 November 2021, storm conditions caused damage to a rear 
boundary brick wall, a roller shutter door acting as a secure gate entrance and an aluminium 
shed.
Mr C and Miss F contacted the AA on 27 November 2021 on becoming aware of the 
damage their property had sustained. They said the damage had been caused by a recent 
storm and they wanted to make a claim under their policy for storm damage.
The AA set up a claim on behalf of Mr C and Miss F and asked them to provide photographs 
of the damage together with any quotes showing the cost of repair. On 29 November 2021, 
the AA appointed a surveyor to attend Mr C and Miss Fs property and provide an opinion on 
the cause of damage. Ill refer to this agent as S.
S visited Mr C and Miss Fs property on 22 December 2021 after making contact with them 
two days previously. Prior to this date, Mr C and Miss F said theyd contacted the AA on 
several occasions to ask it to chase S as their property has been left unsecured and 
exposed by the damage. They said this caused delay in how their claim was progressed. 
And they said, during the time their garden was unsecured, theyd suffered a burglary, other 
thefts had been attempted and their dogs had also kept escaping, which caused significant 
distress and upset.
After S inspected Mr C and Miss Fs property it submitted a report to the AA together with 
photographs it had taken. This was reviewed by an in-house surveyor who thought the 
damage to the wall was due to the age and condition of the boundary brick wall. They also 
thought the roller shutter door had sustained damage because it hadnt been used 
appropriately. And they said the aluminium shed been damaged by falling bricks from the 
boundary brick wall.
The AA declined Mr C and Miss Fs claim. It said the cause of the damage was excluded by 
their policy. Mr C and Miss F werent happy with how the AA proposed to resolve their claim. 
So, they complained that the AA wouldnt meet their claim and said theyd experienced poor 
service in how their claim had been progressed.
When the AA investigated Mr C and Miss Fs concerns it maintained its stance that the
damage wasnt caused by a one-off storm event as was required by their policy. It therefore
didnt uphold their complaint about the way it had settled their claim. However, it accepted 
that Mr C and Miss F had experienced poor service in relation to the delays in S attending 
their property. It paid them £75 for the trouble and upset it thought this had caused.
Being dissatisfied with how the AA had dealt with their complaint Mr C and Miss F
referred it to our service. Our investigator looked into what had happened and
recommended upholding this complaint. 
Our investigator was satisfied thered been a storm at around the time of damage, noting this 
wasnt a disputed issue, and thought the AA hadnt acted fairly in declining the claim. They 
werent persuaded the AA had provided enough information to our service to show that the 
storm wasnt the main cause of the damage. They recommended that the AA settle the claim 
in Mr C and Miss Fs favour and pay an additional £75 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience theyd experienced. 
Mr C and Miss F agreed with our investigators view of their complaint, but the AA didnt and 
asked for their complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our service assesses complaints independently within a fair and reasonable remit  we dont 
act for either a consumer or a business. And I want to assure Mr C and Miss F and the AA 
that, in considering this complaint, I thought very carefully about what happened here.  
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Id like to thank Mr C, Miss F and the 
AA for the level of detail contained within their submissions. Ive read and considered all the 
information provided and if I havent specifically referred to a point that Mr C, Miss F or the 
AA have made it isnt because I havent considered it. My decision will focus on what I think 
are the key issues namely whether the AA acted reasonably in handling and determining 
this claim.
Our investigator recommended upholding this complaint because they werent persuaded
there was cogent evidence to support the AAs repudiation decision. But I disagree with that 
for the reasons Ill set out below. 
Here, theres no dispute that damage occurred to Mr C and Miss F rear boundary brick wall, 
up and over roller shutter door and their aluminium shed. However, theres disagreement 
between them, the AA and its appointed agents about the cause of the damage and the 
correct outcome of this claim.
I can see that Mr C and Miss F have already incurred a cost of £4987 (including VAT) for 
repairs to their property for the damage they say was caused by a storm. Theyd like the AA 
to reimburse them this cost as they believe the damage should have been covered under 
their policy of insurance. 
Mr C and Miss Fs policy with the AA provides cover for damage caused by a range of perils 
that might happen. These are specific one-off events and include storm, for example. But, for a claim to be successful, the onus rests on Mr C and Miss F to show that the damage theyre 
claiming for was caused by one of the perils listed in their policy.
There are three conditions that need to be met before this service would say a claim for 
storm damage should succeed. Those are:
1. Is there evidence that there was a storm around the date of the damage?
2. Is the damage consistent with what we would normally consider storm damage?
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
I have re-assessed Mr C and Miss Fs complaint and all the evidence with these three 
questions in mind. The answer to all three questions needs to be yes for this service to be 
able to recommend that a storm complaint is upheld.
In weighing up the first question, I can see that Mr C and Miss Fs policy doesnt define the 
word storm. This isnt unusual. This service takes the view that a storm generally involves 
violent winds, usually accompanied by rain, hail or snow. 
Here, I dont need to consider whether the weather recorded at around the time the damage 
occurred meets our criteria because, as our investigator correctly identified, the AA doesnt 
dispute there were storm conditions in Mr C and Miss Fs locality between 26 and 27 
November 2021. So, Im persuaded that I can answer question one affirmatively.
Turning to question two, Ive thought about whether the damage claimed is consistent with
damage a storm typically causes. Like our investigator, Im satisfied that damage to a
boundary brick wall, roller shutter and aluminium shed is something that could be expected 
following a storm. So, Im able to answer this question affirmatively.
Ill turn now to the issue of whether I think the storm was the main cause of the damage in
this instance.
As I set out in the background to this complaint, the AA instructed S to visit Mr C and Miss 
Fs property to assist it in determining the cause of damage. I can see that Mr C and Miss F 
are unhappy with this decision, but S is a recognised organisation that regularly assesses 
property damage on behalf of insurers. So, it isnt unreasonable for the AA to use S 
assistance in assessing a claim for damage following a storm.
Ss report is not as detailed as those our service sees from other surveyors that inspect 
storm damage. While it includes photographs, S hasnt offered a clear opinion on the cause 
of damage. This is something our service would expect to see from a surveyor.
I understand that the AA asked an in-house surveyor to review S report and confirm the 
cause of damage. This surveyor thought the damage to the wall was due to its age and 
condition. They said there was evidence of wear and tear from the photographs taken and 
thought the roller shutter had been damaged as it hadnt been used or secured 
appropriately. They believed the shed had been damaged by falling brickwork from the 
boundary wall.
Its clear that Mr C and Miss F disagree with this opinion. However, having seen the 
photographs provided to our service, I think the AAs in-house surveyors cause of damage 
opinion is persuasive. Ill explain why.
Im satisfied S assessor undertook an appropriate and adequate inspection of Mr C and 
Miss Fs property during its visit. Im persuaded it provided sufficient information to the AA for 
it to determine the cause of damage. And, impartially, I think the photographs show the rear 
boundary wall is in a poor condition and hasnt been properly maintained. The images support the view that theres age-related deterioration, which will have caused the condition 
of the wall to decline. This is something that happens gradually because walls are built to 
withstand adverse weather.
As Mr C and Miss F havent submit a report from another surveyor confirming the cause of 
damage, I havent seen any evidence that negates or discredits the opinion of the in-house 
surveyor on the cause of damage. 
As Im persuaded that the damage, most likely, occurred due to the pre-existing condition of
the rear boundary wall I cant fairly conclude that the storm was the dominant cause of 
damage. This means that damage wasnt caused by a one-off storm event as required by Mr 
C and Miss Fs policy. I think its most likely that the adverse weather they experienced in 
November 2021 highlighted the pre-existing condition of their wall and caused it to worsen.
Based on the photographs Ive seen, its clear that, prior to the storm, the roller shutter had 
been used as a gate to secure Mr C and Miss Fs rear garden. They say the shutter was 
installed by the previous owners prior to them purchasing their property in 2011 and has 
withstood adverse weather conditions for many years. They also state that the use of a roller 
shutter to secure a rear garden is extremely common within their local area.
The AA has argued that the roller shutter was designed for garage installation and, as such, 
manufactured for use in a garage type structure with walls and a roof. It believes that using 
the roller shutter as a gate structure was not its intended purpose and that, in doing so, the 
shutter had minimal support and was more exposed to the elements than it was designed to 
have. 
Having weighed up both arguments, I accept what the AA say about the shutter and am 
persuaded that, in not using the roller shutter in the way it was intended, its been exposed to 
strong winds over the years on both sides. This wouldnt have happened had the shutter 
been used as a door in a garage type structure as was intended. I dont think the shutter 
door would have blown out had it been used as a door rather than a gate. I think its use has 
compromised its structural integrity and caused it to destabilise, which offers a plausible 
explanation as to why it failed when it did. 
Mr C and Miss Fs policy booklet makes it clear that loss or damage caused by deterioration, 
wear and tear or damage thats happened gradually is specifically excluded under the
policy. These exclusions here are in common with most home insurance policies because
insurance is intended to cover the unforeseen. And something wearing out or requiring
maintenance isnt unforeseen.
I can see from Mr C and Miss Fs policy that they purchased accidental cover to their 
buildings. Accidental damage is defined as unexpected and unintended damage caused by 
sudden and external means.
Here the damage to the shed was caused by falling brickwork from the boundary wall. Im 
therefore going to ask the AA to consider whether a claim for accidental damage should be 
settled in Mr C and Miss Fs favour. 
Im satisfied that the AA has shown that the damage that occurred to the boundary wall and 
roller shutter isnt covered under the terms and conditions of Mr C and Miss Fs insurance 
policy. It follows that I dont think its decision about a claim for these items was unfair and 
unreasonable. And this means Im not intending to ask it to approve that part of the claim.Finally, Mr C and Miss F told our service they experienced poor service and delay in S 
attending their property. This has been conceded already by the AA  its already paid them 
£75 for the trouble and upset this would have caused. 
Our investigator recommended increasing that award to £150 and I agree with that. I say this 
because it took three weeks for S to contact Mr C and Miss F following its instruction by the 
AA. Ive seen evidence showing that Mr C and Miss F made several requests to the AA that 
it chase matters with S. They couldnt have done anything more to try and expedite S visit to 
their property.
Im persuaded that, had S contacted Mr C and Miss F sooner, it would have, most likely, 
undertaken its inspection and site visit sooner. In turn, this would have meant it could have 
presented its report to the AA earlier, which would have resulted in a quicker repudiation 
decision being taken. 
Bearing in mind what Mr C and Miss F have said about their experience, Im persuaded that 
if an earlier decision had been made to repudiate this claim theyd have undertaken the 
repairs sooner. This would have meant their rear garden was left exposed and unsecured for 
a shorter period. As Mr C and Miss F experienced a burglary, attempted thefts and had to 
deal with their dogs escaping from the garden while it was unsecured, a faster repair would 
have minimised this experience. I recognise the distress and upset that delay, and its 
resulting consequences, is bound to have caused and I dont think the £75 compensation 
paid by the AA appropriately recognises this.
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied and additional £75, as 
recommended by our investigator, is a reasonable amount that fairly recognises the impact 
the service issues with S had on Mr C and Miss F. Its consistent with our approach in similar 
scenarios and I havent seen enough evidence to persuade me that a higher award is 
warranted here.
For the reasons set out above, my provisional decision is that I am minded to uphold this
complaint in part  based only on the service issues Mr C and Miss F experienced. And Im
intending to direct the AA to pay them an additional £75 to recognise the trouble and upset 
they were caused.
In my provisional decision, I invited both parties to send any additional evidence or 
comments they wished to make before I draft my final decision, which is our services last 
word on this complaint. 
Mr C and Miss F disputed my view that S had undertaken an appropriate and adequate 
inspection of the damage to their property. They said the AAs decision about their claim was 
based on incomplete information and an assumption that the wall wasnt in a good state of 
repair. 
Mr C and Miss F also stated they werent aware they could submit an independent surveyor 
report in support of their claim. And they thought it was unfair for me to place weight on S 
report and the cause of damage opinion from the AAs in-house surveyor who considered 
the information S had provided.
Mr C and Miss F argued their wall wouldnt have suffered damage had there not been a 
storm on the night of 26 November 2021. They provided examples of media coverage and a 
picture showing an example of the destruction caused within their locality by the storm. And 
they said their shed hadnt suffered damage due to falling brickwork from the boundary wall 
as this has fallen outwards into the alley. Instead, they said the damage to the shed was caused by the storm blowing off the doors and the roof in part, which had rendered the 
structure unsafe, unstable and unusable as a result.
When the AA responded, it stated that Mr C and Miss F had never claimed for the damage 
to their shed as part of the claim theyd reported on 27 November 2021. It also explained 
that if Mr C and Miss F wanted to pursue a claim for damage to their shed a new claim would 
need to be initiated. 
The AA said, in the event that Mr C and Miss F claimed for the damage to their shed, it 
wouldnt be minded to agree that damage was caused by the storm based on the information 
available. It went on to state that a replacement aluminium shed would likely cost less that 
the policy excess and that the shed wouldnt be covered under a buildings policy unless it 
was bolted to the floor.
In relation to the compensation I provisionally directed the AA pay Mr C and Miss F, it stated 
that the home insurance industry had been severely impacted by the storm season during 
which there were considerable delays in surveyors attending properties. It said this was 
beyond its control and had impacted on all building insurers within the UK.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful to both Mr C, Miss F and the AA for their detailed representations about my 
provisional decision. Having considered the comments received and the evidence that is 
available to our service Im satisfied that this final decision is fair to all parties  as it should 
be.
I mentioned that Mr C and Miss F provided our service with a picture and examples of media 
reports recording the damage caused within their locality by the storm in November 2021. Id 
like to thank Mr C and Miss F for taking the trouble to send this information to me. However, 
Id already explained in my provisional decision the reasons why I was satisfied a storm had 
occurred on the date in question. As I mentioned, this hasnt been disputed by the AA.
Mr C and Miss F disputed my view that S had undertaken an appropriate and adequate 
inspection of the damage to their property and thought the AAs decision about their claim 
was based on incomplete information and an assumption that the wall wasnt in a good state 
of repair. Im afraid I dont agree with them because, while I accept that S ought to have 
provided an opinion on the cause of damage, an in-house surveyor assessed the damage 
based on the information that S had provided the AA and offered an opinion on the cause of 
damage. 
The AAs in-house surveyor considered the photographs provided. As I explained in my 
provisional decision, these images support the in-house surveyors opinion that the wall is in 
a poor condition and hasnt been properly maintained with evidence of age-related 
deterioration. 
Its a reasonable and fair conclusion that improper maintenance and wear and tear will have 
caused the condition of the wall to decline over time. This isnt related to a storm. I remain 
persuaded that the AAs in-house surveyor was able to undertake a full and proper 
assessment of damage based on the photographs and information S had provided following 
its inspection of Mr C and Miss Fs property.I acknowledge Mr C and Miss Fs comments that they werent aware they could submit an 
independent surveyor report in support of their claim. But the onus is on a policyholder to 
show that the damage theyre claiming for was caused by a peril listed in their policy. So, 
where an insurer declines to settle a claim under a peril, such as storm here, a policyholder 
is entitled to provide an independent report showing why the claim should be covered. 
As Mr C and Miss F didnt commission an independent surveyor to assess the cause of 
damage or provide a report to the AA or our service, I must assess this claim based on the 
available evidence  as the AA did. Having done so, I think its reasonable to place weight 
on the cause of damage opinion from the AAs in-house surveyor and the contents of S 
report.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr C and Miss F but, based on the available evidence, I remain 
persuaded that the storm wasnt the dominant cause of the damage their property suffered 
for the reasons outlined in my provisional decision. So, I wont be directing the AA to settle 
their claim for damage to their rear boundary wall or roller shutter.
Im satisfied that the AA has thought about whether it could consider a claim for damage to 
Mr C and Miss Fs shed as part of this complaint. But, as the damage to the shed didnt form 
part of the claim Mr C and Miss F reported in November 2021, the AA has said theyd need 
to approach it separately if they wanted to pursue a claim for their shed. Its also helpfully 
indicated how it would approach and assess a claim for damage to the shed if Mr C and 
Miss F were to make one. Im persuaded that the AA has assisted with this matter as I asked 
it to.
The AA provided context regarding the delay Mr C and Miss F experienced in S contacting 
them and arranging to visit their home to inspect the damage caused by the storm. I 
acknowledge the AAs contention that there were delays impacting on all insurers as a result 
of the storm at the time this claim was reported. However, given the severity of Mr C and 
Miss Fs experience during that delay, as outlined in my provisional decision, I remain 
persuaded that the additional compensation that I provisionally directed is fair and 
reasonable. Im therefore satisfied that the AA should pay Mr C and Miss F £150 
compensation overall.
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint, the AA should pay Mr C and Miss F an additional £75 
compensation to recognise the distress and inconvenience they experienced because of 
delay, taking the total award to £150.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. To resolve this complaint the AA 
Underwriting Insurance Company Limited should pay Mr C and Miss F £150 for the distress 
and inconvenience they experienced (inclusive of the previous offer).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Miss F to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman