DRN-3194916
The complaint
Miss S (through a representative) has complained that S.D. Taylor Limited trading as Loans 
at Home (LAH) didnt carry out proper affordability checks before it provided her with lending. 
What happened
Miss S took 9 loans from LAH between September 2013 and December 2015. A summary of 
her borrowing, based on the information provided to us from LAH can be found below:
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly repayment
1 £400.00 25/09/2013 26/02/2014 32 £20.00
2 £375.00 20/11/2013 04/06/2014 41 £15.00
3 £500.00 26/02/2014 05/11/2014 41 £20.00
4 £500.00 04/06/2014 24/12/2014 41 £20.00
5 £500.00 05/11/2014 29/05/2015 41 £20.00
6 £500.00 24/12/2014 29/07/2015 41 £20.00
7 £625.00 20/05/2015 16/12/2015 41 £25.00
8 £625.00 29/07/2015 outstanding 41 £25.00
9 £625.00 16/12/2015 outstanding 42 £25.00
The cost per week column is the individual cost per loan per week. Where loans overlapped 
the cost per week will be greater. 
LAH has told us that Ms W had some problems repaying her final two loans and in the final 
response letter (FRL) LAH told Miss S that outstanding balances remained. 
But in response to the adjudicators assessment LAH said these loans have been written off. 
It isnt clear whether the loans have been written off or remain outstanding, but this is dealt 
with in the redress at the end of the decision. 
Following Miss Ss complaint, LAH issued its FRL on 11 February 2021. It explained that she 
had made her complaint too late about loans 1  4, so it didnt investigate Miss Ss complaint 
further about these loans.  
However, LAH did investigate Miss Ss complaint about loans 5  9. It concluded, based on 
the application data which Miss S provided that it hadnt done anything wrong because 
Miss S had sufficient disposable income to afford her loan repayments. 
 
One of our adjudicators looked at Miss Ss complaint. The assessment was split into two 
parts. 
In the first part, the adjudicator concluded that, this Service could investigate loans 1  4 
because he couldnt see a reason to suggest that the loans had been complained about too 
late. Therefore, these loans were referred to this Service within time and we could consider 
all loans advanced to Miss S. 
 
In the second part, the adjudicator considered whether LAH had made an error when 
providing these loans. He hadnt seen enough to uphold loans 1 - 3. But the adjudicator did 
uphold loan 4 as he felt, Miss S had problems repaying her loans and she had a number of 
outstanding high cost loans at the time. And from loan 6, he concluded that the pattern of 
lending had become harmful to Miss S. So, overall, LAH shouldnt have approved loans 4  
9 for Miss S. 
Neither Miss S nor her representative have responded to the adjudicators findings. 
LAH didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. In its response to the adjudicator LAH 
didnt focus on whether it was wrong to have provided some of the loans, instead it focused 
on whether this Service had the jurisdiction to consider loans 1  4. In summary it said:
It disagreed with the approach this Service had taken with this case.
The approach is at odds with other, more recent complaints recieved by LAHs parent 
company. In these cases LAH agued the service had concluded that repayment 
problems ought to have made the consumer aware they could  raise a complaint 
(and so start the three year element of the time rule.) LAH provided examples of 
cases where this approach had been taken. 
In this case, LAH told this Service Miss S received arrears letters in 2016 as well as 
default letters toward the end of 2016. LAHs says, all of this contact was more than 
three years before Miss S raised her complaint. And so, in line with the example 
cases that LAH has provided, shows this case is outside of this Services jurisdiction. 
The adjudicator has disregarded LAHs points about jurisdiction and the regulations 
this Service must follow. 
No evidence has been provided as to why this case is in this Services jurisdiction 
and as such, LAH hasnt given this Service approval to consider these loans.  
The adjudicator went back to LAH and explained why its comments didnt change his mind. 
He also explained LAH hadnt provided copies of the arrears or default letters, so he couldnt 
say what information had been provided to Miss S. But he didnt think, based on what he 
had, that making someone aware of arrears, is enough for Miss S to be aware or ought to 
have been aware that LAH may have done something wrong. 
 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
Why I can look into this complaint
Its worth saying, that there is no dispute around the time limits for loans 5  9 because 
Miss S made her complaint within six years of the date of the event  in this case the date 
the loan was advanced. 
But, LAH has said loans 1  4 cant be considered, because its more than three years since 
Miss S was or ought to have been aware she had cause for complaint. It is also more than 
six years since the event complained about took place. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments provided by Miss S and LAH to 
decide whether we are able to look at loans 1 - 4. Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator  that I have the power to consider loans 1  4. Ill explain why. 
The rules I must apply say that, where a business doesnt agree, I cant look at a complaint 
made more than six years after whats been complained about. Or if later, more than three 
years after the complainant in this case, Miss S knew, or ought to really have known they had reason to complain. This is set out in Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R and can be found 
online in the FCAs Handbook. 
Its clear loans 1 to 4 were complained about more than six years after they were taken. 
However, Ive not seen anything to persuade me Miss S was aware or ought to have been 
reasonably aware more than three years before she raised this complaint, that she had 
reason to complain. 
LAH has said that when Miss S experienced repayment problems and received arrears 
letters in 2016. LAH says, these shouldve caused her to realise, she had reason to 
complain. But I dont think this is enough in this particular case to demonstrate that.
I say this because whilst experiencing repayment problems and therefore struggling to repay 
the lending would no doubt have led Miss S to realise there was a problem (in terms of her 
financial difficulty), Im not persuaded this would have (or ought to have), in itself, made her  
aware that these problems were caused by LAH doing something wrong when it agreed the 
loans.
And I havent seen anything else to persuade me that Miss S was or ought to have become 
aware earlier of cause to complain more than three years before they complained. 
So, like our adjudicator, I think loans 1 to 4 were raised within the time limits I need to apply 
and that I do have the power to consider these loans Miss S was given. Ill now go on and 
consider whether or not I think all the loans complained about were lent responsibly. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the time the loan was provided.
LAH needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss S could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that LAH should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss S. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become or was becoming
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.I think that it is important for me to say that LAH was required to establish whether Miss S 
could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all mean for Miss Ss complaint.
Loans 1 to 3
The adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Ss complaint about these loans. Neither Miss S (nor her 
representatives) didnt disagree with the adjudicators findings, so I no longer think these 
loans are in dispute. And having looked at these loans, like the adjudicator, Ive also not 
seen enough to make me think LAH did something wrong when these loans were granted. 
But I have kept in mind these loans when thinking about Miss S overall lending relationship 
with LAH.  
Loans 4 and 5
When both these loans were approved, LAH recorded an income of £600 per week with 
declared outgoings of £105 per week. Broken down as £50 rent and £55 for other credit 
payments such as hire purchase and loans. 
So, LAH may have thought, given this information, that Miss S could afford these loans. But, 
I dont think these loans ought to have been granted, for similar reasons given by the 
adjudicator. 
At the time these loans were approved, LAHs checks really needed to go further than just 
relying on what Miss S was telling it. I think by this point, a proportionate check, wouldve 
likely extended to checking the information Miss S was providing. LAH couldve done this by 
checking wage slips, checking her credit file in full or asking to see her bank statements. 
Miss Ss representative have provided this Service with a copy of her credit file, so I dont 
think its unreasonable to look at this, in order to gain a better understanding of Miss Ss 
financial situation. 
By loan 4, proportionate checks would most likely have shown LAH that Miss S was having 
problems managing her money. I think LAH wouldve likely become aware that Miss S 
already had an outstanding loan with LAH. On top of this, Miss S had an outstanding payday 
loan with commitments of £106 per month as well as two other loans by another home credit 
provider, where she was committing to pay the other provider £167 per week. So, in total, 
after loan 4 was advanced, she had 5 active high cost credit loans, which were outstanding. 
In these circumstances, I think LAH ought to have realised it was unlikely Miss S wouldve 
been able to sustainably repay this loan. 
A similar situation arose when loan 5 was granted, so for the same reasons as loan 4, I dont 
think the loan shouldve been advanced either. 
Im therefore upholding Miss Ss complaint about loans 4 and 5. Loans 6 - 9
I havent looked in any detail about whether the checks for loans 6 - 9 were proportionate 
and Ill explain why below. 
It looks like, based on what I understand LAH to have taken at the time each loan was lent it 
asked about Miss Ss income and her outgoings.  It also looks like a credit check may have 
been carried out as well, but LAH doesnt have the data it received from the credit reference 
agencies. 
But, given the time that Miss S had been indebted to LAH as well as the fact she was quickly 
returning for larger loans, Im minded to conclude that by this point LAH ought to have been 
verifying the information Miss S had provided. 
In addition to assessing the circumstances behind each individual loan provided to 
Miss S, LAH also needed to consider the overall pattern of lending and what unfolded during 
the course of its lending relationship with Miss S.
Having looked at the overall pattern of LAHs lending history with Miss S, LAH should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful, at the 
time it provided loan 6. I say this because:
By loan 6 it was just over 15 months into the lending relationship and Miss S had 
been indebted to LAH for the entire time without any gaps. And, by this point Miss S 
had two loans overlapping. In my view, Miss Ss loan history up until this point was a 
clear indication that her underlying financial situation didnt seem to be improving. 
Miss Ss first loan was for £400 with loan 6 being for £500. In total Miss S had 
borrowed £2,000 from LAH in 2014. So, there were no signs that her indebtedness 
was decreasing at this point. 
Miss S, up to this point, had on several occasions taken a new loan and repaid the 
previous loan on the same day (loans 3  5). LAH ought to have realised it was more 
likely than not Miss S, on these occasions, was having to borrow further to effectively 
cover a long-term financial need. To me, this is an indication of her indebtedness not 
being sustainable.
From loan 6 onwards Miss Ss pattern of taking new loans shortly after a previous 
loan had been repaid continued.  
By the point of loan 9, Miss S was making a commitment to make repayments to LAH 
for almost another year, after already being indebted for the last 23 months. Loan 9 
was also her joint largest loan to date.  The amount of time that Miss S spent 
indebted to LAH meant that she was in effect servicing a debt to LAH over an 
extended period of time.
The above further reinforces my view these loans were unsustainable, because 
Miss S went on to have significant repayment problems. Miss S hasnt yet (based on 
the FRL) been able to fully repay loans 8 and 9 nearly seven years after they were 
granted. 
I think that Miss S lost out when LAH provided loans 6 - 9 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Ss indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit over an extended period and;
the number of loans and time in debt was likely to have had negative implications on 
Miss Ss ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these 
high-cost loans.So, overall, Im also intending to uphold the complaint about loans 4 - 9. Ill go on to set out 
what LAH should do to put things right.
  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress LAH should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what
might have happened had it not provided lending from loan 4, as Im satisfied it ought to
have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Miss S may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Miss S in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Miss S would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce LAHs liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
LAH shouldnt have given Miss S loans 4 - 9.
If you LAH has sold the outstanding debts, it should buy these back if it is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If LAH are not able to buy the debts back then it should liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A. LAH should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss S towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything LAH have already refunded.
B. LAH should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Miss S 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss S originally made 
the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. LAH should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans (8 and 9), and treat any repayments made by Miss S as though 
they had been repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in 
Miss S having made overpayments then LAH should refund these overpayments with 
8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. LAH should then refund the 
amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B can 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans or to off set any 
princpal that may have been written off. If this results in a surplus then the surplus 
should be paid to Miss S. However, if there is still an outstanding balance then LAH 
should try and come to a mutally agreeable an affordable repayment plan with Miss S. LAH shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal it has 
already written-off.
E. LAH should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ss credit file in 
relation to loans 4 and 5. The overall pattern of Miss Ss borrowing for loans 6 - 9 
means any information recorded about them is adverse, so LAH should remove 
these loans entirely from Miss Ss credit file. LAH doesnt have to remove loans 8 
and 9 from Miss Ss credit file until these have been repaid, but it should still remove 
any adverse information recorded about these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LAH to take off tax from this interest. LAH must give 
Miss S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Miss Ss complaint in part.
 
S.D. Taylor Limited should put things right for Miss S as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 February 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman