DRN-1440713
 
The complaint
Mr W complains about Admiral Insurance Company Limited cancelling his car insurance 
policy.
Mr W has been helped by a friend in raising this complaint to Admiral and referring it to our 
service. But, for ease of reading, Ill only refer to Mr W.
What happened
In March 2019 Mr W applied for a car insurance policy online with Admiral. The period of 
cover commenced on 14 March 2019.
Admiral wrote to Mr W on 2 and 10 April 2019 asking for him to provide various documents 
to validate his policy. The latter letter explained that if Admiral didnt receive the documents 
within seven days then the policy would be cancelled.
Mr W sent Admiral the documents they requested but one of them was missed by the agent 
who checked them. And so, not realising they had what theyd asked for, Admiral cancelled 
Mr Ws policy.
Admiral explained this to Mr W in a call on 26 April 2019. Mr W was also asked a series of 
questions about the policy as part of Admirals validation process for it to be reinstated. 
Admiral found there to be multiple discrepancies between the answers Mr W provided and 
the information hed previously entered online. And that he also received third party 
assistance when he set the policy up. Because of this, they told Mr W the policy would 
remain cancelled.
Mr W complained to Admiral that his policy was cancelled and about being given conflicting 
information about why this happened.
Admiral apologised for their agent missing the document Mr W sent them. And they removed 
the £49.50 cancellation fee for giving him conflicting information about this being the reason 
the policy was cancelled. But their position didnt change in respect of the inconsistencies 
they found between the information Mr W entered online and what he provided in response 
to the validation questions. 
Admiral said while these inconsistencies may not have been purposeful, this is why third 
parties shouldnt be used to set up a policy online. And that it was Mr Ws responsibility to 
ensure the correct information was entered. They also added that they have trained agents 
available to help set up policies if a customer doesnt have access to a computer. So, while 
the document he sent was missed, they wouldnt reinstate the policy due to the 
discrepancies on the policy and the help Mr W received from a third party to set it up.
The complaint was referred to our service. One of our investigators looked in to it and 
thought Admiral hadnt acted fairly by recording a cancellation against Mr W. He said while 
there had been a misrepresentation in this case, Admiral had shown that if the correct information had been provided then they wouldve still offered cover to Mr W, albeit at a 
higher premium. He explained in these circumstances wed expect the insurer to give the 
policyholder the option to cancel the cover themselves. But Mr W didnt get this option as 
Admiral had already cancelled the policy, in error, prior to looking into the inconsistencies. 
So he recommended Admiral remove any record of the cancellation and that they pay Mr W 
£200 for the distress and inconvenience this had caused him.
Admiral didnt agree and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken the Consumer Insurance (Disclosures and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) 
in to consideration when deciding this complaint. Under CIDRA, Mr W had a duty to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he bought the policy. But for there to 
be a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA, Admiral has to show that they asked clear 
questions to which Mr W gave inaccurate answers. They must also show that if hed given 
the correct answers, they wouldve acted differently  by not offering the policy to Mr W at 
all, or by doing so on different terms.
There are several questions that Admiral say Mr W answered incorrectly. One of which was, 
do you have any children under 16 years old? To which Mr W answered No when setting 
up the policy. Im satisfied the question asked was clear. So, while I understand Mr W has 
said that the children dont live with him, hes confirmed that he does have children under the 
age of 16 years old. And so, as he answered the question incorrectly, Im satisfied there was 
a misrepresentation here.
Admiral has provided us with the underwriting criteria to show that, had Mr W correctly 
informed them about his children under 16 years of age, they wouldve offered cover but at a 
higher premium. It therefore follows that, in line with CIDRA, I think there was a qualifying 
misrepresentation here. 
The other questions Admiral alleges Mr W answered incorrectly wouldve likewise also 
resulted in a higher premium being charged according to their underwriting criteria. As Im 
already satisfied there was a misrepresentation, I see no benefit to addressing each 
question individually. But rather, Ive considered what ought to have happened following this 
misrepresentation taking place.
Under CIDRA there are different classifications of misrepresentation  deliberate, reckless or 
careless  and these provide different remedies. Mr W has explained that he answered no 
to the question about having children under 16 as they dont live with him. There were also 
only minor discrepancies in the other questions that Admiral say Mr W answered incorrectly. 
And so, given Mr W was relatively unfamiliar with the process of taking out insurance online 
and needed assistance doing so, Im not persuaded that the incorrect information he 
provided was deliberate or reckless. Instead, Im minded to think it was careless.
Ive considered Admirals argument that the policy was set up by a third-party broker and 
that they dont allow or authorise brokers to sell policies on their behalf. They say had they 
known this they wouldnt have offered cover in this instance. Ive carefully considered this 
but from what Ive seen, and on balance, Im not convinced thats what happened here. Ill 
explain why.Its clear to me that there were inconsistencies in the information Mr W provided to Admiral 
between setting up the policy online and the policy validation process. But I believe Mr Ws 
confusion and misunderstanding for the purpose of the question(s) was genuine. And so, I 
think its more likely that the third-party helped him to set up the policy, rather than doing it 
for him and deliberately mis-representing in order to obtain a cheaper premium. And, while 
Admiral can offer assistance to customers when setting up a policy, I dont think it is 
unreasonable for someone who isnt computer literate, to ask a friend to help when applying 
for a policy online instead. They are however, as is the case here, responsible for any 
incorrect information provided when doing so.
In instances of careless misrepresentation when a claim hasnt been made, CIDRA allows 
the insurer to change the policy terms and/or reduce proportionally the amount to be paid on 
any future claim. The insurer may also cancel the policy altogether, but they must give notice 
to the policyholder in both instances. If the insurer decides to change the policy terms and/or 
reduce proportionally the amount to be paid on any future claim, then the policyholder has 
the right to cancel the policy by giving reasonable notice to the insurer.
In this case, the policy was already cancelled in error due to the document Mr W provided 
being missed. Consequently Admiral didnt offer Mr W the option of accepting the policy on 
different terms or, if Admiral had chosen to cancel the policy due to the misrepresentation 
instead, then he wasnt given reasonable notice informing him this would happen. Because 
of this, I think the policy was unfairly cancelled. 
Mr W has told us he doesnt want the policy reinstated but rather, he wants any cancellation 
marker removed so that he is able to source cover with another provider. Admiral has 
confirmed there isnt any record of this cancellation recorded externally and so they dont 
need to do anything further in this regard. But they have recorded this as a cancellation 
internally across the Admiral Group.
Ive considered whether this is fair and, while under CIDRA Admiral had the right to cancel 
the policy due to misrepresentation, I dont think it is in the circumstances. This is because I 
think its most likely Mr Ws policy wouldve remained active had the agent not missed the 
document he sent in. This is because it seems the policy validation questions were asked as 
part of Admirals consideration to reinstate the policy, not whether it should be cancelled. 
And so, had this been the case, the careless misrepresentation wouldve likely only come to 
light in the event of a claim being made. Admiral wouldve then been within their right to 
provide cover on a proportionate basis, but they wouldnt have been able to cancel the 
policy.
I therefore dont think this policy should be recorded as being cancelled by Admiral. But 
instead, I think it would be fairer for it to be recorded as being cancelled by mutual 
agreement. I consider this would provide a fairer reflection of what happened given the 
policy was cancelled in error to begin with.
Mr W was given conflicting information about why the policy was cancelled initially. And I 
think he also suffered trouble and upset as a result of his policy being cancelled unfairly. 
This is because he wasnt given reasonable notice of the policy cancellation to allow him to 
obtain cover elsewhere before it ended. I therefore consider £200 compensation  in 
addition to the removal of the cancellation fee - to be a reasonable amount to recognise this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Admiral Insurance Company Limited 
to pay Mr W £200 and for them to update their records to show the policy was cancelled by 
mutual agreement.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2020.
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman