DRN-2978996
The complaint
The estate of Mrs S complains that Threadneedle Investment Services Limited trading as 
Columbia Threadneedle Investments (Threadneedle) did not act on instructions to sell units 
and hold as cash when asked by the executor of the estate.
The estate of Mrs S is represented by the executor Mrs B. Mrs B is also represented by her 
husband Mr B.
The estate of Mrs S says that they have suffered a financial loss of around £10,000 and 
would like to be compensated. Mrs B would also like to be compensated for the 
inconvenience and distress that the errors and delays have caused.
What happened
Mrs S passed away on 13 February 2020 and Mrs B notified Threadneedle by letter on 13 
February 2020. The letter enclosed the Death Certificate and asked for details about the 
value of the holdings. Mrs B asked Threadneedle to arrange for all the units in the ISA to be 
sold and held as cash pending Probate.
On 20 February 2020, Threadneedle noted the death and returned the Death Certificate to 
Mrs B. 
On or around 25 February 2020, Mr B contacted Threadneedle to ask if it was possible to 
encash the ISA and hold as cash until Grant of Probate was granted. The representative at 
Threadneedle said that this was not possible, and they could only sell after Grant of Probate 
was received.
On 27 February 2020, Threadneedle sent out a valuation of the Estate. This letter also 
contained generic information on what happens next.
Mrs B contacted Threadneedle after receiving the letter dated 27 February 2020, but the 
date of this call is not known. Mr B took over the call and asked if the instruction to sell had 
been carried out. Threadneedle said it had not and it was not possible to do so before they 
received Grant of Probate.
On 21 May 2020, Grant of Probate was granted and on 5 June 2020, Mrs B sent this to 
Threadneedle along with other identity documents which would be required before cash was 
released. Threadneedle returned these documents on 8 June 2020.
On 10 June 2020, Mrs B sent a completed Form of Renunciation requested sale of the 
holdings and withdrawal of funds.
On 15 June 2020, Threadneedle sold the investments.
On 28 June 2020, Mrs B complained to Threadneedle about her dissatisfaction with the 
services she had received during the handling of the estate administration actions. 
Threadneedle responded to this letter on 17 August 2020 with the results of their 
investigation. They said that due to an administration error, they had failed to explain that 
they could not sell until the Grant of Probate was received. Threadneedle said that because 
of the administrative errors, they would be paying £150 compensation.
Mrs B responded to this letter on 21 August 2020 challenging some of the content within the 
17 August letter. Mrs B asked that Threadneedle respond to the complaint that the estate of 
Mrs S had suffered losses because assets could not be sold until Grant of Probate was 
received.
Threadneedle responded on 10 September 2020 with clarification on some points but didnt 
think that they were responsible for losses incurred.
Unhappy with Threadneedles final response, Mrs B referred her letter to the service and one 
of our investigators reviewed the complaint. The investigator thought that Threadneedle had 
acted reasonably and didnt uphold the complaint.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mrs B has asked for an ombudsman to look at the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs B but I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator and 
will not be upholding the complaint. I know that Mrs B and Mr B feel strongly about the 
complaint and I will explain why I have reached this decision.
Before I go into the detail behind my decision, I would like to thank Mrs B and Mr B for the 
detailed submissions that they have sent. I hope that they will understand that I cant 
comment on all the detail that they have included but I have read all of these and they have 
been used to inform my decision making.
I think that there are two key areas within Mrs B complaint, and these are:
were Threadneedle correct in waiting for a Grant of Probate before they could accept 
instructions to sell?
did Threadneedle delay dealing upon receipt of the instruction to sell?
Were Threadneedle correct in waiting for a Grant of Probate before they could accept 
instructions to sell?
Before I go into detail about whether Threadneedle were correct in applying their policy, I 
want to confirm the role of the service. The service cant punish a business for failings or 
errors  this is the role of the Regulator.
The service will look at whether the business has made an error and if it has, we will expect 
them to put the consumer back into the position they should have been had the error not 
occurred. The service will also look at the impact of any errors on the consumer and may 
suggest compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Threadneedle have said in their responses to the complaints raised by Mrs B that an executor is not validated as such until probate is granted. Therefore, to protect the 
estate, we do not act on dealing instructions relating to account holders who have passed 
away until we have received a Grant of Probate
we need to ensure that probate is in place before we are able to transfer any funds. We 
believe that this approach to probate is standard within our industry, designed to protect 
beneficiaries and in line with HMRC, FCA and legal requirements.
In their submission to the service, Mrs B and Mr B have provided examples of how another 
business approaches probate and instructions following notification of death.
The service will look at each complaint on its own merits and I cant use the standard of one 
business to assess how another firm runs its business. Each business will assess the 
regulatory, legal and fraud risks that it faces and will have its own policy on how it will 
mitigate these risks.
Threadneedles policy was to only accept instructions to deal once they had sight of Grant of 
Probate and recorded it to their satisfaction. Its not the role of the service to say how a 
business sets policy or runs its operation. Threadneedle have set their policy and I cant say 
that its unreasonable for them to have such a policy.
There are two telephone conversations that I think are relevant to the complaint and I will 
deal with them in turn.
On or around 25 February, Mr B called Threadneedle to ask if they could encash the 
investments before Grant of Probate was obtained. Threadneedle said that it wasnt 
possible, and they could only accept instructions to sell after they had received the Grant of 
Probate. It was also confirmed that it was not possible to sell and leave the proceeds in cash 
until Grant of probate was recorded.
In the submission to the service, Mr B has said that there was no call on 25 February 2020 
and that they had no reason to call Threadneedle as they had no reason to believe that they 
were not carrying out the instruction to sell.
The telephone call file is named after a Threadneedle member of staff and with the date 25 
February 2020 and timed at 14.26. I have listened to the call and Mrs B says:
We wrote to you last week notifying you of her mothers death and we sent you the death 
certificate. We today had the death certificate back that you posted out on 20 February
I think that Mr B is referring to the letter sent on 17 February notifying Threadneedle of the 
death of Mrs S and it is likely, based on the balance of probability, that the call took place on, 
or around 25 February.
The reason that this call is important is that it confirms that Threadneedle would not process 
dealing instructions until they received Grant of Probate. It confirms that Mrs B and Mr B 
were aware of this policy requirement.
Another telephone call is mentioned in Mr Bs submission which he says was sometime after 
27 February 2020. Mr B says that he was prevented form speaking to a manager about 
Threadneedles policy. Mr B accepts that following this call, he was aware of Threadneedles 
approach.
Unfortunately, a recording of this call cant be located by Threadneedle, but I think that on 
the balance of probability, a call was made, and it was different to the one made on 25 February 2020. I say this because no mention of wanting to speak to a manager was made 
on the call of 25 February 2020.
I know that Mrs B and Mr B are unhappy at the wording used by the investigator in his view 
where he said it was made clear that the investment would remain in place until Grant of 
Probate was obtained.
Im of the same view as the investigator  I think Threadneedle made it clear on the call that 
I have listened to on 25 February, and the call that Mr B refers to sometime after 27 
February 2020 that Grant of Probate was required before sale instructions could be passed.
I think that it is reasonable for Threadneedle to have a policy in place to mitigate any risk to 
them as a business and for them to apply such a policy.
I know that Mr B has said that Mrs Bs role as an executor is to find, value and protect the 
assets of the estate. I sympathise with him and Mrs B that they were unable to sell the 
assets within the estate, but I cant say that Threadneedle were wrong in acting the way that 
they did.
did Threadneedle delay dealing upon receipt of the instruction to sell?
In their submission to the service, Mrs B and Mr B say that the value of the assets suffered 
another financial loss of £768.94 due to Threadneedle delaying the dealing until 15 June 
2020.
Threadneedle have said that they received the instruction to sell on 13 June 2020 which was 
a Saturday and a non-dealing day. Threadneedle say that the sale instruction was placed on 
the next available dealing day which was the 15 June 2020
Mr B has said that a valuation was created on 12 June 2020. Mr B has said that this was a 
pointless valuation and the time could have been better spent processing transactions that 
they clearly already received.
There is no definitive proof within the file documentation that I have seen when the 
instruction to sell was received but I have no reason to doubt what Threadneedle say about 
when it was received. Im not going to ask them to do anything else here.
Threadneedle have offered Mrs B £150 compensation in recognition for errors in 
communication with her but have said that the losses relating to the fall in value of assets 
were caused by factors outside of their control.
I think the compensation offered by Threadneedle is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances and Im not going to ask them to do anything else.
In summary, I think that Threadneedle were entitled to apply a policy on what documentation 
would be acceptable before sale instructions were carried out. I think that they acted in a 
timely manner when they received dealing instructions following receipt of Grant of Probate.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman