The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained that theyve been overcharged by Aviva Insurance Limited
for their home buildings insurance since 2010 and probably even before this.
What happened
Mr and Mrs E took out a home buildings insurance policy with Aviva in 1990 through their
mortgage provider  a building society. They renewed every year until 2017. Then Mr M
called to query the premium a few months after renewal in 2017 and the premium was
reduced. He called again at renewal in 2019, and - after some adjustments were made to
correct an administrative error to do with the no claim discount which resulted in a refund, he
was offered and took out a new policy with Aviva for buildings and contents. Under this
policy the premium for the buildings cover was a lot less than Mr and Mrs M had been
paying to Aviva under their previous policy. Mr M thinks this shows theyve been paying too
much for buildings insurance for many years. And he also thinks they could have been
offered an alternative policy with a much lower premium for buildings cover earlier.
Mr M complained to the building society about being overcharged and they responded
saying they didnt think theyd done anything wrong.
Mr M complained to us and we established that hed had a policy with Aviva or its
predecessor company since 1990, so it was responsible for the premiums. We checked with
Aviva and it agreed we could consider Mr and Mrs Ms complaint as a complaint against it.
One of our adjudicators reviewed the complaint and wrote to Aviva suggesting it had taken
advantage of the fact Mr and Mrs M hadnt engaged about the cost of their policy for many
years. And, as a result of this, theyd overcharged Mr and Mrs M. And he asked Aviva to
consider making a compensation payment to reflect this.
Aviva came back to say thered been several claims between 1990 and 2009 and because
of this it didnt think it had overcharged Mr and Mrs M in this period. It did however accept it
had probably taken advantage of Mr and Mrs Ms lack of engagement between 2010 and
2017. It felt the premium had been reduced to the right level for the market in 2017 after Mr
M called. So it offered to apply the 2017 premium back to 2010 and refund any amount Mr
and Mrs M had paid above the premium they paid in 2017, plus interest. When Aviva did the
calculation to include interest in July 2020 the total amount due to Mr and Mrs M was
£1,264.74, with the actual premium refund being £855.93.
Our adjudicator thought this compensation was a fair and reasonable and he told Mr M this.
But Mr M didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He is particularly concerned 
that the premium for buildings cover under the new policy he took out in 2019 was so much 
lower. And he thinks this suggests he could have got buildings cover through the building 
society at a much lower premium for many years.
I issued a provisional decision on 28 January in which I said the following:
DRN-2508345Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our services role isnt to regulate the insurance industry  but to consider individual
complaints. So Ive considered whether Aviva treated Mr and Mrs M fairly when pricing their
policy. In doing so Ive taken into account that theres no right or wrong price an insurer
needs to charge for the cover it provides. And I should make it clear that I cant consider the
actions of the building society as part of this complaint, as its a separate company to Aviva.
Insurance pricing practices have moved on over the years and so the price Mr and Mrs M
were charged for buildings cover under their new policy in 2019 isnt necessarily reflective of
what they could have obtained the cover for in previous years. Insurance risk assessments
have also changed on numerous occasions over the years. And when a customer takes out
a new policy, often its at a discounted price to the true cost of providing the insurance. And
sometimes the premium will increase over time to recoup that discount. So the price a
consumer can get cover for more recently doesnt always provide a fair comparison. So just
because the price of an insurance policy has gone up and there might be similar, cheaper
polices available elsewhere, it doesnt necessarily mean something has gone wrong.
But Aviva needed to follow the principle of treating its customers fairly  which in this case
meant treating Mr and Mrs M fairly when deciding what premium to charge at renewal each
year from 1990 onwards. And it needed to do this by having regard to the extent to which Mr
and Mrs M were engaging with the price at renewal each year and their circumstances and
ability to do so. In this case Mr M has explained he didnt engage before 2017, as he didnt
realise there might be cheaper options available without a reduction in cover. And hes said
from 2010 he thought he should stay with Aviva after making a subsidence claim.
Mr and Mrs M were sent a renewal notice each year which set out how much they would
need to pay for the policy if they continued with it. I appreciate Aviva wasnt acting as their
broker, so it didnt have to search the wider market for the best available price. But  as Ive
already explained - it did have to treat Mr and Mrs M fairly when it came to the premium it
was charging.
Though in general some insurance premiums have increased over time, I can see - based
on industry wide information - that home insurance prices have remained relatively stable.
And Consumer Price Index (CPI) data shows that between 2005 and 2018 the cost of home
and contents insurance remained fairly stable. Although, I accept that its natural that a
policy that has run for around 20 years will increase in price due to inflation and other
general increases in cost. But, based on what we know about the historic cost of insurance,
Ive not seen any evidence to suggest that this would amount to such a large increase
between 1990 and 2018.
When a consumer chooses not to shop around for a policy each year, even when their policy
has significantly increased in price, it is commonly referred to as consumer inertia. And its
possible for an insurer to take advantage of this inertia to increase premiums. In Mr and Mrs
Ms case, I think the evidence available shows that this is likely to have happened, and at
some point the premium increases became unfair.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I think Aviva should have realised by 1995 that Mr and Mrs
M hadnt been shopping around for their insurance or negotiating the price at renewal each
year. And Aviva should have made sure it was treating them fairly by not increasing the
premium significantly just because they were carrying on with the policy from this point
onwards. Obviously, not all price increases are unfair. As set out above, if a policy is
discounted to new customers, an insurer might increase that cost to recoup the discount. I
dont think that, on its own, is unfair. The point when price increases for an inert consumerbecome unfair will vary from case to case.
So, Ive had a look at the premiums Mr and Mrs M paid through the life of their policy. The
details of which were set out in our adjudicators email to Mr M in July. And in their case I
think the inertia point was 2000 due to the consistent increase in premium leading up to this
point, some of which I accept would have been due to the claims they made early on in the
life of the policy. So, based on the evidence available, I think any further premium increases
beyond this point, which have been applied without a change in Avivas view of the risk
would be unfair.
I appreciate Aviva has argued the claims Mr and Mrs M made would have affected the
premium beyond 2000, but Im not persuaded this is the case. I say this as it looks like Aviva
wouldnt have actually paid any claims between 1995 and 2009 when they paid out on a
fairly large subsidence claim. And after this particular claim the premium didnt go up
significantly year on year. So Im only willing to accept that claims impacted the premium up
until 2000.
As Ive said, I dont think Aviva has been able to explain why the price increased as it did
past 2000. Given what Ive said above, I think the premiums Mr and Mrs M paid after this
date were unfairly high. So I think it would be fair compensation to refund the difference
between what they paid in 2000 and what they paid every year after that up until 2017 when
Mr M engaged about the cost of his policy.
I have also noted Aviva has argued that the price it charged when Mr M did engage in 2017
was a fair market price because he accepted it and so it must have compared well to the
premiums he was being offered for other policies. But I dont accept this argument. For a
start Mr M has said he didnt shop around and was happy with the reduced premium he was
offered. So the premium Aviva charged may not have reflected the average or rough market
price. And I do not think a premium charged in 2017 can really be representative of what
would have been charged year on year from 2000 to 2016 even allowing for the claims made
during the life of the policy and the fairly stable price of home insurance policies during part
of this period. Although, I do of course appreciate Aviva has only argued it would have
been a fair market price back to 2010.
However, I asked Aviva to let me know what premiums they would have or could have
charged Mr and Mrs M if theyd engaged from 2010 onwards, as I thought it might be fair to
use these as the base premium to work out any refund due from 2010 to 2017. But theyve
not provided this information. So, as things stand, I think the fair and reasonable outcome to
this complaint is for Aviva to use the 2000 premium of £362.82 and refund the difference
between this and what Mr and Mrs M paid every year after that up until 2016, plus interest
on the extra payment they made each year at our normal rate of 8% per annum simple.
Mr and Mrs M engaged at renewal in 2017, so I think from this point onwards Aviva would
have known they were concerned about what they were paying and so cant have taken
advantage of them on the basis they were inert. Although, I am surprised that the premium
Aviva charged in 2017 was as high as it was. However, in 2019 Mr M was offered an
alternative policy, providing cover for both buildings and contents, which was also with Aviva.
And Mr M has suggested this may have been available much earlier and that the premium
under this was much lower for buildings cover. He thinks Aviva should have offered this
policy much earlier if it was available, even if he didnt engage about his renewal premium.
But I dont agree on this point. I think Aviva was only obliged to offer it when he engaged
about his renewal premium in 2017, because it had no reason to suspect before this Mr and
Mrs M werent happy with the level of cover and cost of their policy. Of course, as Ive
already explained, Aviva knew they were inert and I think theyd taken advantage of this, but
this doesnt mean they knew Mr and Mrs M were unhappy and might prefer an alternativepolicy.
Howe ver, if the alternative policy wa s available in 2017 I think Aviva should have offered it at 
this time. So  if this was the case, I think Aviva should refund the difference between what 
the buildings cover under this policy would have cost in 2017 and 2018 and what Mr and Mrs 
M paid under the policy they had, plus interest fro m the date they paid the extra amount.
Putting things right
In summary, I think Aviva took advantage of the fact Mr and Mrs M were inert betwee n 2000 
and 2016 and so treated them unfai rly. An d I think theyve l ost o ut as a result of this. So to 
put this right Aviva should refund the amou nt Mr and Mrs M paid above the premiu m in 2000 
between 2001 and 2016, plus interest at our normal rate of 8% per annum simple from the  
date they paid each extra amount to the date Aviva pays the compensation.
And I think Aviva should also have offered Mr and Mrs M an alternative policy from when  
they engaged in 2017 provided it was available and the buildings premium wa s less than 
unde r their existing policy. And i f it wasnt available in 2017, but was in 201 8, it should have  
offered it at this point instead. So if it was available and the buildings premium was cheaper 
in 2017 and/or 2018 Avi va should refund the difference between the building s premium 
unde r this policy and what Mr and Mrs M paid under their existing policy, plus interest at 8%
per annum simple from the date they paid each extra amount to the date it pays them the 
compensation.
It would be helpful if Aviva could provide revised calculations to show the additional amounts 
due, plu s interest in response to this provisional decision.
I gave both parties until 28 February to provide further co mments and evidence. Mr and Mrs 
M have responded to say they agree with my provisional decision. And Aviva hasnt 
responded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr and Mrs M agree with my provisional decision and Aviva hasnt responded I see no 
reason to change my view on what I think the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint 
is as set out in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
It remains my view that Aviva took advantage of the fact Mr and Mrs M were inert betwe en 
2000 and 2016 and so treated them unfairly. And I think theyve lost out as a result of this.
So to put this right Aviva should refund the amount Mr and Mrs M paid above the premium in 
2000 between 2001 and 2016, plus interest at our normal rate of 8% per annum simple from 
the date they paid each extra amount to the date Aviva pays the compensation.
And I think Aviva should also have offered Mr and Mrs M an alternative policy from when 
they engaged in 2017 provided it was available and the buildings premium wa s less than 
unde r their existing policy. And i f it wasnt available in 2017, but was in 201 8, it should have 
offered it at this point instead. So if it was available and the buildings premium was cheaper 
in 2017 and/or 2018 Avi va should refund the difference between the building s premiumunder this policy and what Mr and Mrs M paid under their existing policy, plus interest at 8%
per annum simple from the date they paid each extra amount to the date it pays them the
compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision dated 28 January 2021 I uphold Mr and 
Mrs Ms complaint and order Aviva Insurance Limited to pay the compensation set out above 
in the section entitled Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 01 April 2021.
Robert Short
Ombudsman