DRN-3347477
The complaint
Mr B says AvantCredit of UK, LLC irresponsibly lent to him. He says that it didnt make 
proper affordability checks, and if had done it wouldnt have lent to him. 
What happened
This complaint is about one loan Avant provided to Mr B. On 6 January 2015 he borrowed 
£1,600. He was due to make 48 repayments of £87.56 making a total repayment of 
£4,202.86. I understand Mr B had problems repaying the loan and it was sold to a third 
party.
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Bs complaint. She thought that Mr B shouldnt have been given 
the loan. This was because the information that Avant had showed that Mr B would have 
very little left over after the loan repayments. And Avant was aware of some other financial 
problems that Mr B had recently had. 
Avant disagreed. It didnt comment on the merits of the what the adjudicator said, it talked 
about the jurisdiction of this complaint. Ive looked at this separately and found that we can 
consider this complaint. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint was passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Bs complaint. These two 
questions are:
1. Did Avant complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr B 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way. 
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If it didnt, would a proportionate check have shown that Mr B wouldve been able 
to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
2. Did Avant act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Avant to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Bs ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Avant had to think about whether repaying 
the loan would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for Mr B. In 
practice this meant that business had to ensure that making the payments to the loan 
wouldnt cause Mr B undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Avant to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr B. Checks also had 
to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
Avant has provided evidence to show that before lending it asked Mr B for information about 
his income and expenditure. It also looked at some information it received from a credit 
reference agency. Based on those checks Avant thought it was fair to lend.
Our adjudicator thought proportionate checks for this loan wouldve shown that Mr B was 
unlikely to have been able to repay it in a sustainable manner. I have independently 
reviewed the evidence of Mr Bs income and expenditure and have come to the same 
conclusions as the adjudicator for broadly the same reasons. Ive explained why below. 
As Avant didnt add anything about this in response to the adjudicators opinion I wont go 
into a lot of detail here. But Avant found out that Mr Bs income at the time of the loans was 
£800 a month. He had general expenditure of £552 a month. And he already had credit 
repayments of about £112 a month. So, adding the Avant repayment to this, would leave him 
less than £50 a month for any unforeseen expenditure. I think this is much too low an 
amount over the two-year term of the loan. 
Added to this, there was evidence of Mr B using other, similar high cost, and short term, 
lenders before taking this loan, and hed had some problems repaying these in the recent 
past. Taking all of this together. I think Avant shouldve seen Mr B wouldnt have been able repay 
this loan in a sustainable way, as did happen. I think that Avant shouldnt have given this 
loan to Mr B and I think hes lost out as a result of this. So, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint 
and Avant needs to put things right.
Ive also thought about whether Avant acted unfairly in some other way and I havent seen 
any evidence that it did.
Putting things right
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan.
Treat any payments made by Mr B as payments towards the capital amount of 
£1,600.
If Mr B has paid more than the capital then any overpayments should be refunded 
with 8%* simple interest from the date they were paid to the date of settlement.
But if theres still an outstanding balance, Avant should try and come to a reasonable 
repayment plan with Mr B.
Remove any adverse information about the loan from Mr Bs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Avant to take off tax from this interest. Avant must give 
Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Bs complaint. AvantCredit of UK, 
LLC should put things right for Mr B as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman