DRN-3172017
The complaint
Miss H complains about Barclays Bank UK PLCs handling of a payment holiday regarding 
her loan account.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
My provisional findings
I wrote to both parties on 11 February 2022 to inform them that based on what Id seen so
far, I was thinking of coming to a slightly different outcome to our investigator. I said:
My decision focusses on events up to Barclays final response to Miss Hs complaint in 
January 2021. However there are some aspects relating to these events that follow on from 
this date. So Ill explain my intended findings on this below.
My role as an ombudsman is to decide how a complaint should be resolved, quickly and
informally. That means I will focus my investigation and decision on what I consider the crux 
of the issue to be. I dont intend to comment on everything Miss H has said or asked, unless 
I consider it relevant to the decision I need to make. But I can confirm I have thoroughly read 
and considered all the evidence presented by both parties.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Its not in dispute the payment holiday was incorrectly set up, or that the funds taken 
in error were later returned to the account.
The payment holiday should have covered July, August and September 2020, and I 
can see in September 2020, Barclays wrote to Miss H to inform her the payment 
holiday had been extended by a further two months.
But internal information provided by Barclays shows that Novembers payment wasnt 
included in the payment holiday  which is where the ongoing issues with arrears 
appear to have originated from.
Any payments included in the payment holiday shouldve been added to the end of 
the loan term.
I can see further issues exist regarding arrears from May 2021, but up until this point 
Miss H was chased for the arrears relating to the payment holiday alone  which 
wouldnt have existed had it not been for Barclays error
I can see Miss H has spent a lot of time communicating her concerns to Barclays and 
has received calls from different departments regarding the arrears. So I can 
understand Miss Hs frustration regarding the arrears and why this wouldve been a 
stressful situation for her.
In its final responses, Barclays offered Miss H a total of £500 compensation as well 
as a refund of around £114.91 for overdraft charges. But considering the additional 
point Ive set out above regarding Barclays handling of the payment holiday and 
chasing Miss H for arrears up to May 2021, when it shouldnt, Im intending to direct 
Barclays to pay Miss H a further £300 compensation. So the total compensation 
award would be £800 plus the costs Miss H incurred of £114.91. I think this is fair in 
relation to the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive not seen any evidence that persuades me Miss Hs credit file has been affected 
by events from this period but if any negative information does exist for this period, 
Barclays should remove it.
I am aware Miss H has ongoing concerns with Barclays handling of her loan 
account. If she is dissatisfied, she must refer this to Barclays in the first instance, but 
she may consider bringing a further complaint to this service if she isnt satisfied with 
its response.
Putting things right
To put things right, I intend to direct Barclays to:
Reduce Miss Hs arrears, removing the incorrect payment from the balance along
with any associated interest charged
Add the figure to the end of the loan as an extension of the term
Ensure no adverse of negative information is being reported to the credit reference
agencies in relation to this matter
Pay Miss H a total of £800 compensation
Refund agreed costs incurred of £114.91
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither Miss H or Barclays provided further comments for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered everything, I dont see any reason to depart from my provisional 
findings. So Im upholding Miss Hs complaint for the reasons set out above.
Putting things right
To put things right, I direct Barclays to:
Reduce Miss Hs arrears, removing the incorrect payment from the balance along
with any associated interest charged.
Add the figure to the end of the loan as an extension of the term.
Ensure no adverse of negative information is being reported to the credit reference
agencies in relation to this matter.
Pay Miss H a total of £800 compensation.
Refund agreed costs incurred of £114.91.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Hs complaint
I direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to do as Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman