DRN-3643023
The complaint
Miss A is unhappy with how AXA PPP Healthcare Limited trading as AXA Health handled a 
claim she made on her private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Miss A is a member of her employers group private medical insurance policy, which 
includes dental cover. The policy covers 80% of dentist fees up to a maximum of £400 per 
year. 
In April 2022 Miss A claimed on the policy for tooth whitening treatment. AXA explained this 
wasnt covered as its cosmetic treatment. Miss A disputed this, saying the policy terms 
werent clear. 
AXA issued a final response letter agreeing that the handbook didnt state what types of 
dentistry treatment were covered. They said theyd arrange a reassessment of the invoice. 
Miss A continued to chase AXA for payment of the claim. 
In July 2022 AXA issued a further final response letter saying their initial decision not to pay 
the claim was correct, but theyd pay Miss A the £400 for the claim because of what had 
been said in the previous final response letter. However, they explained theyd need proof of 
payment before they could settle the claim. They also sent Miss A a cheque for £200 in 
recognition of the poor service shed received. 
Miss A was unhappy she had to provide more documentation but provided it. The payment 
to settle the claim was processed within 10 days of receiving the further information. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She thought the payment of £200 fairly 
reflected the distress and inconvenience caused by the delay in settling the claim and the 
poor service Miss A had received. So, she didnt think AXA needed to do anything more to 
put things right.   
Miss A didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review her complaint. She thought £300 
would be fairer. Miss A said the claim had taken around three months to settle and shed 
spent a lot of time writing to AXA, phoning them and emailing them. She said she was 
humiliated by AXA and highlighted examples of the poor service she received. That included 
not being contacted within the timescales shed been given, not being told the complaint 
handler was on holiday and not receiving responses from AXA. 
So, I need to make a decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that AXA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Its not disputed that Miss As claim took too long to settle or that she received a poor service 
from AXA during the claims process. Miss A had to chase AXA a number of times. So, she 
spent time emailing and calling them. And she didnt always receive a response from AXA 
when she should have or within the timescales shed been given. I accept this was 
inconvenient and caused her distress. 
Ive taken into account what Miss A has said about feeling humiliated by AXA and that it took 
around three months to settle the claim from the time she submitted it. But I dont agree AXA 
needs to pay her £100 more. I say that because: 
I think the £200 AXA has paid fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience caused to 
Miss A. As Ive outlined above, I accept that she didnt receive the standard of 
service she should have. But some of this inconvenience was unavoidable and part 
of the claims process. For example, Miss A would have always needed to provide 
AXA with proof of payment before the claim was settled. 
Once AXA had reviewed Miss As complaint about the time it was taking to settle the 
claim, which it has eight weeks to do, they asked Miss A for proof of payment. I agree 
that AXA could have requested this information sooner, but I think it was reasonable 
to ask for it. I dont think the previous documentation Miss A had submitted clearly set 
out the payment history for the treatment. And an insurer is entitled to check there 
has been a valid claim before making payment. Thats in line with standard industry 
practice and isnt unusual. 
Miss A provided the additional information after it was requested and the claim was 
processed for settlement within 10 days. I think that was a reasonable timescale in 
the circumstances of this case.  
AXA has paid Miss A £200 which represents around half of the value of the original 
claim for £400. I think that fairly reflects the delays in settling the claim, bearing in 
mind the value of the claim and the overall timescales involved in resolving it.
My final decision
My final decision is that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited trading as AXA Health doesnt need to 
do anything more to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman