DRN-2094226
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) closed her accounts. 
What happened
In August 2019 Miss M was looking to re-mortgage her property and a friend recommended 
the international arm of NatWest. As part of the application process Miss M was required to 
take her passport into a UK branch to have her passport certified. Miss M says the branch 
staff didnt know the process for certifying her passport, and shes unhappy with how they 
handled it. 
During her time in the branch Miss M says a staff member suggested she tidy up her 
accounts and combine them into one new savings account. Miss M says she closed some of 
her accounts but went away to think about whether she wanted to open the new savings 
account.
Following some discussions with her family Miss M ended up opening the new savings 
account. A few days later on 27 August 2019 Miss M received a text message from 
NatWest, advising that following a review of her banking arrangements, they had made the 
decision to no longer offer her banking facilities. Miss M went into a local branch and was 
told she could appeal the decision, which she did on 28 August 2019. Miss M says she was 
told she could access her funds if she took a passport to a branch. 
Miss M says on 29 August 2019 she was contacted by NatWest and told that their decision 
was final. And on the following day she got a letter which gave her 14 days notice of their 
intention to close her accounts. 
Miss M raised a complaint with NatWest and asked why theyd made that decision.
NatWest responded to Miss M saying they couldnt provide specific details surrounding their 
decision but quoting from their terms and conditions which set out circumstances when they 
can close an account immediately. They told Miss M that as part of the process in opening a 
new account they often carry out additional checks, and due to this they decided not to 
continue her banking relationship. 
Miss M says she approached several banks trying to open an account but was unsuccessful. 
She explained that she had to delay returning to her employment overseas while she sorted 
this out  which incurred costs for changing her flight and also for a hire car. She says that 
due to her accounts closing her mortgage payments, which were made by direct debit from 
her NatWest account, werent paid. Miss M also told us that she and her family experienced 
a lot of stress as a result of her accounts being closed. And that she was told a warning was 
incorrectly added to her account, which prevented her direct debits and direct credits from 
going through.
Miss M wasnt happy that NatWest refused to change their decision about closing her 
accounts, so she brought a complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into Miss Ms complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary, she said that 
NatWest had made a commercial decision to close Miss Ms accounts which they were 
entitled to do. And, that they arent required to give a reason as to why theyve taken that 
decision. 
Miss M didnt agree with the investigators opinion, so the case was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M has provided us with a lot of detail about conversations shes had with NatWest and 
about the difficulties shes faced with her accounts being closed. Id like to reassure her that 
Ive fully considered everything shes told us, and I appreciate that shes very upset over 
what has happened and the impact its had on her. 
But, in order for me to make an award for Miss Ms trouble and upset, I would need to be 
satisfied that NatWest did something wrong in closing Miss Ms accounts.  And based on 
what Ive seen I dont think that is the case, but Ill explain why.
NatWest is entitled to terminate their banking relationship with a consumer, provided they do 
so in line with the terms and conditions of the account. Also, NatWest isnt required to give a 
reason for doing so. In this case NatWest let Miss M know by text that they were closing her 
accounts, which they followed up with a letter a couple of days later. They gave Miss M 14 
days notice of their intention to close her accounts and let her know she would have to make 
alternative arrangements immediately with regards to overdraft facilities, all standing orders, 
direct debits, debit cards and online banking. From what Ive seen Im satisfied that NatWest 
acted in accordance with the terms and conditions of Miss Ms accounts in closing them. 
Therefore, I cant fairly say that NatWest did anything wrong. 
Ive also thought about the concerns Miss M has raised and the level of service shes 
received. Shes referred to branch staff not knowing how to certify her passport and being 
told a warning had been incorrectly added to her account prior to its closure. 
Miss M says that NatWest staff told her they had incorrectly applied a warning to her account 
which blocked any direct credits and direct debits set up on her account. But NatWest have 
said the warning was part of their standard process in ending their banking relationship with 
Miss M. They referred to the letter that was sent to Miss M which informed her that she 
would need to make immediate arrangements with regards to standing orders, direct debits 
etc. So, from what Ive seen it appears that NatWest didnt make an error in adding the 
warning, but they did incorrectly tell Miss M that they had.
Miss M also pointed to branch staff not knowing what to do when she took her passport in to 
get it certified. I appreciate that there are some things that NatWest couldve done better with 
regards to the information they gave Miss W and knowing their own processes. But most of 
the distress and inconvenience Miss M has suffered has been as a result of her account 
being closed. 
I understand that Miss M is going to be disappointed in this answer, but as Ive previously 
said I cant see that NatWest did anything wrong in ending their banking relationship with 
Miss M. Therefore, I cant fairly hold them liable for any of the effects on Miss M of them 
taking that action. And while the level of service NatWest provided couldve been better, Im 
not persuaded that the issues Miss M faced are sufficient to warrant an award for trouble 
and upset.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman