DRN-2796740
The complaint
Mrs and Mr M complain that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc mis-sold two payment protection 
insurance policies to them. The first policy was sold in 1985 and the second policy was sold 
in 1998. 
I know that when the PPI was sold, BOI was trading as the Bristol and West Building 
Society. However, BOI is ultimately responsible for this complaint and so Ill refer to BOI for 
the rest of this decision. 
What happened
The background to this case is somewhat complex and so I have set it out in some detail 
below. 
From the papers, I can see Mrs and Mr M applied for their first mortgage in October 1985. 
They completed a PPI application form at around the same time. It appears the mortgage 
actually started a little bit later in March 1986 and that is when the PPI policy also started to 
run. The PPI covered Mr M only and the mortgage repayments would have been covered in 
full if Mr M was made redundant. 
In January 1998, Mrs and Mr M took out a further advance to their mortgage. It doesnt look 
as though PPI was sold to them at the same time in respect of that borrowing. However, I 
can see that it was applied to their account some months later in October 1998. The first 
premium appears to have been paid in December 1998. Again, the PPI covered Mr M only, 
but he would have been covered for sickness and redundancy this time. 
In or around June 2019, Mrs and Mr M complained to BOI about the sale of PPI. On 2 July 
2020, BOI said it didnt think it had mis-sold PPI. But it offered to repay some of the PPI 
premiums to Mrs and Mr M because it didnt tell them about a high level of commission it 
received in respect of those premiums. Mrs and Mr M did not agree with that outcome and 
so they complained to this service. 
Upon receipt of that complaint, our adjudicator contacted BOI to request its file of 
documents. In its response to our adjudicator, BOI ticked a box to say that it had made an 
offer of full redress to Mrs and Mr M on 2 July 2020. 
On 5 August 2020, our adjudicator emailed Mrs and Mr M to say that she thought BOI had 
made an offer to settle the complaint and that BOI was waiting for a reply. Later that same 
day, Mr M emailed our adjudicator to say that he had not had a full offer from BOI, only the 
commission offer set out above. Our adjudicator replied around half an hour later to clarify 
that BOI appeared to have made a mistake and that the offer it referred to was not a full 
offer, but an offer in respect of commission only. She apologised for any confusion. And I 
can see Mr M acknowledged that he thought it was the case that the offer was in respect of 
commission only. 
The matter was passed to another of our adjudicators who wrote to Mrs and Mr M to say that 
he didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs and Mr M did not agree with that view. 
They said they could not understand how our adjudicator thought the complaint should be 
refused when BOI had agreed PPI was mis-sold on 5 August 2020. 
Another of our adjudicators then looked at the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. 
He reiterated that the confusion had arisen because BOI had indicated in its response that it 
had made a full offer, when it should have said it had made an offer in respect of 
commission only. 
Mrs and Mr M said they were not happy that they had been wrongly informed they would get 
a full refund and they did not accept the adjudication. I can see they also said they wanted to 
complain about the service they had received from our adjudicators. 
As Mrs and Mr M did not accept our adjudicators view, the matter has been passed to me to 
make a final decision about whether PPI was mis-sold. I understand the complaint they have 
made about the service they received after they brought their dispute to this service is being 
or has been considered separately. 
When the complaint was passed to me, I asked our adjudicator to make some more 
enquiries about an income protection policy Mrs and Mr M told us they had. In response to 
that enquiry, Mrs and Mr M initially sent us a copy of their PPI documents. After we made 
further enquiries, they told us that they thought the income protection policy started in 1993 
and that Mr M was covered for 100% of his salary after a waiting period of 7 days. They 
thought the cover would have lasted for two years. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Looking through the paperwork in this case, I can see that Mrs and Mr M are very 
disappointed by what they see as BOI accepting PPI was wrongly sold to them and then 
revoking that offer. I want to reassure Mrs and Mr M that BOI has not revoked an offer to 
refund their PPI premiums. As I set out above, the confusion has arisen because BOI ticked 
a box in its response to this service which suggested it had made a full offer of redress. That 
was a mistake because it had only offered to refund some of the commission Mrs and Mr M 
had paid for PPI. And as I said above, I understand Mrs and Mr Ms complaint about that 
particular matter is being or has been dealt with separately. I am considering their complaint 
about the PPI sales in 1985 and 1998. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs and Mr M, but after considering this matter at some length, Im 
afraid I havent found PPI was mis-sold. So I havent upheld their complaint. Ill explain why 
below. 
As this complaint is about two PPI policies, Ive dealt with each sale separately below. 
1985
As I said above, from looking at the documentary evidence, it appears to me that PPI was 
sold to Mrs and Mr M in October 1985, although the policy didnt begin until the mortgage 
started in 1986. 
The first thing Ive considered for this complaint is whether Mrs and Mr M would have known 
they had a choice about the PPI and could have refused it if they didnt want it. 
Ive had the benefit of seeing Mrs and Mr Ms mortgage application form. I can see that it 
was completed on 14 October 1985. On that application form, Mrs and Mr M were asked 
whether they wanted a number of insurance policies  they said no to some and accepted a 
buildings insurance and a PPI policy. I appreciate Mrs and Mr M said the person selling PPI 
was pushy, but if theyd refused other policies, I think theyd have known they could refuse 
PPI if they wanted to at this stage. 
Whilst Mrs and Mr M had indicated on their mortgage application form that they wanted 
cover, the actual PPI application form was completed the next day on 15 October 1985. It 
was received in BOIs office on 16 October 1985. So from that, Im satisfied that Mrs and Mr 
M would have known the cover was a separate product to their mortgage. I can also see that a separate direct debit mandate was completed, which means the PPI transactions would 
have appeared on their bank statements separately to their mortgage. 
Putting all of this together, I think Mrs and Mr M would have appreciated that the PPI was 
separate to their mortgage and they could have refused it if they didnt want it. 
BOI told us it advised Mrs and Mr M to buy the PPI cover. So that means it had to take 
reasonable steps to make sure the cover was suitable for them. To help me decide whether 
the cover was suitable, Ive looked at what Mrs and Mr M told us about their personal 
circumstances. And Ive also looked at what we know about the policys terms and 
conditions. 
As I said above, the policy would have covered Mrs and Mr Ms mortgage payments if Mr M 
was made redundant for up to two years. I can see from the mortgage application form that 
Mr M had been with his employer for around seven years at that point. That means I think he 
would have been entitled to some redundancy pay, but I dont think it would have been the 
equivalent of two years salary. So, it follows that the PPI would have most likely lasted for 
longer than his redundancy pay. 
I appreciate that Mrs and Mr M told us they had an additional insurance policy. When our 
adjudicator asked for more information about this, Mrs and Mr M said it would have covered 
them for life and critical illness. So I dont think it would have covered them in the same 
circumstances as the PPI as they didnt cover Mr M for redundancy. I can see from the 
mortgage application form that Mrs and Mr M had around £1,300 in savings. Again, I think 
the PPI would have paid out for longer than those savings would have lasted. 
Ive also checked through the limitations and exclusions for this cover and I havent seen 
anything that would have stopped Mrs and Mr M from being able to make a successful claim 
if Mr M lost his job. I must reiterate that the mortgage was secured on their house and so 
their home could have been at risk if they fell behind with their mortgage repayments. 
BOI also had to provide Mrs and Mr M with enough information about the PPI so they could 
decide for themselves whether it was a good fit for their needs. That information should have 
been clear, fair and not misleading. Looking at the paperwork, I can see how the information 
could have been clearer. For example, I cant see that any of the limitations or exclusions to 
the cover are set out on the application form. So I think its possible that BOI didnt tell Mrs 
and Mr M everything it should have done about the PPI. 
But that doesnt mean I can automatically uphold the complaint. I must next consider what 
Mrs and Mr M would have done if BOI had told them everything it should have done. Ive set 
out above how PPI could have been useful if Mr M was made redundant. He was eligible for 
its benefits and I havent seen anything that would have stopped him from being able to 
make a claim if he needed to. After taking account of all their circumstances at the point of 
sale, I cant say more or better information about the PPI would have put Mrs and Mr M off 
buying it. So, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold in this regard. 
1998
As I said above, this sale took place a few months after Mrs and Mr M had their further 
advance. 
It is not entirely clear how this cover came to be sold. Mrs and Mr M say it was sold to them 
by telephone by a pushy salesman. But I have also seen a written application form that was 
returned to BOI by post. This application form was signed and dated by Mr M on 13 October 
1998, so quite a while after the further advance had started. 
Again, Ive considered whether it would have been made clear to Mrs and Mr M that this PPI 
policy was optional, and they didnt have to take it out if they didnt want it. I appreciate Mrs 
and Mr M say the person selling the cover on the telephone was pushy and implied their 
loan would be more expensive without PPI. But as theyd already had the funds for the further advance by the time the cover was sold, I cant say theyd have thought the cover 
was a condition of their loan. For the same reasons, I cant say that Mrs and Mr M would 
have thought it would help their loan application if they took PPI  because the further 
advance had started some months earlier. 
It is clear from the application form completed by Mr M that he has taken some time to 
consider the content. And upon doing so, I think it would have been reasonably clear that the 
PPI wasnt a condition of the further advance. If Mrs and Mr M didnt want cover at that time, 
I think theyd have known they could just not return the application form to BOI. 
I appreciate Mrs and Mr M believe this cover was sold to them during an advised sale. But 
the evidence Ive seen doesnt suggest it was recommended to them after BOI took a 
detailed account of their personal circumstances. For example, theres no suggestion that a 
demands and needs assessment was conducted. So I cant treat this as an advised sale. 
Nevertheless, BOI still had to give Mrs and Mr M enough information about the PPI so they 
could decide for themselves whether it was a good fit for their needs. And again, that 
information should have been clear, fair and not misleading.
Looking at the application form, I think the cost of the cover is relatively clear and in fact, the 
actual premium was a little bit less than Mrs and Mr M were initially quoted. But the 
application form doesnt tell them about any of the exclusions relating to the policy. And I 
dont think the benefits of the cover are clearly set out. So again, I cant say Mrs and Mr M 
were provided with all of the necessary information. 
But as I said above, that doesnt mean I can automatically uphold the complaint. Thats 
because I need to consider what Mrs and Mr M would have done if the terms and conditions 
had been explained properly. To help me decide on that point, Ive given careful thought to 
those terms and conditions and have carefully considered Mrs and Mr Ms personal 
circumstances at the time. 
Again, this cover was set up to cover Mr M only. If he was off sick from work of if he lost his 
job, he would have been covered for up to 12 months for each claim. The policy would have 
covered Mrs and Mr Ms mortgage repayment, along with an additional cash benefit of £150. 
Mrs and Mr M told us that Mr M would have had six months full pay and six months half pay 
if he was off sick. They also said Mr M had life insurance and savings of around £5,000 at 
the relevant time. As Ive set out above, Mrs and Mr M also told us about the income 
protection policy they believe they had. 
I accept that Mr M had some sick pay and both he and Mrs M had some savings. But with 
the PPI policy, they could have used those existing means on their other essential 
expenditure at what would have no doubt been a very stressful time for them if Mr M was out 
work. I appreciate Mr M also had life insurance, but that would have only paid out in the 
unfortunate event of Mr Ms death  not in the same circumstances as PPI. 
Ive thought very carefully about what Mrs and Mr M told us about their income protection 
policy. I appreciate Mrs and Mr M have told us what they honestly remember about that 
cover. But I think the terms theyve described in respect of that policy are quite unusual, 
particularly as I wouldnt expect a salary to be covered for 100%. 
In any event, as this wasnt an advised sale, BOI didnt have to make sure the cover was 
suitable for Mrs and Mr M, so I cant say it did anything wrong in failing to consider the 
existence of such a policy. I think the cost of the cover was made fairly clear to Mrs and Mr 
M and it was ultimately for them to decide if they wanted to proceed with the cover knowing 
about their income protection policy. 
Mr M was in good health at the time the cover was sold, so I cant say he would have been 
affected by any of the exclusions relating to medical conditions. And I havent seen anything else that was unusual about his employment circumstances to stop a successful claim being 
made.  
Putting all of this together, I cant say Mrs and Mr M would have acted differently even if BOI 
had done everything it should have done. So Im afraid I cant say this policy was mis-sold, 
which means BOI doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI. 
However, I understand BOI got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50%) 
in respect of Mrs and Mr Ms premiums. It should have told Mrs and Mr M about that high 
level of commission. As it didnt tell Mrs and Mr M, BOI offered to pay back the amount of 
commission it received that was greater than 50%. Im satisfied that offer is fair in the 
circumstances of this case. I understand BOI already made that payment to Mrs and Mr M, 
so I dont need to tell it to do anything further. 
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs and Mr M. 
But it does have to pay back to Mrs and Mr M any commission and profit share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 August 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman