DRN-2698175
The complaint
Mr P complains that Soteria Insurance Limited wont pay for the repair of all the damage to 
his car following a claim made on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr P collided with some debris on the motorway and his car was recovered by a roadside 
assistance provider. Soteria had independent engineers inspect the car. The engineer said 
the incident had caused damage to the front bumper of the car but that further damage to 
the engine wasnt due to the impact, but to mechanical failure. Soteria said this was 
excluded from cover. The car was deemed to be a total loss, so Soteria paid Mr P the repair 
costs for his bumper. Mr P provided evidence from his garage, but Soteria thought this didnt 
show impact damage to the engine. Soteria paid Mr P £100 compensation for delays in the 
claim. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought the 
independent engineers report was more persuasive than the evidence provided by Mr Ps 
garage. There was no impact damage under the car, but there were signs of long-standing 
mechanical damage. So he thought Soteria didnt need to cover the repair costs for the 
engine damage. 
Mr P replied that he thought Soteria should provide proof that there was no damage to the 
underside of the car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision to not pay for 
additional repairs.
I can see that the evidence that Soteria had to consider was the recovery agents note, the 
independent engineers report, its in-house engineers report and the evidence provided by 
Mr Ps garage. 
The recovery agent said that the engine damage wasnt inconsistent with impact from the 
debris. But I dont think this is conclusive that the impact caused the engine damage. 
But the independent engineer said there were no signs of impact under the car. He thought 
the engine damage was caused by internal mechanical failure of the engine. He said there 
was old oil and grime present suggesting a long-standing oil leak. And he provided a 
description of how the damage had occurred. 
Soterias in-house engineer reviewed the photos and video of the car. He said there was no 
consistent external damage to the cars underbody or the engine. I think the photos show 
there was no damage under the car caused by an impact. He also thought there were signs 
of a long-standing oil leak. 
Mr Ps own garage said the engine damage could only have been caused by a major impact. 
But it didnt explain why it thought the independent engineers report was incorrect. It didnt 
explain why there was no sign of damage under the car. 
Soteria considered this evidence and concluded that it was liable only for the damage to the 
cars bumper. I think it decided this after reasonably considering the evidence available. So I 
think its justified its decision that the engine damage was unrelated to the incident but due to 
mechanical failure.  
Soteria said mechanical failure was excluded from cover under the policy. I can see that this 
is set out on page 20 in Section 2 of the policy document under what is not covered. So I 
dont require Soteria to cover the damage to the engine. 
I can see that Soteria paid Mr P £100 compensation for its delay in arranging an inspection 
of his car and for its call-handling. I think thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping with 
what Id require in similar situations. I dont require Soteria to increase this.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman