DRN-1971306
The complaint
Mr K and Mr K complain about the settlement Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De 
Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. has paid them for an abandonment claim they made on their 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr K and Mr K were due to fly abroad as part of a package holiday trip as part of a party of 
six. Unfortunately, due to strike action, their flight was cancelled and the trip had to be 
cancelled. The airline refunded the partys flight costs  a total amount of £1042.33. So Mr K 
and Mr K made a claim on their policy for their hotel booking costs of £315.98 per person.
Mapfre accepted the claim. It initially wrongly paid Mr K and Mr K a settlement of around 
£90.65. Mr K and Mr K werent happy with this offer and they complained. Mapfre needed 
further information to fully assess the claim. Once this was received, Mapfre paid Mr K and 
Mr K a further amount of £398.67  which brought the total settlement to £489.32. It was 
calculated using the booking total less the refund from the airline and divided by the number 
of people in the party.
Mr K and Mr K remained unhappy with Mapfres settlement. They felt Mapfre still owed them 
a further amount of £22.63. They also felt Mapfre had unreasonably delayed the handling of 
their claim and hadnt fairly dealt with their complaint. They asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator thought Mapfre had settled Mr K and Mr Ks claim fairly. Hed obtained a 
calculation from Mapfre setting out how the settlement had been worked out. So he didnt 
think Mapfre needed to pay anything more. But he thought Mapfre hadnt dealt with Mr K and 
Mr Ks claim as promptly as it couldve done and it had made an error when it first calculated 
what was due. So he recommended that Mapfre should pay Mr K and Mr K compensation of 
£50 to recognise the trouble and upset itd caused them.
Mapfre accepted the investigators recommendation.
Mr K and Mr K disagreed. They maintained that there was £22.63 outstanding on their claim. 
They didnt feel the compensation Mapfre had agreed to pay was enough. They didnt think it 
was fair for Mapfre to take into account the refund from the airline in working out what was 
due for the hotel cancellation claim.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Mapfre has calculated Mr K and Mr Ks settlement fairly. Ill explain 
why.
I appreciate how strongly Mr K and Mr K feel about their claim and that the settlements been 
worked out wrongly. Ive looked carefully at how Mapfre calculated the settlement and 
whether I think its done so correctly and in line with its policy terms.
Mr K and Mr K have provided us with a breakdown of their booking costs for the component 
part of their holiday. The party paid a total of £974.41 for their flights. And it paid £1895.85 
for the hotel. So they paid a total amount of £2870.26. The airline refunded the party 
€1144.58 which Mapfre calculated was worth £1042.33 using the applicable exchange rates. 
The refund amount seems to be higher than the flight value the holiday booking company 
had originally attributed to the flight costs. 
So Mapfre deducted the refund from the airline from the remaining cancellation balance. 
This left a total of £1827.95 which was to be split between the party members and refunded. 
Mapfre calculated that £1827.95 divided by the six members of the party left an amount of 
£304.68 per person to be paid. Because both Mr K and Mr K were insured by the policy, 
Mapfre multiplied this amount by two  a total of £609.32 and then deducted an excess of 
£60 per person.
Ive checked this calculation and Im satisfied its been worked out correctly. I think it was 
reasonable for Mapfre to take into account the refund from the airline when it worked out 
what settlement was due. Thats because Mapfres policy liability is to put a policyholder in 
the position they wouldve been in but for the loss. And the policy terms say that Mapfres 
entitled to try and recover compensation from third parties. 
In this case, if the original booking amount of £2870.26 is divided by six, the total booking 
amount paid per person seems to have been around £478.38. The settlement Mr K and Mr K 
have received totals broadly the same amount, less the policy excess. So Im satisfied Mr K 
and Mr K are in the financial position they were in before the loss. This means I dont think 
Mapfre needs to pay anything further towards their claim.
However, the investigator explained, the relevant regulators rules say insurers must handle 
claims promptly and fairly. In this case, Mapfre initially paid Mr K and Mr K the wrong 
settlement. Itd needed further information to work out the amount due which it hadnt had 
before the claim was initially assessed. I think it wouldve been reasonable for Mapfre to ask 
for this information upfront. And I can see Mr K and Mr K had to get in touch with Mapfre to 
chase the claim up, which put them to unnecessary time and trouble. So I agree Mapfre 
should compensate them for the trouble and upset it caused by the delays in the handling of 
the claim. I think the £50 Mapfre has now agreed to pay feels fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. So this is what Im directing Mapfre to pay.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
I direct Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. to pay 
Mr K and Mr K compensation of £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman