DRN-3270738
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Standard Life Investments Limited (Standard Life) has charged her at 
an incorrect rate for the self-invested personal pension (SIPP) that she holds with the firm. 
What happened
Mrs H holds a SIPP with Standard Life. Her SIPP is held in a wrap account offered by 
Standard Life to consumers acting through a financial advisor. But the relationship is more 
complicated since Mrs H is also employed by her financial advisor in what appears to be a 
senior administrative capacity.
Mrs Hs financial advisor offers clients two different levels of service. So it holds two wrap 
agreements with Standard Life that allows different charging structures to be put in place. In 
March 2015 Mrs Hs SIPP was moved from one wrap account to the other, albeit remaining 
with the same financial advice firm.
As a result of the change of wrap account Standard Life moved Mrs Hs charging structure 
from an advisor level basis to a customer level basis. Standard Life says that ensured that 
Mrs H wasnt put at risk of any potential increase in her fees as a result of the change. And it 
says that action is in line with its published terms and conditions.
In April 2015, the fee structure that Standard Life applied to customers of the financial 
advisor was altered to reflect the increased business that had been introduced by the 
advisor. So those customers on the advisor tariff saw a reduction in the product 
administration charge (PAC) that Standard Life levied. But that reduction didnt apply to 
Mrs Hs SIPP charges (or those of some other clients of the financial advisor) who had 
previously been placed on a customer level tariff.
In March 2020 the difference in the two charging structures was identified by Mrs Hs 
financial advisor. At that time she was moved back to an advisor level tariff. But Mrs H 
calculated that the tariff difference meant that she had paid almost £400 of additional 
charges over the previous five years. So she complained to Standard Life that it hadnt made 
the administrative processes around the advisor level and customer level charges sufficiently 
clear.
Mrs Hs complaint has been assessed by two of our investigators. They thought that any 
failings in the understanding of the operation of the SIPP charges was a matter between the 
financial advisor and Standard Life. They didnt think that Standard Life had done anything 
wrong in how it had treated Mrs H. So they didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mrs H didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mrs H and by Standard Life. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
As I said earlier, the relationships underpinning this complaint are complicated. It is clear that 
Mrs H has been affected by the charges that Standard Life has levied on her SIPP. So it is 
right that she is an eligible complainant and that I should decide her complaint. But much of 
Mrs Hs testimony to us about the complaint looks at how she, in her administrative capacity 
with the financial advisor, should have been guided and informed by Standard Life. And 
therefore why the failing that she perceives from Standard Life have caused losses for other 
clients of the financial advisor. To a degree I think her complaint is being used as some sort 
of proxy for the other matters to be considered. And that wouldnt be appropriate.
The SIPP product that Mrs H held, and the wrap platform on which she held it, are advisor 
led products. That means that Mrs H (in her capacity as a consumer) would not normally 
have any direct contact with Standard Life  her dealings with the firm would be via her 
financial advisor. And it is that normal relationship that I must use as the basis of my 
decision on this complaint. If I consider there were failings between Standard Life and the 
financial advisor firm that would be something for those two parties to resolve themselves. 
Here I can only look at what Standard Life was directly responsible for providing to Mrs H, 
either in terms of service or information.
At the outset of opening the SIPP product Mrs H would have been provided with information 
about the charges she would need to pay. Those charges would not generally be varied 
without either the agreement of Mrs H, or without Standard Life providing her with the 
required notice for any changes. And I havent seen anything that makes me think either 
happened in this case.
For administrative reasons Mrs Hs financial advisor held two client platform accounts with 
Standard Life. But, as Mrs H points out, Standard Life combined some reporting on those 
accounts, and consolidated the commission payments it made to the financial advisor. I dont 
think it was unreasonable for Standard Life to treat those two accounts separately in their 
legal management. And I dont think that is inconsistent with Standard Lifes administrative 
decision to combine some reporting and accounting functions for the two accounts  that 
seems to me to be administratively beneficial for both Standard Life and the financial 
advisor. But that means, when Mrs Hs SIPP was moved from one account to another, 
I dont think Standard Life was wrong to treat that change as if Mrs H had moved to a new 
advisor. Effectively that is what she had done by moving her pension savings from being 
under one client agreement to another.
The terms and conditions Standard Life agreed with the financial advisor for the operation of 
the client accounts set out what would happen to charges when a consumer moved from 
one advisor to another. Essentially Standard Life wanted to ensure that, when a client moved to a new advisor, they didnt inadvertently experience an increase in their charges. 
That might happen for instance if the new advisor didnt benefit from any preferential rates 
that had been offered to clients of the original advisor.
So, unless there were written instructions to the contrary, a consumer who moved to a new 
advisor would retain their existing charging structure. Standard Life would manage that 
administratively by having most consumers on an advisor level charging structure, but those 
consumers who had moved would have a bespoke customer level charging structure that 
replicated their previous agreement.
So that is what happened when Mrs H moved to the other client account. The fee structure 
that she had agreed at the outset of opening her SIPP was added to her account moving 
forwards. And I think it is very important to note that Standard Life has never charged Mrs H 
more than the charges she originally agreed to pay. So I cannot reasonably conclude that 
Standard Life overcharged Mrs H for its administration of her SIPP.
Mrs Hs financial advisor had agreed a reduced level of charges for its clients. But as Ive 
explained above, those reductions would only apply to consumers who were on the advisor 
level charging structure. It was for the financial advisor to ensure that its clients were being 
charged correctly.
I have considered that Mrs H says the financial advisor was not made sufficiently aware by 
Standard Life of how its charging approach was implemented. As Ive said above, I think that 
the charges Standard Life applied were in line with its terms and conditions. There were 
steps set out in those terms that would allow consumers to move from customer-based 
charging structures to the advisor-based structure. It does seem that the financial advisor 
was unaware of what needed to be done. But that is a matter between the financial advisor 
and Standard Life. If Mrs H is unhappy with the service she has received from the 
financial advisor, and in particular that she didnt receive the benefit of the reduced charges, 
that is something she would need to take up with the financial advisor rather than 
Standard Life.
In summary I dont think Standard Life has treated Mrs H unfairly. It has applied the charges 
that she agreed to pay when she opened her SIPP account. And whilst she might not have 
received the benefit of any new charging arrangements that Standard Life had agreed with 
the financial advisor, I dont think that was because of something that Standard Life did 
wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Standard Life Investments Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman