DRN-1132163
 
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with Market Harborough Building Society's decision not to accept his 
preferred payment method. 
What happened
Mr C had a mortgage with Market. He was ready to redeem his mortgage and wanted to use 
a credit card to do it. Mr C said he had enough money in his bank account to cover the 
payment, but preferred to use his credit card because it provided him with an air 
mile incentive.
Market said that although it had the facility to accept credit card payments, it wouldn't allow 
any customer to make a credit card payment for any mortgage. Market said this was its 
policy as a responsible lender. It also said this would be against the card issuer's terms.
Our investigator agreed with Market and said it was ultimately Market's decision whether to 
accept credit cards as a means of payment for its products. He also acknowledged there 
were some risks associated with using credit to pay off other credit. 
Mr C disagreed with the outcome. He said that in the particular circumstances of his 
complaint, he had enough money in his personal bank account to clear what he'd have 
accumulated on to the credit card, had Market accepted his preferred method of payment. 
And so there was no risk of his falling into money problems - he simply wanted to take 
advantage of a promotional offer. Mr C would like Market to change its position and allow 
him to make the payment by credit card.    
 And so it's for me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've decided not to 
uphold Mr C's complaint. I'll explain why.
Market is entitled to decide how it wants to take payments for the products it offers its 
customers. It's also explained that it allows customers to pay for some services using credit, 
like valuation fees, but it doesn't allow its customers to pay any mortgage this way. This isn't 
unusual, as many lenders will not accept a credit card payment towards money borrowed. 
There are a few reasons for this, but ultimately, the main one is that using credit to 
effectively pay other credit is likely to lead to further money problems for the borrower. Credit 
cards usually incur interest on balances owed and are subject to late payment fees which 
could also cause further problems later on. And so most lenders will not accept credit to 
settle other credit as in many cases, it'd be considered irresponsible of the lender to do so. In this particular case, Mr C said he already had a way of clearing his mortgage using his 
own personal funds. Mr C explained he'd be in a position to clear any outstanding debt that 
he would have incurred had Market accepted his credit card payment. To be clear, I 
understand the connection Mr C is making here. But that doesn't mean that Market has to 
accept his proposal. 
In any case, it did consider his arguments, and still decided not to accept the payment. Mr C 
said he feels discriminated against because of Market's position on this. I see why he might 
feel frustrated because he's effectively unable to collect the air miles he'd hoped using his 
credit card would attract, but that's not to say Market has discriminated against him.
Market's policy is not to accept credit card payments for mortgage payments which applies 
to all its borrowers and not just Mr C. And so it's not treated him any differently to its other 
customers. Mr C also suggested Market should have been more upfront about this and 
perhaps made it clear it would not accept payments by credit card. 
I disagree that Market has been unclear about its position on this point. Its terms also say;
"Borrowers who redeem their mortgage themselves can do so by debit card, electronically or 
via cheque"
I've highlighted this because there's no mention that it would accept a credit card payment, 
and so I find it's been clear about the payment methods it's willing to accept. 
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, I don't uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2020.
Scott Slade
Ombudsman