DRN-4250163
Complaint
Mr T has complained about a loan Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) provided to him. He says the 
loan was unaffordable.
Background
L2G provided Mr T with a loan for £750 in December 2018. The loan had an APR of 990.1% 
and an 18-month term. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of £3,058.56, which 
included interest, fees and charges of £2,308.56, was due to be repaid in 18 monthly 
instalments of just under £170. 
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that L2G didnt act unfairly 
when providing this loan. Mr T disagreed with our adjudicator and so the case was passed 
forward for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
My provisional decision of 3 July 2023
I issued a provisional decision  on 3 July 2023 - setting out why I intended to uphold           
Mr Ts complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of my 
findings. 
I started by explaining that weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable 
and irresponsible lending on our website. And that I had used this approach to help me 
provisionally decide Mr Ts complaint. 
Having carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mr Ts complaint. Ill explain 
why in a little more detail.
L2G needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is L2G 
needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr T could afford 
to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
L2G said that it carried out an income and expenditure assessment with Mr T prior to 
providing him his loan. It said that it also carried out credit checks. L2Gs said its checks 
suggested Mr T had more than enough to cover the payments to this loan and so it was 
reasonably entitled to lend. 
I carefully considered what L2G had said. But it was clear that Mr T had had significant 
difficulties repaying credit in the past. In particular, I was mindful that Mr T had missed 
payments to his utilities. So I thought that L2G ought to have obtained further information on 
Mr Ts expenditure to check that this wasnt an indication of him being in a difficult financial 
position.
And I thought that if L2G had carried out further checks before providing this loan, it would 
have seen that Mr T was struggling to manage his finances. Indeed, most of his income was 
being taken up by his existing living costs and repayments to his existing commitments.         
Mr Ts bank statements also showed that he was stuck in his overdraft too. 
Bearing all of this in mind, I was satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would
more likely than not have demonstrated that Mr T would not have been able to make the
repayments to this loan without borrowing further and/or suffering undue difficulty. And as a 
result I found that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than not have 
alerted L2G to the fact that Mr T was in no sort of position to make the payments to this loan 
without suffering significant adverse consequences.
As L2G provided Mr T with this loan, notwithstanding this, I was minded to conclude that it 
failed to act fairly and reasonably towards him. Mr T ended up paying interest, fees and 
charges on a loan he shouldnt have been provided with. So I explained that it was my 
intention to issue a final decision finding that Mr T lost out because of what L2G did wrong 
and that it needed put things right.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr T confirmed that he agreed with my provisional decision and that he had nothing further 
to add.
L2G disagreed with my provisional decision. It said it understood from Mr Ts credit report 
that he was up to date with payments on all credit commitments. The credit report evidenced 
that Mr T was able to manage his finances and make his repayments as it was on the whole 
positive with no payments in arrears, no County Court Judgments, no defaults and no 
payday loans within 2 years of taking out this loan. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in some detail why I intended to uphold Mr Ts complaint in my provisional decision 
of 3 July 2023. L2G has disputed my findings saying that it didnt need to carry out any 
further checks as the credit search it carried out on Mr T was on the whole positive. 
Ive considered what L2G has said. I accept that Mr T did not have had any County 
Court Judgments against him or defaults. And to be clear I did not make the finding that he 
had any of these against him in my provisional decision. Nonetheless, the copy of the credit 
search provided does nonetheless indicate that hed previously fallen behind on his utility 
payments. So I dont think that Mr Ts financial position was as positive as L2G is making 
out.Im not suggesting that Mr Ts previous difficulty with his utility payments in itself meant that 
L2G shouldnt have lent to him. But I do think that Mr T previous difficulties making his 
payments to his utility bills is a reason why further checks were necessary in this instance. 
And if these further checks had been carried out L2G would have seen that Mr T was 
unlikely to make the payments to this loan without undue difficulty or borrowing further.
 
So while Ive considered the further comments that L2G has made in response to my 
provisional decision of 3 July 2023, Ive not been persuaded to alter my conclusions. Im 
therefore still upholding Mr Ts complaint. And I remain satisfied that L2G needs to put things 
right. 
Fair compensation  what L2G needs to do to put things right for Mr T
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable for L2G to put 
things right for Mr T by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mr T paid on his loan;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Mr T to the date of settlement
removing any adverse information recorded about this loan from Mr Ts credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give    
Mr T a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision of 3 July 2023, Im 
upholding Mr Ts complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited should put things right in the way Ive set 
out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman