DRN-2483376
The complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
taken out in 1992 in connection with a joint mortgage. Mr H and Mrs H say Santander 
(trading as N&P Building Society) mis-sold them PPI.
What happened
Mr H and Mrs H took out a PPI policy alongside their mortgage. They paid a monthly amount 
for the policy which offered accident, sickness and unemployment cover. They complain they 
were told they had to have PPI in order to get the mortgage.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be rejected. Mr H and Mrs H disagreed with 
our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again. They added they both 
had sick pay but could not say if they had any other income or savings to cover their 
mortgage repayments. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs and Mrs Hs case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Santander should have made Mr H and Mrs H aware they had a choice in buying the policy. 
They said they were told they had to buy the PPI to get the mortgage  although they did not 
say exactly what they were told, at what stage in the mortgage process, or by whom.
Also, Mr H and Mrs H didnt have any paperwork from the time of sale. I dont think thats 
surprising given that the sale took place around 29 years ago. But it does mean I have 
limited information about the sale, so I have to decide what I think is likely to have happened, 
given the information I do have and the broader circumstances.
Based on what I know about how Santander sold policies like this at the time I think its likely 
the optional nature would have been made clear. Santander produced a copy of a PPI leaflet 
its consumers would have seen in 1992  which does refer the consumer to complete a 
separate PPI application form if they want PPI. This would suggest that Mr H and Mrs H 
would have completed a separate PPI form  which they probably could have chosen to 
ignore. As they had that choice, I think its more likely Santander made it clear to them the 
policy was optional, and they agreed to buy it, although I can understand why they may not 
remember this now. 
Santander, Mr H and Mrs H all agree the sale was advised. For advised sales, Santander 
had to recommend a policy that was suitable for Mr H and Mrs H. I think this policy was 
suitable for them because they were both eligible to buy it, it was affordable for them and 
they were not affected by the main things the policy did not cover (the exclusions). 
I then looked at Mr Hs and Mrs Hs financial circumstances at the time of the sale to see if 
the PPI policy was still suitable for them.
I noted Mr H and Mrs H said they didnt know how much they had in savings and that they 
would have received sick pay from their employers. But the policy could have paid out for a 
maximum of 24 months on a successful claim. This would have been alongside their 
employee benefits and would have also covered them if either was made redundant. So I 
think the PPI was of value to Mr H and Mrs H and I dont think their employee benefits made 
the policy unsuitable.
They had borrowed funds against a large and long-term financial commitment, which was 
secured on their home. So I think having the security that the mortgage repayments would 
be made if either of them was unable to work would have been important to them.
I then looked at the information they received which had to be clear, fair and not misleading.
I dont know how Santander explained the costs and benefits to Mr H and Mrs H. But having 
decided they chose to take out the PPI - it looks like they wanted this type of cover. And  for 
the reasons Ive explained above - it looks like the policy would have been useful for them if 
something went wrong. So I think they most likely had enough information about the cost 
and benefits at the time of the sale and I think its unlikely that more information would have 
put them off from buying it.
I dont know how Santander explained the exclusions to them. But it does not appear they 
were affected by the main exclusions, so I dont think a full detailed list of exclusions would 
have put them off from buying the PPI. 
I realise that my decision is likely to be disappointing for Mr H and Mrs H. Its always difficult 
to decide a complaint on limited information. But Ive thought very carefully about what they 
said and about what I know of Santanders sales processes. And I dont think  on balance  
I can fairly and reasonably uphold their complaint.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about the 
non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties. So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship provisions 
in the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which were added to 
the Consumer Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship provisions would only apply to credit agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
         
Santander said Mr Hs and Mrs Hs mortgage was taken out in 1992 and ended in 2002. So 
based on what Ive said above, I dont think the unfair relationship provisions in the 
Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment, or the rules and guidance made by the 
FCA in relation to the non-disclosure of commission apply here.So Santander doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr H and Mrs H paid for the 
PPI they had with their mortgage.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 August 2021.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman