DRN-3660210
The complaint
Mr S complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) has refused to refund 
him the amount he lost as the result of a scam.
Mr S is being represented by a third-party, to keep things simple I will refer to Mr S 
throughout my decision.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary, Mr S met someone (X) on Facebook and started online dating. X explained she 
lived in Hongkong but was planning to travel to the UK. She explained that her uncle had a 
finance company, and that Mr S would receive a very good return if he made an investment.
Mr S initially invested small amounts and was able to withdraw some funds. Mr S went on to 
take out a £10,000 loan with Halifax that he also invested. 
As part of the investment Mr S made the following debit card payments from the accounts 
that he held with Halifax to the cryptocurrency exchange Binance (a legitimate business):
1. 18 May 2021 - £300  from current account
2. 18 May 2021 - £250  from current account
3. 19 May 2021 - £200  from current account
4. 19 May 2021 - £300  from current account
5. 20 May 2021 - £5,000  from current account
6. 20 May 2021 - £5,000  from cardcash account
7. 1 June 2021 - £500  from cardcash account
Mr S then transferred the funds to the wallet he was directed to by X and was able to see his 
investment via a link that was provided. Once Mr S had transferred all the money he could to 
the investment X stopped replying to his messages and he was unable to withdraw any 
money from the investment.
Mr S had fallen victim to a scam, and he has been unable to recover any of the money he 
lost.
Our Investigator considered Mr Ss complaint but thought Halifax had acted fairly in refusing 
to refund the money Mr S lost to the Scam. 
Mr S disagreed he said he was in a vulnerable position having lost his mother and broken up 
with his girlfriend a short time before the scam took place. He said Halifax should have done 
more to protect him from the scam. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances of this complaint are not in dispute and the evidence provided by both 
Mr S and Halifax set out what happened well. What is in dispute is whether Halifax should 
refund any of the money Mr S has lost because of this scam.
Halifax was unable to process a chargeback for the payments Mr S made in relation to this 
scam to Binance.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
Mr S was dealing with X, which was the person that instigated the scam. But Mr S didnt 
make the debit card payments to X directly, he paid a separate cryptocurrency exchange 
(Binance). This is important because Halifax was only able to process chargeback claims 
against the merchant he paid (Binance), not another party (such as X).
The service provided by Binance would have been to convert or facilitate conversion of
Mr Ss payments into cryptocurrency. Therefore, Binance provided the service that was 
requested; that being the purchase of the cryptocurrency.
The fact that the cryptocurrency was later transferred elsewhere  to the scammer  doesnt
give rise to a valid chargeback claim against the merchant Mr S paid. As Binance provided 
the requested service to Mr S any chargeback attempt would likely fail.
Mr S has accepted he authorised the payments he made to Binance, so the starting point 
here is that Mr S is responsible. However, banks and other Payment Services Providers 
(PSPs) do have a duty to protect against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to 
undertake due diligence on large transactions to guard against money laundering.
The question here is whether Halifax should have been aware of the scam and stepped in to 
prevent the payments Mr S was making.
Mr S made four relatively small payments to Binance (a legitimate business) 18-19 May 
2021. Mr S hadnt previously made payments to Binance but given the value of the individual 
payments I dont think its unreasonable that these payments did not trigger Halifaxs fraud 
prevention systems, and that Halifax didnt step in to prevent the payments being made.
On 20 May 2021 Mr S sent two larger payments of £5,000 to Binance from two separate 
accounts he held with Halifax. By this time Mr S had a history of making payments to 
Binance so I dont think it was unreasonable that these payments didnt trigger Halifaxs 
fraud prevention systems either. It wouldnt be reasonable for me to suggest Halifax should 
step in every time its customers attempt to make larger payments to legitimate businesses, 
especially when they have previously made payments to the same business.
The final payment Mr S made to Binance was for the lower amount of £500 on 1 June 2021, 
around two weeks after Mr S made the first payment. By this time Mr S had made six 
previous payments to Binance so I dont think this payment would have caused Halifax any 
concern.While I appreciate Mr S was going through a difficult time, I dont think it was unreasonable 
that the payments Mr S made in relation to the scam did not trigger Halifaxs fraud 
preventions systems. So, Halifax wasnt able to step in and prevent this scam and its not 
responsible for any of Mr Ss loss.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman