DRN-3325643
The complaint
Miss S complains about delays in Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of a car insurance 
claim.
What happened
Miss S had car insurance underwritten by Aviva. Unfortunately, her car was stolen on 9 July 
2021 and she made a claim under her policy.
When Miss S chased Aviva four weeks later, she was told the claim had been received in 
July but hadnt been passed on to the correct team for processing. 
Miss S complained about this and Aviva paid her £280 compensation in recognition of the 
fact that their customer service hadnt been as they would expect.
Miss S had Guaranteed Asset Protection (GAP) insurance  with another company - to 
cover any shortfall in the value of her car in the event of her having to make a claim. 
On 2 September 2021, the GAP insurer contacted Aviva to question their valuation of 
Miss Ss car. Nine weeks later, on 4 November 2021  and only after further chasing from 
Miss C - Aviva finally responded to that enquiry, increasing the valuation by around £1,000 
to just over £16,000. The claim was finally settled on 18 November 2021.
When Miss S questioned why it had taken so long for the valuation to be reviewed, Aviva 
admitted this hadnt been progressed at all until Miss S chased them, in mid-October  and it 
had then taken longer than expected for their engineer to review the valuation.
Aviva paid Miss S a further £200 in compensation for her inconvenience (their wording). 
And they paid her £166 interest on the settlement figure to reflect the fact that it took 133 
days to get the payment to Miss S.
Miss S wasnt happy with this outcome and brought her complaint to us. She pointed out that 
shed not only suffered distress and inconvenience as a result of the unnecessary delays, 
but also financial loss. 
The car was bought on a finance agreement, in line with which Miss S had to continue to 
make monthly payments until the agreement was terminated (which would only be once the 
claim was settled). And she hired a car for a period of time in the hope the claim would be 
settled rather sooner than it was.
Our investigator looked into it and thought Aviva should cover Miss Ss monthly payments for 
her car for the 13 weeks he thought Aviva had unnecessarily delayed settling the claim. And 
they should cover four weeks costs for the car Miss S hired, out of the eight weeks she 
actually paid for.
Aviva disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. They say they shouldnt 
be required to pay either the car finance payments or the car hire costs.
Miss S also disagreed. She said Aviva should also be asked to refund her monthly premium 
payments for the time remaining on the policy after her car was stolen.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres absolutely no dispute here about the facts. Aviva have admitted, in their responses 
to Miss Ss complaints, that the settlement of the claim was unnecessarily delayed. And 
looking at Avivas responses and the other information we have relating to this case, its 
clear that there were around 13 weeks of unnecessary delays out of the 19 weeks it took for 
Aviva to eventually pay Miss S the settlement figure.
Aviva have already paid Miss S £646. Their response to Miss S make it clear that this was 
compensation for her distress and inconvenience  two payments of £280 and £200. And 
interest on the delayed settlement payment - £166.
I dont think thats unfair or unreasonable compensation for Miss Ss distress and 
inconvenience and for her being deprived of the settlement amount for a period of time. 
However, it doesnt cover her subsequent financial losses as a result of the unnecessary 
delays. To be fair to them, Aviva havent claimed or suggested the £646 was to cover those 
losses.
Aviva have essentially admitted that there were 13 weeks of unnecessary delays here, 
where the claim wasnt progressed until Miss S chased them and/or where the engineer took 
longer than expected to review the valuation of Miss Ss car.
The claim took 19 weeks in total to settle. So, I think its a fair and reasonable assumption 
that it could and should have been settled within six weeks  even allowing for the 
discussion with the GAP insurer about the valuation.
Miss S has provided evidence to us that she had to continue to make the monthly finance 
payments on her car during the period it took Aviva to settle the claim. When they settled, 
she could pay off the finance agreement and no longer had to make the monthly payments.
So, I cant see any reasonable conclusion to draw from those facts other than this  Avivas 
admitted and unnecessary delays in settling the claim caused Miss S to make 13 weeks 
more payments than shed have had to make if theyd settled the claim within a reasonable 
time. 
When Aviva asked for this final decision, saying they disagreed with our investigators view, 
they simply said they didnt think they should pay for the 13 weeks finance payments Miss S 
had made. They didnt provide any explanation or rationale for this stance at all. 
So, I cant see any possible logical argument to suggest Aviva shouldnt fully compensate 
Miss S for the additional unnecessary payments she had to make. And Im going to require 
them to cover those payments for the 13 weeks suggested by our investigator.
Miss Ss policy didnt include the provision of a hire car whilst a claim was settled. So, if 
Aviva had settled this claim within a reasonable time, I wouldnt think it fair or reasonable to 
ask them to cover those costs.
Miss S says she had to have a hire car to get around. It was costly, but she quite reasonably 
assumed at the outset that shed only need the car for the few weeks it would take Aviva to settle the claim. 
In fact, she had the car for eight weeks, at which point it became apparent that it wasnt a 
sustainable way to carry on given the delays in Aviva settling the claim. And at that point, 
she decided to buy a replacement car despite the fact that the claim still hadnt been settled.
Had Miss S known what would happen with her claim, she would in all likelihood have made 
the decision she eventually made after eight weeks of paying for a hire car and bought a 
new car almost immediately. Given that she didnt know at the time how long the claim would 
take, I dont think it was unreasonable to hire a car for a limited period.
It is arguable that even if Aviva had settled the claim reasonably quickly, Miss S would still 
have needed a hire car for a time (until she could buy a replacement car)  and she wasnt 
covered for those (reasonable) costs under her policy. So, I agree with our investigator that 
Aviva shouldnt have to pay for the full eight weeks that Miss S had the hire car.
However, Miss S wouldnt have needed to keep the hire car for the full eight weeks if Aviva 
had handled the claim in a timely manner. And its not unreasonable to assume that Miss S 
might have been able to buy a new car within around four weeks, had she known the claim 
was going to take so long to be settled. So, on balance, I agree with our investigator that 
Aviva should pay for four weeks hire car costs out of the eight weeks Miss S paid in total.
Just to clear up the issue Miss S raised in response to our investigators view. The premium 
to be paid for Miss Ss insurance was an annual premium. She may have been allowed to 
pay monthly, but Aviva in effect ask for a premium to cover a years insurance cover. They 
calculate that premium according to the risk of an insured event (or events) occurring within 
a year.
Miss S will appreciate that it might seem a bit odd to take the advantage of that cover  to 
the fullest possible extent in this case given that Aviva eventually paid her the value of her 
car  and then ask for a proportion of the premium to be returned. 
In those circumstances, we generally think its fair if the insurer offers to take any new car on 
to the policy (with any adjustments) and allow it to run for the rest of the year. Miss S 
decided not to do this  understandably given her experience of Avivas service, but that was 
her choice. But we wouldnt expect an insurer to return a proportion of the premium after a 
claim has been settled part-way through the insured period. In effect, the customer in that 
case has had full value for their annual premium.
Putting things right
In summary, in addition to the compensation for distress and inconvenience and the interest 
paid on the settlement figure, both of which Aviva have already paid to Miss S (total £646), 
they must also pay Miss S: 13 weeks worth of payments Miss S made under her car finance 
agreement; and four weeks of the car hire costs Miss S paid. 
Miss S will no doubt provide Aviva with proof of both of those payments if she hasnt done so 
already.
I also agree with our investigator that Aviva should pay 8% simple interest on the payments 
Im now requiring them to make to Miss S. In effect, she has been deprived of that money for 
a period of time. 
Interest on the car finance payments should be calculated from the date six weeks after the 
claim was made on 9 July 2021 (the reasonable time at which the claim could and should have been settled  at which point Miss S could have paid off the finance agreement) to the 
date this payment is made by Aviva. 
Interest on the car hire payments should be calculated from the date on which Miss S made 
the car hire payments (for the final four weeks of the period she hired the car) to the date this 
payment is made by Aviva.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Miss Ss complaint. 
Aviva Insurance Limited must:
pay Miss S an amount to cover her car finance payments for 13 weeks; 
pay Miss S an amount to cover her car hire payments for four weeks;
pay Miss S interest at 8% simple on both of those amounts (dates between which to 
apply the interest calculation are set out above).
If Aviva Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss S how much its taken off. It should also give 
Miss S a tax deduction certificate if she asks/ask for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman