DRN-4505685
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain they were given incorrect information by Target Servicing Limited, 
the administrator of their help to buy loan. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H purchased a property using a first charge mortgage and a help to buy shared 
equity loan. 
Help to buy loans are unregulated, and the lender is not within the jurisdiction of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. But the lender has appointed Target to administer the loans 
on its behalf. Target is a regulated firm and in administering the loans for the lender it is 
carrying out a regulated activity.
Under the terms and conditions of help to buy loans, the lenders consent is needed to 
re mortgage the first charge mortgage  though doing so to obtain a new interest rate 
without increasing the borrowing is permitted. 
Mr H contacted Target to discuss the help to buy loan balance and the process for 
re-mortgaging. As a result of that conversation, Mr H thought they would have to increase 
the amount they wanted to borrow on their first charge mortgage by the amount of the help 
to buy loan  which was 20% of the value of their property.
Mr H says he felt forced to take two days off work to try and secure another mortgage. Mr H 
is a self-employed contractor, and says this meant that he lost £1,000 in earnings.
Mr and Mrs H then realised that they didnt in fact need to repay the help to buy loan to 
re-mortgage if they just wanted to secure a new interest rate without further borrowing. They 
complained that theyd been given misleading information. 
Target accepted that it had misled Mr and Mrs H. It offered £50 compensation. Our 
investigator thought that should be increased to £150. Target accepted that but Mr and 
Mrs H didnt. So the case comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the calls Mr H had with Target. He spoke to Target on 11 January. In that call 
he asked how much was outstanding on the help to buy loan, and what the process for 
repaying it was. He said he was re-mortgaging. The adviser Mr H spoke to explained the 
redemption process, including that he would need to repay the same proportion of the 
property value as he and Mrs H had originally borrowed.
The adviser didnt explain that Mr and Mrs H didnt need to repay the help to buy loan  they 
could re-mortgage to take a new interest rate without redeeming. That may be why Mr H was 
left with the impression that they had to repay. But the adviser didnt say they had to. She 
only discussed the redemption process because that was all Mr H asked about. 
So I dont think Target misled Mr H, or provided him with incorrect information. It did give him 
incomplete information  in the sense that it didnt tell him that he could choose not to repay 
 but that was because the conversation was about what Mr and Mrs H would need to do to 
repay, and how much they would have to repay. That was what Mr H had asked about, and 
so that was what the adviser told him.
Mr H was left with the impression that they had to repay the help to buy loan to be able to 
re mortgage. But he was left with that impression because he asked about the process for 
redeeming the loan and the adviser answered his questions. The information the adviser 
gave him was accurate. 
She didnt explain that it wasnt necessary to repay when re-mortgaging. But having listened 
to the call, Im satisfied that it appeared that Mr Hs intention was to repay and he was asking 
how to do so; it didnt appear that Mr H wanted not to redeem and was trying to find out 
whether that could be avoided. Although that wasnt what Mr H had asked about, I think it 
would have been helpful to have made that clear. But I dont think the adviser gave 
misleading information in response to Mr Hs questions.
Putting things right
Mr H says that Target ought to pay him £1,000, being the equivalent of two days pay at his 
sub-contracting rate, because he had to take two days off to find a new mortgage at short 
notice, only to later learn that wasnt necessary.
I dont think it would be fair to require Target to pay that. Mr H was dealing with Target in his 
personal capacity not his professional capacity, so his professional pay rate is not the 
appropriate measure of the inconvenience he was put to. And Im also not persuaded that 
this represents reasonable compensation for loss of earnings. Our investigator asked Mr H 
for evidence of loss of earnings, but he hasnt provided it. Even if evidence was available, 
Im not persuaded it was necessary for Mr H to take two days off work to apply for a 
mortgage  these sorts of tasks are part of life, and can be carried out outside working 
hours. 
I also bear in mind that Target didnt tell Mr H that he had to redeem the help to buy loan, it 
merely told him how to do so in response to his questions. Target didnt tell him that wasnt 
the only option  but it did correctly answer the questions he asked. Mr H wouldnt have 
needed to spend this time if Target had told him it wasnt the only option. But equally he 
wouldnt have needed to spend this time if he had asked Target what his options were rather 
than conducting the call on the assumption that he had to redeem, giving Targets adviser 
the impression that was what he had chosen to do.
Target accepts it could have done more to explain the options available to Mr and Mrs H. To 
that extent, it did play some part in the extra inconvenience Mr H was put to in trying to 
obtain a larger mortgage than their current one. I think £150 compensation fairly recognises 
its role in what happened.
My final decision
My final decision is that Target Servicing Limited should increase its offer of compensation to 
£150.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman