DRN-2873944
The complaint
Mrs B complains about interest she was charged by Sainsburys Bank Plc after a credit card 
payment wasnt received by the due date. 
What happened
On 6 October 2020 Sainsburys Bank sent out a monthly credit card statement that said it 
would collect Mrs Bs next payment by direct debit on 2 November 2020. 
On 7 October 2020 Mrs B used her online banking facility to change her direct debit 
arrangements. Mrs B has explained she had recently changed bank accounts so needed to 
update her payment details. As part of the process, Sainsburys Bank provided information 
about future payments and said: 
Youll see confirmation on your next statement that your Direct Debit has been set up. 
Please continue to make manual payments until then. 
Any request to amend an existing Direct Debit can take up to 10 days. Please refer to your 
statement to confirm when this change will take effect. 
Sainsburys Bank wrote to Mrs B on 7 October 2020 to confirm the direct debit amendment 
had been made. As a result, the balance incurred some interest totalling around £23.
Mrs B has explained she thought her payment details had been updated and that the direct 
debit would be used for November 2020. But Sainsburys Bank contacted Mrs B a few days 
later and advised her account was in arrears. Mrs B made a manual payment to clear the 
balance. 
Mrs B complained but Sainsburys Bank didnt agree it had made any errors. Sainsburys 
Bank agreed to refund the late fee of £12 it had charged but not the interest. Mrs B went on 
to refer her complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
Sainsburys Bank had dealt with Mrs Bs complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. 
Mrs B asked to appeal, so her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sainsburys Bank has provided screen shots of the information Mrs B wouldve seen when 
amending her payment details. The key screen is quoted above and says customers should 
make manual payments until their next statement date. It also says amendments to existing 
direct debits can take up to 10 days.
I understand Mrs B didnt receive the 6 October 2020 statement until after she amended her 
payment details. But I think that reflects the length of time it takes to receive post rather than 
a mistake by Sainsburys Bank. So whilst I can see Mrs Bs 6 October 2020 statement said 
the next monthly payment would be collected by direct debit, Im satisfied that was correct at 
the time of issue. It was the following day that Mrs B cancelled the existing direct debit 
instruction and information about making manual payments was provided. Im sorry to 
disappoint Mrs B but I havent found that Sainsburys Bank misled her in this case. 
Mrs B has asked why the above information refers to a 10 day period to make direct debit 
changes. But that relates to existing direct debits. By providing details to collect payments 
from a new account Mrs B was instructing a new direct debit. 
Sainsburys Bank refunded the £12 late fee it charged Mrs B as a gesture of goodwill. As I 
havent found Sainsburys Bank misled Mrs B or made a mistake, it wouldnt be fair to tell it 
to refund the interest applied. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs B but as Im satisfied Sainsburys 
Bank has dealt with her complaint fairly Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman