DRN-1132893
 
The complaint
Mr C complains that AIB Group (UK) Plc (AIB), trading as First Trust Bank, mis-sold him a 
single premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Mr C was sold a PPI policy in 2001 during a meeting in connection with a loan. The PPI 
would have provided a monthly benefit for up to 12 months if Mr C was off work sick or lost 
his job. However, as the loan was only for one year, the maximum benefit period for Mr C if 
he was made unemployed would have been 10 months. This is because no benefit would 
have been paid out for unemployment in the first sixty days. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. Mr C didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. I will now explain why.
First, Ive considered whether Mr C was eligible under the policy. Based on his age, 
residence and employment at the time of the sale, Im satisfied that Mr C was eligible for the 
policy. 
AIB had to make it clear to Mr C that the PPI was optional and needed his consent before it 
could be applied to Mr Cs account. In response to the adjudicators view, Mr C says that he 
was categorically told he had to take PPI in order to get the credit. However, Mr C says that 
this was when he was buying his first property. And he says he definitely would not have 
chosen to purchase PPI as part of his mortgage. Given that this PPI policy was not being 
sold in connection with a mortgage (it was being sold in connection with a personal loan), I 
cant really rely on Mr Cs recollections of the sale as being fully accurate. Furthermore, on 
one of the PPIQs that he has submitted, Mr C has said that he had no knowledge that he 
had been sold PPI. Clearly these two accounts are inconsistent with each other. 
I cant know for sure what took place during the sale. And given the length of time since the 
sale, AIB no longer have all the documents available. This is understandable given the 
length of time since the sale. However, AIB have provided us with sample documents from 
the year of the sale. And I have relied on these to help me decide how PPI is more likely to 
have been presented during the sale.   In particular, Ive seen a sample credit application form. This had two equally clear options to 
take or refuse PPI. If Yes hadnt been selected at this point, then it doesnt appear to me 
that PPI would have been added to the account. 
So, based on the evidence available to me, I think its more likely that AIB presented the PPI 
as optional and that it was only applied to the account because Mr C chose to take it out.
AIB say they didnt advise Mr C to take PPI. And I havent seen sufficient evidence to think 
otherwise. Lack of advice in this context means AIB didnt have to check if the PPI was 
suitable for Mr C. But AIB did have to give Mr C clear information about the PPI  about the 
costs, benefits and main exclusions in the policy  so that he could make an informed 
decision about whether to take it out.
I appreciate what Mr C has told us about the higher/increased repayments and that he 
couldnt afford the repayments. But again, this appears to have been in the context of his 
mortgage repayments. In any event, I can see from the sample credit agreement that the 
costs of the PPI would have been set out separately to the loan repayments. The agreement 
set out what the cost of the PPI premium was and the amount of interest that would be 
charged as well as the total cost of the policy. So, I think Mr C would have been aware of 
how much the PPI cost him. It would have then been for Mr C to decide whether it was 
affordable for him. 
Although the costs of the policy were made clear to him, its possible that the other 
information AIB were required to highlight at the time of the sale wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But this doesnt mean the policy was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider 
whether better information would have put him off taking it out. And I dont think it would 
have. I say this because:
 
Mr C has told us he wasnt entitled to any enhanced sick pay and had no other 
means of meeting his repayments. He would only have been entitled to statutory sick 
pay (SSP). The PPI would have paid out in addition to the SSP and for a longer 
period. The PPI would also have paid out if he became involuntarily unemployed.
 
Mr C doesnt appear to have been affected by the terms in the policy which would 
have made it difficult for him to make a successful claim under the policy. So it looks 
like he could have made a successful claim under the policy if the need arose.
 
Although the policy wouldnt have provided a pro-rata refund if cancelled early, the 
loan was for a relatively short period and there is no indication that Mr C intended to 
settle the loan early. 
 
So, having taken everything into consideration, I dont think AIB mis-sold Mr C this PPI 
policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint against AIB Group (UK) Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2020.Navneet Sher
Ombudsman