DRN-2140178
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a store 
card in September 2001. 
The policy was sold in a store and AXA IARD France IARD (AXA) has taken responsibility 
for the sale. 
background
Mr B says AXA mis-sold him the PPI. Our adjudicator reviewed the complaint and thought 
Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. He explained to AXA that as the policy didnt cover 
sickness claims if they resulted from a health problem the consumer already had when they 
bought the policy, so the PPI was wrong for Mr B. This was because Mr B had an existing 
health issue at time of sale. Our adjudicator explained that it was important for Mr B to have 
been aware of this exclusion when he was sold the policy. He said that the restriction wasnt 
made clear to Mr B as if it had been, he wouldnt have taken out the policy. 
AXA responded explaining that Mr Bs condition was well managed and there was nothing to 
indicate this condition was so severe that it affected Mr Bs ability to work. It also explained 
that Mr B wouldve been covered for other health issues. 
As no agreement could be reached the case was referred to me  an ombudsman  for a 
final decision to be issued. 
I sent Mr B and AXA my provisional decision to explain why I didnt think I should uphold Mr 
Bs complaint. And I said Id consider anything else they wanted to give me  so long as I 
received it by 5 September 2020. AXA had nothing further to add. Mr B replied with further 
points which Ive addressed below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs case.
I appreciate Mr B feels strongly about his complaint and this decision will come as a
disappointment. Mr B has provided us with some more details about his health condition and 
I have considered them carefully. But taking into account all the available evidence, I dont 
think AXA mis-sold Mr B his PPI policy. Ive attached my provisional decision below, and 
hope that along with my final decision addresses his concerns.
In response to my provisional decisions Mr B has explained that nothing was discussed 
about the PPI. He says that whilst he signed the form the PPI was never explained to him 
and AXA failed in their duty of care by not explaining the PPI to him clearly. Ive considered 
Mr Bs comments. But looking at the evidence available I think the layout of the application 
form and the fact he signed separately for the PPI shows that the PPI was a separate and 
optional product. As explained in my provisional decision I cant be sure what was discussed 
at the time Mr B took out the PPI. So, I have to make a finding based on the evidence I do 
have and I think its more likely that the discussions at the time wouldve reflected the details 
on the form. 
Mr B has also referred to other similar cards with PPI claims. He says they have been 
successful because he was led to believe the PPI was not optional. Each case is assessed 
by our service on an individual basis and the outcome is determined by many factors. I cant 
comment on Mr Bs other cards and PPI claims. In this particular case I think its most likely 
AXA did enough to highlight the optional nature of the PPI.
Mr B has also provided some further details about the health condition he had at the time of 
sale. He has provided information which states that the condition can have an impact on an 
individuals ability to work in the long term. I appreciate the condition Mr B had could vary in 
severity and have a significant impact on someones ability to work. But Mr B hasnt provided 
any further details about how his condition affected him and whether he had a prolonged 
period of time off work due to it. Mr B has explained how he manged his condition and that 
he would sometimes need a day off work because of it. But from what hes told us it doesnt 
seem the condition meant Mr B would have an extended period of time off work in one go. 
So, this additional information doesnt change my view that the PPI would still have been of 
use to Mr B. And I think if AXA had provided more information at the time it was sold to Mr B 
about exclusions I think its likely Mr B would have still taken out the cover. I say this 
because I think the policy couldve still provided useful cover for other health conditions or if 
Mr B lost his job.  
Ive thought about everything Mr B has said, but this hasnt changed my mind about not
upholding his complaint. I hope my decision clearly sets out why. Ive copied my provisional 
decision below for Mr Bs reference. 
Provisional decision 
Ive considered the relevant information about Mr Bs complaint. Based on what Ive seen
so far, Im thinking of coming to a different outcome to our adjudicator. So, before I issue my 
final decision I wanted to give everyone a chance to reply.
Ill look at any more comments and evidence that I get by 5 September 2020. But unless
the information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be along the following lines.
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a store 
card in September 2001. 
The policy was sold in a store and AXA IARD France IARD (AXA) has taken responsibility 
for the sale. 
Mr B says AXA mis-sold him the PPI. Our adjudicator reviewed the complaint and thought 
Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. He explained to AXA that as the policy didnt cover 
sickness claims if they resulted from a health problem the consumer already had when they 
bought the policy, so the PPI was wrong for Mr B. This was because Mr B had an existing 
health issue at time of sale. Our adjudicator explained that it was important for Mr B to have 
been aware of this exclusion when he was sold the policy. He said that the restriction wasnt 
made clear to Mr B as if it had been, he wouldnt have taken out the policy. AXA responded explaining that Mr Bs condition was well managed and there was nothing to 
indicate this condition was so severe that it affected Mr Bs ability to work. It also explained 
that Mr B wouldve been covered for other health issues. 
As no agreement could be reached the case was referred to me  an ombudsman  for a 
final decision to be issues. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding
Mr Bs case.
Having done this, Im thinking of not to upholding Mr Bs complaint. I appreciate this will 
come as a disappointment to Mr B. I will explain my reasons below.
AXA shouldve made Mr B aware he had a choice about buying the PPI. Mr B says he 
wasnt aware PPI was being added on. The PPI was sold in store. AXA has provided a copy 
of the application form Mr B completed in store. So, I have considered this alongside Mr Bs 
comments. 
On the application form that was completed at the time there is a separate section called 
Protecting Your Account. This is followed by a statement which reads: Yes, I would like to 
protect my Account with Account Cover. A separate signature is required in this section, 
and on Mr Bs form I can see he has signed the relevant box indicating he wanted the cover. 
If Mr B didnt want the cover he couldve left this section blank, like he had for other sections 
on the form for additional products. I dont know what was discussed at the time Mr B took 
out the card, but I wouldve expected Mr B to read over the form and raise any questions he 
had at the time before signing it.
So based on the evidence Ive been provided, I think its most likely Mr B knew at the time
that the PPI was optional and being added to the card and that he decided to take it. But I 
can understand why he might not recall this now, as the sale took place many years ago.
AXA didnt provide Mr B with advice about whether to buy the policy. So this meant it didnt 
have to check the PPI was suitable for Mr B. But it did have to make sure he got the 
information he needed to decide if it was right for him.
Looking at the application form Mr B completed and from what we know in general about 
how this type of PPI was sold I think the information AXA gave Mr B about the costs, 
benefits and main limitations of the policy wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. So Ive got to 
consider whether better information about the policy wouldve put Mr B off taking it out.
I dont think it would have. Mr B says he had a medical condition at the time of sale and our
adjudicator thought this condition was something that wouldve made it difficult for Mr B to
make a claim on the policy, so he upheld his complaint.
Ive thought carefully about the information Mr B has told us about his condition. Having
done this, I dont have enough evidence that Mr B would have thought this would be the
main reasons he might have needed to claim on the policy in the future. And the policy
wouldve covered him for other things. I say this because Mr B has explained how he 
manged his condition and that he would sometimes need a day off work because of it. But 
from what hes told us it doesnt seem the condition meant Mr B would have an extended 
period of time off work in one go. The policy is intended to cover illnesses which mean the consumer will be off work for at least 30 consecutive days. So, I dont think better information 
about this exclusion wouldve affected Mr Bs decision to take out the policy.
Based on what Ive seen of Mr Bs circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was
affected by any of the other exclusions or limits on the PPI cover.
Mr B says he wouldve received sick pay and redundancy pay from his employer. But the
policy wouldve paid out alongside any employee benefits he might have had. Mr B also
says he didnt have any other means of making his repayments  such as savings. So I think
Mr B would have had a use for the policy.
As I've said above, I know this is going to be a disappointment to Mr B. I've carefully thought 
about everything he's told us. But for the reasons I've explained above, I'm not currently 
minded to uphold his complaint. But I hope my explanation shows how I have reached this 
outcome.  
my final decision
For the reasons Ive given in my provisional decision and final decision, I dont uphold this 
complaint against AXA France IARD.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2020.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman