DRN-2281642
The complaint
Mr L complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited, trading as Legal and General (Fairmead) 
hasnt been fair when it refused to meet a claim he made for storm damage to his roof.  
What happened
Mr L is represented by a relative, but for ease of reading Ill only refer to Mr L. When I do it 
includes anything said or provided by his representative.
In March 2019 there was a storm  and shortly after that Mr L noticed mortar and debris had 
fallen from his roof. It seemed the aerial attached to his chimney had been damaged and it in 
turn had banged against the chimney causing some of the top brickwork to fail.
Mr L approached Fairmead which said it would consider the claim.
Fairmead sent a loss assessor who took photos and then reported back that it believed the 
damage had been caused over a period of time  not just in the storm. Fairmead explained 
to Mr L that this sort of gradually occurring damage was excluded from cover.
Mr L complained, but Fairmead didnt change its position.
Our investigator didnt think Fairmead had shown conclusively that the damage had built up 
over a period of time, so he thought Fairmead should meet the claim. Fairmead doesnt 
agree, so Ive been asked to decide this claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To bring a successful claim a customer has to show the insurer that their property has been 
damaged by whats often called an insured event. In this case Mr L said a storm  one of 
the insured events he has cover for  had caused the damage. Theres no dispute that there 
was a storm about the time the damage was first noticed.
An insurer can refuse to meet a claim if it can show that the damage wasnt, in all likelihood, 
caused by the insured event. But if that refusal is to be fair, the onus rests with the insurer to 
show theres a valid reason to refuse the claim. In this instance Fairmead says the 
photographic evidence shows the chimney stack to be in poor overall condition, and that 
there was only one strap attaching the aerial to the stack. It says that had most likely allowed 
the aerial to bang against the brickwork over a period of time, causing the damage gradually 
- until the storm had highlighted this and the bricks had fallen.
There are three things I look at when deciding complaints like this  was there a storm at the 
time, is the damage typical of storm damage and  the point in question here  was this 
particular damaged caused by the storm in question.
No-one disputes that there was a storm at the time. And a damaged aerial is the sort of 
damage that can occur in a storm. A damaged aerial being blown around by high winds 
could cause the top elements of a chimney to fail.
That leaves the third  and often the most contentious  point. Mr Ls builder has provided a 
cost estimate for re-building the chimney after storm damage. Fairmead quite rightly says 
theres no indication on either the quote or invoice for the work that suggests exactly when 
the damage occurred. It thinks its evidence shows the damage occurred over time. Im not 
persuaded Fairmead has made a strong enough case to show me it need not meet the 
claim. I say this because some of Fairmeads argument relies upon photos taken of Mr Ls 
house some time ago as part of a national mapping service.  Ive looked at them but they 
dont convince me the aerial was leaning as Fairmead says, as the angle and quality of the 
pictures isnt very good.
Ive looked also at the photos from the contractor sent by Fairmead. Again these were taken 
from ground level. Fairmead says they show the whole of the chimney stack was in poor 
condition  including missing mortar. I dont think the photos show this conclusively. One of 
the pieces of mortar referred to as missing could in fact, simply be in shadow. I agree there 
are signs of repairs  but thats to be expected given the age of the property, and suggests 
maintenance rather than anything else. I dont think signs of maintenance means the stack 
was failing. I also dont find the comments on the aerial fixings to be very helpful, given that 
they are speculative  for example theres a commentary on how the aerial might or might 
not have been fixed to the chimney. 
Taking everything into account Im not persuaded Fairmead has provided the level of 
evidence Id expect to see if it was relying on a gradual damage exclusion to refuse the 
when there clearly had been a storm immediately before the damage occurred.
Fairmead did acknowledge it didnt handle this claim as well as it should have and offered 
£100 compensation for this. Having looked at the delays in the claim, this amount seems 
reasonable. 
Putting things right
Fairmead should meet Mr Ls claim subject to any other relevant terms and conditions in the 
policy (for example any excesses). It should do so by paying Mr L the value of the invoice he 
sent in, as understandably hes had the work done. I also think Mr L has been deprived of 
the use of this money unnecessarily, so Fairmead should add interest* at 8% simple per 
annum to make up for this. 
My final decision
 My decision is that I uphold this complaint. Fairmead Insurance Limited, trading as Legal and General should now meet Mr Ls claim. It should add interest* to any settlement at 8% 
simple per annum from the date Mr L paid his invoice to the date of settlement. It must also 
pay him £100 compensation for the way it handled the claim, if it hasnt already done so.
* HMRC will require Fairmead to deduct tax from any interest before paying Mr L. Fairmead 
must provide a tax receipt for this if Mr L asks for one. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman