DRN-3871841
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain about the time Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) took 
to pay a claim under their landlord rent guarantee insurance policy. 
Where I refer to RSA, this includes the actions of its agents and claims handlers for which it 
takes responsibility. 
What happened
In September 2021, Mr and Mrs Ls tenants fell into arrears on the insured property  so they 
made a claim under their insurance policy for the unpaid rent and to evict the tenants. RSA 
accepted the claim and agreed to cover the rent each month starting from January 2022.
Mr and Mrs L complain about the time it took RSA to pay the rent each month. They say they 
had to chase continuously which has caused a considerable amount of distress at an 
already difficult time of having to evict their tenants. Furthermore, their bank account has 
been overdrawn during this time as they depend on the rental income to pay their bills. 
RSA upheld the complaint and offered compensation of £75 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. But Mr and Mrs L didnt think this was enough to put things right, so 
they brought their complaint to our service. 
Our Investigator agreed that the compensation offered was too low for what went wrong. He 
recommended that RSA increase it to £200 and to ensure that monthly payments are made 
promptly going forward. 
RSA agreed to this, but Mr and Mrs L didnt  they still consider the compensation to be 
below a fair amount for the impact theyve suffered. As such, the complaint has been passed 
to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) 
requires insurers to handle claims promptly and fairly. Looking at the timeline provided, Im 
not satisfied RSA has done that. And this isnt in dispute  RSA accept that there have been 
delays. 
So I dont need to decide whether RSA has done something wrong  it has. What I need to 
decide is whether it has done enough to put things right. To do so, Ive thought about the 
impact these delays have had on Mr and Mrs L. 
Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs L wouldve been caused some additional distress by these 
delays. I can see that, despite promptly providing the information RSA needed each month, 
theyve had to chase multiple times before receiving the money. Ive no doubt this wouldve 
exacerbated an already difficult situation in which they were undergoing legal proceedings to 
evict their tenant.
Mr and Mrs L tell us that theyve been overdrawn on their bank account because they rely on 
the rent to pay their bills. I appreciate this wouldve been difficult for them, but Im not 
persuaded I can attribute this impact to RSA. I say this because its the tenants that have 
failed to pay the rent on time, so I think Mr and Mrs Ls account wouldve always been 
impacted. But I do agree that RSAs slow reaction to the claim has caused them to be in 
their overdraft longer than they shouldve been.
Taking everything into account, I agree with our Investigator that £200 is fair compensation 
for the impact RSAs actions have had on Mr and Mrs L. I appreciate they dont agree, but 
compensation isnt intended to fine or punish RSA for wrongdoing, nor is it to compensate 
for the problems caused by the actions of the tenants or by having to bring the claim itself. 
Its to recognise the impact experienced which, from what Ive seen, is limited to distress and 
inconvenience.
To clarify, Im looking at the delays between January 2022 when the first payment was due 
to May 2022 when Mr and Mrs L raised their complaint. If these delays have continued each 
month since May 2022, theyre entitled to raise a new complaint to RSA which can be 
escalated to our service if unresolved.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs L compensation of £200. This should be made within 
28 days of Mr and Mrs Ls acceptance of this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman