DRN-3200534
The complaint
Mr B complains iGO4 Limited (iGO4) failed to cancel his motor Insurance policy as he 
requested.
There are several parties and representatives of iGO4 involved throughout the claim but for 
the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to iGO4.
What happened
Mr B had a motor insurance policy with iGO4. The policy was on a credit agreement and due 
to be paid over the term of the insurance policy.
During the term of his insurance he contacted iGO4 and requested a quote for his son to be 
added as an additional driver. iGO4 was unable to accept the change requested, so no 
quote was provided.
As iGO4 was unable to insure his son Mr B emailed it to cancel his policy. iGO4 responded 
with a breakdown of how to cancel if he was to proceed.
Mr B emailed again to confirm cancellation, but as this was not from an email registered with 
iGO4, it replied back to him requesting he re-sent the request from the registered email 
address, or he phone them to process the cancellation. 
Mr B sent two more emails to confirm cancellation of his policy. iGO4 replied to these emails 
to say it could not accept the instruction from the email addresses used as it was still not 
from an email address registered on his policy. iGO4 requested him to email from the 
registered email so it could process his request as soon as possible. 
The policy was eventually cancelled by iGO4 due to non-payment of Mr Bs direct debit. 
iGO4 require Mr B to settle the amount due on the credit agreement up to this time.
As Mr B as not happy with iGO4, he brought the complaint to our service. 
Mr B wants iGO4 to accept his original email as authorisation to cancel his policy and to 
credit the overdue amount that is showing on his account. 
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He looked into the case and did not think 
iGO4 had done anything wrong and it was correct to ask for Mr B to request the cancellation 
using the registered email or call its customer service team to action the request.
As Mr B is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I checked the information provided when Mr B requested a quote for his son to be added to 
his policy and saw that iGO4 were unable to quote.
Mr B obtained alternative insurance cover from another provider who were able to include 
his son on the policy. He sent an email on 26 April 2021 to request iGO4 cancel his policy 
with immediate effect.  
iGO4 replied back to Mr B and gave detail about cancellation costs and instructions on how 
to cancel. 
Mr B emailed again and confirmed he wanted the policy to be cancelled. iGO4 did not cancel 
the policy as the request to cancel had not come from the registered email address.
I checked the email registered on file by iGO4 and the addresses of the email requests to 
cancel from Mr B and found they were not the same.
I looked at a number of emails between Mr B and iGO4. I saw on receipt of Mr Bs 
cancellation requests from emails it didnt recognise, iGO4 sent emails back to him informing 
it could not accept the request from the email address used and to ask him to email from the 
registered email address it held on file. It also gave the option for him to phone so it could 
process his request to cancel his policy. The contact phone number was provided.
Mr B said he did phone iGO4 but never got through due to being kept waiting in queues. I 
can imagine this was frustrating for him. As iGO4 provided Mr B with timely responses to 
every email he submitted, I think  if there was a reason he was unable to use the registered 
email address to request cancellation of his policy, he could have let iGO4 know this reason 
via email. I have no reason to believe it wouldnt have replied to an email, because it replied 
to all his other emails. An alternative way forward could then have been agreed.
Due to Mr B still not contacting iGO4 from the registered email it held on file or phoning, it 
still did not cancel his policy.  
When iGO4 tried to collect the due direct debit payment in June 2021 it was declined by Mr 
Bs bank. iGO4 contacted him by email to inform him the direct debit had failed and the 
credit agreement had been cancelled. The policy was finally cancelled by iGO4 due to non-
payment. 
Mr B was given a settlement figure of £81.70 to pay to iGO4. However it said if Mr B 
submitted a copy of his new insurance policy for his car it would be able to backdate the 
cancellation from the start date of the new policy, which he said was the start of May 2021.
Mr B submitted a copy of the new motor insurance policy for the car. iGO4 said it could not 
accept the evidence of the new insurance policy for the car as it was in his sons name and 
not his. It said to enable it to accept the start date of the motor insurance policy for the car in 
his sons name, it required proof of sale of the car to his son. Mr B felt this was 
unreasonable. 
Mr B was not happy and said he had cancelled the policy several weeks ago and he 
wouldnt be paying anything. As I have previously stated as this request to cancel was from 
an email not registered to his policy, iGO4 had not cancelled it.  I accept that Mr B expected his policy to be cancelled at the point he sent his first email, but I 
have seen that iGO4 were clear to him, on several occasions, that it had not been able to 
cancel it as his requests were all from unknown email addresses.  
I dont think iGO4 acted unfairly or unreasonably when requesting him to use the email it 
held on file to cancel his policy. For data security reasons the source of the request has to 
be verified. iGO4 advised Mr B on several occasions his policy was still active and requested 
for the cancellation to be sent from his registered email address.
I think that iGO4 were fair in its offer to Mr B to backdate the cancellation on receipt of proof 
of a policy elsewhere. As the evidence of insurance was in a different name, I agree that it 
was correct in its request to see proof of sale of the car to prove ownership before it could 
accept it.
I do not think that iGO4 have been unreasonable in this case and therefore, I dont uphold 
Mr Bs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman