DRN-2830829
The complaint
This is a complaint that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI) to Mr and Mrs P. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1994 to cover a loan. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr and Mrs P disagreed 
with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive considered what Mr and Mrs P have said, but Ive decided not to uphold their complaint. 
I will explain why.
The sale took place about 27 years ago and so, not surprisingly, there are no original 
documents surviving about the sale of the PPI or the loan. Also, I wouldnt expect someone 
to recall in detail everything that happened so long ago, so it can be difficult to know whether 
its fair to rely fully on everything they remember. Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the 
evidence when considering the case and trying to reach a fair decision. 
Mr and Mrs P say that pressure was put on them to take PPI and they were made to 
understand that not taking PPI could affect whether theyd get the loan. 
The overall problem is that I dont have strong enough evidence to uphold Mr and Mrs Ps 
complaint on this point. It wouldnt be fair to make Nationwide prove it didnt do something 
wrong, especially when it was so long ago  instead, fairly, I would need reasonable 
evidence to show that it probably did do something wrong. And I cant say that there is that 
kind of evidence.
One problem I have, in making a decision on this, is that I couldnt know the exact words 
used by the adviser and the tone in which they were said. It isnt necessarily wrong to 
strongly set out the possible benefits of an insurance policy, even if the adviser is partly 
motivated by making a sale  as long as the policy is actually something worth having and it 
is clear the customer still has a choice. The closer it gets to making someone feel they have 
no real sensible alternative to taking the policy, the less acceptable it is. But, as I say, I cant 
be sure exactly what was said. And it wouldnt be fair to say Nationwide did something 
wrong unless I had stronger evidence of this. 
I dont think Nationwide recommended the PPI as being particularly suitable for 
Mr and Mrs Ps individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted their 
circumstances. It would have been for Mr and Mrs P to decide if it was suitable for them and 
worth the cost. 
Its difficult now to know how well Nationwide explained the PPI. Its possible the information 
Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been. But I 
dont think full information about costs and benefits is likely to have affected whether they 
took the PPI. I say this because, in their circumstances, its unlikely this would have made 
the PPI seem less useful. The PPI would have paid out on top of any work sick pay or 
redundancy pay, and could have made Mr and Mrs P more financially secure if they lost 
earnings due to long-term sickness or redundancy. And it doesnt look like theyd have been 
affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy. 
Overall, I dont have strong enough evidence to say this PPI policy was mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman