DRN-3115803
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy with the way UK Insurance Limited (UKI) has settled his travel insurance 
claim.
What happened
Mr E has travel insurance which is provided through his bank account. This is insured by 
UKI.
In September 2019 Mr E booked accommodation for a celebration in April 2020. The 
accommodation was a large cottage which Mr E paid for himself, but he invited 19 guests to 
come and stay with him. As a result of the Covid-19 pandemic and the restrictions 
introduced on travel by the UK government that were put into place in March 2020, Mr E 
cancelled the booking and made a claim to UKI.
The claim was accepted, and a settlement made. However, UKI paid just part of the claimed 
amount as it said the policy only provided cover for his portion of the unused costs. As the 
other people who were due to stay with him were not insured on the policy, it said the policy 
didnt cover their proportion of the costs, even if it was paid as a gift.
Unhappy with this response, Mr E complained to UKI and brought his complaint to this 
service. He said that the accommodation wasnt booked based on the number of occupants, 
it was just one large holiday cottage, and therefore he should be able to claim the full 
amount. He also commented that the clause in the policy which UKI is referring to was only 
added in November 2019, which was after he made the holiday booking. So, Mr E thinks this 
exclusion shouldnt be applicable to his trip and his claim should be considered using the 
previous policy from January 2019.
Our investigator looked into the matter but didnt uphold the complaint. She found that UKI 
had fairly assessed the claim, based on the policy exclusion. And she said there wasnt any 
disparity between the two versions of the policy - she didnt think it was unreasonable for UKI 
to use the later version of the policy wording when considering the claim, which had been 
made after the new version came out.
Mr E disagreed with our investigators opinion. As no agreement could be reached the 
matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is important to point out that were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free 
alternative to the courts for consumers. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I 
consider to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting on every issue or point made 
in turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mr E. Rather it reflects the informal nature of 
our service, its remit and my role in it.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. UKI has settled some of the claim - so the 
circumstances of the claim are not in dispute. But what I need to consider is whether UKI 
has acted fairly when reaching its settlement figure.
UKI has said the full amount isnt covered as the cancellation section contains an exclusion 
relating to the unused costs for any people not insured under the policy. The relevant part of 
the policy states the following:
You are not covered for
We wont pay for
10. The unused costs of any person who is not insured by this policy. If you are 
travelling with someone who is not insured under this policy, we will only pay your 
portion of any costs even if you have paid their costs as a gift.
Mr E has said that he paid for the accommodation cost himself and invited 19 other people 
to come and stay with him as part of a celebration. As these other individuals were going to 
be staying in the property, it seems likely to me that the need to be able to accommodate 
this number of guests would have been one of the main reasons Mr E would have booked 
this size of property. So, I think it is fair to say the cost of that cottage should be spread 
across all those who were due to travel, even though they were not paying for it. Taking this 
into account Im persuaded that this exclusion would apply and therefore UKI has acted 
within the terms and conditions when refusing to pay the full amount Mr E has paid for the 
cottage.
Ive noted Mr Es argument that this exclusion wasnt included in the policy wording which 
was in force at the time he made the booking and therefore he thinks it is unfair for UKI to 
rely on this term when settling his claim. 
I can appreciate Mr Es point here but even accepting that the earlier policy terms should be 
used, this wouldnt result in a change in the settlement of the claim. I say this because the 
policy wording from January 2019 includes the following similar term under the cancellation 
section:
What you are not covered for (exclusions)
18. The proportion of unused expenses of a person who is not insured under this 
policy, regardless of who has paid for the booking.
This exclusion would also apply to Mr Es circumstances, meaning UKI would still only be 
responsible for paying his proportion of the full cost. So, Im satisfied Mr E has not been 
disadvantaged - regardless of which policy terms apply to his claim.
Mr E has commented that he believes this cost should be treated in the same way as a 
wedding venue or other such event space in the sense that the price is the same regardless 
of the number of people who attend. I can understand his view, but insurers are entitled to 
decide what they will and wont provide cover for. Exclusions of the type which Ive outlined 
above are relatively common in travel insurance policies, as insurers dont generally wish to 
provide cover for any share of costs which relate to other parties who are not insured under 
the policy. So, I dont think these exclusions are particularly significant, or unusual. On the 
basis he has confirmed the intention was for these other individuals to use the 
accommodation too, Im persuaded that the exclusions detailed above apply in his 
circumstances. I therefore dont require UKI to do anything more.My final decision
For the reasons detailed above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman