DRN-3730128
The complaint
Mr F complains U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line (UKI) unfairly declined a claim 
against his pet insurance policy. 
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to all parties so I wont repeat it here. In my 
decision Ill mainly focus on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I have. 
Mr F complains UKI unfairly declined a claim for treatment costs under his pet insurance 
policy after his dog suffered ear problems in 2022. He says his dog had ear problems in 
2015 and was diagnosed with allergic skin conditions in 2016. But his own vet said the 
2015/16 ear condition isnt related to the 2022 ear condition. 
Mr F also says several years have passed since his dog first suffered ear problems so they 
cant be related. 
UKI say although the two ear conditions that occurred years apart arent related, the 2022 
ear condition was secondary to the underlying skin allergy conditions diagnosed in 2016. So, 
they declined the claim. Mr F wasnt happy and approached our service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend it be upheld. He said Mr Fs policy had a claim limit of 
£4,000 per condition or up to 12 months of cover from the first date of treatment. He was 
more persuaded the 2022 ear condition was a recurring condition, so he didnt think UKI 
declined the claim unfairly. Mr F didnt agree, so the case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F held a pet insurance policy for his dog which covered treatment, amongst other things, 
up to £4,000 per condition or for 12 months from the first treatment date. UKI say treatment 
for allergic skin conditions took place previously and Mr F had cover for treatment for this 
condition in place until November 2016. And as the 2022 ear condition was secondary to the 
underlying allergic skin conditions, the claim wasnt paid. 
Mr F, however, says the 2015/16 ear condition isnt linked to the 2022 ear condition hes 
claimed treatment costs for. To support this, he says the treating vet wrote to UKI to confirm 
this. For clarity, they said I can confirm that the ear condition currently being claimed for 
from 21st January 2022  28th February 2022 is not related to the ear problem dating back to 
26 February 2016. 2016 was a yeast infection (Malassezia) 2022 was a bacterial infection. 
[Mr Fs dog] has not been seen for any ear problems between 2016 and 2022. 
I think the treating vets comments supports the first ear problem dating back to 2015  a 
yeast infection  didnt cause the 2022 ear bacterial infection. But the claim notes suggest 
UKI agree with this statement. What UKI say, however, is the two ear conditions were 
secondary to the underlying skin allergy conditions Mr Fs dog was diagnosed with in 2016. 
UKI say the signs and symptoms of a dog with allergic skin conditions includes issues with 
the ears and skin. They also say the condition can be controlled with treatment but can recur 
much later  in other areas of the body. The clinical notes suggest the treating vet thought 
Mr Fs dogs condition was being well-controlled in 2016. 
The policy defines a recurring condition as A condition that may come back or that the pet 
is prone to, no matter how many times the condition comes back or how many areas of the 
body are affected. I dont think the fact the two ear conditions occurred roughly six years 
apart makes a material difference here. I say this because the policy says a recurring 
condition is considered recurring regardless of the number of times it comes back, or how 
many areas of the body are affected. 
Overall, whilst I agree Mr F has provided supporting evidence to show the 2015/16 ear 
condition didnt cause the 2022 ear condition  and they arent the same condition  I dont 
think his evidence is conclusive that the ear condition subject to the 2022 claim isnt 
secondary to his dogs underlying skin allergy conditions diagnosed in 2016. 
Ive reviewed the clinical records which also suggest the treating vet advised Mr F in 2022 
that his dogs right ear inflammation is likely a repeating issue, and as such they would 
repeat the treatment that took place previously. This in my view suggests there is a link 
between Mr Fs dogs previous diagnosis and treatment, and the 2022 claim. 
To summarise, I accept this is a finely balanced case. And whilst Ive been persuaded the 
first ear condition didnt directly cause the second condition, I havent been persuaded by Mr 
F to agree the 2022 ear condition wasnt secondary to his dogs underlying allergic skin 
conditions. As above, the policy covered Mr F for treatment, amongst other things, up to 
£4,000 per condition or for 12 months which ended in November 2016. So, I wont require 
UKI to meet the claim because Im more persuaded this was a recurring condition.  
I accept my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr F. But my decision ends what we  
in attempting to resolve his dispute with UKI  can do for him. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive mentioned above, my final decision is I dont uphold it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2022.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman