DRN-3380795
The complaint
Mr C complains that Suffolk Life Pensions Limited delayed the transfer of his pension and as 
a result he suffered a substantial loss in the value of the investments held in his self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP).
What happened
Mr C had a SIPP with Suffolk Life, which dealt with it on an execution-only basis (meaning it 
simply dealt with the administration of the SIPP). On 24 February 2020 Suffolk Life received 
a request for a transfer to another provider. Mr C intended to set up a capped drawdown 
plan once the funds had been transferred to the new provider.
The transfer was completed in early April 2020. Mr C complained that Suffolk Life caused 
the transfer to be delayed. In the time taken for the process to be completed, the value of his 
investments had fallen by around £35,000. He wanted to be compensated for this loss.
Suffolk Life did not uphold his complaint. It said: 
the initial request wasnt enough for the transfer to proceed and it had emailed Mr C 
with further documents that needed to be signed;
it received all the information needed on 11 March and requested disinvestment of 
the funds two working days later;
it had dealt with things in a reasonable time. 
When Mr C brought his complaint to this service, our investigator didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld. They agreed that Suffolk Life had dealt with things in a reasonable time. 
Mr C doesnt agree and has requested an ombudsmans decision. Hes been supported in 
pursuing this by his financial adviser.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C complains that he has suffered a loss due to delays by Suffolk Life. Ive looked 
carefully at what happened at each stage of the process, to see if there was any 
unreasonable delay.
Suffolk Life received a request from the new provider on 20 February 2020. It says it couldnt 
proceed on this basis as it needed discharge forms to be signed by Mr C, unless the transfer 
was being done electronically. 
The letter enclosed forms signed by Mr C and his financial adviser. The documents included 
a statement that:
You will need to complete and attach a discharge form from each provider unless the 
transfer is being processed using the Options Transfer Service. Your financial adviser will be 
able to help you with this.
The transfer wasnt requested through the electronic transfer service. So I think it was 
reasonable for Suffolk Life to request signed discharge forms from Mr C. Suffolk Life 
reviewed the request within five working days and emailed Mr C on 2 March, enclosing the 
forms for him to sign. I think that was a reasonable time to deal with this. 
On 10 March, Mr Cs financial adviser contacted Suffolk Life and was told the transfer 
couldnt proceed as Mr C hadnt returned the completed forms, unless the request was made 
through the electronic system. The adviser said there had been a request through that 
system which hadnt been processed. However, weve had confirmation there had not been 
such a request before then. 
Suffolk Life received a request through the transfer service the following day, 11 March. It 
requested disinvestment of the funds two days later. The funds were received on 24 March. 
Suffolk Life processed this on 31 March, five working days later, and the new provider 
received the funds on 1 April.
Looking at the above sequence of events, Im satisfied Suffolk Life dealt with each stage 
within a reasonable time and dont think there was any unnecessary delay. I appreciate there 
was a large drop in value during that period, but that was due to market conditions at the 
time. Any loss was not due to delays by Suffolk Life.
Mr Cs financial adviser has questioned why Suffolk Life sent the discharge forms to Mr C 
rather than to them. They say Suffolk Life had consent to deal with them. Although they had 
previously sent a letter of authority signed by Mr C, that only gave permission for Suffolk Life 
to provide information they had requested about his pension; it wasnt an authority for them 
to act on his behalf. So I think it was reasonable to send the forms to Mr C.
And although they said Suffolk Life had previously told the new provider (incorrectly) that it 
wouldnt be possible to use the electronic system until March, it hasnt been able to provide 
evidence of this. 
Taking all the above circumstances into account, I think Suffolk Life dealt with things in a 
reasonable way, so Im not upholding the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman