DRN-2736529
The complaint
Mr M complains Zurich Insurance PLC acted unfairly by declining to cover his out of pocket 
expenses, following an escape of water claim under his buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr M is the leaseholder of a property he rents out, and the building is insured by Zurich. The 
property is managed by a letting agent and a guaranteed rent agreement was in place. This 
means Mr M receives rent whether a tenant is in situ or not, unless the property is deemed 
uninhabitable. 
Mr Ms tenant had to leave the property in 2019 as it was deemed uninhabitable. This was 
due to an escape of water. Mr M employed a private engineer to locate the source of the 
issue, which was found to be from the communal soil stack. 
There were delays during the process of repairs being carried out to the communal soil 
stack. However, these repairs were completed in October 2019. Mr M then raised a claim 
with Zurich for damage caused to his property. 
Zurich accepted the claim and completed the repairs in March 2020. Mr M said he was 
satisfied with the quality of these repairs. He then requested reimbursement of his out of 
pocket expenses. These included: the engineers call-out charge, electric costs, loss of rent 
and council tax. Mr M also said Zurich caused delays when returning the property keys to 
him which caused further financial loss.  
Zurich reimbursed some electric costs whilst the property was being dried as well as the loss 
of rent between July 2019 to March 2020. But they said the engineers call-out charge and 
council tax wouldnt be reimbursed under the policy. Zurich also said their contractors held a 
spare key and a delay occurred in returning these to Mr M due to the pandemic. Mr M felt 
Zurich should pay him for the loss of rent and council tax paid due to this delay, but Zurich 
disagreed. 
Mr M said hed had a telephone conversation with Zurich in April 2020 and was promised 
these costs would be reimbursed as part of the claim. As Zurich maintained the costs 
wouldnt be reimbursed, Mr M raised a complaint.  
As part of the complaint, Zurich paid Mr M £150 compensation for the lack of communication 
during the claim. However, they maintained their decision not to reimburse the additional 
costs to Mr M. 
Mr M wasnt happy about this. He said his tenant moved out due to no fault of his own. And 
the rent and council tax was never his responsibility but for the loss. And, as Zurich promised 
to cover these costs, he remained of the view Zurich should reimburse him. As Mr M 
remained unhappy, he brought a complaint this service. 
An investigator here considered the complaint and initially recommended it should be 
upheld. She felt Zurich should reimburse the council tax Mr M paid between July 2019 to 
March 2020, as Mr M wasnt responsible for this cost prior to the loss. She didnt think Zurich 
should cover Mr Ms loss of rent or council tax between March and May 2020. As she didnt 
think Zurich were responsible for Mr M not accessing the property. She also didnt think 
Zurich should reimburse the engineers call-out charge under the policy. 
Zurich didnt agree. They said the policy doesnt provide cover for every eventuality including 
consequential losses. They did agree the April 2020 call with Mr M could have been clearer 
about what costs would be reimbursed, but in any event, they didnt agree Mr M was 
promised these costs back. They said Mr M would be liable for these under these 
circumstances. 
Our investigator considered what Zurich said and changed her opinion on the matter. She 
didnt think Zurich had acted unfairly and therefore didnt recommend they do anything 
further. Mr M wasnt happy our investigator changed her opinion and remained of the view 
that Zurich should reimburse the additional costs to him. 
Mr M didnt agree with our investigators view and asked for an ombudsman decide. So, its 
now been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Zurich reimbursed the loss of rent between July 2019 and March 2020 as the policy covers 
this. What remains in dispute here is whether Zurich should also reimburse the council tax 
Mr M paid between this period under the policy. Mr M also thinks Zurich should cover the 
loss of rent and council tax paid between March and May 2020 as Zurich caused delays in 
returning the keys to him. Ive gone onto consider this and for ease of reading Ive used sub-
headings below to set out my findings. 
Council tax between July 2019 and March 2020
Mr M provided evidence to support hes not responsible for the council tax when the property 
is being managed by the letting agent. For clarity, when a tenant is in situ, its the 
responsibility of the tenant to pay the council tax. And when the property is unoccupied 
whilst under management, the responsibility is with the letting agent to pay the council tax. 
So, I accept Mr Ms argument that  but for the loss which gave rise to the claim  he wasnt 
responsible for the council tax whilst the property was under management. But management 
ended in July 2019 when the property was deemed uninhabitable. 
As the property was deemed uninhabitable due to the loss, Mr M thinks Zurich are 
responsible for the council tax during the above period. But I dont agree with Mr M and Ill 
explain why. 
The policy sets out what Mr M is entitled to following a successful claim, and the general 
exclusions and conditions. The policy doesnt provide cover for all eventualities. For clarity, 
the relevant part of the policy in this case says: 
3 Loss of rent and alternative accommodation 
If the Buildings become uninhabitable as a result of an insured risk We will 
reimburse: 
a) the amount of rent lost by You; b) ground rent which continues to be payable by You; 
c) the reasonable additional expense of comparable alternative accommodation by 
You, Your Family and Your pets; 
for the period necessary for reinstatement so long as the work is done without delay. 
Our payment in total will not exceed 20% of the Sum Insured. 
With the above in mind, Im not in agreement Zurich acted unfairly by declining to reimburse 
Mr M for the council tax paid between the period of July 2019 to March 2020. This is 
because the policy doesnt say its something Mr M is entitled to following the property being 
deemed uninhabitable. I appreciate this will come to disappoint Mr M as I accept the tenant  
who was responsible for these costs prior to the loss  had to leave Mr Ms property through 
no fault of Mr Ms. And the letting agent wouldnt cover these costs due to the property being 
deemed uninhabitable. But the policy doesnt cover this and so I wont be requiring Zurich to 
reimburse these costs as part of the claim. 
Whether Zurich agreed to reimburse Mr Ms costs in April 2020
Mr M says Zurich promised to reimburse these further costs during a telephone call which 
took place in April 2020. To consider Mr Ms argument here, Ive listened to the call. And 
having done so, I accept the agent says its likely Zurich would cover the council tax as it 
was an expense Mr M would incur as a result of the loss that gave rise to the claim. 
However, the agent also says its something Zurich would need to consider further, and they 
couldnt definitively say it would be covered as part of the claim. 
I think Mr Ms expectations could have been managed better here as  whilst the agent 
explained its something that needed further consideration  they said its likely it would be 
covered by Zurich as part of the claim. However, I dont think this means Zurich should meet 
the council tax costs Mr M incurred due to this. This is because Im not persuaded an 
agreement was made between Mr M and Zurich that the council tax paid would be 
reimbursed as part of the claim. Though as above, I do think Mr Ms expectations could have 
been managed better here.
So, I wont be requiring Zurich to reimburse the council tax costs due to the phone call in 
April 2020. 
The delays in Mr M receiving the keys
Mr M also complained about the time it took Zurich to return the set of keys used by the 
contractors to carry out repairs. The repairs were completed in March 2020 and Mr M 
received the keys back in May 2020. 
Zurich asked for further comment from the contractors regarding the delay. They said this 
was due to the pandemic as the keys were left in the office and the contractors were unable, 
for a period, to visit the office to return the keys. I appreciate Mr Ms frustration here as Ive 
seen he chased the contractors several times and was provided with inaccurate information 
about when the keys would be returned. I note Mr M also contacted Zurich in April 2020 to 
request the keys be returned. Ive gone onto consider this and the impact this had on Mr M. 
Mr M said as a result of the delays, he lost out on rent between March 2020 and May 2020 
and continued to pay council tax. 
In April 2020, Mr M contacted Zurich to request they chase the contractors as he hadnt received the keys. Mr M explains during a call a family member had access to the property 
at the time the contractors held the keys. Though he explains the family member had been 
impacted by the pandemic also, he said they were able to visit the property whilst Mr M 
hadnt received the keys from the contractor. During this call, Mr M also says he was unable 
to put the property back on the market to find a tenant. 
Having carefully considered this, its my view on balance that Mr M had access to the 
property during the time the keys were being held by the contractors between March 2020 
and May 2020. Ive not been persuaded Mr M was solely reliant on the set of keys he was 
waiting to be returned and therefore experienced a direct impact as a result of the keys 
being returned later than expected. 
I appreciate Mr M had chased up the contractors and Zurich, and I accept this would have 
been frustrating for him. However, I wont be requiring Zurich to cover the loss of rent or 
council tax during this period as the home was no longer deemed uninhabitable from March 
2020, when the repairs were completed. 
The £250 engineer call-out charge
Mr M instructed a private contractor to locate the source of the issue and paid £250 for this 
service. The source of the issue was found to be caused by a leak to the communal soil 
stack which I understand was the responsibility of the freeholder to arrange the repair, which 
was subsequently carried out. Mr M then made a claim to Zurich for the resultant damage 
caused to his property.  
Mr M says this call-out required extensive work to provide clarification that it was the 
freeholders responsibility to repair the communal soil stack. Ive looked at the policy, and I 
cant see that Zurich should be held responsible for this cost as part of the claim. Ultimately, 
Mr M incurred this cost in order to demonstrate the issue to the freeholder, and so I dont 
require Zurich to reimburse this cost to Mr M. 
Summary 
Overall, I accept this was a frustrating period for Mr M. I note there were issues around 
communication, including where Mr M had to chase the contractors and Zurich to retrieve 
the keys to the property. Zurich paid Mr M £150 compensation in recognition of this and I 
think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The policy entitled Mr M to his loss of rent which was paid by Zurich as part of the claim, 
during the period the property was deemed uninhabitable. For the reasons set out above, I 
dont think Zurich acted unfairly here by declining to reimburse the further costs Mr M has 
claimed for. And so, I wont be requiring Zurich to do anything here. 
I accept my decision will come to disappoint Mr M. But my decision ends what we  in 
attempting to resolve his dispute with Zurich  can do for him. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Liam HickeyOmbudsman