DRN-1071113
The complaint
Mr Q complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) 
alongside a credit card in 1996.
What happened
In 1996 Mr Q applied for a Barclaycard Gold Card account. At the same time, PPI was 
added to the account.
Mr Q thinks the policy was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint but didn't think it should be upheld. Mr Q didn't agree 
with the adjudicator. The complaint has now been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Q's case.
I've decided the policy wasn't mis-sold. I'll explain why.
I've first considered whether Mr Q chose to buy the PPI.
Mr Q says PPI wasn't discussed during the account application, and he wasn't aware it had 
been added to his account. He says he didn't know PPI was an optional product that could 
have been refused. He says he never asked for the PPI - and that although he noticed the 
charges on his monthly statements, he assumed that this was a form of interest and a 
mandatory element.
So I've thought about this alongside the other information I've seen about the sale.
Barclays has sent us a copy of the application form for the PPI. I see Mr Q completed this 
form and returned it to Barclays by post. To apply for the PPI, Mr Q had to complete a 
section of the form headed "Payment Protection Plan for Barclaycard Gold Card".
This gave Mr Q two options. The first said:
"Yes, I want my Barclaycard Gold Card Account(s) to be covered against 
unemployment, accident, sickness and death. Subject to my application for a 
Barclaycard Gold Card being accepted, I authorise you to debit the Barclaycard Gold 
Card Account to which this application relates with the monthly premiums due until 
further notice from me to the contrary or termination of the Plan"
The second option said:"No. I do not require payment protection and understand that it is still my responsibility 
to repay the outstanding balance if I am unable to work or I die."
The box labelled "Yes" has been ticked. The box labelled "No" has not been ticked. 
I've thought about what Mr Q and his representatives have said about that. They've said that 
many cases, consumers were pressured into taking policies by bank staff who were pursuing 
commission and others were given the impression that not taking the insurance would result 
in them being refused credit. They think there's no evidence to prove the box was not ticked 
by the member of staff at the bank, and that there was an incentive for the bank employee to 
push the policy regardless of its benefit to a client.
Having looked at the application, though, the ticks by the PPI box are consistent with the rest 
of the ticks on the application. And I'm mindful that the application was submitted by post - 
so I don't think it's likely that Mr Q would have felt pressured into agreeing to it. So on 
balance I think it's most likely that Mr Q knew he had a choice whether or not to buy the 
policy - and chose to buy it.
Barclays didn't recommend the policy to Mr Q - so it didn't need to make sure it was right for 
him. But it did have to give Mr Q the information he needed to work out for himself if he 
wanted the policy.
It's possible the information Barclays gave Mr Q wasn't as clear as it could have been. But 
Mr Q chose to buy the policy - so it looks as though he wanted this type of cover. Though I 
acknowledge that Mr Q got sick pay from his employer, this dropped to half his usual salary 
after six months. This policy would repay 10% of his balance every month for up to a year if 
he couldn't work. He doesn't appear to have been affected by any of the main things the 
policy didn't cover. So I don't think better information would have changed his decision to 
buy the policy. 
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr Q because:
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr Q about that. Because Barclays didn't tell Mr Q, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that's fair in this case.
 
I've thought about everything else Mr Q has said. But these points don't change my 
decision. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasn't mis-sold - so Barclays Bank UK Plc doesn't have to pay back all the 
cost of the PPI to Mr Q.
But Barclays Bank UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr Q any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
don't award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2019.
Edward HardmanOmbudsman