DRN-3941170
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) wont refund the 
money they lost as part of a scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only refer to some key 
events here. The transactions listed below were from an account held jointly between Mr and 
Mrs M. But it seems Mrs M had all of the contact with the scammer, so I will mainly refer just 
to her actions from now on.
In August 2020, Mrs M clicked on an advert for investing. She says that she was contacted 
by a number of companies, including someone purporting to be from a crypto trading firm 
which had an office in London. Mrs M was persuaded to make the following payments to a 
crypto exchange (Bitstamp), via bank transfer. My understanding is that the funds were then 
transferred on to the scammer, that I will call B.
Transaction 
Number Date Amount Merchant Running Total
1 10/08/2020 £9,000 Bitstamp ltd £9,000
2 14/08/2020 £380 credit Bitstamp ltd £8,620
3 25/08/2020 £10,000 Bitstamp ltd £18,620
4 25/08/2020 £6,780 Bitstamp ltd £25,400
5 27/08/2020 £10,000 Bitstamp ltd £35,400
6 27/08/2020 £2,000 Bitstamp ltd £37,400
7 16/09/2020 £10,000 Bitstamp ltd £47,400
When Mrs M was unable to withdraw the profits that she could see on B, she contacted 
Nationwide on 11/09/2020 to report that she thought she had been scammed. During this 
call Mrs M was advised not to make further payments to B. She however, made one more 
payment in an attempt to recover the funds that she had lost. When this still did not allow her 
to withdraw her profits, she eventually realised she had been scammed.
Several years later, Mr and Mrs M made a complaint via a representative to Nationwide and 
requested that the above transactions be refunded. Nationwide declined to do this.
I issued a Provisional Decision on 15 November 2023 in which I said the following
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the time Mrs M made her payments, Nationwide was expected to process 
payments a customer authorised it to make; but as a matter of good industry 
practice, it should have taken proactive steps to identify and help prevent 
transactions  particularly unusual or uncharacteristic transactions  that could 
involve fraud or be the result of a scam.
There is a balance to be struck: Nationwide had (and have) obligations to be alert to 
fraud and scams and to act in their customers best interests. But they cant be 
involved in every transaction.
All of the payments in dispute were Faster Payments sent to a well-known crypto 
exchange. So, its reasonable for me to conclude that Nationwide ought to have 
known that Mr and Mrs M were likely purchasing crypto at the time they sent these 
payments. Ive also thought about whether there was anything else about the 
payments which ought to have concerned Nationwide.
The first three payments
I dont think I can fairly say that the first three payments were unusual enough for 
Nationwide to have intervened. I say this because, prior to those payments, the 
account had been used for large one off payments before - such as one for £18,000 
earlier in 2020. So I think that these payments done on separate days were in line 
enough with the way the account had been used before to not have prompted 
Nationwide to have intervened.
Payment four
I do however think payment four, when taken cumulatively with payment three ought 
to have warranted an intervention from Nationwide. Payment four represented a total 
of £16,780 on the same day to a relatively new payee for Mr and Mrs M. Multiple 
large payments in a day to a new payee was unusual from what I can see on their 
account.
Nationwide has said Mr and Mrs M would have seen a warning when they sent the 
Faster Payments. Ive read the contents of the warning Mr and Mrs M would have 
seen and I dont think it was relevant to the investment scam theyd fallen victim to.
Nationwide confirmed it didnt intervene until Mrs M contacted them and I think it was 
a missed opportunity to do so. If Nationwide had intervened (as I think it ought 
reasonably to), Id have expected it to query with Mr and Mrs M what the purpose of 
the payment was. Given what Mrs M shared during her call with Nationwide on 11 
September 2020, I think theyd have likely explained they were purchasing crypto to 
send it on to a third-party trading platform; where a third party would trade on their 
behalf; that they had allowed a third-party access to their computer; and that they 
were told there was zero risk in losing money whilst they were making large profits. 
Furthermore, B was not regulated by the FCA either. I think this would have 
prompted Nationwide to highlight that they were being scammed. I say this because 
there were clear signs that they were being scammed such as being told an 
investment is zero-risk and included a high reward and investments that are carried 
out through a non-regulated company which requires them to give a third-party 
remote access to their computer.
I then need to consider what would have happened had such an intervention 
occurred. It could be argued that Mrs M would have continued regardless of such a 
warning as she did so after the 11 September 2020 call. But having listened to that 
call, I dont think the Nationwide call went far enough. It was clear that what Mrs M 
was describing was almost certainly a scam, yet the member of staff did not say this 
they advised not sending further funds to B.
 
In general, in situations like this, as Nationwide should be more aware of scams than 
their customers, when Nationwide should really know a scam is happening it should prevent further transactions from happening to the scammer. Also, had a more 
strident warning been provided earlier in the scam, I am satisfied that this would have 
had more of an effect then someone desperate to recover the funds that they had 
already sent.
So, before payment four was actually processed, Mr and Mrs M would probably have 
stopped in their tracks. But for Nationwides failure to act on clear triggers of potential 
fraud or financial harm, Mr and Mrs M would probably have not lost this and the 
subsequent payments.
Ive also thought about whether Mr and Mrs Ms actions contributed to their losses. 
Despite regulatory safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still 
take responsibility for their decisions.
In this instance, I do think that Mr and Mrs M should take some responsibility for their 
loss. Mrs M during her call with Nationwide had made it clear that she had done no 
real research, did not really understand what she was investing in and Mrs M also 
sounded like she had doubts from the start about B saying that it was a hard sell and 
it made her feel uncomfortable. Also I need to bear in mind that Mrs M did send a 
further payment to B despite being warned not to do so. So overall I feel it is 
appropriate to reduce the amount of redress I am proposing Nationwide to pay by 
50%.
Ive considered whether Nationwide could have recovered any of Mr and Mrs Ms 
payments. But given that the payments were sent to a crypto exchange and were 
then forwarded on to B, I dont think that any recovery could have been made or that 
the Contingent Reimbursement Model applies in this instance.
Putting things right
Refund 50% of payments 4,5,6 and 7
Pay 8% simple interest, per year, on this amount from the date of each 
payment to date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible)
In response to my provisional decision Mr and Mrs M agreed with what I had recommended. 
Nationwide did not agree and raised the following points.
They do not believe that an intervention at payment 4 would have altered Mr and Mrs Ms 
decision to carry on with the transactions. They say that this is because when warned in the 
11 September 2020 call, Mrs M still carried on with transaction 7. They also have added that 
if I did still feel that an intervention during payment 4 would have prevented the scam, I 
should not include payment 7 within the redress, as Mrs M  was solely responsible for the 
loss as she had already been warned prior to making it that it was likely to be a scam.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully considered the points that Nationwide has raised in response to my 
provisional decision. But I remain of the opinion that the outcome that I have proposed is fair 
and reasonable. Let me explain why.Nationwide have said that Mrs Ms actions after the call, during transaction 7, would have 
been the same as if a call had occurred during transaction 4. I disagree, as a warning given 
early on in the scam, in my opinion, carries more weight than one made after someone has 
lost most of their available funds. By transaction 7, Mrs M was desperate to recover the 
funds she had lost and it was the promise of recovering all that she had lost that led her to 
make the final payment, despite the warning provided by Nationwide. So I think overall, 
albeit on balance, had Mrs M been warned during transaction 4, she would have heeded the 
warning and the scam would have been stopped at this point.
In relation to Mrs M being solely liable for transaction 7, I dont think that it is reasonable in 
this instance for Nationwide to have allowed Mrs M to make further scam payments when it 
knew Mrs M was being scammed. 
In any event I should also add that the discussion around payment 7 would not have 
happened if the scam had already been stopped. So but for Nationwides failure to intervene 
and likely stop the scam at transaction 4 transaction 7 would never have occurred. So in this  
instance, I think that both parties share responsibility for this transaction. 
Overall, I think that Nationwide should have intervened at payment 4 and that had it done so 
the scam would have been prevented at that point. I believe that Mr and Mrs M are partly 
responsible for their loss for the reasons set out above, so the redress that Nationwide 
should pay should be reduced by 50%. 
Putting things right
So I am upholding this complaint in part and require Nationwide Building Society to do the 
following:
Refund 50% of payments 4,5,6 and 7; and
Pay 8% simple interest, per year, on this amount, from the date of each payment to 
date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that 
I uphold this complaint in part an require Nationwide Building Society to pay the redress 
outlined above, in full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 05 January 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman