DRN-4412839
The complaint
Miss V complains about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds handling of her home 
insurance claim.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here.
Miss V has a home insurance policy underwritten by Admiral which covers the buildings of 
her home and its contents.
She made a claim in 2019 after her flooring collapsed in the area around her bathroom due 
to an escape of water. Admiral accepted the claim and carried out repairs.
Miss V thought those repairs may not have been carried out effectively  she was 
experiencing on-going issues with damp in the area.
She raised her concerns with Admiral in mid-2020. They sent a surveyor to carry out an 
inspection and their conclusion was that any issues werent associated with the original 
insured event (the escape of water) but were likely due to rising damp.
Miss V raised the issue again with Admiral in July 2022. At that point, she was experiencing 
severe problems with the area around the flooring of the bathroom.
Admiral recorded this as a new claim. They inspected the property and accepted the claim 
within a reasonable timeframe. They agreed to move Miss V and her family into alternative 
accommodation and began drying out works.
In short, progress after that point appears to have slowed down considerably. This led 
Miss V to make a complaint to Admiral.
She was unhappy with the delays in the necessary repair works. She said she was having to 
chase Admiral and/or their agents for updates and getting little meaningful response at all. 
This included Admirals agents failing to call her back on occasions and failing to answer her 
queries about specific parts of the scheduled repair work.
She was also unhappy that Admiral had recorded this as a new claim. She felt the issues 
were the same as or related to the issues which had supposedly been fixed after her 2019 
claim.
She was unhappy that her alternative accommodation had been delayed when her floor was 
dangerous. And that shed had to arrange alternative accommodation herself and move 
several times in the first few months.
She also complained that Admiral hadnt reimbursed her for electricity bills shed paid for the 
period when drying out had been carried out at the property.
In short, Admiral upheld Miss Vs complaint on all points except for the one about recording 
two claims. They said their loss adjusters had confirmed that whilst it was a similar issue that 
had caused the most recent problems, it wasnt the same as the issue which had been 
repaired in 2019.
For the delays and poor communication / service, including delays in payments made to 
Miss V, they paid her a total of £475 in compensation.
Miss V wasnt happy with this outcome and brought her complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into it and thought Admiral did need to do more to put things right for Miss V.
She said Admiral should pay a further £525 compensation for Miss Vs trouble and upset. 
They should record one claim only relating to the events in 2019 and more recently. And 
they should pay interest at 8% simple on the late electricity reimbursements.
Admiral disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. They said there was 
no evidence Miss V had paid the electricity bills.
And they felt any part of the suggested increase in compensation which rested on the idea 
that they hadnt handled the alternative accommodation very well was unjustified. They said 
their agents had done all they reasonably could to try to put Miss V and her family in suitable 
alternative accommodation.
Miss V had her own reservations about the view too. She felt our investigator had only 
considered her trouble and upset since she went back to Admiral to report on-going issues in 
July 2022. And if this was indeed one claim  about the same or similar issues which ought 
to have been sorted in 2019  then she was due compensation for the whole of that period.
I agreed with our investigator that the complaint should be upheld, but I disagreed about 
what Admiral needed to do to put things right. So, I issued a provisional decision. This 
allowed both Miss V and Admiral an opportunity to provide further information or evidence 
and/or to comment on my thinking before I make my final decision in this case.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset, I should say that Admiral and Miss V are now in complete agreement 
about the work that is to be done to repair her property. So, theres no dispute about 
how the claim is going to be settled. Ill deal with the remaining live issues below.
One claim or two?
Miss V thinks the issues with the flooring in 2019 and more recently relate to the 
same cause or a connected cause. Admiral have said they do not  that what theyve 
seen as the second claim relates to an escape of water entirely unconnected to the 
issue in 2019.
It seems to me overwhelmingly likely that the issues and 2019 and more recently are 
in fact linked. Theres a problem with damp - and damage caused by damp - in 2019 
in a particular area of the house, caused by an escape of water beneath the 
bathroom floor.Miss V is convinced that theres still an issue very soon after the repairs have 
supposedly been completed  she reports on-going issues in mid-2020. Its in the 
same area of the house and the damage is caused by damp or an escape of water 
underneath the bathroom floor.
On the face of it, its very likely thats the same issue recurring and/or the damage 
wasnt rectified properly in 2019 and/or its a connected issue that should have been 
apparent  and repaired  in 2019. What are the chances of two entirely unrelated 
and unconnected leaks in exactly the same place within months of each other? The 
latter not being manifest at all in 2019 but causing considerable and noticeable 
damage by 2020?
Admiral at first said the issues reported by Miss V in 2020 were due to rising damp. 
That proved not to be the case. Eventually, in 2022, they had a survey of the water 
pipes carried out. That showed that there was a leak. The mis-diagnoses of the 
problem along the way dont inspire great confidence in Admirals assertion now that 
the current issues are unrelated to those in 2019.
Furthermore, Admirals contractors have explicitly stated that the more recent 
problems are directly related to the problems in 2019. Theyve told Miss V that  and 
its evident in the claim documentation we have on our case file.
So, its my intention  unless I receive further persuasive information or evidence to 
change my mind  to conclude that what we have here is one on-going problem from 
2019 to the present. And that being the case, Admiral cant justifiably regard Miss V 
as having made two separate claims.
Im therefore minded to require Admiral to change any record they themselves 
maintain or that theyve shared with others to show this as one claim, beginning in 
2019.
Compensation
It follows from that conclusion that Miss V has suffered a degree of worry, stress and 
inconvenience throughout the period from 2019 onwards, caused by Admirals errors 
in not properly addressing the issues she raised.
This is important because our investigator said Admiral should pay an additional 
£525 in compensation for Miss Vs trouble and upset between the date at which she 
contacted Admiral in July 2022 and the date Admiral issued their final response to 
Miss Vs complaint in late March 2023 (the rules which govern our service say we 
cant look at things after that point because Admiral should have a chance to respond 
to any further complaint points themselves and potentially resolve things with 
Miss V).
I dont think an extra £525 for that period in particular is unreasonable. Admiral have 
admitted the service they provided was not at the standard theyd hope. Miss Vs 
calls werent returned. Her perfectly valid queries about the repairs and the timetable 
werent answered. And she was left to chase progress when none was being made. 
See also my comments below about alterative accommodation.
But it's my view that Admiral also need to compensate Miss V for the trouble and 
upset she suffered from the supposed completion of the 2019 repairs onwards. So, 
theres an additional period (late 2019 to July 2022) I need to take into account.In that additional (earlier) period, Miss V was still in her house  and the damage 
hadnt become so bad that the usual facilities were unusable. However, Miss V was 
undoubtedly stressed by the situation  she thought she had on-going damage to her 
house but couldnt convince her insurer to accept that further repairs were needed. 
That would have been very worrying.
Miss V also had to contact Admiral several times before they eventually accepted 
that they needed to return to the property to carry out further repairs. That was, 
again, stressful and also inconvenient for Miss V.
If I receive no further information and evidence to change my mind then, Im minded 
to require Admiral to pay an additional £1,025 in compensation to Miss V (£500 more 
than our investigator suggested) to properly compensate her for the whole period in 
question.
The Alternative Accommodation
Admiral have suggested, in response to our investigators view, that the 
compensation she suggested was too much because some of the amount rested on 
the idea that theyd let Miss V down in terms of sorting out alternative 
accommodation for her and her family after the floor in her house collapsed.
They say they  or their agents  took all reasonable steps to provide suitable 
alterative accommodation, but it was difficult because Miss V had pets (a cat and a 
dog), there was a limited supply of rented housing in the area and Miss V turned 
down some offers of alternative accommodation.
In fact, Miss Vs dog has lived with relatives or friends throughout and so hasnt 
impacted the availability of alternative accommodation at all. Miss V also lives in a 
large metropolitan area of the UK, not in a rural backwater with limited housing stock.
Admiral told us Miss V turned down several offers of accommodation, but then in the 
same communication told us that the offer (singular) she turned down was because 
the property was 4.6 miles from her childrens school.
I cant see anywhere in Miss Vs policy documents that Admiral advise customers 
they might not be able to source alternative accommodation if the customer has pets. 
And lots of their customers no doubt have pets. Or that theyll be unable to source 
alternative accommodation within a four-mile radius of work / schools  in a large 
city.
What Admiral promise to do  if the criteria are met, which they clearly were in this 
case  is to provide alternative accommodation whilst repair work is being carried 
out. I think a customer living in a large city, with a small family and a cat, might 
reasonably expect Admiral would be able to keep that promise.
If they cant, then they shouldnt make the promise in their policy documents (at least 
not without some clear and defined caveats).
Interest on the electricity bills
According to the evidence we have, it appears two payments were made to Miss V to 
cover electricity costs - £350 on 12 December 2022 and £529 on 13 January 2023.
Miss V has said she had to pay at least some if not all of that money out in September 2022. If so, that left her out of pocket for several months. And, in that 
case, wed expect Admiral to pay her interest at 8% simple on those amounts over 
those periods of time.
Admiral say Miss V may not have paid the bills  which I think is extremely unlikely. 
However, Im minded at present to require Admiral to add interest to those payments 
as and when they receive proof from Miss V (invoices or bank statements, for 
example) to show when those payments left her account.
So, to summarise, I said I was minded to require Admiral: to ensure the events from 2019 
onwards were recorded as one claim; to pay Miss V a further £1,025 in compensation for her 
trouble and upset; and to pay interest at 8% simple on the electricity payments made by 
Miss V up to the date Admiral had reimbursed her (if and when Miss V provided proof of the 
date she made those payments). 
The responses to my provisional decision
Admiral responded to my provisional decision to say they agreed with my proposed 
outcome.
Miss V hasnt responded. I assume this is because she may also agree with the proposed 
outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admiral agreed my provisional decision. And Miss V hasnt objected to it. Nonetheless, I 
have looked again at all the information and evidence we have on file. 
Having done so, I can see no reason to change my mind about the outcome proposed in my 
provisional decision.
Putting things right
I explained what I thought Admiral needed to do to put things right for Miss V  and my 
reasons for coming to those conclusions - in my provisional decision (above).
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Miss Vs complaint.
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited must:
ensure that all records they keep, or theyve provided to shared databases, show this 
series of events as one claim only (covering all of the repairs from 2019 to the 
present day);
pay Miss V a further £1,025 in compensation for her trouble and upset; and
on receipt of proof of date of payment, pay Miss V 8% simple interest on the 
payments they made to cover her electricity costs  calculated from the date Miss V 
paid her bill(s) to the date Admiral reimbursed her.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman