DRN-3286400
The complaint
Mr L complains about the service hes received from Wealthsimple UK Ltd. He believes 
theres been a lack of transparency, misinformation and poor communication which has led 
to him losing money on his investments. 
What happened
Mr L holds a discretionary account with Wealthsimple. In March 2020 they sent a market 
update email to their clients. Mr L responded and queried why portfolios hadnt been 
rebalanced due to the ongoing market volatility. They responded and explained that his 
account was being monitored and would be automatically rebalanced.
Mr L was of the opinion that the markets were in free fall and he wanted to move his 
holdings to lower risk investments. Hes said he attempted to do this himself but was unable 
to make the changes that he required. He spoke with a representative from Wealthsimple on 
16 March and enquired about moving his holdings into cash.
Wealthsimple acknowledged his instruction and began the process of moving his 
investments to cash. This took some time and didnt complete until 27 March. Mr L 
subsequently complained to Wealthsimple about the time taken to process the switch to 
cash. They didnt uphold his complaint and said, in summary, because Mr L had tried to 
rebalance his portfolio, they needed to wait for those trades to settle before they could begin 
the process of moving his holdings to cash.
Mr L didnt accept their findings and brought the complaint to this service. He said that the 
lack of transparency and poor communication from Wealthsimple had led to significant, 
unnecessary losses. Their lack of proactive action meant that he needed to do something 
and further losses were incurred by their lack of action in moving his holdings to cash.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She acknowledged that 
Wealthsimple could have been clearer in some of their initial discussions but didnt think 
theyd misled Mr L or caused any unnecessary delays. 
Mr L didnt agree with her findings and said, in summary:
The communication hed received from Wealthsimple amounted to a shrug of the 
shoulders and demonstrated that they didnt care about their clients.
He thought their main focus was purely on increasing the assets under their 
management and having to perform as little action as possible in order to increase 
their profits.
His first interaction with Wealthsimple in early March 2020 was to ask why they 
hadnt reached out to clients regarding the turbulent environment and offered some 
transparency around the available options e.g. continue to hold, de-risk portfolio or 
move into cash. Other platforms had sent out communications of this nature and he 
was aware that some clients of Wealthsimple had received similar communications, 
but others hadnt which was unfair. 
The investigator had said that Wealthsimple automatically rebalanced their clients 
investments, but this wasnt true, and they didnt even communicate with their clients 
about whether this was even an option.
He was unhappy that at no point when he was testing scenarios there were any 
warnings about the 12-month check to review his objectives.  
He also thought that there needed to be far more warnings regarding if the scenarios 
hed tested had made any changes to his portfolio
The investigator had highlighted the change in his risk level from 7 to 2 but because 
of the lack of transparency he had no knowledge of the scoring system that was 
used.  
The option to move to cash was hidden and it was only when he explicitly asked 
about it that he was told it could be done. If it had been offered originally he wouldnt 
have gone through the portfolio changes and would have just gone straight to cash.
If hed been warned that portfolio changes had started and couldnt be stopped, then 
he may have made a different decision about the cash option. At no point during the 
discussions he had with Wealthsimple were any warnings given that the other 
portfolio changes would need to take place first.
He didnt believe their rationale for there being multiple trades of the same units at 
different prices on different days.
He wasnt able to take advantage of the rebound in the market due to the lack of trust 
in Wealthsimple caused by their actions. 
He also had issues with how Wealthsimple dealt with his complaint. They didnt 
formally summarise his complaint and despite his repeated requests, it was never 
released so he could validate it. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion so the complaint has been passed 
to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think this complaint should be upheld and for broadly the same 
reasons as the investigator. Id firstly like to say that I appreciate the concerns Mr L has 
raised regarding robo-advisers in general. But I think it may be helpful I clarify the role of 
this service. 
We arent the regulator, that is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. Our service 
therefore doesnt have the power to make rules for financial businesses, or direct that they 
change their policy or procedures. Broadly speaking, we wont interfere with a commercial 
decision. Our role here is to look at what happened in the circumstances of this complaint 
and check that Wealthsimple followed their rules and procedures  as well as those set by the regulator and any relevant industry guidance and good practice - and applied them fairly.
Ive considered the terms of the account Mr L holds with them. They managed his 
investments on a discretionary basis, which was defined in the client agreement as we 
make all the decisions about what you should invest in unless we have agreed to follow any 
restrictions you have set.
The decisions they made on his behalf was based on their assessment of what was suitable 
for him. They had an obligation to gather enough information about his knowledge and 
experience, financial situation and his investment objectives. When Mr L opened the account 
he said that he was looking to invest for the long term - over 10 years - and his goals were 
investing for his retirement and his childrens education. 
He was an experienced investor and had experience of a range of investment products 
including Bonds, Exchange Traded Funds, Derivatives and Corporate Bonds. Taking 
everything into account, Im satisfied that he could take some investment risk.
Following their assessment of his circumstances, Wealthsimple agreed upon a Growth 
portfolio which had an asset mix of 80% equities and 20% fixed income which I dont think 
was unreasonable for his circumstances at the time. The portfolio was implemented in 2018 
and remained unchanged until 2020. 
Wealthsimple sent an update to their clients on 11 March 2020 which noted that returns had 
gone down due to market volatility caused by the coronavirus pandemic. But they said it 
shouldnt be a cause for concern as portfolios had been designed with the aim of minimising 
losses during periods when the markets were down. And over the long term, markets were 
expected to go up and their advice was that if clients goals hadn't changed then they should 
stick to their original plans. 
But Mr L was unhappy with the lack of rebalancing in his portfolio. He said Can I ask why 
you haven't rebalanced portfolios at turbulent times like these? There has been plenty of 
opportunity to do so over the last 2-3 weeks? Wealthsimple replied and said that his account 
was being monitored and would be automatically rebalanced if necessary but explained it 
was against their methodology to react to market dips. 
Mr L didnt think their guidance was in his best interest, so he then took steps to change his 
portfolio. I appreciate that Mr L wanted the portfolio derisked, but I cant see that he told 
Wealthsimple that he wanted the makeup of his portfolio changed. So I dont think I can fairly 
say they did anything wrong by continuing to manage his account according to the mandate 
theyd previously agreed with him. The terms of the account specifically stated:
Our recommended Target Asset Allocations are made with a view to long term investment 
and take account of your time horizon and risk tolerance for falls in the value of your 
investment, as recorded in your Investment Portfolio Statement. Accordingly, unless we 
have agreed a change to your Investment Portfolio Statement with you, we will only change 
your Target Asset Allocation in exceptional circumstances taking into account our 
reasonable assessment of likely economic and investment performance trends over the long 
term. Wealthsimple will not change your Target Asset Allocation to take account of short or 
medium term performance.
Having considered the available evidence, I havent seen anything to suggest that 
Wealthsimple should have proactively reduced the risk level of the portfolio in light of the 
market conditions. The mandate they had with Mr L was to manage his account within 
certain parameters and from what Ive seen that is what they did. Mr L has also raised concerns on what happened after he tried to take steps on 15 March 
2020 to reduce the risk level of his portfolio. He retook the risk profile and the answers he 
gave had the impact of reducing his risk level from 7 to 2 and changed his portfolio from 
Growth to Conservative. His asset split changed from 80% equities and 20% fixed income 
to 30% equities and 70% fixed income. 
He spoke to Wealthsimple over the following week and made the decision to move his 
portfolio into cash. Unfortunately, as hed already made changes to his portfolio, trades had 
been triggered to rebalance the portfolio and had to settle before everything could be moved 
to cash. I appreciate Mr Ls frustration with how long this process took, hed made a difficult 
decision in response to the uncertainty caused by the pandemic and wanted to derisk his 
portfolio as quickly as possible. 
But I dont think I can fairly say that Wealthsimple are to blame for any delays in moving his 
portfolio to cash. From what Ive seen the delays were caused by the changes Mr L made to 
his portfolio. I take the point he makes that he should have been provided with more 
transparency and warnings about the impact of the changes he was making. But I think Mr L 
could have spoken to Wealthsimple if he had any questions. 
From what Ive seen when he spoke to Wealthsimple the day after he made the changes, 
they took steps to move his portfolio to cash as quickly as they could have when they 
became aware of his intentions. Wealthsimple have explained that Mr Ls portfolio contained 
a number of unit trusts which are not traded live and are subject to longer settlement 
timeframes than traditional stocks and shares.
The move to cash took longer than expected and I think that Wealthsimple could have 
provided Mr L with more clarity around the potential timescales. But I think its more likely 
than not that Mr L would still have moved his holdings to cash even if hed been made aware 
of how long it would take, given his concerns about the market volatility at the time. 
Therefore, on balance, I dont think theyve treated Mr L unfairly and I wont be asking them 
to do anything further to resolve the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman