DRN-3482965
The complaint
Mr P complains about the advice fees that have been applied to his Retirement Account 
(RA) by Lloyds Bank PLC.
What happened
In August 2011 Mr P met with a Lloyds adviser where they discussed two personal pension 
plans he (Mr P) had with separate providers. Following ongoing meetings, the adviser 
recommended that Mr P switch these pensions to a RA with a single provider. After agreeing 
to this, application forms were completed and signed by Mr P on 21 June 2012.
Illustrations were produced by Lloyds on 23 May and 21 June 2012 which were provided to 
Mr P. These were based upon an initial total transfer amount of £317,826. Amongst other 
things, the illustrations said under the heading Adviser Payment Charges: Each month we 
will deduct 1/12th of 0.5% of the value of your Account, beginning one month after the start 
date of your Account. 
The illustration said under the heading How much will the advice cost?: 'Each month we will 
pay Lloyds TSB Bank PLC 1/12th of 0.5% of the value of your Account, beginning one 
month after the start date of your Account. This section went on to set out what the 
projected amounts could be for year one and the final year when Mr P reached 65, in 2020. 
In year one the fees were estimated to be £1,627 and the final year they would be £2,169. 
These figures were based on the assumed investment growth rate of 5% each year. 
Mr P was also provided with a Key Features Document (KFD). This said under the heading 
What are the charges? that these would include: Adviser charges for any advice or other 
services you have received from your financial adviser. The KFD advised Mr P to refer to 
the Illustration for details of the charges. 
In 2020, Mr P complained to Lloyds about its fees. He said the adviser agreed he (Mr P) 
wouldnt be charged any initial fees because he had already paid this when setting up his 
pensions. Mr P says he has now been charged much more than if hed agreed to pay the 
initial advice fee rather than an ongoing fee. He says he has received little or no advice from 
Lloyds since the initial advice to switch. And, in fact, when he asked for advice about his 
income drawdown in 2020, the adviser told him hed have to pay a fee for this.
Lloyds rejected Mr Ps complaint. It explained at the time of the advice, Mr P didnt want to 
pay an initial advice fee, and this is why its adviser offered him the chance to pay an 
ongoing advice fee instead. Lloyds explained that as Mr P was already a Lloyds customer in 
relation to an Investment Portfolio Service (IPS), he was offered the option to review the 
pension alongside the IPS and charged an ongoing fee with the initial fee waived. Lloyds 
said the illustration and the KFD clearly set out these charges. Lloyds said its adviser had 
correctly informed Mr P, he (the adviser) was unable to give him advice regarding his income 
drawdown because this was separate advice and not covered by the ongoing fee. 
Mr P remained dissatisfied, so referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. He considered the charges had 
been made reasonably clear to Mr P. He noted firms can no longer be paid through 
commission due to changes made by the regulator on 31 December 2012. This is when the 
Retail Distribution Review (RDR) came into force and meant Lloyds could not provide Mr P 
with advice about his income drawdown without him paying an upfront fee. Our investigator 
didnt think Lloyds had done anything wrong in this regard as this was separate advice from 
the ongoing service it had agreed to provide to him in 2012. 
Mr P disagreed with our investigators view. He said the RDR wasnt relevant to his 
complaint because Lloyds agreed to provide him with ongoing advice for its fee before this 
came into force. So, he asked for an ombudsmans decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint. Before I set out my reasoning I think its 
important to make clear that we are an informal dispute resolution service. Ive read and 
considered everything Mr P has said, particularly in his complaint letter to Lloyds which sets 
out in detail his concerns. But I wont be addressing every single point hes raised. Ive 
instead concentrated on the issues I think are central to the outcome of Mr Ps complaint. 
I should also note at this point that where theres a dispute, I will need to reach a decision on 
a balance of probabilities. In this case, Lloyds hasnt been able to provide the suitability 
report. I know Mr P thinks this is highly suspicious but Im mindful that the advice was 
provided to him eight years prior to his complaint. Normally firms are only required to keep 
documents for a period of six years. In any event, I consider there is sufficient information to 
make a decision based on the submissions of both parties and also the documents from the 
time of sale that are available, some of which Ive quoted from above.
Lloyds says there was a cost for its advice in 2012. As Mr P was being advised on whether it 
was suitable to switch his pensions to a new provider, I dont think this was unreasonable or 
unusual as firms normally charge for this type of service. I know Mr P says he was charged 
when he first set up his pensions, but this was separate advice at a different point in time. 
Lloyds also say Mr P wouldve been told about the initial advice fee. And that because he 
didnt want to pay this, as an alternative, he was offered to pay an ongoing advice fee. I 
appreciate Mr P disputes this version of events because he says he was given the 
impression by the adviser that hed pay no initial fee, or, at least, given a discounted rate. 
Whilst I cant be sure what was discussed with the adviser, given Mr P didnt pay for the 
initial advice and that it is standard practice to charge for this service, I think its more likely 
than not that he was given an alternative. I think this alternative was to pay for ongoing 
advice which could work alongside the IPS ongoing advice.
In terms of how much he has paid in ongoing fees, the Illustrations provided to Mr P in 2012 
set these out. As well as setting out the percentage that applied, these also gave amounts 
hed pay based on an assumed growth rate of 5%. This showed Mr P could be paying 
around £2,169 in the final year (2020)  this is around £180 a month. From information 
provided by Mr P for the period February to April 2020, he was actually paying between 
£221 and £232 a month. So, whilst the projections were slightly less than the actual amount 
he paid, which is likely due to the actual value of his RA in the final year, I think it was made 
reasonably clear to Mr P how much he could expect to pay for the ongoing service. Mr P says he couldnt make an informed choice because neither the Illustrations nor the 
KFD provided him with the alternative costs for choosing the one-off initial advice charge. 
But, on balance, I think its likely he was told about the initial fees as this was something he 
remembers discussing with the adviser, albeit he says it was agreed he would not need to 
pay these or pay a discounted rate. So, I think its likely there was a discussion about what 
these fees actually were. And as Ive said the illustrations gave him information about the 
level of the ongoing advice fees. All in all, I consider Mr P was given clear, fair, and not 
misleading information about the relevant fees such that he could make an informed choice. 
Mr P doesnt think hes received ongoing advice from Lloyds despite paying for it. He says 
this is evidenced by the fact it wouldnt advise him about a proposed income drawdown 
without a further fee. But from what Lloyds said, the ongoing advice service was limited to 
reviewing Mr Ps RA, with the view to looking at whether any changes to the investments 
were needed. I think any income drawdown advice was reasonably distinct from this service. 
And as our investigator has said, RDR requirements meant Lloyds had to charge Mr P in a 
different way to the way it charged him previously. So, I dont think Lloyds were being unfair 
or unreasonable to say there was a separate charge for this advice
It should be borne in mind that Mr P had been paying for this service since 2012 up until 
2020. Lloyds has confirmed it consents to our service looking at this complaint even if it is 
outside of the relevant time limits that apply. Nonetheless, given the ongoing advice fee was 
being applied to his RA for eight years before he complained, I would question why Mr P 
didnt raise this issue sooner if the service was below what hed been led to believe he would 
receive. All in all, I dont think theres sufficient evidence to conclude Lloyds misled Mr P 
about the service it agreed to provide to him for an ongoing fee.
So, whilst I know Mr P will be disappointed with this outcome, for all the reasons Ive set out 
above, Im not upholding the complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman