DRN-2159951
The complaint
Ms V complains about the settlement AXA Insurance UK Plc has offered her for a claim she 
made on her home insurance policy.
What happened
Ms V made a claim on her home insurance policy after she discovered a leaking pipe in her 
bathroom. AXA appointed its loss adjuster to investigate the claim. Initially, the loss adjuster 
turned down the claim because it said the leak was down to faulty workmanship, which is 
specifically excluded by the policy terms. 
But AXA later reconsidered the claim and agreed to deal with it under the escape of water 
section of the policy. Ms V had already had the repair and reinstatement works carried out 
by her own contractor, so she wanted her claim to be cash settled. Shed paid around 
£11,424 (including VAT) for the repairs.
AXA asked the loss adjuster to draw up a scope of works to set out what its liability should 
be. The loss adjuster asked Ms Vs contractor for a detailed breakdown of the works hed 
carried out and based on that information, it calculated what it wouldve cost its own 
contractors to get the repairs done. It originally offered Ms V around £2500 less the policy 
excess.
Ms V wasnt happy with AXAs offer of settlement and she complained. AXA agreed to 
increase its settlement offer by 15%. And it acknowledged thered been delays in the way itd 
handled the claim, so it offered Ms V £50 compensation. Ms V remained unhappy with 
AXAs offer, so she asked us to look into her complaint.
When AXA sent us its business file, it made Ms V a new offer. It agreed to pay her a cash 
settlement of £3626.14, less the policy excess. And it offered to pay her total compensation 
of £300 to reflect the trouble and upset its handling of the claim had caused her.
Our investigator thought AXAs offer was fair. He felt that by getting the permanent repairs 
done before AXA had validated the claim, Ms V had prejudiced AXAs position and denied it 
the chance to complete its assessment and costings. He explained that AXA was able to 
make use of builders rates which may be below the market price. As Ms V had asked for a 
cash settlement, AXAs liability was limited to what the repairs wouldve cost it. He also 
explained Ms Vs contractor had included costs which simply werent covered by the policy 
terms. He agreed that AXA hadnt handled Ms Vs claim as well as it couldve done, so he 
felt its increased offer of compensation was reasonable.
Ms V disagreed. She said the loss adjuster had visited her home before the repairs were 
done and had made notes and taken photos. She said the loss adjuster hadnt told her not to 
get the repairs done  itd known the leak was serious and that getting the repairs done was 
urgent. She didnt think shed have been able to get the repairs done for the amount AXA 
had offered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think AXAs offer of settlement is fair and reasonable. Ill explain why.
Its clear that AXAs loss adjuster did visit Ms Vs home in late April 2019 to inspect the 
damage. Ive read their report from that visit. At that point, the cause of the leak hadnt been 
established, so AXA concluded there wasnt any cover. On 30 May 2019, Ms Vs plumber 
confirmed that the cause of the leak was a lack of lagging on the pipes. The loss adjuster 
turned down the claim because it said faulty workmanship wasnt covered. But on review, 
AXA let Ms V know in late June that the claim would be reconsidered under the escape of 
water insured event. This was an appropriate response and its what Id have expected AXA 
to do.
Ms V had had the repairs to the pipework done and the bathroom reinstated by 5 July 2019. 
I can entirely understand why she got the leak fixed, given the water company had been in 
touch and due to the potential of further damage being sustained if the leak had continued. 
Ms V accepts this cost was specifically excluded by the terms of her policy. Ms V says she 
wasnt told not to get the reinstatement works carried out and Ive thought about this. I can 
understand why she wanted to get the bathroom back in a usable state.
But Ive borne in mind what Ms Vs policy says. Ive considered the Claims Conditions 
section of the policy. This says: 
What you should do in an emergency
You must not dispose of any damaged items or conduct permanent repairs because we may 
need to inspect the damage.
I think the policy clearly explains that policyholders shouldnt get permanent repairs done. As 
the investigator said, most home insurance policies contain a similar term. Thats so an 
insurer has the chance to fully assess the nature and scope of the damage before agreeing 
a) whether a claims covered and b) how it should be settled. In this case, during the loss 
adjusters initial visit, the bathroom fittings were still in place and the full extent of the 
damage and necessary works may not have been immediately apparent. By getting the 
reinstatement works carried out before AXA had the chance to fully assess the full works 
needed and their likely cost, I think Ms V did prejudice its position.
Ive then turned to consider the settlement offer itself. The policy terms set out how AXA 
settles claims. It says:
Where we can offer repair or replacement through a preferred supplier, but we agree to pay 
a cash or cash alternative settlement, then payment will not exceed the amount we would 
have paid the preferred supplier. (My emphasis).
Insurers often include a similar term in insurance policies and I dont think this is unfair or 
unreasonable. Thats because insurers are often able to make use of supplier discounts to 
get repairs or reinstatement works carried out which arent available to general customers. 
So AXAs policy liability is limited to what the repairs wouldve cost it to get the work done.
AXA has provided a detailed scope of works setting out what it wouldve cost its supplier to 
carry out the work. This has been broken down by price. Ive compared this directly with Ms 
Vs contractors breakdown of his own works. Im satisfied that aside from the items the 
contractor has specifically excluded from the invoice (which simply arent covered by the 
policy terms), AXA has included the same items in its scope of works and has costed these in line with the cost to it. This means I think its calculated its current settlement fairly and in 
line with the policy terms and so I think its offer to pay Ms V £3626.14, less the policy excess 
is a fair and reasonable award.
Its clear though that AXA hasnt handled this claim as well as it mightve done and there 
have been avoidable delays. It acknowledged it shouldnt have turned down the claim in May 
2019 and that it didnt progress the claim as quickly as it couldve. I dont doubt that this 
caused Ms V additional distress and inconvenience. So I agree that total compensation of 
£300 to recognise the impact AXAs handling of the claim had on Ms V is fair and 
reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that AXAs offer of settlement is fair 
and reasonable.
I direct AXA Insurance UK Limited to:
Pay Ms V £3626.14 in settlement of her claim, less the policy excess; and
Pay Ms V £300 total compensation, less any amount of compensation its already 
paid her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman