DRN-3016563
The complaint
Mr I, on behalf of his company M, is unhappy Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt refunded money he 
lost as the result of a scam.
What happened
 The details of this case have been clearly set out by our investigator when she wrote to the 
bank upholding Ms complaint. As such the facts are well-known to all involved parties and 
so I dont intend to repeat them at length here. But in summary:
- Mr I saw a vehicle he was interested in buying on eBay. 
- Mr I made enquiries about the vehicle and the seller asked Mr I for information about 
himself and his company, so that he could check that Mr I was genuine. Mr I provided 
the seller with details of his business, and having checked them on Companies 
House the seller explained he was happy to deal with Mr I.
- Mr I agreed to purchase the vehicle and wanted to collect it on the same day, but the 
seller said due to his wife being in hospital this wouldnt be convenient. But the 
following day would be ok.
- As Mr I was flying out of the country the following day, he was unable to go and pick 
up the vehicle, but Mr I said he could send one of his drivers to check out the vehicle 
and pick it up.
- The seller requested a deposit and after some discussions it was agreed that a 
£1,000 deposit would be paid, so Mr I went ahead and made a payment for £1,000 
on 9 March 2020 to the bank details provided.
- The seller contacted Mr I again and explained that another party was interested in 
the vehicle and was willing to pay a 50% deposit. The seller told Mr I that if he gave 
him his bank details, he would return the £1,000, as he wanted to go with the other 
interested party.
- Having sought the advice of a friend, who works at a motor dealership, Mr I agreed to 
pay a further £3,500 deposit to secure the vehicle. So, he went ahead and made this 
payment, again on 9 March 2020
- The following day, on 10 March 2020, Mr Is driver attended the address the seller 
had provided, where somebody was waiting for him and showed him the vehicle.    
Mr I, who was by this time, at the airport spoke to his driver  and on his driver telling 
him everything seemed ok, Mr I went ahead and paid the remaining balance of 
£4,500 (so, in total, Mr I sent three payments, totalling £9,000).
- Mr I has said his driver had also carried out a HPI check on the vehicle and 
everything seemed fine.
- Mr Is driver was then told to wait, so that he could be given the paperwork for the 
vehicle. But rather than getting the paperwork, the person who was speaking to Mr Is 
driver got in the vehicle and drove off.
- Mr I tried calling the seller, but the phone was switched off and he was unable to 
contact them. Mr Is driver knocked on the door of the address, but the lady who 
answered had no knowledge of who the seller was.  At this point Mr I realised he had 
been the victim of a scam and contacted Lloyds.
The case was considered under the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the Code). 
This is a voluntary scheme Lloyds has signed up to, designed to reimburse customers that 
have fallen victim to a scam. The starting position under the Code is for a customer to be 
refunded. A firm might choose not to refund if it establishes a customer has not met their 
requisite level of care. In making such an assessment, a firm may consider whether the 
customer:
ignored an effective warning;
made the payment without having a reasonable basis for belief that it was for 
legitimate purposes; or
has been grossly negligent.
Lloyds declined to refund the money to M. In its final response to Mr I it said it felt he didnt 
take appropriate steps and do enough to check the vehicle and protect himself before 
sending the money.
It also contacted the receiving bank to try and recover the money. It was able to recover 
£3.33, which was returned to Ms account on 7 April 2020. 
Mr I brought his complaint to our service as he wasnt happy with Lloyds decision. One of 
our investigators looked into it and recommended the complaint be upheld.
Our investigator found Mr I had a reasonable basis for believing he was genuinely buying a 
vehicle. She noted that Mr I had looked at the sellers rating and feedback on eBay before 
going ahead with the purchase and had sent his driver to see the vehicle, which assured him 
he was dealing with somebody legitimate. She added that Mr I spoke with the seller several 
times over the telephone and the scammer was able to build up trust, even saying at one 
point that he would refund Mr Is initial deposit. She also explained that the price of the car 
wasnt too good to be true.
Overall, our investigator said Lloyds ought to have fully reimbursed M at the time it made its 
claim and so it should refund the remaining money it lost. She said Lloyds should pay M 
interest on the refund, calculated at 8% from the date it declined the claim to the date of 
settlement.
The investigators opinion was sent to both parties on 19 May 2020, with a deadline for 
responding of 2 June 2021. Lloyds asked our investigator to clarify that Mr Is driver had 
seen the vehicle and carried out a HPI check and that it was in order. Our investigator has 
confirmed these points to Lloyds.  As Lloyds hasnt provided its position on this case, over 
three months since the investigator sent their view, the case has been escalated to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our statutory rules provide  at DISP 3.5.8 to 3.5.15 of the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook  that we may give case-management directions and fix or extend deadlines; and 
that we may:
reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and take account of the 
failure by a party to provide information requested; And that
If a respondent fails to comply with a time limit, the Ombudsman may: (1) proceed 
with consideration of the complaint; and (2) include provision for any material distress 
or material inconvenience caused by that failure in any award which he decides to 
make.
Ive therefore concluded that, in the absence of a response from Lloyds to the investigators 
initial assessment, it is fair and reasonable to proceed on the basis of the evidence we 
already have.
Ive considered whether, under the Code, M ought to have been fully reimbursed when Mr I 
notified Lloyds of the scam. In doing so, Ive considered whether or not he met his requisite 
level of care. I believe he did, for substantively the same reasons the investigator has 
already explained, so it would have been fair and reasonable for M to have received a full 
refund at the time.
 
Putting things right
 Lloyds should now;
- refund M the money it lost (less any money recovered) - within 28 days of receiving 
notification of its acceptance of my final decision; plus;
- pay interest at the simple rate of 8% per year on that amount (less any tax properly 
deductible) from the date Lloyds declined Ms claim under the CRM to the date of 
settlement 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman