DRN-2565159
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) blocked a 
payment from their account.
What happened
Mr G wanted to make a payment of £10,500 from their joint account on 17 September 2019. 
Halifax wouldnt make it as it didnt pass fraud checks. Mr G was asked to go into a branch 
with photo ID so they could agree the payment. 
Mr and Mrs G complained. Mr G was working offshore at the time and couldnt get to a 
branch. The payment was urgent and couldnt be made. Mr and Mrs G said that all their 
accounts were frozen as a result of what happened. They called a branch of Halifax and was 
told Mrs G could go in to authorise the payment. But when she got there she was told she 
couldnt - shed been given the wrong information. Mr G took time off work and got a 
helicopter flight to the mainland. He got a taxi and stayed overnight in a hotel. He visited a 
local branch the next day, showed his ID and the payment was agreed. He would like his 
expenses and loss of earnings reimbursed. 
Halifax replied in September 2019. They said the payment couldnt be made because it was 
flagged as unusual and then failed fraud checks  and was therefore blocked. Mr Gs 
answers didnt satisfy Halifax  and so a further check had to be carried out. This meant that 
Mr G had to visit a branch. They said they had the security checks in place to protect 
customers from fraud. They apologised that Mr and Mrs G were told that Mrs G could go to a 
branch to verify the payment  this was an error. They apologised for this and offered Mr and 
Mrs G compensation of £50 for travel expenses and the inconvenience caused. 
Mr and Mrs G brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator looked at what had 
happened. He said Halifax has an obligation to protect its customers from fraud. And as part 
of its security processes, if it had concerns about a payment, it can ask a customer to go to a 
branch with photo ID. This is within its terms and conditions. So, while he appreciated that 
this was very difficult for Mr G at the time, he couldnt say Halifax had done anything wrong. 
He said Halifax had wrongly advised that Mrs G could go to a branch instead of Mr G  and 
theyd paid compensation of £50 for this. He looked into whether other accounts in the name 
of Mr and Mrs G had been blocked  they hadnt. But internet banking had been suspended 
because of what had happened  so Mr and Mrs G may have thought all accounts had been 
blocked. He could see that a card transaction had taken place on 18 September 2019  so 
the other accounts were ok. 
Mr and Mrs G asked that their complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see how frustrated Mr and Mrs G must have felt. They cant see why the payment was 
stopped. Ive listened to the calls to Halifax made by Mr G and can appreciate how he tried 
to find ways through the problem. Mr G was working offshore and wanted to make an urgent 
payment. This was blocked because it was thought to be an unusual transaction  and Mr G 
didnt pass the security questions when he called Halifax. The account in question was 
blocked. Mr and Mrs G also thought all their accounts were frozen. Halifax told him he had to 
go into a branch to show his photo ID for the payment to be made. This was very difficult for 
him to do  but he still managed to do it by taking time off work, getting a flight, taxi and 
staying overnight in a hotel. He wants to be reimbursed for his expenses and loss of 
earnings. 
My role here is to decide on whether Halifax made an error or treated Mr and Mrs G unfairly. 
The issue here is that Halifax have processes in place to prevent payments being made to 
fraudsters. Unfortunately, these are all too common  and if Halifax dont follow their security 
checks (or if theyre not good enough), then customers can lose money  as can Halifax. Its 
in their terms and conditions that they can withhold payments if they think a fraud might be 
involved. These include: We can refuse to make a payment or allow a cash withdrawal if: 
 our internal security controls require you to produce additional identification or prevent us 
carrying out the transaction (for example, if it is for more than the maximum amount we set 
at any time)  we will let you know if we are stopping a payment for this reason; 
 the payment seems unusual compared with the way you normally use your account, in 
which case we may investigate further, for example by calling you. 
 we reasonably believe that you or someone else has used, is using or obtaining, or may 
use or obtain a service or money illegally or fraudulently. 
I agree that Mr and Mrs G were wrongly told that Mrs G could go to a branch to agree the 
payment  and Halifax have apologised for this and offered compensation of £50. I can also 
see that it was only the joint account in question that was blocked  not all the accounts  
and so they could be used as normal. Its quite possible that Mr and Mrs G thought theyd 
been stopped because internet banking was suspended while Mr Gs ID was sorted out. 
So, while I can see that what happened was incredibly inconvenient for Mr G and Mrs G, I 
cant in all fairness say what Halifax did was wrong. While I know that theyll find this 
disappointing, I wont be asking Halifax to do anymore here. I cant see that Mr and Mrs G 
have accepted Halifaxs offer of compensation of £50  if they want to, they should contact 
Halifax, who will arrange to pay it.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman