DRN-2783331
The complaint
 Mr V complains that PSA Finance UK Limited refused to let him reject a faulty car. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
PSA is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
The car was only some 30 months old with some 26,741 miles on the clock when it required 
a new engine. Clearly that is not what one would expect from a new car. There has been 
confusion as to the actual events, but it seems there was some doubt as to whether the car 
had been serviced. However, Mr V has supplied this service with evidence of the car being 
serviced. I have seen no reason as to why the engine failed and that means the only 
conclusion I can reasonably reach is that it was inherently faulty.
An engine which has been serviced should be more durable than this one proved to be. It 
was replaced under warranty in the spring of 2020, but it seems that Mr V was only provided 
with courtesy car for part of the time he was without his car. PSAs final response letter 
dated 11 June 2020 says that the dealer was only able to provide a courtesy car for a week 
as it had no record of the cars service history, but Mr V disputes that. The letter also states 
that the dealer would not be able to repair the car under warranty due to the lack of a service 
record.
Mr V voluntarily terminated the agreement in May 2020 but was left having to pay £1,137.78. 
It seems Mr V had no use of the car after it broke down. In the circumstances it seems there 
was a breakdown in communications and as a result Mr V has been left out of pocket. 
I agree with our investigator that it is right that this be remedied. PSA has suggested the car 
was not used by Mr V, but by a family member and it has also said that it was returned in a 
very poor state. I dont think any of these issues take away from the fact that the car was not 
sufficiently durable and Mr V would have been entitled to reject it. Nor would I expect PSA to 
pursue any charges.
Mr V accepted our investigators proposal, but PSA has not responded and so it is 
necessary for me to formalise matters by way of this decision.
Putting things right
 Mr V should be allowed to retrospectively reject the car.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct PSA Finance UK Limited
Retrospectively end the Mr Vs agreement at no further cost to him.
Refund any deposit paid plus 8% annual simple interest from the date of payment 
until the date of settlement.
Refund the £1,137.78 end of contract fee plus 8% annual simple interest from the 
date of payment until the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information and the agreement from his credit file.
Pay £120 for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman