DRN-3919687
The complaint
Mr M complains about Lloyds Bank PLC action to block his bank accounts.
What happened
Mr M was making an on-line purchase of goods with another bank which I will call Bank A. 
And Bank A is part of the Lloyds Banking Group.
Due to the seller changing bank accounts it was necessary for Mr M to set up new transfer 
details. However, upon doing so Mr M was requested to phone a fraud line.
Mr M found the representative unhelpful and, as he felt his transaction and Bank A account 
were unfairly blocked, he submitted a complaint to Bank A which is subject to a separate 
complaint with our service.
However, the representatives blocking action had an impact on Mr Ms Lloyds bank account. 
This is because Bank A and Lloyds are both part of the Lloyds Banking Group. 
So, Mr M also found his Lloyds accounts blocked and his complaint is about this decision 
and the distress and inconvenience it caused.
Mr M complained to Lloyds who said the action was taken to protect his funds and prevent 
fraud.
Mr M complained to our service; however, our investigator couldnt see that Lloyds had done 
anything wrong.
As Mr M remains dissatisfied this case has now been referred to me to look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be disappointing for 
Mr M and the following are the reasons for my decision.
This service cant instruct a business or business group to alter its procedures, processes or 
systems. I say this because we arent the regulator of the financial services industry, and our 
role is to consider each individual case. And, where we think a business hasnt acted fairly 
and reasonably in the circumstances, our role is to decide what should be done to put right 
any financial, or non-financial losses that a consumer has experienced.
In Mr Ms other complaint about his Bank A transaction and account being blocked, I didnt 
think the fraud representatives blocking action was unfair or unreasonable. This is because 
the transaction was automatically flagged to check if the payment was genuine. And the 
representative asked questions which I thought were reasonable to confirm this, protect Mr 
Ms account and alleviate the threat of a fraud. 
However, Mr M wasnt able to provide satisfactory answers to some important fraud and 
verification questions and this led to the block. So, as Mr M didn't satisfy the check or 
alleviate a fraud risk, I cant say that Bank As fraud representative made an error. 
Unfortunately, Mr Ms responses and the subsequent fraud representatives actions had a 
wider impact here. This is because of the connectivity and information sharing within the 
Lloyds banking group. And, as stated in their privacy policy statement, Lloyds can receive 
and act upon information from Bank A where there could be a risk of fraud or social 
engineering. 
So, Im satisfied that Lloyds action to block Mr Ms accounts was in line with their process to 
protect Mr M and his funds. Im also satisfied with their remedial action, as once Bank A 
communicated that they were satisfied there wasnt any fraudulent activity, Lloyds quickly 
reversed their action.
I appreciate this type of action will often be inconvenient for customers, but that doesnt 
mean Lloyds were wrong here. So, although I understand Mr Ms frustration, considering the 
above Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman