DRN-4427679
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as F, complains that A plan holdings (APH) failed to highlight
that the tracking device on its vehicle required activation for cover to apply.
Mr W, a director of F, brings the complaint on Fs behalf.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
F took out a Complete Mini Fleet insurance policy through its broker, APH, which renewed
each year. In March 2021 F made a mid-term adjustment to the policy by adding an
additional vehicle onto the cover. The policy then renewed in October 2021. The policy was
sold on an advised basis and information was sent to F to review by email on both
occasions.
In January 2022 Fs vehicle was stolen so it made a claim on the policy. The insurer declined
Fs claim because the security requirements set out in the policy hadnt been put in place -
the vehicle didnt have an operational tacking system at the time of the theft.
F says it wasnt made clear by APH that the tracking system on the vehicle needed
activation and that APH should have done more to draw this to its attention. Furthermore, it
argued that when it added a new vehicle to the policy at a later date, APH clearly informed F
that the tracking device would need to be activated for cover to apply, but it hadnt taken the
same care when adding the vehicle in question onto the policy.
Our investigator considered Fs complaint and concluded it should be upheld. He thought
that APH didnt do enough to make F aware that the tracker needed to be operational and
had it done so, F wouldve activated it.
APH didnt agree with our investigator and therefore the complaint was referred to me to
consider.
My provisional decision 
I sent F and APH my provisional decision on 16 October 2023. I explained why I wasnt 
upholding this complaint. I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I appreciate this will be 
disappointing for F, but Im not intending to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.
Im considering this complaint against APH, the client facing broker during the sale 
and amendment of the policy. So, I am only considering APHs actions in relation to 
the matter and any loss caused as a result their action. That means Ill consider if 
they met their obligations as a broker. But I wont consider whether or not the policy 
condition in question has been applied correctly because that responsibility lies with 
the insurer.
The policy was amended and renewed on an advised basis. This means, under the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Insurance Conduct of Business regulations 
(ICOBS), APH had a responsibility to ensure the suitability of their advice. They also 
had a general duty to provide appropriate information that is clear, fair and not 
misleading to enable F to make an informed decision about the policy.
When considering the issue of suitability, we usually take into account things like the 
extent of cover needed when thinking about a policyholders needs and 
circumstances. Theres nothing in this complaint to suggest that the extent of cover F 
was sold was unsuitable. Rather the issue its raised is that it wasnt made clear to it 
that the tracker on the vehicle needed activating. As such Ive considered whether 
the information APH gave F about this was enough to allow it to decide whether to 
continue with the cover.
Fs fleet policy contained a condition which stated the following:
M/4155/2 - Vehicle Security
We will not pay for any claim in respect of theft or attempted theft or taking 
away without lawful authority if at the time of the loss of or damage the 
Insured Vehicle(s) shown below is not fitted with the approved security 
system stated below.
It is a condition precedent to Our liability that the system is fully maintained,
operational, with the ignition keys removed and the doors locked when the 
Insured Vehicle is left unattended.
This clause does not apply within the first 30 days of cover, pending 
installation of the security system. During this period We will not pay the first 
10% of any claim in respect of theft or attempted theft under Section B 
Damage. The amount You pay is subject to a minimum of £5000.
Security system required - Thatcham Approved S5 tracking system
Registration Number
My understanding is that Fs claim for the stolen vehicle didnt comply with this 
condition because the tracker hadnt been activated and therefore wasnt operational.
I have considered all the submissions made, particularly those by Mr W on Fs 
behalf, but I dont think I can say that APH didnt do enough to highlight the above 
condition to it or bring it to Fs attention.
There was clear reference to the security condition within a telephone call between 
Mr W and APH during the mid-term amendment when the vehicle was added onto 
the policy. Whilst the reference didnt set out the exact detail of what was required, it 
did do enough to draw attention to the condition and as such Mr W should have 
ensured he had read and understood the policy wording in relation to it. The 
condition itself wasnt unusual for vehicles of this type and APH did point that out 
while also drawing attention to it.
From the evidence I have seen, APH made F aware that the vehicle required a specific tracking system, and they also contacted the dealership to ensure that this 
requirement was met before adding the vehicle to the policy. Following this 
conversation F ought reasonably to have known that the tracker would need to be 
activated. The renewal email in October 2021 also contained the security condition 
which outlined the detail of what was required. The email said Mr W should read 
through the attached documents and confirm it meets his requirements. APH 
provided contact details if Mr W wanted to discuss it further or if he had any queries. 
The renewal email gave Mr W a further opportunity to refer back to APH if he didnt 
understand anything. On that basis I dont think I can reasonably expect APH to have
done anything more in the circumstances.
A submission had been made by Mr W on how APH could have made the policy 
condition clearer, and this included an email from APH when adding another vehicle 
onto the policy which specifically stated that the tracker need to be activated. Ive 
considered this, but I dont think APH needed to do anything more than they already 
did to draw the relevant condition to Fs attention. It was then up to F to satisfy itself 
as a policyholder that it was familiar and complied with the requirement in order to 
make a successful claim on the policy. So, I dont APH are at fault because F didnt.
For the reason explained above, I think APH did what Id expect them to do. As 
things stood the covering email sent with the mid-term amendment and renewal letter 
made clear that he needed to ensure he read and understood the documents, which 
contained the security requirements and F took out the policy on that basis.
Neither F nor APH responded to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided any further evidence or comments for me to consider, I see 
no reason to depart from the outcome Ive reached in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Ankita Patel
Ombudsman