DRN-1496268
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2008. Mr L says Barclays Bank UK PLC  mis-sold him the PPI. 
What happened
Mr L took out PPI at the same time as applying for a credit card using an online application. 
The policy provided protection for Mr L's credit card payments in the event he couldn't work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment. It also provided life cover. The policy paid a 
monthly benefit of 10% of the outstanding card balance for the three main elements (it would 
pay off the outstanding balance in the event of death) and it would do so for up to 12 months 
per claim. It cost 79 pence for every £100 Mr L owed on the card and the payments did 
attract interest.
At the time of the sale Mr L was employed, and he said he was entitled to sick pay of six 
months' full pay followed by six months' half pay. He said he had no other means such as 
savings he couldve used to make his repayments - he did say he was entitled to 
redundancy pay - and he was in good health at the time.
The adjudicator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said Mr L chose to 
take out the cover. And there was nothing to indicate it was wrong or inappropriate for him.
Because Mr L disagrees, the complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding Mr Ls case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint. My reasons are set out below.
did Mr L have a choice about PPI?  
I think Barclays made it clear that Mr L didn't have to take out the PPI and that he chose to 
take it out - although I can understand why he cant remember this.
This was a sale by Internet application and Barclays has provided an example of the PPI 
screenshot it says Mr L would've seen when he made his credit card application.
 
Looking at this I can see Mr L would've been presented with four options - three different 
levels of PPI cover and 'No' option - from which to chose from my clicking on the appropriate 'radio button'. Barclays' records show Mr L took out the first (the most comprehensive) 
level of cover.
I've not seen anything to persuade me that Mr L saw something very different when he made 
his application, so I think Mr L chose to take out PPI by selecting it on his application. 
the information  
Because this was an Internet sale, I'm satisfied Barclays didn't advise or recommend the 
cover to Mr L - there was no interaction with a staff member and so no opportunity to assess 
Mr L's needs. This means Barclays didn't have to ensure PPI was right or suitable for Mr L. 
But it did have to give him enough clear and timely information about the cover, so he could 
make an informed decision about it.
Given the limited evidence available, I accept it's possible the information Barclays gave Mr 
L about the PPI wasn't as clear as it should've been. For example, while it appears the PPI 
Internet page provided Mr L with links to click on to find out more about the cover - including 
its features and exclusions and limitations - it's not clear if this information was 
sufficiently highlighted to Mr L as being important reading before he made his decision to 
buy.
But as I found above, Mr L chose to take out the policy - so it looks like he wanted this type 
of cover. And based on his circumstances at the time it doesn't appear that it was 
inappropriate for him - for example he was eligible for the cover, and he wasn't affected by 
the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover such as those relating to existing medical 
conditions or unusual employment circumstances - so it seems like it would have been 
useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I don't think 
better information about the PPI would have put Mr L off taking out the cover. 
conclusion
While Barclays might not have done everything it should fairly and reasonably have done 
when it sold Mr L PPI, in light of his circumstances at the time and for the reasons I've given 
above I think Mr L would still have gone ahead and taken out PPI had Barclays done 
anything more.
This means I dont think Mr L has lost out to the extent that Barclays has to pay back to Mr L 
everything he paid for PPI.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr L because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr L about that. Because Barclays didn't tell Mr L, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr L and his representative have said - including what they've  
said about Mr L's sick pay and his 'significant redundancy pay' But these points dont change 
my decision.
 
As a starting point and as I said above, Mr L chose to take out the cover - so it must have 
been something he was interested in. I've not seen any evidence to suggest that the policy was misrepresented such that he didn't understand the nature of what the policy provided. 
And Mr L chose to take it out in the knowledge of what his existing means were.
I accept that Mr L might not have been clearly told about the true cost and benefit of the 
policy to enable him to weigh up the cost and the benefit proposition. But if Barclays had 
made things clearer, I think Mr L would have still gone ahead. The policy would pay out in 
addition to Mr L's sick pay and for up to 12 months per claim - longer than Mr L's sick pay - 
and given the percentage benefit it had the potential to clear the outstanding balance in full. 
This would've allowed Mr L to focus his existing means on other ongoing and fixed 
expenditure.
So, overall I think the policy would have proved useful to Mr L in his circumstances had the 
insured risks become a reality.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I've decided Mr L hasn't lost out to the extent that Barclays Bank UK 
PLC has to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr L.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr L any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman