DRN-3472224
The complaint
Mr W complains Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner Finance 
(BPF) were unreasonable when they rejected a claim he made to them under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont set them out again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr W, but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong with goods or services and the payment was made, in part or 
whole, with a fixed sum loan, as is the case here, it might be possible to make a section 75 
claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the 
borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
Im not persuaded that theres been a misrepresentation or a breach of contract here. I 
understand Mr W says he was led to believe that the frames were not surface covered, and 
the marketing material didnt explain that was the case. But the supplier doesnt agree that 
Mr W was misinformed and the window survey and purchase contract both explain the 
windows will be grey on the outside and white on the inside, and thats what Mr W received.
BPF have provided details from the suppliers website in which the manufacturing process is 
explained. It says that colour is added via an embossed multilayer film that is laminated to 
the plastic substrate. I understand Mr W says he didnt look at the website before he made 
his decision to go ahead with the deal, but I think the description supplied adds credence to 
the suppliers assertion that they wouldnt have suggested the frames were not laminated. 
Mr W has explained that a representative of the supplier who attended his property after the 
windows were fitted, explained that they dont offer the types of frame Mr W wanted because 
all their coloured frames are laminated. I think the website supports that view; I cant see that 
it mentions coloured frames can be supplied in the format Mr W wanted to receive them. I 
think that also adds credence to the suppliers assertion their agent wouldnt have suggested 
the frames were of a solid colour, as it seems clear that specification couldnt be provided. 
Mr W has provided photographs of the frames that have now been fitted to his property. 
There are some white spots on the frames and theres some white showing on the external 
corners. The supplier has suggested that these should wash off, but Mr W says hes done 
that, and the marks remain. I understand that the supplier has offered to touch up any issues 
that remain. I think its clear the white marks arent what would be considered reasonable 
quality.
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) allows a business an opportunity to repair goods that are 
not of satisfactory quality when supplied so I think the suppliers offer is a reasonable one 
and, overall, I dont think BPF were unfair when they rejected Mr Ws section 75 claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman