DRN-3983537
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint is that they say their mortgage was mis-sold by Bank of Scotland 
plc trading as Halifax, because, prior to completion, they were unable to increase the 
mortgage term from 20 to 22 years. 
Mr and Mrs B say they are now tied into a five-year fixed interest rate product over a 20-year 
term with high monthly repayments than if theyd been on a 22-year term.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mr and Mrs B being identified. So for these 
reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
Mr and Mrs B were buying a new-build property and were taking out a mortgage with Halifax 
to do so. Various term lengths were discussed with the mortgage adviser (MA). A mortgage 
offer was issued on 24 January 2022 for a mortgage term of 20 years. The completion 
window for the purchase was May/June, and the mortgage offer was due to expire on 
31 May 2022. If completion was to go beyond that, Mr and Mrs B were concerned that they 
would have needed a new mortgage offer, and as interest rates were increasing, they were 
keen to avoid this. They were in a property chain, and were also under pressure from the 
builder to complete their purchase.
Contracts were exchanged on about 11 April 2022 and on 13 April 2022 Mr and Mrs B 
contacted Halifax to arrange for the mortgage term to be changed from 20 to 22 years. 
However, because the solicitors had already requested the mortgage funds ready for 
completion, it wasnt possible to do this. Mr and Mrs B were told that the funds would have to 
be returned, and that issuing a new mortgage offer could cause delays in completing. 
Mr and Mrs B werent willing to take this risk because it was so close to completion, and to 
the expiry of their mortgage offer. 
Mr and Mrs B complained, saying the mortgage had been mis-sold because theyd been 
assured by the MA that they could alter the length of the mortgage term at any time up to 
completion. Halifax didnt uphold the complaint, explaining that, because funds had been 
requested by the solicitors, it wasnt possible to make any changes to the mortgage. Halifax 
paid £50 for some customer service issues relating to its handling of the complaint.
Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to our service. An investigator looked at what had 
happened, but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that the MA had 
explained that the mortgage application would need to be finalised before exchange of 
contracts, because otherwise any changes would require a change of product, impacting on 
interest rate products that would be available. The investigator was also satisfied that Halifax 
had explained the implications of the solicitors requesting the funds in advance, and that no 
changes could be made after that to the mortgage product.
Mr and Mrs B didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. Theyve reiterated that they were assured by the MA that changes 
could be made to the mortgage without any issues or delays.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, for broadly the same 
reasons.
First of all, I fully understand that this has been a difficult time for Mr and Mrs B. Moving 
house is a stressful experience, and I can see from what theyve told us that Mr and Mrs B 
were under time pressure from the developer to complete by a particular date, and were also 
in a chain in relation to selling their existing property. 
Its correct that, prior to drawdown of funds, its usually possible to make changes to a 
mortgage offer. So what Mr and Mrs B were told about this by Halifax was not incorrect. 
However, by 13 April 2022, when Mr and Mrs B contacted the MA to request a change in the 
mortgage term from 20 years to 22 years, the MA wasnt able to access the application. 
Thats because the solicitors had already requested the release of funds and so it wasnt 
possible at that stage to make any changes to the mortgage offer. 
Contracts had been exchanged with a completion date set for 11 May 2022. The bank 
wouldnt have been aware of the date of exchange of contracts  thats not something that 
Halifax is involved with. 
The usual process is that, prior to exchange of contracts, the solicitors will go through the 
purchase contract and mortgage offer with their clients, explaining all the relevant terms and 
conditions, and making sure that their clients are happy with the documentation before they 
are committed to both the purchase and mortgage. I think its unlikely that the solicitors 
would have committed Mr and Mrs B to the transaction if Mr and Mrs B had not been happy 
with the mortgage offer.
After exchange of contracts (following which both seller and purchaser are committed to 
completing on a particular date  in this case, 11 May 2022) the solicitors will carry out final 
searches and then complete a Certificate of Title so that the mortgage lender can release 
the funds. Usually the Certificate of Title is sent in about a week before completion. But in 
this case, the Certificate of Title was submitted to Halifax on 12 or 13 April 2022, just after 
contracts had been exchanged. Thats not something that Halifax was responsible for.
However, once this had been done and the funds were requested, then it wasnt possible to 
change Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage offer. In order to amend the mortgage term, it would have 
been necessary for the solicitors to return the funds and for a new offer to be issued. Im 
satisfied Halifax explained this to Mr and Mrs B. I will also clarify that it wasnt the exchange 
of contracts that meant the mortgage offer couldnt be changed; rather, it was the 
submission of the Certificate of Title and the request for funds by the solicitors that resulted 
in the mortgage funds being ring-fenced. This meant that no further changes could be made 
to the mortgage.
Understandably, because contracts had been exchanged and completion was imminent, 
Mr and Mrs B didnt want to take the risk that they might not have a mortgage in place before 
completion; they were already committed to completing their purchase on 11 May 2022. I dont know why the solicitors submitted the Certificate of Title and requested the funds so far 
in advance of completion, but thats not something over which Halifax had any control. 
Ive noted what Mr and Mrs B say they were told during telephone conversations with the MA 
about being able to amend the mortgage term at any time. But theyve taken comments in 
isolation, and out of context. Im satisfied that the MA made Mr and Mrs B aware that the 
mortgage application would need to be finalised before exchange of contracts (and, indeed, 
as I said above, solicitors will not usually exchange contracts until they have received a copy 
of the mortgage offer and gone through it with their clients). It was also explained to 
Mr and Mrs B that because funds had been requested, any change would require the funds 
to be returned, and that this would result in delay. None of this was incorrect information.
Overall, whilst I know Mr and Mrs B wouldnt have appreciated the implications of their 
solicitors requesting the funds immediately after exchange of contracts, it was this which 
prevented any further changes being made to the mortgage. I understand Mr and Mrs Bs 
frustration, but Im unable to find that Halifax has done anything wrong here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman