DRN-4377047
The complaint
Miss W is unhappy with the service shes received from National Westminster Bank Plc.
Miss W is represented by Mr and Mrs C, who hold Power of Attorney for her. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not directing Nat West to do anything further to put things right: 
Mr and Mrs C are authorised in law to represent Miss W  they are not eligible 
complainants. So, I need to consider the impact on Miss W rather than Mr and Mrs C.  
I have taken into account the distress and inconvenience caused to Miss W and what 
Nat West has already done to put things right. 
Nat West has credited Miss Ws account with the costs associated with arranging a 
power of attorney that wasnt required. And theyve corrected interest and charges 
Miss W has incurred as a result of customer services issues. I think thats reasonable 
and has ensured Miss W hasnt lost out financially as a result of what happened. 
Theyve also apologised for what happened.  
Ive thought carefully about Mr and Mrs Cs testimony about the impact on Miss W. I 
accept its caused her some distress and inconvenience. But I think the majority of 
the stress, anxiety and inconvenience was suffered by Mr and Mrs C as her 
attorneys. 
I think Miss W was shielded from significant distress and inconvenience by Mr and 
Mrs C. So, I dont think its fair and reasonable to direct Nat West to make any further 
payment to Miss W. I think the steps theyve taken are enough to put things right. 
Nat West has already made an offer to Mr and Mrs C of £500 compensation and 
£70.20 of parking costs. Mr and Mrs C should contact Nat West directly if they now 
wish to accept this.
My final decision
I dont think Nat West needs to do anything further to settle this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman