DRN-2841208
The complaint
Mr B complains that Gracombex Ltd, trading as The Money Platform, should never have lent 
to him.
What happened
Using information supplied by The Money Platform, here is a brief summary of the approved 
loans. I have included the gaps in the lending relationship here as The Money Platform
refers to these. I address these points later in the decision.
Loan Approved Amount Term and 
instalmentsRepaid 
amount 
(rounded)Repaid date
1 29 February 2020 £331 20 April 2020
2 23 July 2020 £335 18 September 2020
3 16 October 2020 £296 20 October 2020
4 5 December 2020 £307 22 December 2020
5 27 December 2020£250 8 weeks in two 
instalments
£0 late
The Money Platform has sent to us detailed information relating to the credit checks and 
information it had gathered before lending to Mr B. This included details about his monthly 
income of £2,170, his rent of £275, his declared expenditure which ranged from £490 to 
£546 and the Office for National Statistics (ONS) data it added on top. This ONS figure was 
around £490 for each loan.
The Money Platform also carried out credit checks and it has sent those results to this 
Service. It says that Mr B had plenty of disposable income and in In summary, the customer 
has a credit [sic] of reasonable credit usage and no reported arrears or defaults.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that at loan 4, The Money 
Platform ought to have realised that Mr D had become persistently reliant on these loans. 
She felt that loans 4 and 5 should be ones which The Money Platform put right for Mr D.
The Money Platform disagreed and made several points which I addressed in the provisional 
decision I issued on 19 October 2021. The provisional findings are set out in the main body 
of this final decision and form part of it. It is in smaller type to differentiate it. 
I gave time for both parties to come back to me with additional points and evidence. Both 
parties have responded. The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
The Money Platform needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend 
irresponsibly. In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to 
make sure Mr B could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include 
several different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure.
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that The Money 
Platform should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer.
These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a level of income);
having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time (reflecting 
the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
The Money Platform was required to establish whether Mr B could sustainably repay his 
loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation.
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the 
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments.
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further
In order to do that.My provisional findings dated 19 October 2021
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
Gaps in the lending
The Money Platform says that the gaps in the lending relationship with Mr B means that there are 
separate lending chains. It has calculated that one gap was around 94 days and another around 
46 days. My current thinking is that these gaps were too short to break the chain. Usually we consider 
that to have occurred with larger periods of non-lending. So, I am planning to treat the whole lending 
relationship period as one lending chain.
However, I do agree with The Money Platform that these breaks of 94 and 46 days do make an 
impact on the repeat lending argument. The gaps do suggest that Mr D had not become reliant on 
the Money Platform credit. This is the reason I am issuing a provisional decision as I disagree with our 
adjudicators view on this aspect.
Irresponsible lending
I think that The Money Platform had obtained enough information to adequately assess the 
affordability of loans 1 to 4 for Mr B and the checks it carried out were proportionate. Each of the 
loans was for a relatively modest sum of £250 and over a short term of 56 days (8 weeks). The 
highest scheduled repayment for each was around £181 and those seemed affordable on the 
information it had. I am planning not to uphold loans 1 to 4.
Loan 5  I think that a full financial review may have been appropriate at this stage and I say this 
because it was the fifth loan for Mr B in ten months and the second one in the same month  
December 2020. Mr B had just taken a loan earlier in the same month and then paid it off and come 
back from more credit a few days later. Effectively Mr B had applied for £500 in one month from The 
Money Platform and so additional checks may have been justified.
In order to come to a provisional decision, I need to be clear on what it was The Money Platform was 
likely to have discovered if it had carried out a full financial review of Mr Bs circumstances before 
approving loan 5. To do that I have the information The Money Platform has provided to me plus copy 
bank statements for November and December 2020. Mr B has sent to us a copy of his credit report 
dated 12 April 2021 which covers the lending period.
Having reviewed all of those then I do not see evidence which leads me to think that Mr B was unable 
to support the repayments for loan 5. Mr Bs bank statements are of an account which show many 
transfers to what appears to be another account which looks to have been held by Mr B. And the 
account statements I have show that Mr B did have other debt but its not clear the extent of that debt, 
the impact on his day to day living situation, what his income and expenditure was and what his actual 
financial position was. I dont have a full picture as I have been sent a set of statements showing a 
partial picture.
I am planning not to uphold Mr Bs complaint about loan 5. 
Additional point raised by Mr D.
Mr D has mentioned in his complaint form when he referred it to this Service, that The Money 
Platforms FRL referred to a traumatic life event which was incorrect, as he says that
he never mentioned that in his complaint to it. He says this has affected him.
I asked The Money Platform for a copy of Mr Ds original complaint and it does not contain any 
reference to such a traumatic event. And I have read the FRL and I can find no reference to that 
either. So, as neither party seems to have made any mention of such an event in Mr Ds life then 
theres no more I can say on that point.How have both parties responded? 
On the irresponsible lending part, Mr B has expressed disappointment but has not sent to 
me any further evidence or copy bank statements. The Money Platform has agreed with my 
provisional decision. So, on that part I see no reason to alter my provisional findings and my 
outcome remains unchanged  I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint about irresponsible lending.
On the additional point made by Mr B, he sent to us a copy of the FRL he had received and 
it did contain the paragraph relating to him having suffered a traumatic event. This differs 
from the FRL copy version we had received from The Money Platform as part of this 
investigation and so I asked it to explain.
A Money Platform representative has written to me on this point and has explained it was 
human error and accepts that the FRL version sent to Mr B included the erroneous 
paragraph regarding My mental health state of mind. A reviewed and amended version 
was sent to this Service which was a mistake. In its defence, The Money Platforms 
representative has said that the paragraph is not used in any type of negative 
connotation. Reading the paragraph, we are providing a link to where the customer may gain 
support.
It apologises for the mistake. 
Mr B has not articulated how this paragraph in the FRL affected him. It may have been 
startling to receive such a paragraph in the letter from The Money Platform but having read 
Mr Bs original letter of complaint in which he had not raised any mental health issues, then 
I think he would have appreciated this was a mistake.
I accept The Money Platforms explanation. However, I think it was careless and may have 
made Mr B feel that his complaint was being treated in a formulaic manner when an 
irrelevant paragraph such as this was included in his FRL and clearly not meant for him.
It may be that The Money Platform feels it ought to write to Mr B to apologise. I think the 
apology in its recent explanation to us, was directed to this Service. 
Having thought about it I do not consider that any recompense is required. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman