DRN-3351535
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 2008, 
alongside a mortgage. Mrs and Mr R say Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold 
that PPI policy.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs and Mr 
Rs circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover arent materially disputed. So I havent repeated all of that information 
here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint, but they thought Nationwides offer to 
pay back some of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high commission and 
profit share Mrs and Mr R paid was fair in the circumstances.
Mrs and Mr Rs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. They didnt raise any 
new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs and Mr Rs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs and 
Mr Rs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Nationwide should have disclosed 
the commission it received, but that Nationwides offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
Was PPI mis-sold? 
The first thing Ive considered is whether Nationwide made it clear that PPI was optional. I 
can see from the mortgage offer that it was clearly stated Mrs and Mr R were not required to 
take out any insurance through Nationwide. It also stated that the only insurance they were 
required to take out was buildings insurance. I can also see that they were provided with a 
separate PPI illustration. On balance, Im satisfied that Mrs and Mr R would have known the 
PPI was not a requirement of and was a separate product to their mortgage. 
When PPI was sold, Nationwide had to give Mrs and Mr R enough information about the 
cover so they could decide for themselves whether it was a good fit for their needs. That 
information should have been clear, fair and not misleading. I cant know what Mrs and Mr R 
were told at the point of sale. So I accept it is possible that Nationwide didnt tell them 
everything it should have done about the PPI policy. 
But that doesnt mean I can automatically uphold the complaint. I must consider whether Mrs 
and Mr R would have acted differently if Nationwide had told them everything it should have 
done. To help me decide on that point, Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the policy. 
And Ive also considered what we know about Mrs and Mr Rs personal circumstances at the 
relevant time. 
I can see if Mrs and Mr R had to make a claim on the PPI policy, their mortgage repayments 
would have been met for every month Mr R was out of work if he was made redundant. Each 
claim could have lasted for up to 12 months. 
Mrs and Mr R told us that at the point of sale, Mr R had been in his job for around a year. So 
I dont think hed have had statutory redundancy entitlement at that point. And I think that 
any contractual redundancy pay would have been limited. So I can see how PPI could have 
been helpful if Mr R did lose his job. 
Mrs and Mr R told us they had some savings they could have relied on to pay their mortgage 
if Mr R was out of work. I have to stress that this borrowing was secured on their home, so it 
could have been at risk if they fell behind with their repayments. With PPI, they could have 
used their existing savings on their other essential expenditure at what could have been a 
very difficult time if Mr R lost his job. 
Ive considered whether Mr R would have been affected by any of the policys exclusions. I 
havent seen anything unusual about his employment circumstances that would have 
stopped him from being able to make a successful claim if he needed to. I know that those 
representing Mrs and Mr R made a number of submissions around medical conditions. But 
as Mrs and Mr R werent covered for sickness, none of the exclusions around medical 
conditions apply. 
Putting all of this together then, I am satisfied that that Mrs and Mr R would have still taken 
out PPI.  I think the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were 
getting and I think the policy could provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their 
circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I think that they would have taken 
out the policy in any event.
Mrs and Mr Rs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Nationwide should have disclosed the poor 
value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had 
on the chances of making a claim.
But Mrs and Mr Rs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mrs and Mr Rs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs and Mr Rs particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold the mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means Nationwide doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs and Mr R.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Nationwide should have disclosed the commission it received 
and that Nationwides offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the 
unfairness caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Nationwide didnt tell Mrs and Mr R about the high levels of commission and profit share paid 
in this case. So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Nationwide and Mrs and Mr R was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit 
Act because Nationwide didnt tell them about the high levels of commission and profit 
share in this case 
I dont think Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs and Mr R 
because it failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipIm now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mrs and Mr Rs representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on the complaint.
In summary they have said Mrs and Mr R should get back all the money they paid for the 
policy because: Nationwide failed to tell Mrs and Mr R about the high commission and profit-
share rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because 
they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mrs and Mr R wouldnt have 
taken out the policy had they known about the level of commission and they should receive a 
refund of all the premiums they paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mrs and Mr R in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Nationwide not disclosing the 
high level of commission before they purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mrs and Mr Rs representative suggests, driven to conclude that they 
wouldnt have purchased the policy but for Nationwides failure to disclose the level of 
commission for the reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Nationwide to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance 
and return some of the money Mrs and Mr R paid for the PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mrs and 
Mr R with the policy Ive concluded above they would still have taken out if Nationwide had 
done everything it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.So I consider that Nationwides offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission 
and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mrs and Mr Rs complaint or make any 
award for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided Nationwide 
Building Society should pay Mrs and Mr R an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where 
applicable) if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman