DRN-2776211
The complaint
Mr H and Miss P complain that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) has turned down a claim 
they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H and Miss P were abroad on holday and were due to fly back to the UK on 12 March 
2020. However, their airline let them know that itd cancelled their return flight. This meant 
Mr H and Miss P incurred significant expenses in arranging their own transport back to the 
UK. They made a claim on their travel insurance policy for these costs.
URV turned down the claim. It said the policy didnt cover expenses a policyholder incurred 
because of their airline cancelling a flight. And while the policy did include travel delay cover, 
it said this only applied on the outbound journey from the UK. 
Mr H and Miss P were unhappy with URVs decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think URV had treated Mr H and Miss P unfairly. Thats because she 
didnt think the policy terms covered their situation. And she felt the policy paperwork Mr H 
and Miss P clearly set out the things URV did and didnt cover.
Mr H and Miss P disagreed. They said theyd bought the insurance in good faith that it would 
cover them for cancelled flights. They felt URV was hiding behind its policy terms. They said 
theyd been lucky to have the means to arrange new flights home, as theyd been left 
stranded abroad with no support.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr H and Miss P, I think it was fair for URV to 
turn down their claim. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mr H and Miss Ps policy and the circumstances of their claim to decide whether 
URV handled it fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms, as these form the basis of Mr H and Miss Ps contract 
with URV. I can see that the policy includes a section called If you are delayed leaving your 
home country or BFPO. This section provides cover for a benefit of £50 for each 12-hour 
period a policyholder is delayed (up to a limit of £500), if theyre delayed by more than 12 
hours from their scheduled departure time due to a disruption to their travel providers 
service.
URV has defined what it means by home country and BFPO. A home country is defined as 
the UK, the Channel Islands or the Isle of Man. And BFPO is defined as British forces 
posted overseas. So I think its clear that this cover only applies to delays to outbound 
flights.
I can see from the Insurance Product Information Document that the what is insured section 
also refers, on page 1, to delay in leaving a policyholders home country or BFPO. So I think 
URV has clearly set out the travel delay cover it offers.
In this case, theres no suggestion that Mr H and Miss P were delayed on their outbound 
flight from the UK. Instead, their airline cancelled their inbound return flight to the UK. So I 
dont think it was unfair for URV to conclude that their claim wasnt covered by this section of 
the policy.
Ive looked carefully at the terms of the contract. But I dont think the circumstances of Mr H 
and Miss Ps claim fall within the scope of any other section of cover. So while I sympathise 
with their position, because I appreciate theyve been left significantly out of pocket for 
reasons outside of their control, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to tell URV 
to pay their claim. 
Overall, in these circumstances, I think it was fair for URV to turn down Mr H and Miss Ps 
claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Miss P 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman