DRN-3672421
The complaint
Mr J complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited unfairly declined his 
group income protection claim. 
What happened
Mr J, a watchmaker, has access to a group income protection policy designed to provide a 
benefit for incapacity after a deferred period of 26 weeks. 
In November 2020 Mr Js employer submitted a claim for him and explained hed been off 
work since June 2020 following vascular laser surgery on his leg. In December 2020 Mr J 
submitted a member statement too. He reiterated his reason for absence and said he was 
suffering from the following symptoms: pain in his leg and numbness, walking and standing 
difficulties, and tremors in his left hand.  
Legal and General declined the claim. It said the available medical evidence demonstrated 
Mr J was considered fit to resume work during the 26 week deferred period. It also said was 
unsure why hed not done so, there was a lack of medical evidence to support his absence 
throughout the deferred period too, and he hadnt shared some of the medical evidence it 
had asked for. 
Mr J complained. He shared the information Legal and General had previously asked for but 
that didnt change its decision, so Mr J referred his complaint to us. 
Our investigator said the claim hadnt been declined unreasonably. They said Mr Js surgeon 
advised his symptoms had improved dramatically post-surgery and his pain would settle 
within six weeks. They said hed been discharged from his surgeons care by July 2020 too, 
and the surgeon said thered been an excellent outcome and resolution of Mr Js symptoms. 
Our investigator also said occupational health determined Mr J was fit to resume work in 
November 2020. And though the evidence demonstrated a minor hand tremor was identified, 
it didnt support this having prevented Mr J from returning to work during the policys 
deferred period either. 
Mr J disagreed and asked for the matter to be passed to an ombudsman. He said much of 
the evidence suggested he wasnt fit for work, it didnt fully capture the severity or impact of 
his symptoms, and he had undergone physiotherapy but there wasnt any evidence to show 
that. Mr J also said his employer hadnt helped with occupational healths recommendations 
either  namely that he didnt drive to work or use public transport (and if it were available, 
practical and commercially appropriate, alternative means of transport could be considered) 
and he should take regular breaks. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J has set out his position in some detail and I thank him for taking the time to do so. My 
findings will address only those matters I consider both relevant and central to the outcome 
of this complaint. Although Ive considered everything, I may not directly respond to every 
point and argument made. 
As has rightly been explained, in line with the relevant rules and industry guidelines Legal 
and General has a responsibility to consider claims both promptly and fairly, and not reject 
them unreasonably. 
The cover available to Mr J is set out within the relevant policy documentation. Looking at 
this I can see the group cover is provided on a progressive basis, which the policy terms 
and conditions explain as meaning:
Progressive
Means for an insured member, payment of benefit under this policy is assessed against:
i.own occupation for a period of two years starting on the benefit start date, then
ii.suited occupation for the next two years, then
iii.activities of daily working thereafter.
Mr Js claim would have been considered under the first of those progressive stages, own 
occupation, which is further explained within the terms and conditions as follows:
Own occupation
Means the insured member is incapacitated by illness or injury that prevents him from 
performing the essential duties of his occupation immediately before the start of the 
deferred period.
The insured members capacity to perform the essential duties of his own occupation will 
be determined whether or not that occupation remains available to him.
So, Mr J would have needed to demonstrate that throughout the 26 week deferred period 
(that being June to December 2020) illness or injury prevented him from performing the 
essential duties of his role as a watchmaker.
Mr J tells this service that much of the available evidence showed he wasnt considered fit 
for work. While I acknowledge some of it did, I dont think it was unreasonable of Legal and 
General to find that collectively it didnt demonstrate incapacity throughout the required 
period. Without reciting every piece of evidence Ill now explain why. 
In May 2020 Mr J was referred for vascular surgery by his GP. A consultant vascular 
surgeon diagnosed Mr J with acute thrombophlebitis later that same month, and in June 
2020 he underwent laser surgery on a vein in his leg. 
Following that procedure the consultant vascular surgeon advised Mr Js symptoms had 
improved dramatically and said thered been good technical results. They explained Mr Js 
pain should settle over the next six weeks and in July 2020 discharged him from their care. 
When doing so the consultant vascular surgeon said:
(Mr J) has had an excellent resultI am delighted to say the phlebitis and 
lipodermatosclerosis have substantially settledI have discharged (Mr J) from routine follow-upExcellent outcome and resolution of symptoms following his recent endovenous 
thermal ablation.
So, rather than demonstrating incapacity throughout the deferred period, the available 
evidence here actually demonstrated that Mr Js surgery had gone well, it had dramatically 
improved his symptoms, and that by July 2020 hed been discharged. Mr J says this 
evidence didnt comment on his physical abilities or mobility and I accept that. But as the 
onus was on him to evidence any ongoing incapacity, I think itd be unfair of me to ask Legal 
and General to accept a claim in the absence of any evidence to support Mr Js testimony. 
As well as being discharged from his surgeons care in July 2020, Mr J was also assessed 
as being fit to resume work by occupational health in November 2020. Legal and General 
say it was unable to ascertain why Mr J remained absent from work following those two 
events and I can understand why. 
Throughout his claim Mr J had given a number of different reasons for his continued 
absence. 
For example, Mr J said his continued absence was due to his hand tremor. It was due to 
concerns about driving and sitting for long periods of time. It was because he had concerns 
about wearing a face mask. And it was because he was concerned about a shortness of 
breath and cough which was likely caused by asthma. Mr J also told this service his 
employer wouldnt accommodate the travel adjustments recommended in the occupational 
health report as part of his phased return. He had seen a physiotherapist privately but there 
were no reports from the physiotherapist available. And he was under a lot of stress and was 
depressed given his injury and recovery. 
Travel to and from the workplace isnt something that is considered under the group policy. It 
wouldnt be fair of me to hold Legal and General responsible for any decisions Mr Js 
employer made in relation to suggested adjustments. And the occupational health report in 
November 2020 explained that any adjustments were only recommendations:
Please note that all adjustments are recommendations only and that it is for the Employer to 
decide whether they are operationally feasible.  
The same report also said:
In my opinion (Mr J) is fit for a phased return to work based on the information he has 
relayed to me taking into account his current symptoms and reported activity levels (Mr J) 
and I agree that he was fit for a phased return.
I am aware that Mr J met with a consultant neurologist in relation to his hand tremor. But in 
June 2020 that consultant advised Mr J had a very subtle left postural tremor and 
encouraged him to work with occupational health with regards to his phased return. 
In November 2020 that consultant again explained Mr J had a very mild tremor of his left 
hand. They suggested he seek some support from the National Tremor Foundation, said a 
low dosage of medication could be considered if he was troubled, and suggested a re-
evaluation after six to nine months if symptoms changed. 
And in February 2021 that consultant advised theyd not seen Mr J again since his 
appointment in November 2020 and they were unaware if he was taking the symptomatic 
treatment suggested. So this doesnt show that Mr J was incapacitated throughout the 
policys deferred period because of his tremor either.I fully appreciate that Mr J may not have felt able to work. But the onus was on him to 
demonstrate that he was incapacitated in line with the policy terms. And unfortunately for 
Mr J there is a lack of objective medical evidence in this complaint to support much of his 
testimony about why he was. 
For all of these reasons I dont think it was unreasonable of Legal and General to decline this 
claim. I will not be interfering with its position as a result, though I realise Mr J may be 
disappointed by this.
As our investigator rightly explained, if Mr J has evidence that falls outside of the relevant 
deferred period here and which he thinks should be considered as part of a new claim, he 
will need to submit it to Legal and General first. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman