DRN-3251999
Complaint
Ms C has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) unfairly increased the interest rate 
on her overdraft.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at Ms Cs complaint and thought while HSBC was entitled to 
vary its overdraft interest rate, it should have realised it was unfair to do so in Ms Cs case as 
her overdraft had already become unsustainable for by June 2017. So it needed to refund all 
the interest, fees and charges it added to Ms Cs overdraft from this point. HSBC didnt 
agree and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and industry codes of practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this 
decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think HSBC acted unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees from June 2017. By this point, it 
was evident Ms Cs overdraft had become demonstrably unsustainable for her. 
A cursory look at her statements leading up to this period shows that Ms C had been 
hardcore borrowing for an extended period. And she rarely, if ever, saw a credit balance on 
her account. The amount of the credits going into Ms Cs account didnt suggest that shed 
be able to repay what she owed within a reasonable period of time either. 
So I think that by June 2017 HSBC should have stopped providing the overdraft on the same 
terms and treated Ms C with forbearance rather than adding even more interest, fees and 
charges on the overdraft. As HSBC didnt react to Ms Cs account usage, and instead simply 
continued charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably towards her. 
Ms C ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges at a time when her overdraft 
was already unsustainable. So Im satisfied that Ms C lost out because of what HSBC did 
wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what HSBC needs to do to put things right for Ms C
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Ms Cs complaint for HSBC to put things right by:
Reworking Ms Cs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from June 2017 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made HSBC should contact Ms C to arrange a suitable repayment plan, Ms 
C is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with HSBC to reach a 
suitable agreement for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative 
information on Ms Cs credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded 
had it started the process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in June 
2017. HSBC can also reduce Ms Cs overdraft limit by the amount of any refund if 
it considers it appropriate to do so, as long as doing so wouldnt leave her over 
her limit.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Ms C along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then HSBC 
should remove any adverse information from Ms Cs credit file. HSBC can also 
reduce Ms Cs overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it considers it appropriate 
to do so.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give 
Ms C a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Cs complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman