DRN-4116830
The complaint
Mr M complains that ReAssure Limited has failed to administer his pension savings in an 
effective manner. In particular he complains about delays and errors in the application and 
investment of an ad-hoc pension contribution.
What happened
Mr M holds pension savings with ReAssure. In April 2021 he advised ReAssure that he 
wanted to make an ad-hoc contribution to his pension plan of £10,800. But since this amount 
was higher than the income he had previously advised to the firm, ReAssure told Mr M that it 
wouldnt be able to allow the contribution.
In June and July 2021 further discussions took place between Mr M and ReAssure. Mr M 
told ReAssure that the information it held was incorrect and he provided an update to his 
annual earnings. That update allowed ReAssure to accept Mr Ms pension contribution that 
he had paid in April. But Mr M complained to ReAssure about the delay.
ReAssure provided Mr M with written confirmation of his contribution in July 2021. And it 
responded to his complaint the following month. It paid Mr M £100 for the inconvenience he 
had been caused. But Mr M pointed out that his complaint hadnt been resolved as his 
contribution still remained uninvested.
Further lengthy discussions took place between Mr M and ReAssure in the next two months. 
ReAssure provided Mr M with some incorrect information about the backdated prices of the 
funds into which he could invest his contribution. And, on a number of occasions, ReAssure 
failed to contact Mr M when it had agreed to do so. Mr Ms pension contribution wasnt 
successfully added to his pension plan until 8 November 2021. ReAssure paid Mr M a 
further £200 for the additional inconvenience it had caused to him.
Mr M remained concerned about whether his contribution had been applied correctly. So he 
asked ReAssure to send him a statement showing all the movements of his pension savings 
over the previous year. Some information was sent to Mr M in early January 2022, and 
around two weeks later he confirmed to ReAssure how it should invest the contribution.
The confirmation that was sent to Mr M around a week later showed that his contribution had 
been invested incorrectly. ReAssure accepted it had made an error and paid further 
compensation of £75 to Mr M. It agreed that the information it had provided to Mr M in the 
past about the backdated prices of the investment funds had been incorrect.
In April 2022 ReAssure sent its final correspondence on the complaint. It said that the 
investment of Mr Ms pension contribution had been backdated to when it was first made in 
April 2021 so he hadnt lost out as a result. And it paid him a further £200 (making total 
compensation of £575) for the inconvenience it had caused. Mr M remained unhappy with 
how ReAssure had treated him so asked us to look at what had happened.
Mr Ms complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He agreed that ReAssure 
had made a number of mistakes in the way it had dealt with Mr Ms pension contribution. 
And he said those mistakes had been compounded by the way in which ReAssure had 
communicated with Mr M. But he thought that what ReAssure had done to put things right  
backdating the investment of the contribution, and paying Mr M compensation for his 
inconvenience  was in line with what he would have recommended. So he didnt think 
ReAssure needed to do anything more in relation to the complaint.
Mr M didnt agree with that assessment. He said that the investigator had made a number of 
errors in the timeline of events. And Mr M said that listening to all the phone calls he had 
with ReAssure would provide a better understanding of why he was making the complaint. 
And more recently Mr M has said that he would be willing to settle the complaint if ReAssure 
made a donation to a charity that he supports. But ReAssure declined to make any further 
payment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it falls to me, an 
ombudsman, to issue a final decision. This is the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr M and ReAssure. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
In my introduction I have only set out a brief summary of Mr Ms interactions with ReAssure. 
I want to be clear that I dont do that to, in any way, diminish the impacts of the repeated 
failures by the firm to correctly deal with his pension contribution. Our investigator set out the 
interactions in greater detail (although I acknowledge Mr M still thinks that even greater 
detail would be preferable). And ReAssure hasnt contested any of his findings. There seems 
to be little doubt that Mr M should have expected far better service from the firm.
Mr M has said that we could get a far better understanding of his complaint by reviewing the 
numerous (he says, far more than fifty) phone calls that he had with the firm. I dont think 
that I need to do that in order to fairly investigate his complaint. As I said above, ReAssure 
isnt contesting that its service to Mr M fell short of what he might expect. So my focus in 
deciding this complaint should be on the impact of those delays, and in particular whether 
they have caused Mr M to lose out financially. But I will, of course, consider the 
inconvenience that was caused to Mr M later in this decision.
And Mr M has also told us about other errors that ReAssure has made when administering 
his pension, and further contributions. But those errors were made after Mr M had brought 
his complaint to us so naturally dont form part of the events in his original complaint. For 
that reason it is right that I dont consider them here. But Mr M is of course free to make 
additional complaints to ReAssure about matters I am not considering here if he thinks it 
appropriate.The initial instruction that Mr M gave to ReAssure wasnt something that the firm could 
immediately accept. HMRC imposes limits on the amount of tax relief that can be claimed at 
source against pension contributions. Importantly those limits cannot benefit from 
allowances not used in previous years. And, in line with many other pension providers, 
ReAssure doesnt allow consumers to make contributions that arent eligible for tax relief at 
source even though they might fall within more general contribution limits (including 
allowances brought forward from previous years). In this case, ReAssure reasonably 
concluded that the amount of Mr Ms contribution should be limited to the annual earnings 
that he had previously declared to the firm.
But later Mr M told ReAssure that the information it held was incorrect. I dont think that 
means that ReAssure had made an error  I have seen ReAssure told Mr M that it was using 
information hed previously provided on a Know your Customer form. But, quite naturally, 
over time that information might change, although I havent seen anything that makes me 
think Mr M had updated that information and ReAssure had failed to amend its records. But, 
quite rightly, when Mr M did provide updated information about his income, ReAssure 
allowed the entire contribution that Mr M had paid in April 2021.
Given that Mr M had paid his contribution to ReAssure in early April 2021, it seems 
reasonable that ReAssure offered to backdate the investment of that contribution to the 
same date. So Mr M asked that ReAssure provide him with details of the prices of the funds 
into which he could invest his contribution. That would allow him to make an informed 
decision about his investment choice.
But the pricing information that ReAssure sent to Mr M was incorrect. So the investment 
decisions he made on the basis of that information were also incorrect. I can understand 
Mr Ms frustration about needing to repeat any analysis he performed when corrected 
information was provided. And there is no doubt that frustration would have been magnified 
when ReAssure, on a number of occasions, failed to either provide promised information to 
Mr M, or call him back when agreed to discuss his problems.
But it does now seem, after a protracted period of time, that ReAssure has invested Mr Ms 
pension savings in line with his instructions. And, most importantly, it has backdated those 
corrections to the date of the initial contribution being paid in April 2021. So Mr Ms pension 
contribution will have been invested at the price it should have been, and will have seen the 
same investment performance as it should have. So it doesnt seem to me that Mr M will 
have lost out financially as a result of the delays and errors that ReAssure caused.
Mr M has however suffered a great deal of frustration and inconvenience in dealing with 
what should have been a relatively simply matter, even after allowing for the reasonable 
initial rejection of his contribution based on the past records of his income. I think it right that 
the inconvenience Mr M has suffered should be recognised by the payment of some 
compensation.
As I said earlier in this decision ReAssure has paid Mr M compensation at four different 
stages of his complaint. In total those payments amount to £575. I have thought carefully 
about what might be reasonable compensation in circumstances such as these. Having 
done so I dont think it would be fair, or reasonable, to make a higher award than ReAssure 
has already paid. I think that, had no compensation been offered by ReAssure, my direction 
would have been for compensation of a similar amount to be paid.
So, although I know my decision will be disappointing for Mr M, I dont think ReAssure needs 
to do anything further to put things right. I think that ReAssures actions in backdating the 
point of Mr Ms pension contribution being invested means that he hasnt lost out. And I think the compensation ReAssure has already paid to Mr M, for his distress and inconvenience, is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
ReAssure Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman