DRN-2336583
The complaint
Mr Y doesnt think its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) to use his payment 
protection insurance (PPI) compensation to reduce money owed and left unpaid when he 
was discharged from bankruptcy.
What happened
RBS sold Mr Y PPI with two loans in 1997 and 1998. In 2019, Mr Y contacted RBS to 
complain that the policies were mis-sold.
On 12 May 2020, RBS wrote to Mr Y  it sent him a separate letter for each policy  to say 
both policies were mis-sold. It offered to refund the money hed paid for PPI with simple 
interest at 8% per year. It included a form with each letter for Mr Y to sign and return if he 
wanted to accept the offer. Mr Y signed and returned both forms.
Below, Ive explained how much compensation was payable for each policy (after tax):
Loan ending 0981: £1,749.14
Loan ending 0702: £11,789.71
In total, Mr Y was owed £13,538.85 (after tax).
However, Mr Y was declared bankrupt and his estate sequestrated in November 1999.
Mr Y owed RBS £19,932.71 when he was sequestrated. It doesnt look like RBS received 
any payments from Mr Ys trustee so he still owed it £19,932.71 when he was discharged in 
November 2002.
RBS has kept Mr Ys PPI compensation to reduce this debt. Our adjudicator thought this was 
fair.
Mr Y doesnt think its fair  so his complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 27 July 2021, which explained why I thought it was fair for 
RBS to use Mr Ys PPI compensation to reduce the money owed and left unpaid when he 
was discharged from bankruptcy. It included the following provisional findings:
The relevant law in this case is Scots law.
When someones declared bankrupt and his estate sequestrated, all his assets are vested in 
 which means legally transferred to  a trustee for the benefit of his creditors.
The discharge of the debtor and trustee doesnt end the sequestration.
Mr Ys right to compensation for the mis-sold PPI policies formed part of the estate 
transferred to his trustee. It is and remains property in the sequestration. That its only 
recently been discovered doesnt change that.
It is for Mr Ys discharged trustee to decide whether to apply to the court to be re-appointed 
so that he can either distribute the compensation among Mr Ys creditors according to their 
respective rights and preferences or, more likely, adjudicate a reformulated claim by RBS 
which includes a balancing of accounts in bankruptcy. The balancing of accounts in 
bankruptcy is an equitable principle which allows a creditor to set off any debts against a 
bankrupts claim.
Put simply, the relevant law says the compensation is either payable to the trustee or can be 
kept by RBS to reduce the amount Mr Y owed it. It isnt payable to Mr Y.
That said, I must apply an over-arching test of whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case. And I think its fair for RBS to use Mr Ys PPI compensation to 
reduce the money owed and left unpaid when he was discharged from bankruptcy.
When two people  or a person and a business  owe each other money, it seems only fair 
that they each pay what they owe.
Mr Y has chosen to revisit something that happened before he was declared bankrupt  the 
sale of PPI policies in 1997 and 1998. I think its only fair that I take into account whats 
happened since. Mr Y owed RBS almost £20,000 when he was discharged in 
November 2002. I simply dont see how it would be fair to tell RBS to pay Mr Y around 
£13,500 when he owed and didnt repay a lot more.
Mr Y has referred me to a judgment of the Inner House of the Court of Session: 
Donnelly v Royal Bank of Scotland Plc [2019] CSIH 56. The court held that a business 
couldnt use the consumers PPI compensation to reduce a debt from which she was 
discharged when her protected trust deed came to an end. But Donnelly concerned a 
protected trust deed  which is an alternative to bankruptcy. The law concerning protected 
trust deeds and statutory sequestration is different and Donnelly doesnt apply in this case.
RBS has confirmed that its received my provisional decision and says it has nothing to add.
Mr Y says he disagrees with my provisional decision. Ive summarised and addressed his 
points below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
case, Im required by DISP 3.6.3R of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook to 
take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.When the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, Ive made my decision on 
the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened given the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr Y says his complaint is a complete mirror of 
Donnelly. But it isnt. As I explained in my provisional decision, Donnelly concerned a 
protected trust deed whereas Mr Y was declared bankrupt. The law concerning protected 
trust deeds and statutory sequestration is different and Donnelly doesnt apply in this case.
Mr Y also says he doesnt have to repay any debts that were covered by his bankruptcy  
including the money he owed RBS. He says hed like to know and understand why [I have] 
taken it upon [myself] to make a decision above the law. 
In my provisional decision I explained that the relevant law says the PPI compensation is 
either payable to the trustee or can be kept by RBS to reduce the amount Mr Y owed it. 
Theres a difference between assets Mr Y acquired after he was discharged from bankruptcy 
and pre-bankruptcy assets, which were vested in his trustee and remain property in the 
sequestration. So I dont agree that Ive departed from the law. That said, Ive made my 
decision on the basis on what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case, as Im required to do. In this case, it happens to reflect the legal position.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I think its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to use Mr Ys 
PPI compensation to reduce the money owed and left unpaid when he was discharged from 
bankruptcy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Christopher Reeves
Ombudsman