DRN-2885823
The complaint
Mr P complains he was unable to execute a trade online via his account with Halifax Share 
Dealing Limited trading as IWeb Share Dealing (IWeb). Hes also unhappy he experienced 
long wait times when he tried to get through to IWeb on the telephone.
What happened
In November 2019, Mr P tried to execute a trade online via his share dealing account with 
IWeb. He tried multiple times however received an error message on each occasion.
Mr P called IWeb when he was unable to trade online but was placed on hold for over an 
hour waiting to speak with an advisor. By the time he got to speak with someone the share 
price of the stock he wanted to trade had fallen. Mr P complained to IWeb. 
IWeb said because of market volatility, theyd experienced higher than usual traffic to their 
online service that day. This resulted in some customer experiencing intermittent issues 
which impacted their ability to use their accounts online.
IWeb also said they endeavour to ensure call waiting times are minimal but this is subject to 
customer demand. So they were unable to compensate Mr P as they are not liable for any 
potential losses suffered due to any failure of their online service.
Mr P remained unhappy, so he referred his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into things but he didnt think IWeb needed to do anything to 
put things right.
Mr P didnt agree IWeb had acted fairly relying on their terms and conditions and didnt think 
they should dissolve them of responsibility. He said hed followed the terms by calling when 
he was unable to trade online but questions how he was meant to have traded this way 
when faced with the wait times he experienced.
As Mr P remained dissatisfied the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I have sympathy with Mr Ps position, Ive reached the same 
conclusion and for broadly the same reasons as our investigator.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions set out by IWeb. In section 6 IWeb say:
We will not be liable for any losses that you suffer due to any failure of the online service to 
the extent that the failure is beyond our reasonable control.
Firstly, I want to say Im not the regulator and it isnt my role to decide what terms and 
conditions a business should set out for their customers to agree to. Instead, its for me to 
decide if I think, in the circumstances of this specific complaint, those terms have been 
applied fairly and reasonably. And Im satisfied they have been. 
On the day Mr P attempted to trade, global stock markets hit record highs causing trading 
volumes to significantly increase upon news of Covid-19 vaccine hopes.
Ive thought carefully about the circumstances of that day. They caused the demand on 
IWebs services to also increase significantly and unfortunately this meant some customers, 
including Mr P, experienced difficulties accessing their account and trading online.
IWebs platform faced unprecedented demand. So, I dont consider it unreasonable they 
werent able to offer the same level of service they wouldve had they been able to under 
normal pressures.
If unable to trade online, IWeb direct their customers to use their telephone service. 
Unfortunately, on this occasion the demand for this service was also extremely high and 
meant Mr P waited to speak to an advisor for around an hour. I understand how frustrating 
this mustve been for him. 
IWeb have told me they were typically staffed on the day in question, yet the demand on 
their telephone service increased by more than three times the levels seen over the previous 
trading days. Although busy, IWebs telephone service was available and such a significant 
increase in demand was unforeseeable. So, I dont think the waiting time Mr P experienced 
was unreasonable after taking the specific circumstances into account.
It follows for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think IWeb need to compensate Mr P for the 
difficulties he experienced trying to access his account, or for the trade he was unable to 
make at the time he wanted to.
Mr P has also said it could be asked, have IWeb updated their technology, phone services in 
the recent history? But as Ive mentioned briefly above, my role is to investigate the specific 
circumstances of this complaint. I dont have the power to tell IWeb how they should operate 
their business. Thats a matter for the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
Mr P tried to execute his trade online and then tried to use the phone dealing service, whilst 
unfortunate, I dont think it was unreasonable he experienced some problems for the 
reasons Ive explained.
Having considered everything carefully Im satisfied IWeb acted fairly and reasonably in the 
specific circumstances of this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022. 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman