DRN-3663036
The complaint
Mr H complains that Halifax Share Dealing Limited (HSDL) failed to properly respond to his 
enquiry about payment details it held on record for him and failed to send him a new 
Personal Identification Number (PIN). To put things right, Mr H wants HSDL to pay him more 
compensation than it has so far offered. 
What happened
HSDL wrote to Mr H on 13 July 2021 to confirm it had updated the payment details it held on 
record for him. Mr H complained about HSDLs vague and inadequate correspondence. 
Mr H said he required HSDLs written response confirming, amongst other things: all of the 
payment details currently held by HSDL in respect of my account.
On 14 July 2021, HSDL wrote to Mr H to say it would send him a new PIN  which it failed to 
do within a reasonable time. 
On 31 August 2021, HSDL sent a final response letter to Mr H. HSDL said it was sorry that 
Mr H had cause to complain about its service and apologised for not having sent a PIN as it 
said it would. It upheld this part of Mr Hs complaint and offered to pay him £50 
compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience this had caused. 
Mr H had also made a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) and HSDL told him that would 
be processed by a separate department and he would be contacted directly about the 
information he had requested.
Mr H didnt think HSDL had adequately addressed his complaints so he brought his 
complaints to us. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She felt that HSDLs 
£50 compensation offer was fair and reasonable redress for the PIN complaint. And she 
didnt think HSDL had responded unfairly or unreasonably when Mr H had wanted 
clarification of his payment information held on record. So she didnt recommend upholding 
this part of Mr Hs complaint. 
Mr H didnt agree. Its my understanding that he feels the way we have approached his 
complaints  which he has described as a wide and growing range of explicitly documented 
issues and concerns means they havent been properly investigated and put right. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure Mr H that Ive looked at this complaint afresh and Ive independently 
reached the same conclusions as our investigator. 
As part of my review, I have first read and considered all of Mr Hs currently outstanding 
complaints to give me an overview of the various issues and concerns he has raised. Its 
part of my role to identify and focus on what I think is relevant and explain how I have 
reached my conclusions. This means I will not necessarily address every one of Mr Hs 
concerns on a point by point basis. The ombudsman approach is to decide what is fair and 
reasonable overall. If I dont comment on everything Mr H has said, this is because I dont 
feel there is anything more I can usefully add to what has been said elsewhere already or it 
doesnt make any material overall difference. In this decision, I will deal with all the main 
points that have an impact on the outcome of the complaint issues set out above. 
payment details
HSDL confirmed it did not receive Mr Hs letter of 3 August 2021, which explains why he 
received no reply. I dont know what happened to Mr Hs letter  but I cant fairly say that 
HSDL did anything wrong in these circumstances as it couldnt reasonably be expected to 
reply to a letter it had no record of having received.
I think it's fair to say events were overtaken by Mr Hs DSAR request in any event as HSDL 
was now required to produce all the information Mr H was entitled to see. 
And its my understanding that, during a phone call on 12 July 2021, Mr H provided updated 
payment details to HSDL. That phone call is the subject of a separate complaint so I wont 
say more about it here. But I think it was reasonably clear that HSDLs letter of 13 July 2021 
was referring to this call and, from what Mr H said in his letter of 3 August 2021, it's fair to 
say that Mr H understood this also. 
This leads me to conclude that I havent seen enough to persuade me that its fair and 
reasonable to uphold this part of Mr Hs complaint when hed already given HSDL updated 
payment information and HSDL had sent a letter confirming it had updated his payment 
details accordingly.
PIN
Its not disputed that HSDL failed to send Mr H a PIN following its letter of 14 July 2021 
when it said it would do this. HSDL offered Mr H £50 to compensate him for its admitted 
error. So Ive carefully considered whether HSDL took reasonable steps to put things right 
following this error and what redress is fair in this situation. 
HSDL has provided me with screenshots which show it generated a PIN on 31 August 2021 
and again on 13 December 2021. So I find that HSDL took steps to re-issue a PIN within a 
reasonable timescale once it was aware Mr H was still waiting for his new PIN. 
I dont know why Mr H seems not to have received either of those PINs. But Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that HSDL did anything wrong. It held the correct address for Mr H on file 
and he was receiving other correspondence from HSDL. I cant hold HSDL responsible for 
any postal issues. 
On balance, I think the redress HSDL has offered is reasonable. If it hadnt already 
volunteered this payment, I cant fairly say that I have seen enough to make me think it 
would be fair and reasonable to award any more than £50 to reflect the delay Mr H 
experienced as a result of the poor service HSDL provided when Mr H was first waiting for 
a new PIN (and I have explained why delays after August 2021 werent HSDLs fault).
I appreciate that this complaint has proved vexing for Mr H  and theres no doubt that he 
received some poor service from HSDL when it failed to send the PIN initially. But I think the £50 HSDL offered initially for not sending the PIN in July 2021 was reasonable given the 
circumstances.
Im aware that HSDL subsequently offered Mr H a further £100 payment when it wrote to 
him on 3 December 2021 concerning various matters, which included getting a new PIN. 
But I will be considering those other issues and that offer separately in due course. So Im 
not including this in my award here. I hope that setting things out as I've done helps to 
explain how I've reached my conclusions and that Mr H will feel these complaints have 
been thoroughly considered, even if the outcome isnt what he was hoping for.  
My final decision
My decision is that, if it hasnt already, Halifax Share Dealing Limited should pay Mr H 
£50 to settle this complaint as it offered to do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman