DRN-4322446
The complaint
Ms C complains about the time taken by Westfield Contributory Health Scheme trading as 
Westfield Health to settle her cash plan insurance claim. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator and for these 
reasons:
Ms C claimed for physio, and provided information from her GP. As the invoices from 
the physio didnt provide all the information that Westfield wanted, it asked the physio 
to confirm the treatment dates and medical issue being treated. Westfield has 
confirmed this is its standard process, and I see the policy confirms that Westfield will 
carry out checks for audit purposes on claims received. 
It is up to Westfield what processes it has in place, and this Service wont generally 
interfere in that. However, I can consider what action Westfield took when it didnt 
receive a prompt response from the physio. I see that Westfield chased the physio a 
number of times, and on the two occasions where the physio asked Westfield to take 
action (resend its email, and provide its postal address), this was done promptly. I 
therefore dont find that Westfield caused any delay with the claim itself after it had 
requested the information from the physio. 
However, Westfield did take two weeks to request the information from the physio 
after it had received the GP report. I also see that Ms C had emailed Westfield on 19 
April to say her claim still hadnt been paid. She didnt get a response or update 
about the matter until she again contacted Westfield on 27 April. I think Westfield 
took too long here. Also, given how anxious Ms C clearly was about the delay, I think 
it would have been helpful if Westfield had proactively updated Ms C each time it had 
chased the physio. 
I think the £100 recommended by our investigator was appropriate in the round for 
the inconvenience caused to Ms C for the above. 
Ms C is also unhappy that she had to pay for a GP report. However, the policy makes 
it clear that any practitioner charges for providing information relating to a claim arent 
covered. I therefore dont require Westfield to reimburse Ms C for this charge.
I therefore partly uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. I require Westfield Contributory Health 
Scheme trading as Westfield Health to pay Ms C £100 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman