DRN-1436258
 
The complaint
Mr T complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland plc (RBS) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr T took out the PPI in 2002 in connection with a credit card.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. Mr T didnt agree with the 
adjudicators conclusions, so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ts case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think RBS made it clear that Mr T didnt have to take out the PPI, but he chose to 
buy it. I say this because Mr T did tick the box on the credit card application form to 
show that he wanted the cover. So I think Mr T wouldve realised he had a choice 
about whether or not to buy the PPI. 
RBS didn't recommend the PPI to Mr T so it didn't have to check that it was right for 
him. Mr T had to decide that for himself. But even if RBS had recommended the PPI 
to Mr T, it doesn't look like it was unsuitable for him, based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time. For example, Mr T wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. Mr T has said he was entitled to sick pay 
from his employer if he couldnt work because of sickness or accident. But the policy 
wouldve paid out in addition to his employer benefits and would do so, it seems, for 
longer. Having the policy in place wouldve meant Mr T could use his employer 
benefits to pay for other expenses. So I think Mr T wouldve had some use for the 
policy, despite his existing arrangements. 
Its possible the information RBS gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put Mr T off taking out the cover. 
 
Which means RBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr T.
But RBS will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr T because: RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr T about that. Because RBS didnt tell Mr T, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has basically offered to back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this 
case.
 
What the business needs to do
RBS has to pay back to Mr T any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% 
of the PPI premium. RBS should also pay back to Mr T any extra interest he paid because of 
that.
RBS should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr T the difference between 
what Mr T owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit share it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. RBS should also pay Mr T 8%* simple interest if 
he paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr T can claim back the tax if he 
doesn't pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr T.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back to Mr T any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman