DRN-2080375
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy because he says that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited mis-sold him a private 
health insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H took out a private health insurance policy with a moratorium. He's unhappy because he 
says it wasn't made clear during the sales process that AXA would ask for information from 
his GP before agreeing to cover claims. Mr H says that due to the time it takes for this to be 
sorted out, which can be several weeks, the cover is useless because he could be seen by 
the NHS in that timescale. Mr H wanted a refund of his premiums. He was also unhappy 
because he thought AXA had breached data protection legislation during a phone call and 
gave him inaccurate information about his cancellation rights. 
AXA looked into what happened. They didn't agree that the policy had been mis-sold and 
said Mr H had been given enough information to decide whether the policy was right for him. 
But they did offer £50 compensation because it had taken too long to deal with the 
complaint. AXA issued a further final response letter, referring to five separate complaints 
raised in relation to the policy. AXA awarded £150 compensation for customer service 
failings, including a lack of clarity in some of their communications with Mr H and to 
acknowledge he'd not been given the right information about the cancellation of the policy. 
Our investigator asked Mr H to clarify his complaint points. In summary, Mr H told us the 
information about the claims process wasn't just insufficient, it was actively mis-leading. 
Mr H told us that he'd been asked about whether he wanted to be able to access immediate 
treatment during the sales process and AXA had agreed to provide feedback about this 
issue. He also reiterated that AXA had incorrectly said he'd declined to get further 
information about their policy when that wasn't true. 
The investigator didn't uphold Mr H's complaint. In summary, he thought AXA had done 
enough to explain that medical information may be needed from a GP as part of the claims 
process. And he said that Mr H would need to make a separate complaint about the refund 
issue because it wasn't part of Mr H's original complaint to our service. 
Mr H didn't agree and asked an ombudsman to review his complaint. He raised a number of 
points in response to the investigators view including: 
AXA should make the distinction between being covered for a pre-existing medical 
condition and getting funding clearer
Customers should know what they are buying - new policyholders aren't told that it 
could take months for the GP to return forms to AXA and they have no way of 
knowing how long it will take
The welcome pack is mis-leading and makes generalised statements - it isn't fit for 
purpose 
The membership documentation is vague and misleading because it doesn't say that 
individual medical histories are needed for each individual claim. 
I asked our investigator to contact Mr H to let him know my initial thoughts in relation to his 
comments about the data breach and the information hed been given about the refund of his 
premiums. The investigator explained that I thought, even if those points were upheld, I 
thought the total of £200 compensation was fair. Mr H responded to say that he didnt want 
me to include these points in my decision and he accepted my view that £200 was fair. 
So I now need to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has made a number of points in relation to the mis-sale of this policy. I've considered 
all of them but I'll focus on those that I think are central to my decision in this case. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines place responsibilities on AXA when selling a 
policy to Mr H, depending on whether they were giving him advice or not. AXA wasn't giving 
Mr H advice about this policy. This means AXA needed to ensure that they gave Mr H 
enough information about the policy to decide if it was right for him.
I'm not upholding Mr H's complaint. I say that because: 
A moratorium policy, like Mr H's, offers a level of cover which typically excludes 
claims linked to pre-existing conditions for a specified period. It's common industry 
practice for insurers to ask for more information from a policyholder's GP if they think 
a claim may be linked to an existing condition. It's unfortunate that the nature of 
Mr H's claims have meant that AXA needed more information from his GP, but that is 
typically how a moratorium policy works. 
 
I think the information in the policy documents would have made it clear to Mr H that 
he may need to supply medical information in support of some claims, depending on 
the circumstances. The policy document sets out the steps for making a claim and 
explains that sometimes AXA will need more detailed information from a GP or 
specialist. There's a section of the document which explains more about this. So I 
don't agree that Mr H's policy documentation is vague and mis-leading on this point
Mr H says that he was asked about whether he wanted to be able to access 
immediate treatment, and he answered yes. He says that the claims process means 
that he wasn't able to access immediate treatment because he had to wait weeks for 
AXA to get information from his GP. But I think the context of the question he was 
asked is important. This was part of a discussion intended to determine whether Mr H 
might want to utilise a 'six week' option on the policy, which would bring down the 
cost. I don't think Mr H was given the impression he would always be able to access 
treatment immediately, as it would always be subject to the claim being covered 
under his policy which, as the policy document explains, may involve getting 
information from his GP 
 Mr H says that it wasn't clear he, and other new policyholders, might have to wait for 
months to get forms back from the GP. But, as AXA wasn't giving Mr H advice about 
the suitability of the policy for him, it wasn't responsible for checking that it met his 
specific individual needs. The response time from GP's is likely to vary widely and it 
would be impossible to predict at the point of sale whether future claims might require 
more detailed information as it would depend on a number of factors. As I've outlined 
above I think the policy documents explained the claims process in enough detail to 
Mr H. So, if this was feature of the policy was particularly important to Mr H, or 
caused him concern, it was open to him to cancel within the 14 day cooling off period 
having decided the policy wasn't right for him
 
Mr H has pointed to a number of customer service failings, including inaccuracies in 
a letter sent to him. Mr H has been already been offered a total of £200 
compensation in acknowledgement of the overall service he's received. I think that 
this fairly reflects the overall trouble and upset caused to Mr H and I'm not directing 
AXA to do anything further to put things right. 
My final decision
I'm not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2020.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman