DRN-2658319
The complaint
Mr B complains that Monzo Bank Ltd hasnt raised a dispute with an Automated Teller 
Machine (ATM) provider and complains that they havent investigated the circumstances 
adequately. 
What happened
Mr B was abroad and wanted to withdraw 100 euros from an ATM using his Monzo 
Mastercard debit card. As there was no option to select 100 Euros then he selected other 
amount. Mr B says the ATM then showed another screen to confirm an amount of 300 
euros. Mr B says he pushed decline three times and then pushed cancel but the ATM 
dispensed 300 euros.
As Mr B had more euros than he required he exchanged his unspent euros when he 
returned to the UK but Mr B says he received a much lower exchange rate. He asked Monzo 
to raise a dispute for him and investigate why this happened.
Monzo said they couldnt raise a dispute for Mr B as the ATM had dispensed 300 euros and 
that amount had debited his account. Mr B made a complaint to Monzo as he said the 
investigation took two days and he had to speak to several different staff at Monzo. He 
disagreed with the outcome of his complaint and said he was unhappy with the lack of 
protection from Monzo.
Monzo did not uphold his complaint. They said that in order to raise an ATM dispute with 
Mastercard they would need to show that the requested amount was not dispensed. Monzo 
explained that as the 300 euros dispensed from the ATM was what had debited his account 
they had no chargeback rights on this occasion. Monzo said if a dispute was raised then it 
would be unsuccessful for this reason.
Monzo told Mr B that while it would be a better experience for him to speak to one member 
of staff, they felt its best if there was always a member of staff available for Mr B. They 
explained that when staff finish their shift then his chat is passed to someone else. This 
should avoid him waiting for the original person he spoke to returning to him.
Mr B brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator did not uphold his complaint. The 
investigator quoted a section of the relevant chargeback guide and said Monzo had acted in 
line with this. The investigator said as he received the euros which were debited from his 
account balance then he couldnt hold Monzo accountable for the error as there would be no 
chargeback rights enabling them to raise a dispute. The investigator also said that Monzo 
took two days to investigate Mr Bs complaint which isnt unreasonable and looking at the 
chat history it appeared there were no unnecessary delays in investigating the complaint. 
Mr B asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint as he did not agree with the view of 
the investigator as he thought it was an unfair outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator has explained how the chargeback process works to Mr B and quoted one 
of the relevant sections here. Thats what Monzo have relied on here in saying that they 
cant help and, in the circumstances, I can see why. The ATM dispensed 300 euros and this 
was debited from his account then Monzo says that a chargeback wouldnt have been 
successful here. I think thats a fair thing for Monzo to say here.
Monzo explained that while Mr B may not have wanted the value which was dispensed and 
had difficulty with the ATM, the value which was deducted from his balance was dispensed 
from the ATM. This means that this wouldnt qualify as an ATM non disposal either in part 
or in full. So that means the transaction wouldnt have qualified for a chargeback under the 
relevant rules here. As Monzo doesnt have to always raise a chargeback  even where one 
is requested  I can see why they didnt here, where it was so unlikely it would succeed.
But in a situation like the one here, a chargeback isnt the only avenue open to Monzo to 
pursue a dispute like this. So I asked Monzo about the investigation which had been 
conducted and whether there were any other avenues they couldve explored. 
Monzo also told me that disputes are only raised on the transaction itself and they wouldnt 
contact the ATM provider without raising a chargeback on their end. As the transaction isnt 
eligible for chargeback for the reasons already given, thats why Monzo didnt contact the 
ATM provider. So while Mr B is disappointed with the lack of protection from Monzo, its 
nonetheless the case that he entered his PIN at the ATM and received the cash which was 
debited from his account. So its difficult to see what any further investigation would reveal 
here. Again, I think this is a fair explanation as to why Monzo didnt take any further action in 
the circumstances here.
Ive thought about Mr Bs comments about the length of time its taken for Monzo to 
investigate what happened. He said that Monzos investigation took two days and he spoke 
to different people. Im satisfied that Monzo conducted their investigation in a timely manner. 
I say this as Ive looked at the chat transcripts that Mr B had with Monzo. Mr B was told on 
the chat that Monzos disputes team aim to reach out to you within 7 days. Thats what 
happened here. While the investigation was slightly longer than two days, it was concluded 
well within the seven day timeframe they set out. I can understand why Mr B may be 
frustrated that hes talked to different people, but I think its reasonable that Monzo made 
staff available to converse with Mr B when the original staff member wasnt available. 
In order to uphold Mr Bs complaint I would need to see that Monzo has made an error or 
treated Mr B unfairly. Im satisfied that Monzo appear to have treated Mr B fairly and hasnt 
made an error for the reasons Ive already given. So it follows I wont be asking Monzo to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman