DRN-4234341
The complaint
Mrs G complains that a business that has now become part of The Royal London Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited (RL) gave her unsuitable advice to purchase a Free Standing 
Additional Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) plan. 
Mrs G is represented in her complaint by a complaints management company (CMC). But Ill 
only refer to her in my decision.
What happened
Mrs G and her husband met with an RL appointed representative in January 1998. She 
wanted advice on how to improve her pension at retirement. RL advised Mrs G to take out 
an FSAVC plan. 
A fact find was completed at the time of the advice. This recorded the following about Mrs G, 
who was 49 at the time: 
She was married with no dependent children
She was employed part-time. And had been a member of her Occupational Pension 
Scheme (OPS) for 2 years.
The normal retirement age in the OPS was 65, but early retirement could be taken 
from age 60. Mrs G had no other pensions. 
She wanted to retire at age 65 and to have 50% of her earnings to provide a 
comfortable retirement. 
She had a small amount of savings. She and her husband were saving £130 each 
month in a deposit account.
Her and her husbands total outgoings were only a little less then their joint net 
income.
She was happy to contribute £30 each month, to be funded from regular savings, to 
improve her pension provision.
She was a cautious investor.
Her needs and objectives were recorded as: Your existing pension arrangements 
are unlikely to meet your retirement aspirations. Objective: start saving on a regular 
basis in the next 10 years.
It was noted on the fact find that: AVCs have been discussed with the customer in 
accordance with GMC 3516. A Copy of the leaflet PP.166 has been handed to the 
customer". 
RL told this service that GMC 3516 set out the procedures for the sale of FSAVCs at the 
time of the advice. And has provided this service with a copy. It has also provided us with a 
copy of the PP166 leaflet from April 1998.
RL recommended that Mrs G set up an FSAVC plan from 1 February 1998, with a retirement 
age of 65 and monthly premiums of £30. 
RL also produced an illustration dated 30 January 1998 to show what benefits Mrs G might 
get from the FSAVC plan. This used projected growth rates of 6%, 9% and 12% to age 65.
The illustration noted that the total of all commissions, expenses and charges would impact 
the eventual benefits from the plan. It said: Putting it another way, this would have the same 
effect as bringing the investment growth used from 9.0% to 6.9%. It also said that average 
commission charges would be £126 in the first year and £13 annually thereafter.
Mrs G complained to RL through her CMC on 31 January 2023. She felt that the FSAVC 
plan had been mis-sold. And that if shed been advised correctly, she wouldve contributed to 
the most suitable in-house AVC arrangement. She wanted RL to return her to the financial 
position she wouldve been in if the product hadnt been mis-sold. Mrs G made the following 
points: 
The adviser had failed to accurately assess the level of risk she was willing to take.
There was no justifiable reason for her having a portable FSAVC as she was likely to 
remain in the same employment until her retirement.
The adviser had failed to establish if her OPS had an added years or any other 
enhanced benefit AVC arrangement that she wouldve chosen if properly advised.
There was no evidence that the adviser had compared the benefits of the FSAVC 
with additional contributions to the OPS AVC scheme.
The adviser shouldve referred her to the OPS for the full details of charges in order 
to make an informed choice.
There was no evidence that the adviser made her fully aware of the comparison of 
charges with the FSAVC recommended and the in house AVC scheme. 
There was no evidence that more suitable retirement alternatives were discussed 
with her in a fair and balanced way. 
RL issued its final response to the complaint on 28 February 2023. It didnt think itd done 
anything wrong. It said that at the time of the advice, its representatives had a recorded 
guideline to issue a leaflet at the sale which gave details of the options available from the 
OPS. And that its representative had made notes on the fact find to say these had been 
discussed. It therefore felt that itd provided sufficient documentation to alert Mrs G to other 
options available through her OPS.
Unhappy with RLs response, Mrs G brought her complaint to this service on 27 April 2023, 
through her CMC. RL gave this service its consent to consider the complaint. Mrs G said that 
RL hadnt provided any suitability letter or Reasons Why Letter. So there was nothing to 
suggest that any meaningful discussion had taken place about the critical issue of charges. 
She said there was no evidence that the likelihood that the in-house AVC charges would be 
lower than the FSAVC charges was discussed and explained.RL told this service that it didnt hold a copy of the Reasons Why letter. But that it wouldve 
been a brief letter with a copy of the fact find and illustration/Key features only.
Our investigator felt that the complaint should be upheld. He felt that RL hadnt been able to 
demonstrate that Mrs G had been given the required information from the outset. And that if 
she had been, she wouldve most likely opted to take an in-house AVC option, given it 
wouldve been substantially the same product to the same retirement age and at a cheaper 
cost. 
To put things right, he felt that RL should undertake a redress calculation in accordance with 
the regulators FSAVC review guidance. 
RL didnt agree with our investigator. It felt that the leaflet it had provided had met the 
regulatory requirements in force at the time of the advice. It said that the leaflet was used as 
a tool to discuss the differences with the client. And that the GMC 3516 update had laid out 
very clearly what had to be discussed in more detail. It said that a section in GMC 3516 
stated:
Although the expenses associated with a [RL] Free-Standing Pension are relatively low, 
those associated with many AVC schemes are often lower because of the reduced costs 
arising from group arrangements. Expense considerations are, of course, just one of the 
features which affect the suitability of an investment and do not alone preclude a 
recommendation in favour of a [RL] Free-Standing Pension.
RL said that this section expanded on the elements in the leaflet about the charges. It said 
that the adviser had indicated that the leaflet was used and left with the client. And that the 
full procedure for the discussion had been covered. So it felt that Mrs G had been made fully 
aware of the differences between the in-house AVC and the FSAVC. And that it had followed 
the relevant regulation at the time.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold it, for largely the same reasons as our investigator. Ill 
explain the reasons for my decision.
I first considered the guidance in place at the time of the advice.
Regulatory Guidance
The adviser in this complaint was an appointed representative, or tied agent, of RL. The 
rules under which tied agents operated meant they could only offer products from one 
provider. They werent allowed to sell products from any other provider.
The provider of the in-house AVC connected to the OPS was often a competing provider in 
the marketplace. So an appointed representative of the FSAVC provider wouldnt typically 
have investigated whether these options were better than the FSAVC - they werent allowed 
to. They could only recommend the products provided by the company they were tied to.
The tied adviser was usually required to follow the rules set in 1988  called LAUTRO (the 
Life Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation). The Personal Investment Authority (PIA - a predecessor of the Financial Conduct Authority) initially adopted the LAUTRO rules 
when it took over from LAUTRO in 1994.
The PIA set out guidance for advisers recommending FSAVCs in its Regulatory Update 20 
(RU 20) of May 1996. In summary, an adviser tied to one provider needed to make the 
client aware of the in-house AVC. He also needed to talk about the differences between the 
FSAVC and the in-house AVC option in generic terms, including the likely lower charges of 
in-house AVC schemes. And to direct the client to their employers OPS for more information 
about the in-house option. 
The sale of Mrs Gs FSAVC was made almost two years after RU 20. So Im satisfied that 
RL wouldve been clear about its obligations in terms of providing suitable advice. 
Did the adviser meet the regulatory guidance?
RL felt that its adviser had met the regulatory guidance. It said its representative had 
followed its guidance to issue a leaflet giving details of the options available from the OPS. 
And had made notes on the fact find to say these options had been discussed. 
RL said that the leaflet its adviser had given Mrs G met the regulatory requirements in force 
at the time of the advice. And that its process document GMC 3516 had clearly laid out what 
had to be discussed in more detail. 
RL felt that as its adviser had indicated the process had been followed, Mrs G had been 
made fully aware of the differences between the in-house AVC and the FSAVC. 
Ive carefully considered the points RL has made. Ive also reviewed the GMC 3516 process 
document and the PP166 leaflet RL said its adviser had given to Mrs G. 
The copy of the PP166 leaflet RL provided this service with is from April 1998, so after the 
advice in question. However, on the assumption that the version before that was similar, I 
note the following about this leaflet:
It said a consumer could make additional contributions through an OPS or through a 
FSAVC plan, or both.
It said that an OPS could offer special features, such as added pension years. Or 
that an employer might even make extra contributions if a consumer paid into the in-
house AVC.
It said that AVCs are group arrangements, so expenses were generally very 
competitive. 
It said that the consumers employer could provide them with specific details. 
The leaflet also said that either in-house or FSAVCs could be the answer if a 
consumer needed to improve their pension. 
RL said that the PP166 leaflet wouldve drawn Mrs Gs attention to the in-house scheme and 
explained the differences between it and the FSAVC plan. And that it wouldve let her know 
that her employer could give her more information. 
RL felt that the GMC 3516 process very clearly outlined what the adviser was required to 
discuss with the consumer. And that between that process and the PP166 leaflet covered 
the required outline of the charges. I acknowledge RLs point that it had clear and robust guidelines for its appointed 
representatives to follow. And that if this process was followed in full, the regulatory 
requirements of the time wouldve been met. I would expect there to have been clear 
guidelines in place at the time of the advice, as RU 20 had been in force for almost two 
years by then.
However, Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence that the full procedure was 
followed. I say this because, although I acknowledge that the adviser noted what documents 
had been given to Mrs G on the fact find, Ive seen nothing to confirm that she received 
them. Ive not been provided with anything signed by her. And Ive seen no other note 
showing that the full process, as outlined by CMC 3516, was followed.
I agree with our investigator that although the GMC 3516 process note, and the PP166 
leaflet, did both mention charges were often lower in in-house AVC schemes than in FSAVC 
plans, the process note didnt require the adviser to have a discussion with the consumer 
about this. Therefore, as the process document didnt require a discussion, and as theres no 
evidence that one took place, Im not persuaded that RL met the regulatory guidance at the 
time.  
Ive seen no persuasive evidence that the adviser gave Mrs G a copy of the PP166 leaflet, 
and then discussed it with her. So Im of the view that it was more likely than not that the 
adviser didnt make Mrs G aware of the in-house AVC. I also consider that its more likely 
than not that the adviser didnt discuss the differences between the FSAVC and the in-house 
AVC option with Mrs G in generic terms, including the likely lower charges of in-house AVC 
schemes. And that he didnt direct her to her employers OPS for more information about the 
in-house options. 
I agree with our investigator that if the adviser had clearly outlined the likely differences in 
charges between the in-house AVC and the FSAVC plan, Mrs G wouldve chosen the in-
house AVC plan. I say this because it was likely to cost less, while still providing her with the 
retirement age she wanted. 
I also agree that given how much any potential in-house added years option mightve cost, it 
would likely have looked expensive compared to the projected returns and benefits of the 
FSAVC. And that this service considers that the majority of consumers, at the time of advice, 
were unlikely to want to spend a potentially greater monthly amount to get the same 
projected benefits from added years as they couldve had from a money purchase 
arrangement. And that this is especially relevant here, as Mrs G had a negligible net 
disposable income and planned to fund her pension contributions from her relatively limited 
savings. So I consider that an AVC type option wouldve seemed more attractive to Mrs G 
than added years. 
Overall, I agree with our investigator that if RL had given Mrs G all of the information 
required by the regulatory guidance, she wouldve chosen the in-house AVC option. I say 
this because I consider it wouldve offered her substantially the same product at a cheaper 
cost. Therefore I uphold the complaint. 
Putting things right
RL should undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the regulators FSAVC review 
guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data for the CAPS 
mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005. 
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January 
2005, RL should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and the 
FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Gs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs G as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold the complaint. The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited must take the actions detailed in the Putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman