DRN-2830160
The complaint
Mr Ds complaint is about the refusal of a claim under his gadget insurance policy
underwritten by Assurant General Insurance Limited.
 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in April 2021, part of which is copied below: 
Mr Ds policy with Assurant has been provided as part of a package of benefits with his 
bank account since 2009. There is no need to register devices onto the policy in advance but 
they have to be registered if a claim is made. Mr D called in May 2020 to register his device 
(a drone) and make a claim at the same time. Assurant refused the claim, as it said drones 
are not covered. Assurant says they are classed as unmanned aircraft and would not be 
classed as a gadget.
Mr D does not accept this and has made a number of points in support of his claim, which
Ive summarised below:
the policy does not exclude drones.
The main purpose of his drone is to take photographs and as cameras are covered
under the policy, he expected his drone to be as well.
Despite Assurant saying it does not cover drones, the online claim form lists his
drone as an option. Why would it be one of the options, if drones are not covered?
Assurant is not acting ethically and he wants his claim dealt with and the drone
repaired or replaced.
Assurant says there is an error on the website and the drop-down option to add the make
and model of Mr Ds drone should not be there. It says it is arranging for this to be removed.
Assurant says that if Mr D had registered the drone using this online form, it would have
honoured any claim, as it accepts this would have given cause to think the drone would be
covered. However, Assurant also says Mr D only found this after he made his claim and did
not use this to register his device beforehand, so he did not therefore rely on this to his
detriment. Assurant says it did not therefore mislead Mr D into thinking his drone was
covered. Assurant says the policy terms are sufficiently clear that drones are not covered by
the policy.
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He initially said the website was unclear and
had disadvantaged Mr D but then changed his mind and did not recommend that the
complaint be upheld, as he thought Assurant was entitled to refuse the claim.
Mr D does not accept the investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy Mr D has with Assurant is a specific gadget insurance policy. The policy
documentation says it provides:
Worldwide insurance against theft, breakdown and damage (including faults) for
your favourite gadgets 
A gadget is defined as a self-contained, portable device, having the design intention of
supporting multimedia applications or obtaining multimedia content.
Mr Ds drone had a camera and so would be able to support and/or obtain multimedia 
content and this would be its main use. It seems to me it does therefore meet this policy 
definition of a gadget. 
The policy also gives examples of devices which would be covered (which does not include
drones) and I can see that they are not really akin to a drone, in that none of them are
intended to be operated remotely. But, given the definition of gadget in the policy, the policy
definition includes drones.
A drone might also be categorised as an unmanned aircraft but there is no specific exclusion
in the policy of aircraft of any kind. The policy contains a list of items which arent covered,
and although the list is stated to be non-exhaustive, it doesnt include drones. So while
Mr Ds drone can be classified as an unmanned, remote-controlled aircraft, I think it falls
within the policy definition of a gadget.
In addition, as Mr D has pointed out, Assurants website provides the option to register the
same make and model as Mr Ds drone for cover under the policy. I am not satisfied with
Assurants explanation for this. There is no convincing evidence that the drop down list is for
an alternative policy. And while Mr D may not have relied on this before making the claim, it
is difficult to reconcile this with Assurants assertion that the policy was not intended to cover
drones.
Assurant should therefore assess Mr Ds claim for the drone on the basis that its a gadget
as defined in his policy. I also consider that some compensation is warranted for the trouble
caused to Mr D by the refusal of his claim. I consider the sum of £50 to be appropriate.
My provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint against Assurant General Insurance Limited and require it to
reconsider Mr Ds claim, in accordance with the remaining policy terms. I also intend to
require it to pay Mr D compensation of £50 for the distress and inconvenience caused by its
wrongful refusal of his claim.
Responses to my provisional decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further information they 
want considered. 
Assurant has confirmed it has received my provisional decision and has nothing further to 
add. Mr D has also responded and said due to the delay, he arranged for his drone to be 
repaired by the manufacturer in November 2020, as he wanted to take it on a holiday. Mr D 
has provided a copy of the invoice showing that this cost him 150.74 euros. Mr D says he 
also had to pay to post the drone to The Netherlands for repair but doesnt have proof of this. 
He would like these costs reimbursed and the £50 compensation I proposed in my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Assurant has not added anything further, I remain of the opinion that drones fall within the 
definition of gadgets in the policy and therefore Mr Ds claim should have been met. As it 
wasnt, he arranged for it to be repaired by the manufacturer himself. I think that was 
reasonable action to take and so agree it would be reasonable for that cost to be 
reimbursed. Assurant might have been able to get the repairs done more cheaply but it lost 
the opportunity to do so as it incorrectly refused the claim. 
When reimbursing this cost, it seems to me the cost in euros should be converted to sterling 
using the rate applicable when Mr D paid for the repair, rather than todays rate. The 
payment was confirmed as having been received by the manufacturer on 11 November 
2020. It is also fair that Mr D be reimbursed any postal costs. The quote from the repairer 
includes 25 euros for freight, which presumably was the cost of getting the drone back to   
Mr D. It would seem reasonable to me to assume it cost around the same for Mr D to post it 
to the manufacturer. So in my opinion Assurant should pay Mr D 175.74 euros in settlement 
of the claim. It should also add interest at our usual rate. 
I also remain of the opinion that the sum of £50 compensation is appropriate for the trouble 
caused to Mr D, including having to arrange the repairs himself.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Assurant General Insurance Limited and require it to do the 
following: 
reimburse Mr D for the cost of the repair and cost of postage (i.e. 175.74 euros) 
converted to sterling using the exchange rate applicable on 11 November 2020, 
together with interest at 8% simple per annum from the date of payment to the date 
of reimbursement; and 
pay Mr D compensation of £50 for the distress and inconvenience caused by its
wrongful refusal of his claim. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman