DRN-3117921
The complaint
Mrs F complained that TFS Loans Limited lent to her irresponsibly and provided her with 
loans that were unaffordable.
What happened
Mrs F was given loans by TFS as follows: 
Loan Date loan takenLoan 
AmountLoan 
TermMonthly 
Repayment
1 30/04/2015 £5,000 36 
Months£242.01
2 04/05/2017 £7,500 48 
Months£317.75
One of our investigators reviewed Mrs Fs complaint. He didnt think that TFS 
shouldve provided these loans to Mrs F and he set out the steps that TFS needed to 
take to put things right. 
TFS disagreed with our investigator and asked for the case to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. It mainly said (in brief summary) that:
at the time of loan 1, there is a sign of poor financial management but also satisfied 
judgements and defaults which showed Mrs F took responsibility for her existing 
commitments and wanted to improve her financial position
Mrs F could potentially have saved money from her income to clear a loan she said 
she would pay with this loan, but it didnt look like waiting five months to do that was 
an option for her  had the loan been for other purposes, TFS said it would have 
questioned this further
it is unfair to discriminate against customers due to historic adverse credit and/or if 
they have recently taken out finance
the checks TFS carried out were proportionate and there were no signs of financial 
difficulty - looking at the evidence provided and the information gathered TFS 
believed it made a fair lending decision.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mrs Fs complaint. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. 
For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
Ive kept all these things in mind when thinking about this complaint.
Loan 1
When Mrs F applied for the loan, TFS asked about her income. It looked at her bank 
statements and TFS worked out Mrs Fs income was approximately £3,615.33 per month 
after tax. TFS asked Mrs F about her regular expenditure and after doing its own credit 
checks, and allowing for her spending on existing credit commitments, TFS worked out that 
Mrs F should have around £1,100 in disposable income after paying her TFS loan. 
TFS said its affordability checks were adequate and proportionate and based on the 
information gathered at the time of the application, the loan was affordable. 
But I dont think TFS made a fair lending decision when it lent to Mrs F based on the 
information it had gathered.I dont think TFS thought carefully enough about what the information it had gathered 
showed about Mrs Fs overall financial situation  and the likelihood of her being able 
to pay its loan in a sustainable manner. 
Despite the fact that Mrs F had told TFS that her monthly outgoings left her with ample 
spare cash each month, I think TFS shouldve realised that it couldnt rely on this 
information because what Mrs F had declared was significantly at odds with what it 
saw on its credit checks and in the bank statements Mrs F had sent to TFS. 
TFS was aware that Mrs F had a county court judgement dating back just 18 months 
or so as well as one dating back to December 2009 still outstanding and there were 
some historic defaulted accounts showing on her credit history. She had an overdraft 
balance of £461 on a bank current account. She was making monthly repayments 
towards an outstanding electricity account. The previous month she had taken out a 
£5,000 loan with another provider of high cost credit which TFS was aware would cost 
her £197 per month over the next 5 years  and Mrs F had mentioned paying a high 
cost loan that cost her £170 per month.
TFS couldve seen on her bank statements that Mrs F had a number of returned direct 
debit payments shown when there had been insufficient money in her account to pay 
these. They included payments owed to utility companies (water and gas), to her local 
council, TV licence, insurance and a tax payment owed to HM Revenue & Customs. 
Given that TFS had found out that Mrs F was displaying evident signs of financial difficulty, 
I dont think it was reasonable to assume she had a monthly disposable income of more than 
£1,100 when she approached TFS for this loan. And although the loan mightve appeared 
affordable to TFS, I think all this information painted a picture of someone struggling to 
manage money problems effectively and it included clear warning signs that Mrs F had 
serious ongoing money problems . 
Overall, I dont think TFS could reasonably have satisfied itself that providing this loan 
to Mrs F wouldnt put her in a worse position by increasing her overall debts. 
So I dont think TFS shouldve provided this loan. 
I have considered that Mrs F put on her loan application that she intended to use £1,000 of 
this loan to consolidate a debt from another high cost provider which Mrs F said cost her 
£170 each month. But this wouldve still meant that Mrs F was taking out an additional 
amount of borrowing  when all the indications that TFS had seen suggested she wasnt 
able to afford to pay her existing credit commitments  including paying for essential things 
like utility bills and taxes.
 
For all these reasons, I dont currently think TFS should have agreed to give this loan to 
Mrs F.
Loan 2
TFS topped up Mrs Fs borrowing when it provided loan 2  but I dont think that was a fair 
lending decision. 
From the information it had gathered, which included doing up-to-date credit checks and 
looking at bank statements acquired from Mrs F, TFS was able to see that her financial 
situation had significantly worsened since it provided loan 1. She had recently defaulted on a mail order account that she had opened after taking out 
loan 1, she still had outstanding balances owing on historic defaulted accounts and she was 
still paying one of the court judgements. TFS was aware that she had also taken out 
additional lending from other high cost credit providers, including a log-book loan (which 
involved Mrs F putting up her car as security for the debt). This suggests to me that she had 
been anxious to obtain borrowing at any price - even at the risk of losing her car. 
Her recent bank statements showed returned direct debits for payments owed to a national 
telecommunications supplier as well as various other failed payments. All this suggests to 
me that Mrs Fs debt had become unmanageable - and I think thats borne out by the fact 
that direct debit payments to TFS for the contractual monthly repayments on loan 1 had also 
been returned in February and March 2017.
Mrs F had told TFS that she intended to use this loan for debt consolidation  in other 
words, to pay other debt. But I think the scale of her debts and the extent of her evident 
money problems, compared to the much smaller value of the loan, would suggest that she 
would remain in serious financial trouble regardless. I dont currently think TFS should have 
agreed to give this loan to Mrs F.
I havent seen enough to make me think that TFS acted towards Mrs F in any other way 
that wasnt fair and reasonable. Our investigator didnt suggest awarding any additional 
redress over and above the redress owed in respect of the loans unfairly provided and as it 
seems Mrs F is happy with this recommendation, then I dont think I need to say more. But 
as Mrs F has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on loans 
that she shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that she has lost out as a result of 
what TFS did wrong. So, I think TFS needs to put things right.
I hope that setting out my reasons will help TFS understand how and why Ive reached my 
decision. I have concentrated on what I consider to be the main points that affect the 
outcome of this complaint. I dont think that anything Mrs F told TFS was sufficient to explain 
or rebut the evidence it could see that she was already in serious financial difficulty  and as 
a responsible lender, TFS should have realised that Mrs F wasnt able to sustainably afford 
the loans it provided. I would invite TFS to reconsider its position in light of what I've said. 
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mrs F agreed with what I said in my provisional decision.
I have heard nothing further from TFS and the deadline for responses has now passed so 
I think its reasonable for me to proceed with my review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Given that Ive not received any further evidence or comment that changes my mind about 
this complaint, I still think its fair to uphold this complaint for the reasons I explained in my 
provisional decision. 
Putting things rightIt is fair and reasonable for Mrs F to repay the principal amounts that she borrowed, because 
she had the benefit of that lending. But she has paid extra for loans that should not have 
been provided to her. In line with this Services approach, Mrs F shouldnt repay more than 
the capital amount she borrowed. 
If TFS has sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then take 
the following steps. Otherwise, TFS should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the 
results outlined below and do the following:
oadd up the total amount of money Mrs F received as a result of being 
given the loans. The payments Mrs F made should be deducted from this 
amount 
oif this results in Mrs F having paid more than she received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* 
(calculated from the date the overpayments were made until the date of 
settlement) 
oif any capital balance remains outstanding, then TFS should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mrs F bearing in mind the 
need to treat her positively and sympathetically in those discussions
oremove any adverse information placed on Mrs Fs credit file regarding the 
loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to take off tax from this interest. TFS must give 
Mrs F a certificate showing how much tax it takes off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct TFS Loans Limited to take the steps I've set out above to 
put things right for Mrs F. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman