DRN-1779792
The complaint
Ms M complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax dealt with her chargeback 
unfairly.
What happened
In March 2019, Ms M bought a car and warranty from a dealership. She paid via two debit 
card payments.
Shortly after, Ms M says she discovered that the car was defective and hadn't been 
advertised correctly. For example, she says the dealership told her the car hadn't been 
imported, was in reasonable condition, and that there had been two previous owners. But 
she discovered issues with the car, and that there had been three previous owners  one 
registered/used overseas. She also hadn't received the warranty she'd paid for. She 
contacted the dealership about this in May 2019  but despite her efforts to chase this up, it 
didn't respond. So she contacted Halifax to raise a chargeback. 
Halifax admits it initially mis-advised Ms M about whether it could attempt a chargeback and 
how/whether she could submit her evidence. But it then put forward her claim  which the 
dealership defended. It disputed some of her points and said it had now issued the 
warranty  and it would cover the repair costs she'd submitted. Halifax said it couldn't 
continue with the claim, as the dealership was offering to assist her. Ms M complained to 
Halifax that it had mishandled the situation. It gave her £60 compensation but maintained 
that, under the relevant chargeback rules, it couldn't assist further with the dispute.
Unhappy with this response, Ms M referred the matter to our service. Our investigator was 
satisfied that Halifax had dealt with the claim fairly and in line with the rules of the relevant 
chargeback scheme. He explained that most banks wont pursue a chargeback further if its 
defended by the merchant (in this case, the dealership) and would need compelling 
evidence to do so. Whilst the customer service couldve been better, the investigator was 
satisfied that fair compensation had been paid for this.
Ms M didn't accept the investigators view. She said the dealership had provided handwritten 
documents to defend its position  and hadn't been in touch with her since. She also said the 
£60 compensation was for a specific issue, although our investigator explained that we 
consider compensation holistically. Her case has now been escalated to me for a final 
decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the outcome 
our investigator reached  and for largely the same reasons.
I appreciate Ms M feels strongly about this complaint and the dispute with her dealership. My 
role is to independently decide whether Halifax acted reasonably, rather than to weigh in on 
her dispute with the dealership. In doing this, I must take into account that chargebacks aren't a legal right; theyre voluntary schemes run by the relevant card scheme (in this case, 
Visa). Claims are decided based on the rules of the scheme rather than the merits of the 
dispute. 
As the schemes are voluntary, card-issuers such as Halifax aren't required to do 
chargebacks. But Id consider it good practice to try, so long as theres a good reason to do 
so. After the initial confusion, Halifax did complete the chargeback under the reason code 
goods not as described or defective.  As is normal practice, the money was temporarily 
refunded to Ms M. But under the rules, the dealership then had an opportunity to defend the 
claim  which it did.
When a chargeback is defended/represented by the merchant, as the dealership did here, 
most card-issuers wont take it further. However, theres a potential way to escalate the 
claim. Halifax couldve taken pre-arbitration action, and ultimately asked Visa to arbitrate and 
decide the dispute based on the scheme rules and evidence provided. But Halifax would be 
charged if Visa didn't agree at arbitration stage. So I wouldn't expect it to escalate the claim 
once it was defended unless it was clear the claim would succeed under the scheme rules  
taking into account the Ms M and the dealership's evidence.  
I know Ms M thinks the dealership didn't provide sufficient evidence to defend its position, 
referring to some handwritten documents it submitted. But I dont think that alone means 
Halifax shouldve pursued the claim. And, in its response, the dealership said it had now 
issued Ms Ms warranty  and offered to cover the repair costs shed incurred. Halifax said it 
couldn't pursue the claim further as the dealership was offering help.
Although Ms M is unhappy it made this decision without more input or information from her, 
it's down to Halifax as the card-issuer to decide whether to escalate. I know she says the 
dealership hasn't been in touch with her since, but I agree with Halifax this is a civil matter 
between her and the dealership rather than something it could have helped her pursue 
through the chargeback. At the time of its decision, the dealership had offered to help. I can't 
hold Halifax responsible for any subsequent failings by the dealership. Overall, Im not 
persuaded Halifax made an unfair or unreasonable decision.
Regarding the overall way the chargeback was handled, Halifax admits Ms M wasn't given 
the right information/guidance initially. I dont consider this to have affected her position 
substantially, as Im satisfied Halifax did ultimately progress her chargeback appropriately. 
But I appreciate the miscommunication caused her trouble and upset. As our investigator 
explained, we look holistically at what impact any business errors have caused the 
complainant. In all the circumstances, Im satisfied the £60 Halifax has already paid Ms M 
fairly reflects the trouble and upset shes suffered due to its errors. 
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Ms M. I hope Ive been able to clearly explain why 
Im not awarding more or directing Halifax to do anything else to resolve her complaint.
 
 
 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2020.
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman