DRN-4012608
The complaint
Mr S complains about the service received from Curve UK Limited when a payment from his 
account was processed twice in error. He spoke to them multiple times as they 
misunderstood his complaint.
What happened
Mr S holds an account with Curve, which is a card aggregator service that provides a plastic 
card to allow payments from multiple card providers. In March 2022 he used the card to 
make a payment. He says it was originally a contactless payment, but it became a chip and 
PIN transaction. He later discovered that the payment amount had been deducted twice from 
the available balance of his account.
Mr S contacted Curve, who initially misunderstood and thought there was a problem with 
transactions being declined. After three days they manually adjusted the account to remove 
the additional transaction. He raised a complaint.
Curve apologised for the initial misunderstanding but didnt think theyd done anything wrong 
in the handling of the transaction. They said theyd received two authorisation requests from 
the merchant, which had led to the double charge.
Unhappy with this answer Mr S referred the complaint to our service, but our investigator 
didnt think Curve needed to do anything further to resolve the complaint. Mr S disagreed so 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Curve have provided Mr S with an explanation of what happened, and why his card was 
charged twice. This is more than Id usually expect them to do. Im satisfied that they 
received two transaction requests from the merchant, so I dont see theyve done anything 
wrong by processing them both.
If something goes wrong, the role of our service is to ensure that the consumer is put back in 
the position they would have been had it not happened. Once Mr S made them aware of the 
issue there was an initial misunderstanding on their part. Theyve apologised for this in their 
final response letter, which in the circumstances is the most appropriate action. Ive seen 
nothing to suggest this unreasonably delayed their response. So, Im not going to ask Curve 
to do anything more to resolve this aspect of the complaint.
I note that the transaction was manually refunded by Curve within three days, which is a 
reasonable amount of time. Ive reviewed all the chat transcripts between Curve and Mr S, 
and I cant see that the service provided was unreasonable, or that theyve treated him 
unfairly. There wasnt any ongoing detriment to Mr S once the funds were refunded. So I 
dont see that compensation is warranted.
Overall, Im satisfied that Curve have handled this complaint appropriately and do not require 
them to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman