DRN-4353379
The complaint
Mr B complains that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) wont refund over £2,000 he lost to an 
employment scam.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Mr B initially reported to Revolut that he had been a victim of an employment-based 
scam. However, he has since said that he doesnt remember speaking to a scammer or 
authorising any payments. I understand that he has been experiencing some issues with 
his health, which has made it difficult to remember things. And Im sorry to hear about 
the difficult time Mr B has been through, but Ive had to consider whether he likely 
authorised the disputed transactions or not. 
Mr B initially told Revolut that he had been persuaded to make the payments as part of 
an employment scam. When he first referred his complaint to this service in July 2023, 
he also said he had made the payments as part of a scam, where he was led to believe 
that he would receive his money back along with commission for leaving ratings about 
hotels. I appreciate Mr B may have since forgotten this, but given he originally said to 
both Revolut and this service that he made the payments, Im satisfied its more likely 
than not that he authorised them, albeit I accept he was duped into thinking it was part of 
the work he was carrying out. Nevertheless, they would still be treated as authorised 
transactions. And the starting position is that firms ought to follow the instructions given 
by their customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Revolut should have done more to prevent Mr B from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a firm should reasonably 
have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. For 
example, if it was particularly out of character.
I appreciate that overall, Mr B has lost over £2,000 which is a significant amount of 
money. But this amount wasnt paid in one large or out of character transaction. It was 
spread over six smaller increments which, in my judgment, would not have appeared 
particularly unusual when compared with Mr Bs spending history. So, I dont think they 
ought to have been regarded as suspicious or indicating that he might have been at risk 
of falling victim to a scam. 
I also acknowledge there were occasions where more than one payment was made in 
the same day to Mr Bs crypto platform, such as three payments being made on 9 July 
2021 to Transak. However, by this point, Mr B had already made a payment to this 
crypto platform. So, by the time he came to make these payments, Transak was already 
established on his account as an existing payee. The three payments he made on 
9 July 2021 also only totalled just over £1,000, which cumulatively wouldnt have 
appeared overly unusual for an amount to be spent in one day either. 
Therefore, having considered the payments Mr B made as part of the scam, Im not 
persuaded there was anything that ought reasonably to have triggered Revoluts fraud 
monitoring systems, or that would have indicated he was in the process of being 
scammed, so I dont think it was required to provide any scam warning.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr B, and Im sorry to hear he has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, in the circumstances, I do not consider it would be 
fair and reasonable to hold Revolut liable for his loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman