DRN-2859002
The complaint
X owns a fish and chip restaurant and takeaway, X is unhappy with its commercial insurer, 
Zurich Insurance Plc as it declined a claim X made for a fire at its premises. X has been 
represented by Mr C.
What happened
There was a fire at the premises, which started in a pan of the frying range situated in a 
serving area. On the day of the fire two employees were preparing to open the shop. 
Employee A was taking the dirty oil out of the pan which later caught fire, and then left the 
serving area to go about business in different areas of the premises. Employee B was in a 
room adjoining the area the range was in; there was a hatch between the rooms but no 
inter-connecting door. The room employee B was in had to be left via its door, and a corridor 
traversed, before the serving area could be entered. Employee B went back and forth 
between the two whilst preparing food ready for opening.
The empty pan of oil was left switched on, although employee A later said they believed 
theyd switched it off. CCTV footage shows that less than one minute after employee B was 
last in the serving area, the pan was smoking, and within the next minute, flames ignited, the 
fire was noticed and both employees left the building to call the fire brigade. 
Zurich considered Xs claim but, having seen the CCTV footage of the fire, viewed the 
premises and heard an account of the events from the shops manager, it decided the frying 
range had been left on and unattended. It noted the following policy condition and declined 
the claim:
e) all cooking equipment used for deep fat frying
iii) will not be left unattended whilst the heat source is operating.
X complained to us. Mr C (Xs representative) said he felt this was unfair as employee B had 
been made aware employee A was emptying the fryer and it was their practice to work as a 
team when doing so. So, Mr C explained, employee B would keep an eye on the range via 
the hatch whilst completing their food preparation tasks, knowing that employee A often had 
to leave the range to empty dirty oil into a vat outside. Statements from the two were 
provided. Mr C noted this services and the courts approach to stolen vehicles left 
unattended by motorists. Mr C said the fire was noticed as soon as it started and it was the 
judgment of the two employees that straightaway it was too dangerous to try and intervene  
but having been in a different room when the fire was noticed, Mr C said, hadnt impacted 
that, rather the sudden and aggressive nature of the fire would have made it impossible to 
intervene even if someone had been standing in the serving area near the range.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She felt all the evidence, but particularly the 
CCTV footage, meant it was fair and reasonable for Zurich to have declined the claim on the 
basis of a breach of the policy condition that the frying range had been left switched on and 
unattended. In saying that she explained that it seemed as though if someone had been in 
the serving area the smoking pan would have been noticed before flames took hold.
Mr C felt this was a hard line to take which didnt take into account that to be in attendance 
the event insured against doesnt have to be prevented, just preventable, with there being a 
possibility of intervention. In this case Mr C said, the employee being in a different room 
didnt mean the frying range was left unattended because they were still in a position to act 
to intervene in general terms, its just that, in this instance, it wasnt possible to actually 
prevent the fire or take action to stop it.
During his representations to this service, Mr C noted he hadnt been afforded sight of the 
CCTV footage which our investigator had seen and based her findings on. This was sent to 
Mr C and he provided further detail explaining the location of the hatch employee B had 
been viewing the frying range from, along with a further explanation of how and why he felt 
the range hadnt been left unattended.
The complaint was passed to me to consider. Like our investigator, I didnt think it should be 
upheld. But my reasons differed from hers, taking into account as they did the updated 
details provided by Mr C. I issued a provisional decision to explain my views. 
Mr C responded. He noted and accepted the detailed analysis Id given as part of my 
findings. He said the remaining point was that X feels that the term is being unreasonably 
applied. X, Mr C says, feels that the term wasnt drafted with a view to protecting Zurich from 
liability in situations where the frying range was left on accidentally or unwittingly. Mr C said 
X felt an intent was needed in this situation  likening it to a situation of alleged shop-lifting, 
where an intent to deprive is required to show a criminal act of theft has occurred. Mr C said 
he accepts that theory doesnt track exactly to these circumstances, but explained this 
demonstrates the injustice X feels has occurred because X is out of pocket due to an 
accident, not a deliberate act.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said provisionally:
Im mindful of this services approach to situations involving the theft of motor vehicles. In 
very brief terms our approach is that despite the driver being some distance from the vehicle 
when it is taken, in certain circumstances well sometimes say that the vehicle was not left 
unattended. But we always assess each case on its own merits. The individual and specific 
pursuant circumstances will vary in each case and, when considering an issue about 
attendance, will need to be carefully scrutinised. But in all cases where we consider the 
application of policy terms, well also bear in mind the type of policy in question, the nature of 
the relevant term and its intended purpose. So it isnt fair to say that, just because in some 
situations involving complaints about stolen vehicles this service finds it unfair for insurers to 
rely on exclusions for unattended vehicles to defeat their liability, this complaint about 
Zurich declining Xs claim, due the range being unattended, should be upheld.
I note this is a commercial policy and the term in question is a condition precedent. So it 
was a term which Zurich had communicated to X as being really important to the cover being 
provided. And because its a condition precedent it is up to X to show it was complied with  
it isnt a case that Zurich has to show it was breached. So X has to show that the range 
wasnt left unattended when the heat source was on. And this all speaks to the intended 
purpose of the term  commercial insurance providers view deep fat frying as a high-risk 
endeavour and seek to have safety measures in place to ensure they dont open themselves 
to liability for avoidable fires. Having carefully reviewed all of the evidence, including the CCTV footage and witness 
statements of employee A and B, Im not persuaded that X has shown the condition was 
complied with. Ive set out my views regarding what all this shows below, but in short, in my 
view neither employee A nor B were paying attention to the range  their focus was 
elsewhere. And, in my view, if attention isnt being paid to something, it cant reasonably be 
said that it is being attended. Further, I think their proximity to the fire was also important in 
considering whether or not the range was attended, especially when considering how this 
fire developed and the intent behind the condition in question.
It seems to me that X, likely via the shops manager, had a procedure in place for changing 
the oil in the range  one employee would empty the oil into a bucket, transferring this to 
waste storage outside, making several trips doing this until the pan was emptied, all the 
while communicating with the other staff to make them aware each time the hot oil was 
being moved as this created a safety hazard and meant the range, briefly, wouldnt be 
manned. The accounts of the events of the day in the run up to the fire given in the witness 
statements from employee A and B both include detail about the normal procedure having 
been followed. For example, employee A says it was whilst she was returning from one of 
her trips to deposit waste oil that employee B made her aware of the fire. And employee B 
refers to the fact of employee A going back and forth and knowing she needed to keep an 
eye on the fryer every time employee A notified her that she was moving the oil. However, 
these accounts dont fit with the CCTV footage.
Im mindful that these statements were made some months after the fire. I can only assume 
that has affected the memory of the employees. 
The CCTV footage shows that employee A transferred oil into another pan rather than a 
bucket and didnt move any oil to the waste area. When employee A did leave the serving 
area to go about other business in other areas of the premises, she doesnt seem to have 
communicated to employee B at all that she was leaving the area unattended. None of the 
parties have sought to suggest that employee A had sight of the serving area after she left it 
before the fire, and the CCTV footage suggests she was in a room without direct access to, 
or line of site of, the range at the time the fire took hold. So Im satisfied that the range was 
not being attended by employee A.
Turning to employee B; I know Mr C has said that because of the usual procedure it would 
be fair to say that even if it wasnt followed on the day of the fire, employee B was aware the 
fryer was being emptied and so it can reasonably be assumed that shed acted in line with 
the usual procedure, by keeping an eye on the range even though employee A didnt move 
oil to the waste area. But I dont think that can reasonably be assumed as her statement 
indicates she would only stop doing her other jobs to keep an eye on the range when notified 
by employee A that she was leaving to deposit oil, which didnt, in fact, happen. So the 
trigger for employee B to act wasnt given. I know Mr C has also said that although the 
CCTV footage seems to cast doubt on employee Bs account of noticing the fire when 
flames first ignited, this can be accounted for by simply assuming that when she said she 
heard the flames ignite, this was whilst she was at the rear of the adjoining room and she 
acted immediately to investigate the source of the noise which caused her to find the fire. Im 
not persuaded, based on scrutiny of the CCTV footage, that thats a reasonable assumption 
to make.
The footage shows that employee Bs food preparation tasks kept her moving around  she 
wasnt mainly completing tasks that kept her at the counter where the hatch is situated. And 
Im mindful that photos of the serving area from the time of the fire show that visibility from 
the adjoining room into the serving area via the hatch was likely somewhat limited due to 
items placed and stacked in front of the hatch. And the hatch is at counter or waist height  
meaning employee B couldnt just glance through the hatch whilst standing at the counter completing preparation tasks. At around the time the pan caught fire the CCTV footage 
shows that employee B was not, in my view, in a position from where the serving area could 
be viewed. Nor do I think that when the flames ignited it could reasonably be concluded that 
employee B heard this and, at that point, acted immediately to investigate the source of the 
noise. Im satisfied that it was a later worsening of the flames, which occurred when 
employee B was coincidentally in the area of the hatch, that made her aware of the fire. So 
Im not persuaded that she was paying attention to the range.
Of course, all of this did happen in a matter of seconds, but that is not unusual in fires of this 
nature. And it is for this very reason that insurers include conditions into their policies about 
ranges, once switched on, being attended. In the early stages of fires like this there can be 
brief opportunities to prevent, contain or put out the flames. But the fire, either in its smoking 
stage or as flames first ignite, has to be noticed. Further, and crucially, someone has to be 
close enough to take advantage of the situation by perhaps closing the pan lid, switching off 
the heat source and/or grabbing a fire extinguisher. 
I think that here, if someone had been in the serving area, the early stages of the fire would 
have been noticed, and there would have been a brief but definite opportunity to act to 
prevent this fire from progressing and causing significant damage. But as it was, employee B 
wasnt paying attention to the serving area, and even had she been, shed still have had to 
leave the room she was in, move along the corridor and enter the serving area before shed 
have had chance to act against the fire. And that would have taken time. Only a matter of 
seconds admittedly, but this fire developed quickly, so every second was important. In the 
circumstances, and on the balance of the evidence available, I dont think its been shown 
that the range was being attended by employee B.
Unfortunately for X, having reviewed all the evidence, I think Zurich acted fairly and 
reasonably when it concluded the condition precedent had been breached. Im also satisfied 
that, in the circumstances here, the breach did impact the loss. As such, on this occasion, 
I think Zurichs decline of the claim was fair and reasonable.
I appreciate that Zurich declining the claim is disappointing for X. I understand how X would 
reasonably assume there should be cover in this event. But I dont agree that the frying 
range being left on accidentally was never envisaged by Zurich when setting this term as a 
condition precedent to liability. The risk of a range being accidentally left on and unattended 
is, in my view, just as likely and foreseeable a risk, if not more so, than a scenario where this 
occurs due to negligence or, in the worst-case scenario, deliberately. And Zurich didnt 
choose, when including this condition into its policy, to make any allowances or exceptions 
for the range being accidentally left on and unattended. Whilst Ive considered the point X 
has made, it hasnt persuaded me to change my findings as stated provisionally. They are 
now the findings of this, my final decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Zurich Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman