DRN-2931527
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W have complained about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited. 
They arent happy about the way it dealt with a claim under their motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W made a claim under their motor insurance policy after they were involved in a 
non-fault accident in April 2020. Their car was repaired and returned to Mr and Mrs W in 
June 2020.
However, their car had to be returned to the repairing garage a number of times as 
rectification work was required. Unfortunately, the car still isnt fully repaired. LV appointed 
an independent engineer who identified a number of ongoing problems with the car. LV 
offered Mr and Mrs W £600 in compensation in acknowledgement of the delays and poor 
service it provided. And offered to have the outstanding work repaired by its repairing garage 
or to pay Mr and Mrs W a cash-in-lieu (CIL) payment. 
But Mr and Mrs W didnt trust LVs repairer given the difficulties they had faced. And couldnt 
find a garage that would undertake the rectification work given the earlier failed repairs by 
LVs repairer.
When our investigator looked into the complaint they upheld it. They thought that LV should 
write off Mr and Mrs Ws car as they had lost confidence in LVs repairer and couldnt get a 
garage to look at the car given the complications caused by LVs repairer.
As LV didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of 
this case is to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
This has clearly been a difficult and stressful time for Mr and Mrs W. Their car went in for 
repair after an accident and it should have been a relatively straightforward matter and 
repair, but it wasnt. LV has offered £600 by way of compensation for this and I think thats 
fair. 
So the only thing left to decide is whether its offer to repair the car again or pay a CIL 
payment is fair. And given that its repairer has already tried and failed to repair Mr and Mrs 
Ws car on a number of occasions I can understand why they dont want to try this route 
again. Ordinarily I would say that the offer of a CIL payment would be a fair way to settle this 
claim. But the fact that Mr and Mrs W cant get a garage to look at the further rectification 
work, because of the previous poor repairs by LV, complicates this approach.
The independent engineer identified a number of pieces of rectification work including 1) 
Paint blemishes and an area of crazed paintwork on the doors. 2) The key card and 
start/stop needs to have an electronic diagnostics to determine fault/cause. 3) Whistling 
noise from the dash board occurs when travelling above the speed limit, so the engineer 
couldnt road test; the dash board would need to be removed to investigate. And these 
complications, especially problems relating to the removal of the dashboard, have meant 
that Mr and Mrs W cant get a quote for the rectification work.
Given this it is difficult to gauge the cost and so the level of CIL LV should pay. Furthermore, 
it could leave Mr and Mrs Ws car not repairable which wouldnt be fair on them. As such, I 
agree with our investigator that the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular 
circumstances of this case, is for LV to take back the car and give them the market value of 
the car (in effect write the car off). LV can repair the car or sell it to recover some of its costs.  
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Liverpool 
Victoria Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr and Mrs W the pre-accident market value of 
their car and £600 compensation. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman