DRN-2230543
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained that as a result of Arthur J. Gallagher (UK) Ltd.s (Gallagher) 
actions their motor insurer refused to pay a claim for the theft of one of their cars.
Mr M has taken the lead in bringing this complaint. And, where I refer to Mr M alone, those 
comments should be read as being on behalf of himself and Mrs M.
Reference to Gallagher includes a former company whose liabilities it has taken on.
What happened
Gallagher acted as Mr and Mrs Ms insurance broker. It arranged insurance cover for them 
which covered their properties, cars and travel. 
Mr M emailed Gallagher and asked it to add a new car, which Ill refer to as L, to their cover. 
Gallagher asked whether or not L had a tracker. Mr M replied that hed check but said he 
hadn't previously needed one and wondered if it was required.
 
Gallagher emailed Mr M and said it had added L to the cover. But it told him the insurer who 
underwrote the policy, which Ill refer to as H, required that the car had a tracker fitted. 
Appended to the email were a number of documents showing the policy updates. Those 
included Gallaghers cover letter which repeated L would need a tracker; and a statement of 
fact/policy schedule which also said L would need to have a tracker. However, Gallagher 
also asked:
Where will it [L] be parked overnight? If its garaged I can see if I can remove this [the 
tracker requirement]
Mr M replied that the car would be kept behind large wooden electric gates. Gallagher 
responded and said it would see what it could do. Gallagher emailed H and asked it to 
review the tracker requirement. H didn't reply and Gallagher didn't provide Mr M with an 
update on the tracker condition, which remained on the policy documents.
Around a year later L was stolen. Mr M claimed for the theft. During that process he 
confirmed he hadn't fitted a tracker to L. H refused Mr Ms claim because his cover required 
L to be fitted with a tracker.
Mr M complained. He said hed asked about whether H could review the tracker requirement 
for L but had no response. He said he'd had a previous car of the same model insured 
through Gallagher and it hadn't required a tracker. So, having not received a reply to his 
enquiry about the tracker hed assumed it wasn't an issue. Gallagher passed on Mr Ms 
concerns to H.
H replied to Gallagher. It acknowledged it hadn't replied to Gallaghers enquiry to review the 
tracker condition. But it said it was Gallaghers responsibility to ensure Mr M was aware of 
the policy requirements. H later confirmed it wouldn't ever have insured L without having a 
tracker fitted. 
Mr M was unhappy that, because of Gallagher's actions, H had refused his theft claim and 
brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. He thought Gallagher 
should have followed up on its email to H asking for a review of the tracker requirement. And 
he said Gallagher should pay Mr and Mrs M £100 compensation to recognise their 
inconvenience because it didn't do so. But he didn't think Gallagher was responsible for 
Mr and Mrs M not having the appropriate cover in place.
Mr M didn't agree so the complaint's been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I have some sympathy with Mr and Mrs Ms position, I don't think it was Gallaghers 
fault that H didn't pay their claim.
 
When Gallagher added L to the policy it made it clear that H required L to have a tracker 
fitted in order to be covered. I can understand why, given Mr Ms previous car of the same 
model didn't require a tracker, he would have questioned that. But Gallagher didn't ever reply 
to him on that point. That was clearly an omission on its part. And, while Gallagher didn't do 
that, it didn't tell Mr H the tracker requirement had been removed either. Neither did it do or 
say anything that made it safe for Mr M to assume the requirement no longer applied. And, I 
think its equally important to note that Mr M didn't follow up with Gallagher to see if H had 
reviewed the tracker condition. 
Further, I've noted Mr and Mrs M made various changes to their insurance cover over the 
coming months. And on each occasion they did so they were sent a renewed policy 
statement of fact and schedule. And those documents referred to L needing a tracker. In 
other words the policy documents consistently said that L required a tracker in order for 
cover to apply
Also, around five months after Mr M added L to his policy, Gallagher sent information 
concerning its renewal. And on the covering letter Gallagher included a section drawing 
attention to some key conditions applying to the policy. That section included the 
requirement for L to have a tracker fitted in order for cover to apply to it. So, while I can 
understand why Mr M might have initially believed that L didn't require a tracker, I think the 
information Gallagher sent to Mr and Mrs M before renewing their policy made it clear that in 
order for L to be covered it required a tracker. 
Ill add that when Gallagher sent documents to Mr and Mrs M it advised them to read those 
and to let Gallagher know if anything was wrong. And while I wouldn't expect policyholders 
to read every word of every insurance document sent to them, there is an onus on them to 
read the key information brought to their attention. Thats so they can check to see if there 
are any errors or omissions. Its also to ensure that the policies concerned meet their needs. 
And, as I've said above, Gallagher highlighted the tracker requirement for L on its covering 
letter with the renewal documents. So, if Mr and Mrs M had read that, and thought it was 
wrong they could have taken the issue up with Gallagher at that point. Had they done so, I 
think its extremely likely Gallagher would have told them that a tracker was required. It 
appears Mr and Mrs M didn't pick up on this important condition of their policy at renewal. 
But I dont think that was because of anything Gallagher did or didn't do. It follows that I don't 
think it was Gallaghers fault that H declined Mr and Mrs M's theft claim because they hadn't 
met the policys requirements.Mr Ms told us some of Gallaghers staff have apologised to him for their part in the claim 
being declined. The implication being that Gallagher has accepted it was its fault that H 
didn't pay his claim. And while I haven't listened to recordings of those conversations I don't 
doubt that Gallagher did apologise to him. But, as I've said above, I don't think it was 
Gallaghers fault that Mr M wasn't covered at the time of the theft. That said I agree that 
Gallagher didn't do everything it should have done. Indeed Gallagher has acknowledged it 
didn't get everything right. And its agreed with our investigators recommendation to pay 
Mr and Mrs M £100 compensation to reflect their inconvenience because of that. I think 
that's reasonable in the circumstances. 
I need to make it clear that the £100 compensation is to reflect the impact of Gallagher not 
following up on its email to H asking it to review the tracker issue. Its not a fine or 
punishment, I don't have the power to do that. And it's not to compensate Mr and Mrs M 
because H didn't cover them for Ls theft. As I've said above I don't think that was 
Gallaghers fault, so it's not something Ive awarded compensation for. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I partly uphold this complaint. I require Arthur J. Gallagher 
(UK) Ltd to pay Mr and Mrs M £100 compensation for their trouble and upset because 
Gallagher didn't chase a reply to an email. It should pay the compensation within 28 days of 
us telling it that Mr and Mrs M have accepted my final decision. If it pays later than this, it 
must also add interest to that amount from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at a rate of 8% a year simple1.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman
1 If Gallagher pays interest and considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs M how much its taken off. It should also give 
them a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate