DRN-3285296
The complaint
Mr R complains that Tesco Underwriting Limited avoided his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr R initially took out a car insurance policy with Tesco through a price comparison site.
After he had renewed the policy for another year, he was involved in an accident with a third- 
party vehicle and tried to make a claim.
Tesco said Mr R had answered the question incorrectly in his application when asked about
his occupation. It also says, when Mr R renewed his policy, he failed to let it know his
employment information was wrong. It considered this to be a reckless misrepresentation, so
it avoided the policy back to the policy renewal date, refunded the premium Mr R had paid
since renewal, and asked him to pay 50% of the costs it paid for the third partys claim.
Mr R brought his complaint to us and told us he was unemployed by the time of the renewal,
he had been ill and under a lot of stress at the time, so he didnt read the paperwork. He also
says he told Tesco he wasnt working during a telephone call earlier in the year. Our
investigator thought his complaint should be upheld. They agreed there had been a
qualifying misrepresentation but didnt think it was deliberate or reckless. They believed it
was careless and thought Tesco should consider Mr Rs claim and settle it proportionately.
Tesco doesnt agree with our investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
It said it had asked Mr R about his employment when he notified them of his claim, and he
didnt tell them he was unemployed. So, it felt this was deliberate. It also says Mr R had
given the wrong employment information from the outset of his policy, and his failure to read
the documents he was sent at renewal was reckless, particularly as his circumstances had
changed dramatically in the time since he first took out the policy.
I issued a provisional decision on 18 December 2021 where I said:
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations)
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer must show it would have offered the policy on
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Tesco said Mr Rs employment information was incorrect from the inception of the policy.
But it avoided the policy back to the renewal date. It thinks Mr R failed to take reasonable
care not to make a misrepresentation because he didnt inform it that his employment details
were incorrect when he renewed his policy.
Ive looked at the renewal documents Mr R was sent, and I find it clearly shows the wrong
employment had been recorded from inception. As indicated by the documents, I think Mr R
had a responsibility to check the information was correct, but he didnt. So, I dont think he
took reasonable care not to misrepresent his information. Tesco has shown that if it had the
correct employment details for him, it would have at least charged him a higher premium.
So, Im satisfied Mr Rs misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
It also says Mr Rs misrepresentation was reckless because he failed to read the renewal
documents he was sent, even though he knew his circumstances had changed significantly
in the time between taking out the policy and its renewal.
A misrepresentation is considered reckless or deliberate if the consumer:
knew the information they provided was untrue or misleading or did not care whether 
it was untrue or misleading; and
knew that the matter to which the misrepresentation related was relevant to the 
insurer or did not care whether or not it was relevant to the insurer.
Mr R said he was stressed at the time he called to report the incident, so when he was
asked what his occupation was, rather than stating he was unemployed, he stated his
previous job as a reflex response. Ive seen photographs from the scene of the accident.
Being involved in any accident is a traumatic event, especially one as serious as the pictures
indicate. So, I think its understandable Mr R was under a lot stress at the time. However,
I find Mr Rs misrepresentation when he renewed his policy and prior to the incident to have
been reckless and Ill explain why.
Tesco has explained that when initially applying for the policy, Mr R would have had to type
in the first three letters of his job title in order to access the list of potential roles he could
choose from. He would have then had to separately enter the industry he worked in. I must
agree with Tesco here. I think its unlikely that had Mr R entered the correct three letters, it
would have given him the option to choose the job title he stated at inception. Mr R has then
also chosen the wrong industry. And would have been presented with the information hed
provided on later screens. Mr R used the same details for his wife which he later confirmed
was also incorrect. So, I find the misrepresentation to have been deliberate or reckless at
inception.
Mr R says he didnt check his renewal documents because he was stressed and ill at the
time. However, as I find it likely his misrepresentation was deliberate at inception, I think he
would have been aware the information Tesco held had been incorrect initially. This should
have prompted Mr R to check and inform Tesco if the information was still wrong, but he
chose not to. So, Im not persuaded Mr R cared whether the information hed provided Tesco
was correct. As such, I dont think its decision to treat his misrepresentation at renewal as
reckless was unreasonable.
Prior to his renewal Mr R called to discuss his monthly payment with Tesco. During the call,
he mentioned his job title and explained that due the Covid 19 pandemic he hadnt had any
work in two weeks. But I dont think the conversation would have led the call handler to
check they had the correct employment details for him. This is because the call was made to
the payments department and I dont think the adviser had reason to check anything that
didnt relate to the purpose of his call. I also think its unlikely it would have led them to
concluded he was unemployed, but rather he was finding it difficult to find work temporarily.As Im satisfied Mr Rs misrepresentation should be treated reckless, Ive looked at the
actions Tesco can take in accordance with CIDRA which also reflects our long-established
approach to misrepresentation cases. It says, when a deliberate or reckless
misrepresentation is made, an insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, refuse any claims and
keep any premiums paid. So, I dont think Tesco acted unfairly by avoiding Mr Rs policy.
When a policy is avoided its treated as though it never existed, as such Tesco where
entitled to recover its costs from Mr R. It asked him to pay 50% of the costs it incurred from
the third-party claim made against Mr R and I think thats fair.
I know this will be disappointing to Mr R, especially considering the difficult times hes had
recently. But considering the above, I think Tescos decision was fair and reasonable and I
dont think it need do anything differently.
Tesco accepted my decision, but Mr R doesnt agree. He says:
He wasnt happy to carry on the policy because the service was bad, and his 
premium was high due to a non-fault claim he had made. 
He called Tesco and they agreed to cancel the policy and sent him written 
confirmation of this. 
He didnt have enough to go to another insurer, but he would have taken out a policy 
elsewhere when the funds permitted. 
Mr R representatives also state the following: 
The provisional decision failed to properly deal with information disclosed by Mr R to 
Tesco during the various calls he made to them.
Would a person who was reckless, call the insurer several times to inform them of his 
occupation?
Its a fact Mr R was unemployed during the relevant period, on several occasions 
Mr R candidly gave different employment details to the insurer from what was on the 
proposal form and has limited computer skills.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what Mr R and his representative have said in response to my provisional 
decision, I know this will be disappointing, but Im not persuaded to change my mind.
Mr Rs representative provided a definition for the term reckless as found in a criminal case 
which he thinks should be similar to one used in deciding Mr Rs complaint. We are an 
alternative to the courts, but we do take into consideration the law, industry guidelines and 
best practices to reach a fair and reasonable resolution. The relevant law in Mr Rs case is 
the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012, and it sets out 
conditions in which a qualifying misrepresentation would be considered deliberate or 
reckless. Ive set out what these are in my provisional decision, so I wont do it again here, 
but I dont think its unreasonable for Tesco to rely on CIDRA in Mr Rs situation. I find the 
circumstances of Mr Rs misrepresentation meets the criteria set out in CIDRA for it to be 
considered deliberate or reckless, and Ill explain why.
It was Mr Rs responsibility to ensure Tesco had the right information about his job. As I 
mentioned in my provisional decision, he would have had to type in the first three letters of 
his job title himself. The spelling of his job at the time and the one stated in his application 
are vastly different, had he typed in the correct letter I dont think it would have given him the option he chose. So, Im not persuaded the occupation he stated in his application was done 
mistakenly. And neither Mr R nor his representative provided new information to show 
otherwise. So, I think its likely Mr R deliberately misrepresented his information at inception.
Subsequently, Mr R had several opportunities to check and rectify his employment details 
with Tesco. Firstly, when it was brought to his attention by Tesco that his wifes employment 
information was incorrect. At this point, he will have known his employment details was 
relevant to Tesco and I think it should have prompted him to update his details also, but I 
cant see that he did. 
Mr R had further opportunities when he received his renewal documentation, and when he 
phoned to discuss his premium. Not long after his policy renewed, he phoned Tesco to 
enquire about either reducing his premium or waiving the cancellation fee. Ive listened to the 
call recording, and Mr R explained to the call handler that he had misplaced the renewal 
documents and hadnt looked at them. I appreciate this was a very difficult time for Mr R, but 
as I said in my provisional decision, he will have known the information hed provided at 
inception was incorrect, so I think that shouldve have prompted him to check the information 
on the renewal documentation he was sent. At the very least, he could have checked they 
had the correct details during this call. Therefore, Im not persuaded he cared whether Tesco 
had the right information when he renewed his policy.
Mr Rs representative says he has limited computer skills, but I dont think that matters here 
as he could have updated the information over the telephone.
I accept Mr R mentioned his occupation when he phoned Tesco, but I dont think it was 
enough to ensure it had the correct details for him. I say this because, the purpose of his 
phone calls wasnt to update his employment information. And as I said, I dont find the 
conversations he had would have prompted the call handlers he spoke with to check his 
employment details. I also cant see that Mr R tried to make it clear to Tesco at any point that 
it had incorrect details about his job. 
Mr R said he wasnt happy to go ahead with the policy at renewal. But I dont think it 
changes things. During the phone call I listened to, Tescos call handler explained that as the 
policy had already renewed, they wouldnt be able to change his premium but agreed to 
waive the £40 cancellation fee. 
Crucially, Mr R asks to call back the following day to confirm whether he wanted to go ahead 
with the cancellation as he wanted to look around for a cheaper policy first. I also note that 
Tesco wrote to Mr R following the telephone call and, in their correspondence, it states that 
the call handler had agreed to waive the £40.00 cancellation fee, if you choose to cancel 
your policy. But I cant see that Mr R phoned back to confirm the cancellation.
He also told us he didnt have enough money at the time to go to another insurer, so Im 
satisfied he was aware the policy was still in place. So, he still had a responsibility to ensure 
hed provided Tesco with the correct information about his job.
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, Im satisfied Mr Rs 
misrepresentation should be treated as deliberate or reckless. As such, I dont think Tesco 
acted unreasonably when it avoided his policy so, I wont ask it to do anything differently. 
My final decision
My final decision is, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman