DRN-2693019
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank, have recorded 
missed payments on his credit file.
What happened
Mr C has a credit account with Tesco. In January 2020, a minimum payment was due on the 
account and had to be paid by the 17th of that month. On the 17th, Mr C made three faster 
payments from accounts he holds with other banks in order to satisfy the minimum payment 
due. But one of these payments didnt go through, which meant that the minimum payment 
amount wasnt received by Tesco, and so Tesco recorded a missed payment for January 
2020 on Mr Cs credit file.
The next month - February 2020 - a payment was again due on the account to be paid no 
later than the 17th. Mr C made a partial payment towards the minimum payment, and then 
made a further payment to satisfy the minimum payment amount on the 17th itself. However, 
this later payment was made after the close of business hours on the 17th and so wasnt 
received by Tesco until the next day. This meant that Tesco recorded another missed 
payment for February on Mr Cs credit file.
Mr C wasnt happy about this, so he made a complaint. Tesco looked at his complaint, but 
they noted that they payments had been missed and so they felt that theyd made an 
accurate report to the credit reference agencies. So, they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr C wasnt satisfied with Tescos response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also felt that Tesco hadnt acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in recording the missed payments on Mr Cs account, and so they 
also didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr C remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr C feels strongly about this complaint, and hes made a number of detailed 
points expressing his concerns in his correspondence with this service. My decision wont go 
into a similar level of detail here, and instead I will focus on the points which I consider to be 
the crux of this complaint and which I believe have a material impact on the decision that Ive 
reached. I hope that Mr C doesnt consider this a discourtesy, and I must note that if I 
havent referenced a specific point that Mr C has made, it shouldnt be taken that I havent 
considered this point. Rather, its the case that I dont feel it necessary to respond to that 
specific point in order for explain why I have made the decision that I have.
Id like to confirm that my review of this complaint focusses on whether it was unfair or 
unreasonable for Tesco to record missed payments on Mr Cs credit file. Im aware that there 
were other immediate consequences to the payments not being received by Tesco by the 
due date  such as late payment fees and the loss of the 0% interest offer on balance 
transfers  that have been either reimbursed or reinstated by Tesco as a gesture of goodwill. 
However, I dont consider that these points have a bearing on the issue under consideration 
here, and so I will not refer to them again.
Mr C is of the opinion that the payment made on 17 January 2020 was received by Tesco 
but then returned to his bank without the payment being applied to his account. Mr C 
acknowledges that the reference applied to the attempted payment may have been 
incorrect, but considers that if the payment was received by Tesco, only to be returned on 
the basis of an invalid reference number, then the payment should still be considered as 
having been received by Tesco on that date and applied to his account retrospectively, once 
the reference number had been provided, meaning that the payment wasnt late.
Tesco, like many companies, uses an automated process to process incoming payments, 
and this process wont accept an incoming payment unless its sent in conjunction with a 
valid reference number. So, I cant agree that Tesco received the payment only to return it 
because of an invalid reference number. Rather, because the payment was made with an 
invalid reference number, the payment didnt include the necessary criteria to enable it to 
pass the initial screening process and be received by Tesco - and so the attempted payment 
was returned. And it must be noted that the fact that the payment had been returned would 
have been visible to Mr C from the date, upon review of his bank account.
Its worth clarifying here that for a payment to be received into to a Tesco customers 
account, not only does that payment have to be received by Tesco as a company, but it also 
must include a valid reference number so that it can then be processed and credited to the 
correct Tesco customer account. It isnt the case that the mere receipt of money by Tesco 
into a Tesco owned bank account constitutes a valid payment to a customers account. 
Rather, it is only after Tesco have then transferred the payment received to the correct 
customer account  made possible by the reference number attached to the payment by the 
customer  that payment to the customer account is considered to have occurred. 
Tescos terms include the provision to allow up to two days for a payment to be received into 
a customer account. Im aware that Mr C is of the opinion that a faster payment should be 
almost instantaneous or at the most take just a few hours to be processed, but this is only in 
consideration of the payment being received by Tesco as a company, and doesnt allow for 
the time needed for the payment to be processed forwards and credited to a customer 
account.
The explanation above also applies regarding the payment made in February 2020, which 
was made after the close of business hours and so wasnt received into the customer 
account until the next business day. In this instance the first stage of the process was 
completed  the payment was received by Tesco as a company with an appropriate 
reference number to enable the transfer of that payment to Mr Cs customer account. But the 
payment wasnt made in time to enable the payment to be processed by Tesco and received 
into Mr s customer account in time for it not to be considered as being a late payment. 
All of which means that its difficult for me to conclude that Tesco have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here, and so I wont be upholding this complaint or asking Tesco to take any 
further action at this time. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr C was wanting here, but as a credit provider, 
Tesco do have a responsibility to make accurate reports to the credit reference agencies. And while Im confident that Mr C did make the payments in good faith as he has explained, 
ultimately the payments werent received by Tesco in time for them to not be considered as 
being missed payments. And it follows from this that Im satisfied that Tescos reporting of 
these payments to the credit reference agencies as missed payments is fair and reasonable 
in this instance. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman