DRN-3781125
The complaint
Ms G and Mr W complain that Healthcare International Global Network Limited (hereafter 
HCI) unfairly declined a claim for replacement knee surgery. 
What happened
Ms G and Mr W hold an international health plan. Their policy is administered by HCI and is 
underwritten by an insurer Ill call Insurer A. Insurer A is based overseas and isnt a firm 
authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
In 2021 Mr W claimed for replacement knee surgery, but HCI said medical evidence 
suggested it related to a pre-existing condition. 
Ms G and Mr W complained. They said there was no evidence to establish the presence of a 
pre-existing condition, the claims decision had been deliberately delayed, and HCI had given 
them assurances that the knee surgery would be covered when the policy was renewed and 
upgraded.
HCI didnt uphold the complaint so Ms G and Mr W referred it to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. They didnt think HCI had handled 
the claim unfairly or given assurances about coverage at renewal. So, they didnt uphold the 
complaint either. But Ms G and Mr W explained why they disagreed and asked that the 
matter be passed to an ombudsman. 
I issued a provisional decision. That provisional decision now forms part of this final decision 
and read as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms G and Mr Ws complaint centres on a claim for knee surgery being declined. They clearly 
feel very strongly about that decline and have set out their position on it at length. Having 
looked at their policy however, I dont think I can hold HCI responsible for either the claim 
decision or the claim delay matters that have been complained about. Let me explain why.
The Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) explains that an insurer is 
responsible for claims. This covers all aspects of claims for example declined claims and 
delayed claims. But as both parties are aware, the insurer of Ms G and Mr Ws policy is 
Insurer A. As that business isnt regulated by the FCA it doesnt fall within our jurisdiction 
and we cant consider a complaint against it. 
I acknowledge the involvement HCI has had in this complaint, but this service needs to 
determine for itself and in line with the relevant rules which business is responsible for a 
complaint being made. I dont think I can consider Ms G and Mr Ws complaint points about 
the declined or delayed claim for knee surgery against HCI, because HCI was not ultimately 
responsible for that decision. 
I do think HCI can be held responsible for the information Ms G and Mr W say it gave them 
when their policy was renewed and upgraded. So Ill set out my findings on this complaint 
point below. 
Ms G and Mr W say HCI assured them Mr Ws knee surgery would be covered at the point 
the policy was renewed and upgraded. Based on the available evidence and for the following 
reasons Im not persuaded it did:
In February 2021 Ms G and Mr W asked HCI which policies would cover knee 
surgery. HCI explained all the policies available through it had benefits available for 
knee surgery if such surgery was considered medically necessary. I appreciate why 
Ms G and Mr W may have understood that to be assurance of cover for Mr Ws knee 
surgery, but on balance I dont think I can fairly reach the same conclusion. HCI 
appear to have been talking in general terms about the general provisions of the 
policies available through it, rather than giving specific assurances about surgery for 
Mr W. 
Ms G and Mr W specifically set out they expected Mr W to need knee replacement 
surgery when they completed a policy upgrade request form in March 2021. In 
April 2021 HCI then explained that while the policy could be upgraded should any 
treatment be needed on (Mr Ws) knee, only Emergency Plus benefits would be 
available. HCI also said any upgraded benefits would only be available to any new 
conditions that arise after the upgrade date. So prior to the renewal and upgrade of 
their policy, HCI appeared to have alerted Ms G and Mr W to there being limited 
cover available for Mr Ws knee.  
Ms G and Mr W confirmed they still wanted to go ahead with an upgraded policy and 
in April 2021 HCI sent out renewal information including the specific terms and 
conditions of the upgraded policy. Later that same month and prior to the policy 
renewing HCI also explained, concerning (Mr Ws) potential knee 
treatment/surgerywe feel it is necessary to advise that treatment for this medical 
condition is not covered under any HCI plan. So HCI appear to have made it 
known that cover for Mr Ws knee surgery was not going to be available here too.
I appreciate Ms G and Mr W may be disappointed by my provisional findings, but Im not 
currently persuaded I can uphold their complaint. HCI is not an insurer so is not responsible 
for the decision to decline the claim and it does not appear to have given assurances of such 
cover when the policy was renewed and upgraded.
Responses to the provisional decision
Both sides responded to the provisional decision.
Ms G and Mr W said they were under the impression that this process was the only way for 
them to resolve the conflict outside of legal action. They queried the value of the complaints 
process given the findings of the provisional decision and said theyd take legal action 
against HCI, Insurer A, and any other intermediary or broker involved. Ms G and Mr W also 
said that in an effort to avoid such action theyd accept $19,000 from HCI (or any insurer HCI 
wished to convince to contribute to that amount) in full and final settlement of matters. 
HCI explained it was set-up as a managing general agent and acted on behalf of two 
insurers, one of which was Insurer A. It sought clarification about voluntary jurisdiction (VJ)  
for example how it could ensure its customers were covered under it, whether there was a 
process it needed to follow to formalise coverage of its complaints under VJ, and why VJ did 
not apply to it in the circumstances of this complaint. HCI also said it was keen to resolve the VJ issue as soon as possible for the benefit of both 
Ms G and Mr W and any future complainants. And it confirmed that despite Ms G and Mr 
Ws request for $19,000 it would not be offering any settlement towards this claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thanks both sides for responding to my provisional decision. Although I have 
considered everything my findings will only address those points I consider both relevant and 
central to the outcome of this complaint. For the reasons given previously and those Ill now 
set out below I remain of the same opinion.
HCI has raised a number of questions about our VJ such as what it might need to do to 
formalise its coverage under it. While I appreciate all of the VJ questions asked here, they 
would not make a difference in the circumstances of this complaint because HCI it is not the 
correct respondent for the claims decision or claims delays. 
As I explained in my provisional decision an insurer is ultimately responsible for claims. Here 
that is Insurer A and as both sides are aware Insurer A isnt regulated by the FCA. It is 
regulated by a scheme in the West Indies and that means it does not fall within our 
jurisdiction. 
The complaints process set out in the terms and conditions of Ms G and Mr Ws policy also 
makes reference to Insurer A being regulated by a scheme in the West Indies. This section 
of the policy starts by explaining:   
We hope that you will be very happy with the service We provide. However, if you have a 
complaint you should address it to [HCIs details provided]. 
If you are still unhappy with any issue that we have not dealt with to your complete 
satisfaction, you should then direct your complaint to the Compliance Officer of [Insurer As 
details provided].
It then continues:
(Insurer A) is regulated by the Grenada Authority For The Regulation Of Financial 
Institutions, who can be contacted at [contact details in Grenada provided].
(Insurer A) are covered by an ombudsman service whom you are entitled to contact and 
register a complaint with if you are not satisfied with our final response as follows [The Office 
of The Ombudsmans details (in Grenada) provided].
The above is similarly reflected in the About Our Insurance Services document HCI sent to 
Ms G and Mr W when it renewed their policy:
If you are unhappy with an underwriting decision, or feel that a decision about a claim is 
unfair, we may refer your complaint to the insurer of your policy, (Insurer A) who will respond 
to you directly. If you remain dissatisfied with their response, you may be entitled to refer 
your complaint to GARFIN (The Grenada Authority for the Regulation of Financial 
Institutions).
I hope both sides find the above helpful. I will not be addressing the proposed settlement offer Ms G and Mr W put forward in 
response to my provisional decision because it relates to matters Ive already explained HCI 
is not responsible for. But I can confirm to Ms G and Mr W that their proposal was shared 
with HCI and HCI confirmed it would not be offering any settlement amount.
For the reasons given above I remain of the opinion that HCI is not responsible for the 
decision to decline the claim or the claim delay matters, and it did not give assurances of 
cover when the policy was renewed and upgraded. I will not be making any direction in 
relation to this complaint as a result, but that both sides may be further disappointed by this 
is fully acknowledged. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman