DRN-3723146
The complaint
A company Ill call F complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC blocked and closed its account 
after it received a report of a disputed payment relating to another limited company operated 
by Fs director.
F is represented by its director, Mr C.
What happened
On 8 December 2021, Barclays blocked Fs account while it carried out a review. Barclays 
didnt say why it had blocked Fs account, but Mr C says the block coincided with an 
investigation Barclays carried out on an account in the name of a limited company operated 
by Mr C, the details of which were set out by our investigator in her opinion to both parties.
When Barclays completed its review it issued a letter to F dated 10 January 2022, saying it 
had decided to close Fs account, and that the closure would take place on 13 March 2022. 
Mr C complained, saying it wasnt fair for Barclays to close Fs account because of 
something that had happened on an account in the name of another of his limited 
companies. He said the report made that triggered all of this was false, and that in any 
event, Barclays should only have reviewed the account connected to that report, and not 
other accounts in the name of different legal entities.
Barclays didnt uphold Fs complaint, and our investigator didnt think it had done anything 
wrong. She said it had acted in line with its legal and regulatory obligations when it blocked 
Fs account, had acted promptly, and that it had followed the correct procedure to close the 
same.
Mr C remained unhappy, so he asked for an Ombudsman to review the matter afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account block
All banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers 
accounts while they carry out a review. 
So, in order to make an award in favour of F, I would need to be satisfied that Barclays acted 
unfairly or took actions it wasnt entitled to take. Having looked at the evidence, Im satisfied 
Barclays acted in line with its legal and regulatory obligations when it blocked Fs account. 
And that it was entitled to do so under the account terms and conditions that governed the 
relationship between Barclays and F.
While Mr C has said its unfair for Barclays to close Fs account because of something that 
happened on an account in a different name, Barclays hasnt disclosed the reasons for its 
actions to Mr C. And, under the terms and conditions of the account, Barclays doesnt have 
to give a reason for restricting Fs access to its account.
Because of that, I cant reasonably compel Barclays to disclose the reasons for its decision, 
if it doesnt want to do so. All I can say is that, having investigated Barclays rationale myself, 
Im satisfied it was entitled to block the account and complete the investigation in the manner 
it did. And Ive seen no evidence to suggest it treated F unfairly.
Mr C has described the impact the block had on C to our investigator, and I have no doubt 
the time F went without access to its account would have caused it serious problems, given 
the nature of its business. But because I dont think Barclays has done anything wrong, it 
wouldnt be appropriate for me to tell it to compensate F. 
The block was initially applied on 8 December 2021 and lifted on 10 January 2022, at which 
point Mr C regained access to Fs account. While I understand Mr C is unhappy at the time 
Barclays took to complete its review, having looked at the actions Barclays undertook during 
the block, Im satisfied it acted promptly given the information it had to consider, and that it 
didnt cause any undue delays. So, I wont ask Barclays to compensate F for any losses it 
incurred or inconvenience it experience while Barclays was complying with its legal and 
regulatory obligations.
Account closure
A bank is entitled to close an account with a customer, so long as it does so in a way that 
complies with the terms and conditions of the customers account. 
The terms and conditions of Fs account  with which both Barclays and F had to comply  
say that Barclays could close the account by giving F two months notice. Barclays notice to 
close letter was dated 10 January 2022, and expired more than two months later on 13 
March 2022.
So Barclays gave F the required two months notice of closure in line with the terms and 
conditions of its account, and therefore, while I understand Mr Cs frustration at Barclays 
actions and while I recognise he had issues opening another account elsewhere, I cant 
reasonably say it did anything wrong by closing Fs account in the manner it did. So, I wont 
ask it to compensate F for any losses it incurred or inconvenience it experienced as a result.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman