DRN-4361723
The complaint
Ms W, who is represented by a third party, says Studio Retail Limited (Studio Retail) 
irresponsibly lent to her. She has requested that the interest and late payment charges she 
paid on her account be refunded. 
What happened
This complaint is about a shopping account Studio Retail provided to Ms W. The account 
was opened in November 2018 with a credit limit of £300. A credit limit increase to £400 
was applied to the account in November 2020. 
Our investigator partially upheld the complaint, from the date of the credit limit increase. 
This was because of Ms Ws payment history between the account opening and the credit 
limit increase. 
Studio Retail said it didnt agree as it said its own information suggested that Ms W was 
managing her account reasonably well. The complaint has therefore been passed to me for 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
Studio Retail needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Ms W could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These 
checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being 
lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender like Studio Retail to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer 
irresponsibly.
Our investigator has set out in some detail why she thinks Studio Retail shouldnt have 
provided Ms W with any increased credit from November 2020 onwards, when Ms Ws credit 
limit was increased from £300 to £400. Nonetheless in preparing this decision Ive looked at 
the overall pattern of Studio Retails lending history with Ms W, based on the evidence and 
information provided by both Studio Retail and Ms W, with a view to seeing if there was a 
point at which Studio Retail should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. If so, that would mean Studio Retail should have 
realised that it shouldnt have increased Ms Ws credit limits.
Ive seen that at the time of the account opening Ms W had a good credit history with no 
adverse markings on her file such as defaults or county court judgments. So I dont think 
it was unreasonable for Studio Retail to have approved the account and grant the 
opening limited it did.
Ive seen that Studio Retail granted Ms W the credit limit increase two years after the 
account as first opened. In terms of the size of the increase, I think an increase of £100 on 
a £300 credit limit may, when seen on its own, appear to be relatively modest. But over that 
two year period Ms W had made at least four late payments to her account. She had also 
exceeded her credit limit on several occasions, the first of which occurred in February 
2019, within three months of opening her account. Our Investigator concluded there was a 
significant risk that Ms W wouldnt be able to sustainably repay what she owed. 
Studio Retail has pointed out that Ms W had last missed a payment five months earlier and 
only because it was four days late. It also says that in May 2020 she made a large payment 
that almost cleared her full balance. She also tended to make payments that were more 
than the minimum. Whilst I accept and appreciate these points, I dont think it alters the 
position that Ms Ws account history gave some cause for concern when it comes to 
granting a credit limit increase. 
I recognise that an increase from £300 to £400 may not seem to be substantial and could 
perhaps be seen as way of giving Ms W more account flexibility. But I have to balance that 
against an account history where payments were being made  albeit above the minimum -
that were not making a real dent in her balance. This led to her repeatedly breaching her 
credit limit and incurring an interest charge each time. Ive noted that Ms W had raised a 
personal issue in relation to her being able to make payments in December 2019, which 
might go some way to explaining why the account management history suggested 
problems up to that point. But the limit breaches still continued after that and then a series 
of purchases earlier in November 2020 pushed her balance almost up to £400. If what 
happened in November 2020 was the first time the account limits had been breached then I 
can see some justification for increasing the limit. But against the account history Ive seen 
of going over her limit and a level of monthly payments that in the main were not making 
significant inroads on her account balance, I dont think it was a fair lending decision for 
Studio Retail to increase the credit limit in November 2020. 
To summarise, I consider that Studio Retails actions in increasing Ms Ws credit limit from 
November 2020 had the effect of worsening her financial situation by making the account 
unaffordable and unsustainable going forward. So Studio Retail should put things right.
Putting things right  what Studio Retail needs to do
Rework Ms Ws account to ensure that from 8 November 2020 onwards, 
interest is only charged on balances up to £300 (being the credit limit in place before 
that date), including any buy now pay later interest, to reflect the fact that no further 
credit limit increases should have been provided. All late payment and over limit fees 
should also be removed; and
If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments 
have been made, Studio Retail should contact Ms W to arrange an affordable repayment plan. Once Ms W has repaid the outstanding balance, it should remove 
any adverse information recorded on her credit file from 8 November 2020 onwards. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Ms W, along with 8% simple interest per year on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. Studio Retail 
should also remove any adverse information from Ms Ws credit file from 8 November 
2020 onwards.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Studio Retail to take off tax from this interest. Studio 
Retail must give Ms W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im partially upholding Ms Ws complaint. Studio Retail Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman