DRN-2876155
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) dealt with a claim he made 
under the legal expenses part of a residential home insurance policy.
References to UKI include actions of its agents appointed to deal with the claim.
What happened
Mr M contacted UKI in late December 2019 to make a claim linked to previous trespass and 
harassment issues and work by solicitors. The potential claim was one of professional 
negligence against those solicitors. 
While the policy gives cover for contract disputes UKI rejected the claim as the dispute was 
one related to a commercial enterprise Mr M had and this was specifically excluded. 
UKI made enquiries with Mr M, previous solicitors, reminded him of limitation period issues 
by letter dated 27 Dec 2019 and said it was unable to assess merits as more information 
was needed. UKI updated Mr M in early Feb 2020 that it still couldnt assess merits as it was 
waiting to hear from other solicitors and reminded him about limitation protective issues.
Cover was withdrawn in mid-February 2020 because the underlying dispute related to a 
contract that was related to Mr Ms business, trade or profession which was excluded by 
policy. UKI offered £75 compensation for not managing expectations.
Our investigator didnt think UKI acted unfairly in declining the claim and considered the £75 
fair and reasonable
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first consideration is whether the policy covers Mr Ms claim for professional negligence 
against solicitors who acted for him in relation to a commercial dispute. The policy covers 
contract disputes  one arising out of an agreement for buying goods or services. On the 
face of it, professional negligence would fall under this cover. However, like all policies there 
are limitations, restrictions and conditions for cover. The policy specifically excludes any 
claim arising out of a contract entered in connection with a profession, business or trade. 
Theres no dispute that the alleged professional negligence related to a dispute involving 
Mr Ms commercial entity and so Im satisfied the policy doesnt cover his claim.
UKI has a duty to handle claims promptly and fairly. Mr Ms first notification was in late 
December 2019. UKIs panel solicitors wrote to him on 27 December explaining several 
issues including that there wasnt enough information to assess the merits of his claim, more 
information was being pursued and warning him as to limitation issues and informing him 
about issuing protective proceedings. The panel solicitors kept in contact with Mr M regularly 
and actively sought information from him and the other solicitors. Im satisfied UKI handled 
issues promptly.
Formal notification that cover wouldnt continue came in mid-February 2020. Mr Ms point is 
that he feels UKI should have known from the outset that the claim related to a commercial 
matter and so he shouldnt have been strung along. Even if UKI should have known from the 
outset that the claim was of a commercial nature Im not persuaded it made any difference. 
Limitation issues were identified immediately and UKI gave relevant and timely information 
to Mr M about this. UKI was under no obligation or duty to issue protective proceedings as a 
decision couldnt be made about the merits of the case. Mr M was informed what he could 
do but he didnt act. Notice that the claim was rejected came seven to eight weeks after 
notification. In my view that wasnt unreasonable given the difficulties UKI experienced in 
getting hold of files and information from other solicitors.
UKI has offered Mr M £75 for not managing his expectations and I dont intend to interfere 
with that.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman