DRN-2585244
The complaint
Mr S complains that Nationwide Building Society (NBS for short) wont refund a payment 
made on his credit card in relation to a television he purchased.
What happened
In October 2019 Mr S bought a television hed seen advertised as new from an individual 
seller. On receipt of the television Mr S says he had concerns about whether the television 
was genuinely new. He says he accessed the televisions internal data which he says shows 
that it had been watched for a long time and that it had been turned on hundreds of times. 
So he felt it wasnt new as it had been advertised. He challenged the seller but was 
unsuccessful in his complaint with them. So Mr S asked NBS to help.
NBS looked into the matter, but it didnt think it could help. It felt the circumstances meant it 
couldnt do a chargeback. NBS also considered S75 of Consumer Credit Act 1974 and 
asked Mr S for authority to speak to the seller. But Mr S refused to give NBS this authority. 
So NBS felt it couldnt take Mr S S75 claim forward. So Mr S complained. NBS paid Mr S 
£25 for some administrative issues but didnt feel it should do any more regarding either the 
chargeback or S75 claim.
Mr S didnt think this was fair, so he brought this complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into the matter. Overall, she didnt think NBS had acted unfairly by declining Mr Ss 
request for a refund. Mr S didnt agree. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is clear to me that Mr S is very invested in this complaint and has provided extensive 
comment to this service and NBS. He feels that what has happened here demonstrates that 
NBS isnt fulfilling its regulatory obligations more broadly. To be clear my remit under the 
relevant legislation is that I can only consider what NBS did in the matters of this complaint. 
It is for the relevant regulatory bodies to consider whether NBS is fulfilling its broader 
obligations. And Mr S is at liberty to provide them with information if he still feels this way.
could NBS challenge the transaction through a chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mr S does 
here, NBS (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through the chargeback process. I dont 
think NBS couldve challenged the payment on the basis Mr S didnt authorise the 
transaction itself considering what we know here and particularly what Mr S says.
NBS is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. 
Mr S has provided NBS a picture of what he says is the television showing its internal 
system information. And on this he says the data shown shows how the television had been 
used and thus wasnt new to his mind and thus could go through the chargeback process on 
the basis of goods not being as described.
NBS considered this and looked into the matter of such data on such televisions. Based on 
what it discovered it didnt feel Mr S evidence was sufficiently persuasive. So it decided a 
chargeback didnt have a reasonable prospect of success. So it didnt raise a chargeback. 
Mr S remains of the opinion that NBS should have raised the chargeback and hed have got 
his money back.
But Im not persuaded by Mr S representations here and Ill explain why. The chargeback 
process is run by the card network and not NBS. The network brings together credit 
providers such as NBS and merchants (such as the seller here). The chargeback process is 
not a right that consumers have but rather what this service considers good practice for 
businesses to utilise where appropriate. In the event of such disputes, firms such as NBS 
can raise a chargeback which is communicated to the merchant. The merchant then has an 
opportunity then to either accept the chargeback (and thus the transaction is refunded) or to 
defend the transaction and provide its position on the matter. If it defends then NBS can 
consider the merchants position and either discontinue or continue with the chargeback by 
refuting the merchants position and re-representing the chargeback with any supporting 
evidence or argument. This to and fro can continue until either party acquiesce or deadlock 
is reached. At that point the chargeback can go through the arbitration process where the 
network will decide whether the chargeback is successful or not. So even if NBS in this case 
had taken the chargeback as far as it could ultimately NBS isnt responsible for the ultimate 
outcome of a chargeback.
Bearing in mind the seller here refused Mr S complaint to it, I think it likely that had NBS 
raised a chargeback the seller would have defended it. NBS felt Mr S evidence isnt as 
persuasive as Mr S believes. Ive considered this and I can understand its position. So I 
dont think its decision not to process a chargeback is unfair or unreasonable. And even if it 
had raised a chargeback I think the seller would have defended the matter. Probably for 
similar reasons. So even if NBS had taken this to arbitration Im not persuaded on balance 
that the network would have decided in Mr S favour. So although its clear that in NBS 
interactions with Mr S on this matter it hasnt explained things as well as it could, Im not 
persuaded that Mr S has lost out because NBS didnt raise a chargeback. So I dont think 
NBS needs to do anything more with regard to this chargeback issue.
how about the Consumer Credit Act 1974?
The transaction was made using Mr S NBS credit card. Under section 75 of this Act, in 
certain circumstances, he has an equal right to claim against NBS as he does against the 
supplier if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. 
NBS started to consider Mr S claim under S75 and asked Mr S for his authority to speak to 
the seller here. Mr S refused to provide this authority so NBS says it cant properly consider 
Mr S claim without it. In essence Mr S is refusing to let NBS to establish the full situation 
and to liaise with the seller. So I dont think NBS position of not taking matters forward at 
this stage as unfair. And clearly at this stage Mr S has a potentially successful claim so it 
would seem that Mr S position on not providing his authority is not in Mr S interests. So I 
dont think NBS has any more to do on this matter.
Mr S has made extensive comment on these matters. Ill address his key arguments as I see 
them here.Mr S has said I reject your assertion that (NBS) were entitled to request any further 
information and nothing in s75 required or obligated me to provide any such information. 
Clearly both the seller and by extension NBS are entitled to consider Mr S position, 
investigate the matter and if appropriate defend themselves if they feel Mr S position is 
unpersuasive to them. I think it would be fair to allow NBS to consider Mr Ss claim and all 
the relevant evidence related to it. And the only reason it cannot consider the matter properly 
at the moment is Mr S withholding his authority. 
Mr S is correct in his assertion hes not obligated to provide his authority if he doesnt want 
to. But it is also fair for NBS to have the opportunity to consider the claim fairly. And this is 
currently being denied as a result of Mr S withholding his authority to investigate the matter. I 
should add that there are data issues here and I can see a number of reasons why NBS 
could be asking for such authority. And I think it likely that if Mr S gives his consent then 
NBS will be able to assess the matter and then provide its position on the claim to Mr S, 
which may be in his favour depending on the result of NBS liaison with the seller in this 
case. It is unfair on NBS not to be able to defend itself against a claim or be put in the 
position where it can only defend itself by putting itself at risk of wider information and data 
concerns. So I think its position is fair.
Mr S says NBS position means its making an unfair relationship as described under S140A-
S140D of the Act between Mr S and NBS. I disagree. 
NBS has said it wishes to properly investigate the matter but needs Mr S authority to gather 
information so it can assess the claim here. Bearing in mind Mr S is withholding this authority 
without providing persuasive reasons then I think NBS hasnt treated Mr S unfairly here. And 
considering NBS hasnt been given opportunity to establish the situation let alone make a 
decision on the full situation as to whether there was a breach or misrepresentation as per 
S75 in regards to this one transaction, I am far from persuaded that a Court would decide 
that this position on this single transaction constituted an unfair relationship between Mr S 
and NBS over the entire agreement.
Mr S has said that NBS failure to refund the charges and subsequent levying of interest is 
very clear unfair exercise of the agreement. I disagree. Under the agreement that Mr S 
freely entered to obtain credit, NBS is entitled to apply certain charges and interest. Ive seen 
no persuasive evidence that it has done this unfairly considering the circumstances.
Mr S has said the FOS Investigators failure to order (NBS) to pay the claim is grossly 
unreasonable and she has invented an obligation that does not exist in law. I disagree. The 
legislation and rules which set out the remit and powers of this Service include a requirement 
for the service to consider the law but not be bound by it where we decide it is fair and 
reasonable. Having considered what the Investigator has said I see no persuasive evidence 
that she invented an obligation. I see she has made clear that it is fair for the seller, and by 
extension NBS, to defend itself against any and indeed this claim by Mr S. Its ability to do 
that is substantially constrained by Mr S stance on giving his authority. And bearing in mind 
NBS position that Mr S evidence isnt as persuasive as he believes it to be then I consider 
the Investigators position correct on the matter.
Mr S points to NBS having stated in one of its letters that The information contained in the 
photo you sent has been verified by Panasonic who confirmed the data on status 4 shows 
the amount of hours the TV has been on, and the number of times the TV has been switched 
on. There is no dispute to what status 4 shows when this information is displayed on this 
type of television. What is in dispute is the reliability of the photo that Mr S has provided. 
This is due to the manufacturer raising concerns about in NBS discussion with it. So I can 
see why NBS has taken the stance it has. Mr S says the evidence hes provided is perfectly 
valid. And of course it maybe that Mr S position will be vindicated with further investigation. But I can see why there are concerns about this photograph based on NBS investigations. 
So I urge Mr S to work with NBS to allow it to properly consider matters.
It maybe that if Mr S was to provide his authority to NBS and allow NBS to consider his claim 
properly (which may include gathering further data from the television in question) that his 
claim may be successful. And once NBS has had fair opportunity to consider the claim, if it 
doesnt refund Mr S then hell be able to complain to it and this service afterward if he so 
wishes. But whilst deadlock remains I see no persuasive reason for NBS to do anything 
more.
Mr S has raised the issue of the customer service NBS has provided here. I can see it has 
already paid Mr S £25 for this. And I agree with Mr S that there have been occasions where 
NBS could have explained things better than it has. But I can also see that NBS hasnt been 
able to complete its consideration of this claim through no fault of its own. And that this 
matter has already taken a significant amount of time. I hope the parties here will take the 
appropriate action together in order for NBS to consider this claim properly. But while 
deadlock remains then there is no opportunity for Mr S to recoup this transaction through this 
service.
I can appreciate Mr S frustration at some of what has happened here. And I do have some 
sympathy for him based on how things have panned out. However I think there is an 
opportunity for his claim to be successful in the end if all the relevant enquiries can be 
completed and NBS can complete their considerations on the matter. But it is fair for NBS to 
be able to establish the evidence it needs to consider this matter properly. And although 
NBS could have done things better I dont think it has treated Mr S unfairly in regard to this 
transaction or has to do anything more here.
It maybe that Mr S decides not to accept this decision and not be bound by it. And in that 
event he can continue his dispute with NBS directly through whichever avenue he chooses. 
But this decision does bring to a conclusion this services consideration of this particular 
complaint. In short this complaint doesnt succeed.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Nationwide Building 
Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman