DRN-2650174
The complaint
Mr N complains that his personal contract purchase (PCP) agreement provided by 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance (BPF) was 
misrepresented to him.
My references to BPF include agents authorised to act on its behalf.
What happened
Mr N acquired a car in June 2018 using a PCP agreement provided by BPF. 
In August 2020 Mr N complained to BPF that his agreement had been misrepresented. He 
said that hed initially been given a finance illustration which allowed him an annual mileage 
limit of 15,000 miles. He said the next day he spoke to another agent who told him that 
theyd be able to reduce the monthly payments, but he wasnt made specifically aware that 
the annual mileage limit on that illustration was 12,000 miles. 
BPF said it thought that the agreement Mr N signed made it clear the annual mileage limit 
would be 12,000 miles per year, so, it didnt uphold the complaint. It also passed Mr Ns 
concerns to the supplying dealer which said it had provided Mr N with sufficient information 
about the terms of his agreement.
Mr N referred the matter to our service. He said that he hadnt checked the finance 
documents before signing them because he assumed that the annual mileage had stayed 
the same based on what he told the dealer about his requirements. 
Ultimately our investigator concluded that Mr Ns annual mileage allowance was noted on 
more than one of the documents which he was provided at the point he accepted the 
agreement. He thought that there was a responsibility for Mr N to review those documents 
and be satisfied the agreement met his needs. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr N disagreed. He said he was not asked to read anything, just to sign an agreement. He 
asked for an ombudsmans decision, so the case has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ns complaint is about a PCP agreement. We have the power to look into complaints 
about the mis-sale of regulated agreements  such as this  against the finance provider, so 
Im satisfied that we can consider this complaint against BPF.
When considering a complaint about the misrepresentation of a finance agreement, Id 
usually look to establish whether the customer had been told a false statement of fact about 
the agreement which could have induced them into agreeing to the contract when they 
otherwise may not have. 
In this case, from what Mr N has said I think he agrees that he signed a finance agreement 
which featured an annual mileage limit of 12,000 miles. But, he thinks that because that was 
a lower limit than a quote he was previously given, BPFs agent shouldve highlighted this.
In presenting the terms of a finance agreement, Id expect BPF to provide Mr N with clear 
and easy to understand information that was not misleading. Having reviewed the 
agreement and supporting documents which Mr N was provided, Im satisfied that its clear 
the maximum mileage he could travel without charge was 12,000 miles per year. 
I understand Mr Ns frustrations in that he considers the reduction in mileage allowance 
wasnt pointed out to him explicitly. Ive carefully considered his testimony regarding this. I 
cant say for sure what was said on the day Mr N signed his agreement. So, I can only base 
my decision on the evidence Ive been presented as well as what I think most likely 
happened. 
Overall, I think BPF did enough to highlight the annual mileage allowance offered to Mr N by 
featuring it prominently on a number of documents which were given to Mr N at the point he 
agreed to the contract. I also find it improbable that Mr N was simply asked to sign 
documents without reading anything, as Ive seen that in addition to the agreement he 
signed a declaration which accepted that he was fully aware of the terms of his agreement. 
So, overall, I think Mr N ought reasonably to have been aware that his permitted annual 
mileage allowance was 12,000 miles. It follows that Im not persuaded that Mr Ns PCP 
agreement was misrepresented to him. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman