DRN-3623100
The complaint
Mr S complains that Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited (Sun Life) mis-
sold him a whole of life policy in April 1989. 
What happened
Mr S is represented by Mrs S in bringing the complaint. The policy Mr S took out was a 
Designer policy, which was a unit-linked whole of life policy, with an initial £25 monthly 
premium and £20,000 sum assured. The policy included additional total and permanent 
disability (TPD) benefit.  
In 1994, Mr S met with Sun Lifes adviser again and agreed to increase the policys sum 
assured to £50,000 with an increased £25 premium. 
Mr S then met with another adviser in 1995 and agreed to add critical illness cover and 
income protection cover to the policy. This again increased the monthly premium to £30.  
He also took two capital withdrawals from the policy in 1995 and 2000 of £500 and £1,500 
respectively. 
In February 2020, the policy was surrendered for £697.87. Mrs S says Mr S was in the 
process of arranging more appropriate cover, but sadly had a heart attack before this could 
be completed. More recently, Mr S has sadly become unwell with a different illness.   
Mr S made a claim under the surrendered policy for critical illness benefit, but Sun Life 
couldnt consider a claim because the policy wasnt in force at the time Mr S became unwell. 
Mrs S brought a complaint to this service, but it was not upheld. During the course of that 
complaint, Mrs S also said that Mr S now considered his policy was mis-sold. So, a second 
complaint was set up at this service for Sun Life to review.  
In March 2021, Sun Life partially upheld the complaint. It said it agreed that in 1989, Mr S 
appeared to have no documented need for the Designer policy, or the cover it provided. So It 
upheld the complaint on that basis. However, it felt that from January 1995, the policy was 
suitable for Mr S as by then he required the protection it offered, as well as a savings plan. 
Sun Life therefore calculated the cost of the premiums Mr S had paid from April 1989 to 
January 1995, with interest to 2020 which amounted to £2,447. However, as this calculation 
was a lower sum than Mr S had received from the two withdrawals and the surrender value 
of the policy in 2020 totalling £2,697, Sun Life concluded that no redress was due to him.  
An investigator then reviewed the complaint and felt it should succeed, in part. He looked at 
the suitability of the policy from 1995 onwards. He felt that the inclusion of TPD, critical 
illness and income protection cover under the policy was reasonable to propose to Mr S as 
all of these benefits were of use to him. But he could not see that life cover or a whole of life 
policy had been appropriate suggestions for Mr S. What he required was decreasing term 
personal protection for his mortgage in the event he could not work, became critically ill or 
became disabled. 
So, the investigator believed that the right redress for the complaint was to compare the cost 
difference between the premiums Mr S paid from 1995 to 2020, less the withdrawals and 
surrender value with that of decreasing term assurance, including critical illness and income 
protection (as separate policies if so required).  
Mrs S said Mr S had nothing else to add. Sun Life did not respond to our investigator. 
Because of this, it was then passed for review by an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank the parties for their patience whilst this matter awaited an ombudsmans 
decision. Id also like to send Mr S my best wishes at what I can see is a difficult time for 
him, Mrs S and their family. 
Having looked at everything before me, my view of the complaint is that it should be upheld, 
on the basis thats already been suggested by our investigator. In summary, my findings are:
I recognise Mr S was young at the time and that does not mean insurance was 
entirely unsuitable for him; 
but I agree with both parties, that up to 1995, there was no clear need or requirement 
for Mr S to hold the benefits provided by the policy;
this is because in 1989, Mr S was single, living with his parents and had no financial 
liabilities;
however, by 1995, Mr S circumstances had materially changed;
he had recently taken on a sole mortgage debt;
on general grounds having cover for a substantial debt in the event of death or 
suffering from a critical illness is a sensible step to take at any age  because there 
was a large financial liability to protect;
but, Mr S completed a needs assessment with the adviser and it was clear that his 
priorities from a policy were to ensure he maintained his income because he had a 
sole mortgage liability;
Sun Life accepted this and confirmed that in 1995 Mr S required a fully protection-
focused policy;
in that documentation, the rationale for the policys continued suitability is that life 
cover wasnt severable from the required TPD benefit;
it also confirmed that Mr S did not have dependants and had 0% of his protected 
income required for that purpose;
I am also of the view it was sensible for Mr S to have cover in the event of being 
critically ill, unable to work or becoming totally and permanently disabled;
however, it was not considered that Mr S needs could have been met through any 
other type of cover;
and from the outset, there was no clear reason as to why Mr S would have required 
whole of life cover, aside from noting a small savings goal;
I agree that by 1995 Mr S should have been advised to take out a protection policy 
(or policies) with the needs identified  that being a decreasing term critical illness 
policy with TPD benefit and an income protection policy;
that was since he required protection for the event of being unable to meet his 
mortgage liability;but he had no dependants or need to clear the mortgage debt in the event of his 
death and so in this particular circumstance life cover was something that had been 
recorded as a low priority for Mr S;
I therefore agree that the correct redress comparison ought to be for a combined 
policy or two separate term assurance policies providing critical illness and income 
protection cover to run alongside Mr Ss capital repayment mortgage, which was set 
up for 25 years from 1994 - without life cover.   
Putting things right
Sun Life should update its redress calculation and pay the total of the calculation to Mr S. 
That calculation is A + B - C - D - E where:
A. = the return of premiums paid from 1989 to the date the policy was surrendered;
B. = 15% simple interest to 1 April 1993 and 8% simple interest thereafter;
C. = the two withdrawals made from the whole of life policy;
D. = the whole of life policys surrender value in 2020;
E. = the cost of decreasing term critical illness (including TPD benefit) and income 
protection cover for Mr S, on the basis he should have taken out term assurance 
cover for the same amount and term of his mortgage instead of a whole of life policy.  
If Sun Life considers it is legally obliged to deduct income tax from the interest paid, it should 
issue a tax deduction certificate with the payment. Mr S may be able to reclaim the tax paid 
from HM Revenue and Customs, if applicable.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited should 
undertake the redress calculation set out above and pay any resulting balance to Mr S. I 
make no other award.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman