DRN-2232692
The complaint
Miss S complains Lloyds Bank PLC will not refund some disputed transactions.  She also 
complains it unfairly closed her account without notice.
Lloyds says it thinks Miss S authorised these transactions - so it is holding her liable  and it 
says the terms and conditions of the account allow it to close the account in certain 
circumstances.
What happened
The transactions Miss S complains about took place between 1st May and 10th May 2020.  
She says she last used her card for a genuine transaction on 1st May and didnt realise it 
was missing until after all the transaction had been made.  She told Lloyds that this was 
because she was self-isolating at home.  She also said her phone had been stolen at the 
same time.
The transactions were all made using Miss Ss genuine card and PIN and in total amounted 
to just over £5500. On 2nd May, Lloyds fraud system detected a cash withdrawal and sent 
Miss S a text message to the phone number it had registered for her  the one belonging to 
the phone she said had been stolen.  It received a response confirming the transaction was 
genuine.
Then on 14th May, Miss S reported her card as lost or stolen and complained to Lloyds about 
the transactions.  The number she called from was also the number belonging to the phone 
which she says was stolen.
Lloyds did not uphold her complaint.  Miss S was unable to provide a credible point of 
compromise of her PIN.  She said she always shielded the pad as she entered her number  
and had not shared it with anyone.
Miss S also denied being the person who had responded to Lloyds on 2nd May in relation to 
the transaction which had been detected.  She said the fraudster was able to do this 
because her phone was not password protected.
A crime reference number had been provided to Lloyds  but on checking this with the local 
police, Lloyds said the reference number was not a genuine one.
So, Miss S came to our service and asked us to look into her complaint.  In summary, she 
told us the following:
-she hadnt noticed her card was missing sooner because her baby had been unwell, 
and she had been caring for the baby rather than concentrating on her bank account;
-however, she had reported her phone as being stolen to her phone provider on 2nd 
May;
-she had not shared her PIN with anyone but thinks she was targeted in the shop 
when she last used her card;
-when she complained to Lloyds, staff on the phone were rude to her;
-Lloyds had closed her accounts without notifying her;
-she was now experiencing financial difficulties as a result.
Our investigator didnt think he could ask Lloyds to refund this money to Miss S.  So, she 
made further submissions and the matter was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally speaking, if it is more likely than not that Miss S authorised these transactions, 
Lloyds is entitled to hold her liable.  But its not for Miss S to show she did not authorise them 
 its for Lloyds to show she did.
Authorisation is a two-stage test.  It consists of authentication and consent. 
Authentication can be shown in this case  its the use of Miss Ss genuine card and PIN.  
So, I need to consider whether she consented to the payments.  I take into account 
everything I have seen and heard when making this decision and where there are gaps in 
the evidence, I make a decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened.
For the following reasons, I think Miss S consented to these payments:
-I dont think she is a credible witness as she has been inconsistent in the accounts 
she has provided;
-she told this service someone had bumped into her as she was leaving the shop, 
having used her card  but I cant see this was not mentioned to Lloyds when she 
first complained;
-initially Miss S told us she was provided with a new number when she reported her 
phone stolen.  When challenged with the evidence that her old number was used 
when she raised her complaint with Lloyds, she then said that wasnt the case  she 
was just provided with a new SIM;
-the account had been open a short time and relatively large payments had been 
made into the account  yet the fraudster appears to have started spending Miss Ss 
money without carrying out a balance enquiry.  This leads me to conclude the person 
knew how much money was in the account;
-if indeed a fraudster had managed to get hold of Miss Ss card and PIN, and I make it 
clear that I do not accept this, I think its likely the account would be accessed and 
the funds used up as soon as possible.  Opportunistic thefts of cards and PINs are 
not, generally speaking, sophisticated in nature;
-the crime reference number provided was not a valid reference number;
-there is no credible explanation as to how her PIN was compromised when she says 
she completed her last transaction;
I have also considered Miss Ss complaint about her account closure  but I have seen a 
letter dated 20th July 2020 telling her Lloyds intended to close her account.  It gave her a 
notice period of 65 days.
Looking at Lloyds notes on the case, I can see an entry dated 17th July 2020 stating the 
accounts would be sent for closure.  This date coincides with the date of the letter  so I 
think its likely it was sent out on that date and Miss S had notice of the closure.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman