DRN-2140458
The complaint
Ms M complains AXA France IARD mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
AXA is the insurer in this case, but it has accepted responsibility for the sale. So, for clarity 
I will refer to it as the seller.
What happened
Ms M took out a store card. At a later date, in August 2000 Ms M was sold a PPI policy. 
The policy would have paid 15% of her outstanding balance from the point of claim for as 
long as she was off sick or out of work.
Ms M says she didnt agree to the PPI being added. She says she was unaware that she 
had it and wouldve claimed on the policy if she had known it was on her card. She also 
says the sale took place in a store.
The adjudicator didnt think Ms Ms complaint should be upheld. Ms M disagrees, so his 
case has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding Ms Ms 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Ms M says she took the card out in a store and that PPI was added without her 
knowledge. I acknowledge what she has said here. I can see from an internal print out 
from AXA that it has recorded this sale as taking place over the telephone added to an 
existing card after this card had been set up. So, it could well be that Ms M took out the 
card within a store. That said I have seen enough information provided by AXA that shows 
it was more likely than not the PPI policy was sold to her during a phone call. So, I will 
proceed that this was the case.
As I have just concluded Ms M took out the PPI policy during a phone call some-time after 
she had applied for a store card. So as the sale took place after Ms M received the card, I 
think she would have known she had a choice about taking the policy. Ms M says she 
didnt know she had PPI on the card and is unaware of the phone call. But the call took 
place 20 years ago, so I wouldnt expect her to. I dont think the policy could have been 
added without her consent. And as it more likely than not appeared on each of her 
statements I think if she hadnt agreed to it she would have queried it when she saw it.
So, on balance, I think its likely Ms M agreed to take the PPI knowing she had a choice 
about it.
Its not clear whether AXA would have given Ms M a personalised recommendation about 
the policy. But I have treated this case as if AXA did do this, because it holds them to a 
higher standard. It means AXA would have had to take reasonable steps to make sure the 
policy was right for Ms M.
Looking at Ms Ms circumstances at the time of sale I think the policy was suitable for her. I
say this because:
Ms M was eligible for the policy and wouldnt have been affected by any of the 
terms which might have made it more difficult for her to make a successful claim, 
such as those related to self-employment or existing medical conditions;
Ms M says she cant remember what sick pay or savings she wouldve been 
entitled to. But the policy would have paid 15% each month of her outstanding 
balance at the point of claim until she was able to return to work. She could have 
claimed this alongside her sick pay and then for longer if needed. So, it offered a 
useful additional benefit;
Ms M didnt have any other additional means by which to make her repayments 
if she wasnt working;
The cost of the policy was greater than other PPI policies for sale around the 
time. But the benefit was significantly higher and would have paid off her entire 
balance in a few months if she made a successful claim.
Its possible AXA didnt give Ms M all the information she ideally should have received to 
make her decision. But I dont think more, or better, information would have changed her 
mind about buying it because the policy was suitable for her in the way Ive already 
described.
Ms M says she wouldve claimed on the policy if she had known about It. Ms M could look 
to see if the insurer would accept a retrospective claim. If she is unhappy after doing this, 
Ms M could make a separate complaint to the insurer and then ultimately to our service if 
need be. 
In conclusion regarding the mis-sale of PPI, I dont think Ms M lost out as a result of anything 
AXA might have done wrong.
My final decision 
I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2020.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman