DRN-2552780
The complaint
Miss T complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc restricted access to her personal current account 
causing her distress and financial difficulties.
What happened
Miss T found out that her personal account had been frozen on 24 April 2018. She had little 
money and couldnt make payments. She had to spend time discussing this with HSBC and 
this was at a time when her father became ill. She says that as a result she has had ongoing 
health problems herself.
HSBC says that it did make a mistake in restricting the account. It had separately restricted 
access to the account of a company Miss T was director of. But if had no basis also to stop 
her accessing her own account. It recognised the time she spent sorting this out and offered 
to pay her £400 for the personal aspect of the complaint.
Our investigator clarified that this service is considering what happened to the company as 
part of a separate complaint. That is a distinct legal entity. Here we are looking at what 
happened to Miss T when her personal account was restricted. He noted that Miss T was 
able to get access to funds on 26 April 2018 and that things were resolved on 27 April 2018. 
He thought that the offer from HSBC was reasonable.
Miss T didnt agree and wanted her complaint to be reviewed. She asked if the only option 
for the full effect on her to be considered was legal action. HSBC had no regard to her 
welfare, and she is still suffering from the effects of an illness created by this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficult circumstances Miss T has described. She says that this 
has affected her personally and she has ongoing health issues. And she is confused about 
why we arent taking into account the impact of her business account being restricted on her 
personally too.
As our investigator has set out the company is a separate legal entity and so separate from 
Miss T personally. It can complain as it has about the impact of any actions by HSBC on it. 
But Im afraid that doesnt extend to the personal impact on the director  Miss T. 
So here I can only look at a complaint from Miss T about what happened to her personal 
account. She is the direct complainant about that. I dont doubt that this was a very 
distressing experience for Miss T and came at a time when her father also became unwell. 
She sets out that when she visited him in hospital she found that she couldnt use her 
account card to pay for parking. And the next day discovered that this was because her 
personal account had been blocked. She was worried about not having enough money to 
provide for the family. And she had to make a number of telephone calls and visit a branch 
to sort this out. I dont doubt as she says that she has ongoing medical conditions.
The issue I need to decide upon is what is a reasonable amount of compensation for HSBC 
to pay to her. I take into account what happened and the period of time over which the 
account was blocked. I am also thinking about whether the further events Miss T describes 
can fairly and realistically be the responsibility of HSBC. Having done so I consider that the 
offer its made is sufficient to cover the inconvenience of having to sort this out and the 
specific worry and distress at the time. Im afraid I dont have a basis on the evidence Ive 
seen to find that that HSBC should be responsible for anything beyond this.
So, I wont be asking it to do more than it has offered to already and which is to pay Miss T 
£400. If she doesnt accept my decision then she remains free to pursue this matter in court 
subject to any relevant time limits.
My final decision
HSBC has made an offer to settle this complaint and I think that this is fair in all the 
circumstances. So, my decision is that HSBC Bank UK Plc should pay Miss T a total of 
£400.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman