DRN-4082054
The complaint
Mr B complains U K Insurance Limited handled his home insurance claim poorly.
UKIs been represented by agents during the claim. For simplicity Ive generally referred to 
the actions of the agents as being those of UKI.
What happened
In December 2020 Mr B claimed against his UKI home insurance policy. His home had 
experienced flood damage. UKI accepted the claim. 
Mr B was unhappy about various aspects of how the claim was being handled. So he 
complained. In June 2022 UKI issued a complaint response. It accepted it had made various 
mistakes  including delay in accepting liability, incorrectly declining damage to flood 
defences and problems with communication. It offered Mr B £1,000 compensation  and 
waived a £500 policy excess.  
Mr B wasnt satisfied so came to this service. He raised several complaint points. They 
include the following. From the start of the claim there were delays and a lack of support 
from UKI. It refused to pay accommodation costs incurred because of its mistake. And its 
loss adjusters approach caused him and his family unnecessary stress and ill-health,  
Mr B says UKIs handling of the claim had a negative impact on the households health and 
mental well-being. He felt unable to work because he had to spend so much time on the 
claim. To resolve the complaint he would like further compensation to recognise the impact 
of their poor experience.
Our Investigator felt UKI could have handled the claim better. But she was of the opinion the 
total compensation of £1,500 was already enough in the circumstances. Mr B didnt accept 
that outcome. So the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our Investigators already provided Mr B and UKI with a reasonable explanation of how we 
consider this type of complaint. So Im not going to repeat that here. 
Im also not going to go into detail about the claim timeline, Mr Bs complaint points and the 
impact of any errors or delay on him and his family. Again the investigator provided an 
account of that. But Ive considered everything hes said and provided. I accept Mr Bs 
explanation of what happened during the claim. Ive also considered what hes said about 
the impact of any mistakes or poor service by UKI on him and his family  including 
inconvenience and health issues. Finally Ive considered UKIs account of what happened  
including its justification of some delay being out of its hands (including the intervention of a 
second flood) and its acceptance of responsibility for other delays.  
Having done so, I agree with the investigator that the overall amount of £1,500 is enough to 
recognise the impact of unnecessary distress or inconvenience caused by UKIs poor 
handling of the claim. Im not persuaded the impact of its errors was likely enough to justify a 
higher award. 
Ive also considered Mr Bs comments about not being able to take on freelance work 
because of the need to be involved with the claim. Unfortunately claims of this nature cause 
disturbance to the household involved. They can require a certain amount of input from the 
claimant. I havent seen enough to persuade me that UKIs claim handling was so poor that 
Mr B had no choice but to commit additional and otherwise unnecessary time to the matter.   
Finally as far as Im aware Mr B was reimbursed for various out of pocket expenses hes 
referred to  although I accept there may have been delays in receiving this. 
Overall Im satisfied UKIs already done enough to recognise the impact of any poor claim 
handling. So Im not going to require it to pay anything extra or do anything differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont require UK Insurance Limited to pay any additional 
compensation or do anything differently. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman