DRN-2319842
The complaint
Mr T complains about his credit card with American Express Services Europe Limited 
(AESEL) trading as American Express (AMEX).
What happened
In May 2019 Mr T upgraded from a Green Amex to a Platinum. As part of the upgrade offer, 
he would receive 20,000 points if he spent £1000 in the first three months of having the new 
card.
Mr T made a complaint to Amex, as he said he spent enough to qualify for the offer but didnt 
get the points. Amex looked into the complaint and originally said Mr T had spent the correct 
amount, Mr T was then promised a call back from the handler looking into the issue, but this 
didnt happen. 
Amex then issued a Final Response Letter (FRL) and it explained that Mr T was £36.29 
short of the £1000 he needed for the bonus. Amex did go on to say that due to the poor 
customer service Mr T had experienced when he didnt receive a call back, it would award 
the 20,000 points anyway.
Mr T remained unhappy with Amexs response. He said he should be awarded the original 
20,000 points and a further 20,000 points for the trouble and upset caused - so he brought a 
complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into he complaint and agreed that Mr T should have qualified for the 
20,000 points based on his spend in the first three months, this was also confirmed by 
AMEX. But he didnt agree that a further 20,000 points should be awarded, instead he found 
that £50 should be paid by AMEX for the trouble and upset caused. 
Following the investigators view, AMEX agreed to pay the £50 and went on to say that the 
issue with the award of points could have been the URL link to the offer Mr T used - but 
couldnt say for certain. 
As Mr T didnt agree with the investigators suggested settlement, the complaints been 
passed to me to issue a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As there is no dispute between both parties what went wrong here, Ill only be looking into 
whether the compensation offered is enough. 
Im conscious Mr T has taken some time to look into what he says is similar cases to his 
own, and in doing so, he feels the compensation offered by AMEX and the investigator is not 
enough. I also understand his strength of feeling towards what went wrong. 
As cases are dealt with and decided on their own merit, Im unable to comment on or make 
comparisons to other cases this service may have made decisions on. 
When a complaint comes to our service and something is found to have gone wrong, we 
look to where possible put the consumer back in the position they would have been had the 
mistake not been made. We would then look to see if the consumer has been 
inconvenienced and award a trouble and upset payment where we find its due. 
In the circumstances of this complaint, Ive found the investigator has done this and I agree 
with the outcome for largely the same reasons. 
Mr T initially complained that he hadnt been awarded the points he said he qualified for. 
Putting aside the fact that AMEX are not certain what went wrong, they have now awarded 
Mr T those points. So, Im satisfied they have corrected any error that may have happened.
I understand the 20,000 points were initially offered for the poor service Mr T experienced, 
but Im satisfied that the £50 suggested by our investigator and paid by AMEX compensates 
Mr T for the trouble and upset of not getting a call back from the business, any incorrect 
information and the delays caused.
It worth highlighting to Mr T that the awards made by our service are modest compared to 
other avenues consumers may use to raise a claim against a business  such as through the 
courts. 
Putting things right
In summary, Im satisfied the 20,000 points and the £50 paid by Amex is fair in the resolution 
of this complaint  and I wont be asking it to increase its offer. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct American Express Services 
Europe Limited (AESEL) to award Mr T 20,000 points and pay a £50 trouble and upset 
payment. 
If American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) has already made the award and 
payment, it need not do any more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2020.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman