DRN-2105102
The complaint
Mr F says Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) irresponsibly lent to him. Mr F is 
represented in this matter by his mother, Mrs A. 
What happened
This complaint is about one instalment loan Lending Stream provided to Mr F in September 
2019. Mr F borrowed £700 to be repaid in 24 weekly instalments of £54.11. The highest 
expected monthly repayment was £270.55. Mr F was unable to repay his loan and he 
defaulted on it. He told Lending Stream about his financial difficulties and it set up a 
repayment plan. It later sold on the debt. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Fs complaint in part. She didnt think the loan shouldnt have 
been given. But she thought Lending Stream hadnt responded sympathetically and 
positively when it learned of Mr Fs financial difficulties. She thought it should pay Mr F £100 
compensation for the trouble and upset this caused.  
Lending Stream agreed to do this. But Mrs A replied that she thought Lending Stream should 
have asked more questions before approving the loan. She asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr F could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether Mr F could sustainably repay his loan  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Fs complaint.
Lending Stream asked Mr F for information about his income and expenditure and it carried 
out credit checks. Mr F said he earned £3,200 a month. He said his monthly outgoings were 
about £1,320. I cant see that there was anything adverse in Lending Streams credit checks 
that should have prompted further checks. 
I think these affordability checks were sufficient and proportionate as this was the first loan 
Mr F had taken from Lending Stream. I wouldnt expect Lending Stream to ask further 
questions at this stage of the lending relationship. 
Given the loan amount, what was apparent about Mr Fs circumstances at the time and his 
history with Lending Stream, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate to ask him for the 
amount of information needed to show the lending was unsustainable. There wasnt anything 
in the information Mr F provided or the information Lending Stream shouldve been aware of, 
which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what Mr F was saying. 
From the information Mr F provided, it looked as though he could afford the loan 
repayments. So I cant say Lending Stream was wrong to have provided the loan. 
Lending Stream sold on the debt whilst our adjudicator was waiting for responses to her 
information requests from it about Mr Fs complaint. She thought this had caused Mr F 
further distress at a time when Lending Stream should have been responding 
sympathetically and positively to his financial difficulties. 
Putting things right
Lending Stream agreed to pay Mr F £100 compensation for this. And I think thats fair and 
reasonable as its what Id require in similar circumstances. Mrs A thought this wouldnt compensate Mr F for the interest he has to pay on his loan. But the compensation hasnt 
been awarded because the loan was lent irresponsibly. So I dont require Lending Stream to 
increase this.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I partially uphold Mr Fs complaint. I 
require Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) to pay Mr F £100 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by its level of service, as its already agreed to do.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 September 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman