DRN-3231781
The complaint
Mr J complains that Lloyds Bank Plc didnt do enough to prevent him losing money in an 
investment scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In 2018 Mr J was sadly the victim of a 
scam. He was in contact with what he believed at the time to be a genuine firm which Ill 
refer to as K. 
On 27 September 2018 Mr J says he made a £5,000 payment to open his account with K. 
He says that with Ks assistance he bought cryptocurrency from an exchange Ill refer to as 
C which was then sent to K to fund his trading account with them. 
On 22 October 2018 Mr Js account was credited with £35,000. Mr J says this was a loan 
from another regulated business. The same day Mr J made a transfer of £25,000 to K again 
through the same cryptocurrency exchange. This amount was then credited back into his 
account (less £1) later the same day. Mr J says his account manager told him that their 
account number had recently changed which is why the payment had been returned. 
On 24 October 2018 Mr J made a transfer for £35,000 to an overseas bank account which 
he says was intended to buy cryptocurrency to send to K, this time through another company 
Ill refer to as T. 
In December 2019 Mr J reported that the £35,000 payment had been made as a result of a 
scam and asked Lloyds to refund him. Lloyds contacted the beneficiary bank who reported 
that no funds remained. As such, they said they were unable to return his money. Mr J 
complained and when Lloyds maintained their position the matter was referred to our 
service. 
One of our Investigators considered the complaint but didnt recommend that it should be 
upheld. In summary he thought the £35,000 payment was unusual for Mr J and his account 
and that it should have prompted some sort of intervention from Lloyds. But he didnt think 
this would have resulted in Mr J changing his mind about sending the payment. 
Mr J disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
In February 2022 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think there was any reason for Lloyds to have intervened in the initial £5,000 payment 
that Mr J paid to C (which ended up with K) in September 2018. I dont consider that 
payment to be so unusual that its reasonable to have expected Lloyds to have done more in 
these circumstances. 
But when Mr J instructed his further payment of £25,000 on 22 October 2018, I think this 
ought to have prompted some action by Lloyds. Like all banks Lloyds have long standing 
obligations to be alert to fraud and to act in their customers best interests. The payment 
instruction to send £25,000 was clearly out of character for Mr J and his account. And whilst 
I acknowledge there is a balance to be struck between stopping and checking payments, 
and allowing customers to freely use their accounts, I think Lloyds should have spoken with 
Mr J, to both confirm it was a genuine instruction and to satisfy themselves that he wasnt at 
risk of financial harm through fraud in relation to the payment he was instructing. 
Ive no reason to doubt that Mr J would have truthfully explained the nature of the payment 
as he believed it to be at the time. That is he was sending money to buy bitcoin through C to 
fund his investment with K. Ultimately, even though I think Lloyds should have intervened 
and asked some questions of Mr J, Im not persuaded that in the circumstances here it 
would have made a difference to him going ahead with the £25,000 payment. It was slightly 
over three weeks since his initial investment of £5,000. This had followed the same process 
(payments to C to be passed to K), and Mr J had presumably seen his payment credit his 
account and been satisfied enough with the service hed received from K to wish to make a 
further significant investment. This is particularly the case as I understand Mr J had 
borrowed the funds he intended to invest. 
Ive considered that the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) had published a warning about K 
on its website on 27 September 2018. This warning stated that they believed K were 
providing financial services or products in the UK without their authorisation. In this case 
none of the payments being discussed here went directly to K, they went to either T or C to 
be exchanged into cryptocurrency before being passed on. 
Id still have expected Lloyds to have asked about how Mr J found Ks services, and whether 
he was happy that they were a genuine merchant. But even if it had been suggested that 
Mr J checks the FCAs website, I dont think this would have prompted him to have done 
anything differently. Mr J clearly had confidence in K based on his actions (being prepared to 
invest borrowed funds with them). Im also mindful that cryptocurrency is subject to far less 
regulation compared to more mainstream investments. So, I dont think Mr J would have 
been particularly concerned about whether K were regulated by the FCA. Mr J also could 
have chosen to do more research including checking the FCA website himself before dealing 
with K as a part of his own due diligence. 
On balance, whilst Lloyds should have stopped and asked some questions, I think this 
payment would have gone through as instructed and I dont think there was any reasonable 
basis upon which to expect Lloyds to have gone against the instruction Mr J gave them. In 
any case, the vast majority of this payment was returned later the same day, so it didnt 
result in a loss to Mr J. 
We next come to the £35,000 international payment that Mr J instructed on 24 October 
2018. This is only two days after the initial £25,000 payment to C, which Id have expected 
them to have asked about. So it might be argued that there is no reason to intervene again 
in these circumstances. However, even if there were a further intervention, I cant see that 
Mr J would have had much to add or that any conversation would have gone significantly 
differently to what Ive described above. Indeed, by this point Mr J would also have had the 
first £25,000 returned to him. With this in mind, on balance, I think that is likely to have 
further reassured him that he was dealing with a genuine firm. So, I cant say any further 
intervention would have made a difference here either or that the £35,000 wouldnt have 
been sent. Overall, Im not persuaded that Lloyds intervening in either payment would have resulted in 
them not being sent. And I dont think there was enough here to make this a situation where 
Lloyds ought to have refused Mr Js payment instructions altogether.
For completeness, once Mr J reported matters to Lloyds, Im satisfied they did what they 
could to try to recover his payment from the international bank. I dont think Lloyds are 
responsible for any errors that resulted in money not being recovered that otherwise would 
have been. 
Im sorry to hear that Mr J has lost so much money. But ultimately as I dont think Lloyds are 
responsible for this, Im not intending to tell them to do more to resolve this complaint.
 
Lloyds responded to say they accepted my provisional decision. Mr J didnt respond. Now 
both sides have had an opportunity to comment, I can go ahead with my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further evidence or comments for my consideration, I see no 
reason to deviate from the outcome explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman