DRN-1207838
The complaint
Miss M complains that Experian Limited incorrectly linked a County Court Judgment (CCJ) 
belonging to another person to her credit report. She doesnt feel that Experian took 
sufficient action after she notified it of the error and hasnt fairly compensated her for the 
trouble and upset caused.
What happened
Miss M applied for a mortgage in June 2019. As part of this, she applied for a decision in 
principle (DIP) through a broker. This was declined on 10 June 2019 due to her not meeting 
the lenders criteria related to CCJs  despite not having a CCJ herself.
Following this, Miss M discovered that a CCJ for a third party was showing on her Experian 
credit report. Experian accepted its mistake and said its system had confused Miss M and a 
third party due to them having similar details. Experian said it took all the necessary action to 
rectify this error and it was no longer showing on Miss Ms credit report from 12 June 2019 
onwards. Experian apologised and paid Miss M £250 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused. And it refunded a further £14.99 to cover the cost of one month's subscription 
fee.
Miss M said incorrect information remained on her credit report which caused the lender to 
decline her later application when she applied again. Miss M said Experian should pay more 
compensation and cover her future financial losses  shes said she lost out on a lower 
mortgage rate which wouldve reduced her monthly costs over a five-year term.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He felt the evidence showed Experian had 
taken the necessary action to correct the error and there wasnt enough evidence to show 
the application continued to be declined due to CCJ information that Experian hadnt taken 
steps to remove. He also felt that the £250 and subscription cost Experian had offered for 
the trouble and upset caused was fair.
Because Miss M didnt agree with our investigator, this case has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive reached the same conclusions as our 
investigator.
Experian doesn't dispute that its mistake led to the CCJ to show on Miss Ms credit report. 
But it says it corrected the information so it was no longer showing from 12 June 2019.
The internal information Experian has provided shows the third partys details were updated 
and amended on 11 June 2019 (the cause of the issue). And I can see there was no 
information about a CCJ on Miss Ms credit report on or after 12 June 2019. On this basis, Im satisfied Experian took appropriate action to correct the error and did so within a 
reasonable amount of time, around two days, of being notified of the issue.
Miss M insists there were still errors on her credit report that caused her mortgage 
application to continue to be declined  namely that the third party name was still showing 
under financial associations. But Ive not seen evidence of this still being on the file on or 
after 12 June 2019. So based on what I have, Im persuaded the information was corrected 
as Experian has said. 
Our service spoke to the lender in question that Miss M applied to. It seems it declined Miss 
Ms application on 13 June, after the CCJ had been removed from her credit file, and it told 
our service it wasnt able to provide information about the reasons for the decline or the 
information it relied on. So I cant see if the lender declined the application due to information 
in its own internal system or due to information still recorded with Experian. 
Because of this, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to conclude the declination 
of the application was more likely than not because of Experians error  taking into 
account the evidence to show the information was already corrected by this point. 
Miss M says Experian should compensate her for her financial loss as she may not be able 
to get the same rate that was in place at the time. But, as Ive explained, Im not persuaded 
on the available evidence that this was due to Experians mistake. So it follows that I dont 
agree it needs to compensate her for any related losses.
I do accept that Experians actions have caused Miss M trouble and upset. This much is 
clear as she was told the initial decision in principle was refused due to CCJ information. 
Miss M would have understandably believed her credit file would show nothing related to a 
CCJ. And it was only due to Experians error that such information was showing.
But as Ive outlined, I think Experian has shown it took the necessary action promptly to 
correct the error it made and Ive not seen enough evidence to show it was responsible for 
any resulting financial loss. I think Experians offer of £250 and a further refund of £14.99 
fairly reflects the difficulty caused by its initial error. So I wont be directing Experian to do 
anything further.
My final decision
Experian Limited has made an offer to pay £250 in compensation alongside a refund of 
£14.99. I conclude that such an offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. My 
decision is that Experian Limited should pay Miss M £264.99, if it hasn't done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman