DRN-3697455
The complaint
Mr K1 and Mr K2 are unhappy with the way in which BUPA Insurance Limited (trading as 
BUPA Global) handled a claim made on their private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr K1 and Mr K2 have the benefit of a private medical insurance policy, underwritten by 
BUPA (the policy). Mr K2s hearing has considerably deteriorated since birth, and hes 
considered to have profound hearing loss in one ear. His medical team recommended he 
have a cochlear implant fitted. BUPA said this wasnt covered under the policy. 
However, BUPA did apologise for initially saying that it would be unable to pre-authorise 
treatment without further medical information. It accepted that it shouldnt have asked for 
further information as it ought to have been clear from the outset that this wasnt something 
covered under the policy. It paid Mr K1 and K2 £70 compensation for the delay in providing 
them with the outcome and to reflect the inconvenience of Mr K1 having to send the further 
information to BUPA.
Unhappy, Mr K1 and Mr K2 brought a complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into 
what happened and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr K1 and Mr K2 disagreed. So, this 
complaint has been referred to me to consider everything afresh to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BUPA has an obligation to handle claims fairly and promptly. And it mustnt unreasonably 
decline a claim. I know Mr K1 and Mr K2 will be very disappointed - and that the private cost 
of treatment is very expensive - but I think BUPAs decision to not cover the cochlear implant 
is fair and reasonable. Ill explain why.
The policy does cover in-patient and day-case treatment  and that does include prosthetic 
and appliances. But this is subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
Page 18 of the terms and conditions confirms BUPA will pay (in full) for:
a prosthetic implant needed as part of your treatment. By this, we mean an artificial 
body part or appliance which is designed to form a permanent part of your body and 
is surgically implanted for one or more of the following reasons:
to replace a joint or ligament
to replace one or more heart valves
to replace the aorta or an arterial blood vessel
to replace a sphincter muscle
to replace the lens or cornea of the eye
to act as a heart pacemaker
to remove excess fluid from the brain
to control urinary incontinence (bladder control)
to reconstruct a breast following surgery for cancer when the reconstruction is 
carried out as part of the original treatment for the cancer and you have 
obtained our written consent before receiving the treatment 
to restore vocal function following surgery for cancer
It goes on to say that BUPA also pays for: the following appliances:
a knee brace which is an essential part of a surgical operation for the repair to a 
cruciate (knee) ligament, or
a spinal support which is an essential part of a surgical operation to the spine.
I accept that the medical evidence reflects that Mr K2 requires a cochlear implant. But that 
doesnt automatically mean that BUPA is required to cover the costs of the procedure. 
Although, Mr K1 and Mr K2 have the benefit of gold cover, it also doesnt mean that all 
treatments and procedures are covered; it depends on the terms of the policy. A cochlear 
implant isnt listed as a prosthetic implant/appliance covered by the policy. And in the 
circumstances of this case, Im satisfied that BUPA has fairly declined cover for it. 
Ive taken into account that cochlear implants arent expressly excluded under the policy. But 
I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to conclude in this case that because this implant 
isnt expressly excluded, it means it should be covered. Importantly, its not listed as 
something that is covered under the prosthetic and appliances benefits of the policy.
BUPA accepts that it ought to have reminded Mr K1 and Mr K2 that there wasnt any cover 
in place for the cochlear implant at the outset rather than asking them to provide further 
medical information to consider pre-authorising the claim. I can appreciate that Mr K1 and Mr 
K2 wouldve been disappointed; having to go to the trouble of providing that information only 
to be told the cochlear implant wasnt covered under the policy. And that their expectations 
of a claim being covered may have been unnecessarily raised. BUPA has apologised and 
paid £70 in compensation. I think this sum fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience 
experienced. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr K1 and Mr Kss complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr K1 and Mr K2 to accept or reject my decision before 
1 December 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman