DRN-1712977
The complaint
Mr C complains a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with Marsh 
Finance & Commercial Limited, was not of satisfactory quality.
Miss K brings the complaint on Mr Cs behalf - so for ease, I will refer to Mr C throughout this 
decision. 
What happened
Mr C entered into a hire purchase agreement with Marsh Finance for a used car, in June 
2015. The car was around three years old, had done over 47,000 miles and cost £9,990. 
Following a battery change in May 2019 the recorded mileage increased by over 62,000 
miles taking the mileage to around 178,184. Mr C said the mileage had either been altered 
(commonly known as clocked) before the sale or the discrepancy was caused by an 
electrical fault. Mr C is also unhappy with the way Marsh Finance treated him, when he 
became ill and his account fell into arrears.
Unable to resolve his concerns with the dealership Mr C complained to Marsh Finance. It 
said that as Mr C had the car for four years, under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) he 
was required to provide evidence that a fault was either present or developing at the point of 
supply. It said as no evidence was provided, it cant be said the car was faulty when it was 
supplied. Unhappy with this response, Mr C brought his complaint to our service.
In September 2019 an electrical fault resulted in a fire and the car was deemed a total loss. 
Mr Cs insurance company made a settlement payment to Marsh Finance. Mr C believes the 
electrical fault resulting in the fire, is linked to the issue that caused the mileage discrepancy 
and says the fault was present when he was supplied the car.
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He said there was not 
enough evidence to show the car had an inherent fault at the point of sale. He explained he 
could not find Marsh Finance responsible for any customer service issues hed experienced 
with the dealership. He did not think Marsh Finance had treated Mr C unfairly when he fell 
into arrears. 
Mr C disagreed. He said he was supplied a faulty car, and this resulted in the fire. He said 
this had all caused stress which resulted in illness and him having to take time of work. He 
wanted compensation for the stress and his financial loss.  
Mr C has also raised a complaint against Marsh Finance about the sale of GAP insurance, 
this is a separate complaint and has not been considered as part of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint and Ive explained why below:Where the information Ive got is contradictory, unclear or incomplete, as some of it is here. 
Ive based my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is what I consider most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and circumstances.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I do not comment on any specific point raised by either Mr C or Marsh Finance its 
not because Ive not taken it on board, but because I do not think I need to comment on it in 
order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
customer service issues
Mr C told us that trying to resolve the issues with his car took a toll on his health and stopped 
him from being able to work. Mr C says this could all have been avoided if an independent 
inspection was completed when he first raised the mileage problem with the dealership in 
May 2019. Mr C wants to be compensated for the stress caused and the loss of income 
suffered. 
Whilst I sympathise with Mr C and acknowledge this was a very difficult time for him. He has 
made several comments about the actions of the dealership, but I can only consider the 
actions of Marsh Finance and its liability in respect of the quality of the car.  Im unable to 
consider the service provided by the dealership. So, Ive looked at what Marsh Finance did 
to see if it did anything wrong.
I can see Mr C reported the mileage problem to the dealership in May 2019. After the 
dealership refused to inspect the car, he contacted Marsh Finance in July 2019. Mr C 
explained hed taken his car to a third-party garage who confirmed the mileage and was told 
the discrepancy was either due to the car being clocked or due to an electrical fault. As the 
third-party garage only confirmed the mileage and Mr C had the car for nearly four 
years, Marsh Finance said the onus was on Mr C to get the car inspected and provide 
evidence that the car was not of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
I can see from the contact notes that Marsh Finance got the dealership to agree to inspect 
the car. However, Mr C declined this and refused the dealerships offer to part exchange the 
car, as his relationship with the dealership had broken down, and hed lost trust in it. Marsh 
Finance explained it could not uphold Mr Cs complaint as there was no evidence the 
mileage had been tampered with or there was an inherent fault at the point of supply.
Under the CRA, the general position is the consumer must evidence a fault if things go 
wrong after the first six months of supply. Mr C had the car for nearly four years when he 
raised the mileage issue, so I cant say Marsh Finance were wrong to ask Mr C to get the car 
inspected and provide evidence that the car was not of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply. I appreciate Mr C did not want the dealership to inspect the car, but it was open for 
him to arrange for an independent inspection. Unfortunately, the car was subsequently 
destroyed by the fire, so no inspection was completed. However, I do not think Marsh 
Finance made a mistake, so I wont be asking it to take in any action is respect of this.
Mr C says he fell into financial difficulties as he was unable to work, he says that despite 
this, Marsh Finance continued to contact him about his arrears. From the contact notes I can 
see Marsh Finance was contacting Mr C about his payments, however I do not think its 
contact was unreasonable. I can see Marsh Finance suspended collections on Mr Cs 
account after it received copies of his sick notes and spoke with Miss K in August 2019. So, 
whilst I accept Mr C may have found the contact about payment frustrating, given the 
problem he was having with the car, I do not think Marsh Finance treated him unfairly when 
his account fell into arrears.satisfactory quality
The agreement Mr C entered into with Marsh Finance is a contract to supply goods under 
the CRA. Under this Act Marsh Finance is the supplier and needs to make sure the car was 
of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to him. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they 
are of a standard that reasonable person would expect, taking into account all the relevant 
circumstances such as (amongst other things) the age and mileage of the car and the price 
paid.
For a car to be of satisfactory quality it must meet the description given, so this includes the 
displayed mileage. Mr C says the increase in mileage after the battery was replaced in May 
2019, suggests the mileage was clocked before he was supplied the car. He says the 
increased mileage, was the true mileage and because of this he says he paid too much for 
the car.
The third-party garage only provided confirmation of the increased mileage, it did not make 
any findings as to the cause of the discrepancy. The dealership explained it carried out an 
HPI check on the car before it was supplied, and no mileage discrepancies were found. 
Although the dealership did not inspect the car it has suggested the mileage increase could 
have been caused by an electrical fault. Ive looked at the MOT history of the car on the 
Vehicle and Operator Services website and there is no indication of any issues with the 
mileage. 
Based on what Ive seen Im not persuaded the odometer reading was inaccurate or 
misrepresented to Mr C at the point of supply. And I think it is more likely that the mileage 
discrepancy was due to an electrical fault, which may have been linked to the electrical issue 
resulting in the fire. Ive discussed this further below.
In September 2019 the car caught alight and was a total loss. The fire crew concluded the 
cause was an electrical fault. Mr C believes this problem may have also been the cause of 
the mileage discrepancy. The dealership also suggested the mileage issue was due to an 
electrical fault and I think this is likely to be the case. However, Marsh Finances 
responsibility is not unlimited -it is responsible for the condition of the car at the point of 
supply, it is not responsible for faults that go on to develop afterwards or those relating to 
wear and tear.
Marsh Finance says the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr C. In 
support of this, it argues Mr C had the car for four years and had covered around 68,000 
miles before he reported the mileage issue, and the fire happened nearly four months later. 
As there were no previous electrical issues reported, it does not think there was an existing 
electrical problem when the car was supplied to Mr C. 
Whether the electrical fault causing the fire was linked to the mileage issue or not, I do not 
think there is enough evidence to conclude there was an electrical fault when the car was 
supplied to Mr C. And Im not persuaded Mr C would have been able to cover 68,000 miles, 
if an electrical fault had been present at the point of supply. I think it is more likely than not, 
that the electrical fault developed at some point during the four years he had the car. 
Whilst I sympathise with Mr Cs circumstances, I do not think there is enough evidence to 
show the mileage discrepancy or the fire was caused by a fault present when the car was 
supplied to him. It follows that I do not uphold his complaint. For this reason, I will not be 
asking Marsh Finance to take any further action in respect of this complaint. I know Mr C 
feels strongly about this complaint, however this final decision is the end of our process, and 
we are unable to consider this complaint further.My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2020.
Karen Dennis-Barry
Ombudsman