DRN-3060097
The complaint
Mr S complains about the poor service he received from Phoenix Life Limited (Phoenix) in 
relation to a pension policy he holds with it.  
What happened
Mr S has a pension policy with Phoenix, from a former employers pension scheme. This had 
been set up on 1 November 1987 with a single premium of £2,440.26. The policy had a 
guaranteed minimum value of £15,941.82 from the age of 62. And also includes guaranteed 
annuity rates. Mr S had lost contact with this pension. So it took him a long time to find out 
where it was held. He was first provided with information about this pension from Phoenix in 
August 2018.
When Mr S located his former employers pension, which was now held by Phoenix, he said 
hed expected it to be much better than it was. He tried to get hold of further information from 
Phoenix about his former employers pension. He said that Phoenix initially said it could 
provide this. But then said it couldnt. So he said this information is still missing.
Phoenix told this service that Mr Ss policy couldnt be claimed until it had a value equal to 
the guaranteed amount, or Mr S turned 62. It said that once Mr S had reached 62, his fund 
would increase by 3% each year until he reached 75. 
In November 2019, Phoenix sent Mr S a retirement pack. This stated that Mr S was entitled 
to a tax-free cash lump sum of £914.40 and a reduced annuity of £7,164.63. But this was 
incorrect. 
In January 2020, Mr S complained to Phoenix. He was unhappy with the November 2019 
retirement pack. He said that incorrect values had been provided for his tax-free cash and 
annuity. He also felt that the value of his policy was lower than hed expected. He wanted 
Phoenix to pay for an Independent Financial Adviser (IFA) for him given the number of errors 
itd made. 
Phoenix replied to most of Mr Ss complaint in a letter dated 18 January 2020. 
Phoenix issued its final response letter to the complaint on 5 February 2020. It upheld Mr Ss 
complaint about the quality of the November 2019 retirement pack. It apologised that the tax-
free cash lump sum and the reduced annuity figures had been transposed in the pack. It 
offered £50 compensation for the trouble and upset the November pack had caused. 
Phoenix didnt agree to pay for an IFA. It also said it didnt hold any history on Mr Ss former 
employers pension scheme, including how long hed worked for them. The final response 
letter also explained how the policy value would change over time.
Mr S said that the January 2020 retirement pack still contained errors. Phoenix provided the 
correct information in December 2020.
In November 2020 Phoenix issued an annual plan update to Mr S. This incorrectly showed 
the plan value as £8,372.68. By then, Mr S had turned 62 so the plan was actually worth the 
guaranteed value of £15,941.82. And in early December 2020 Phoenix issued a further letter 
which said that the Key Features document that had been sent with the retirement quotation 
issued on 18 December 2019 was incorrect. It enclosed an up-to-date version and 
apologised.
So on 8 December 2020, Mr S complained again to Phoenix. He felt that the quality control 
of Phoenixs document packs was very poor. He said that there were still mistakes in the 
packs hed been sent. He said that incorrect values had been provided. And the he hadnt 
received the Key Features document. He said Phoenix had provided incorrect information 
about UK tax. He still wanted Phoenix to pay for an Independent Financial Adviser (IFA) for 
him given the number of errors itd made. He also felt that the value of his policy was lower 
than hed expected. But said that he would take that issue up elsewhere. He also said that 
as he had now gone past his normal retirement age of 62 he wasnt sure why the 
guaranteed sum of £15,941.82 hadnt been confirmed to him in recent correspondence. 
Phoenix upheld Mr Ss complaint on 11 January 2021. It noted that the original complaint 
only covered the incorrect November 2019 retirement pack. It agreed that it had provided 
him with poor service. It detailed the errors itd made and how theyd been corrected. It 
confirmed it had a number of controls in place, but that the errors itd noted had been caused 
by human error. It explained that Pension Wise is a free service available to offer guidance, 
not financial advice. Phoenix accepted it had caused confusion but didnt agree that it should 
cover the cost of an IFA. It sent Mr S details of various organisations that might be able to 
help him with his pension. Phoenix increased its offer of compensation from the £50 it had 
previously offered to £300 given the number of errors.
Phoenix sent a further letter to Mr S dated 11 January 2021. This included illustrations of the 
options he had for his pension. It showed that the estimated fund value was £16,420.07 at 9 
January 2021. And that the maximum tax-free cash available was £7,264.72. 
On 10 March 2021 Mr S again asked Phoenix to explain how itd calculated the maximum 
tax-free lump sum. He also wanted to know what the drawdown option was and how it 
worked. And when Phoenix would be looking into offering it.
On 26 March 2021 Phoenix provided Mr S with the calculation formula for tax-free cash. It 
apologised for how complicated the calculations were. But explained that it couldnt simplify 
it. It explained that while it constantly reviewed its offer, it couldnt guarantee that it would 
offer the option of drawdown. 
As he was still unhappy, Mr S brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt 
think his complaint should be upheld. He acknowledged that the incorrect information Mr S 
had received wouldve caused confusion over his pension. But he didnt think that it was 
Phoenixs responsibility to pay for an IFA. He felt that Mr S had now received clear and 
accurate information from Phoenix about his pension. He couldnt identify any financial loss 
caused to Mr S. And he felt that the £300 compensation Phoenix had offered for its errors 
was fair and reasonable.
Mr S didnt agree. He didnt think that our investigators view had been thorough. He felt it 
hadnt recorded the sheer scale and frequency of Phoenixs errors. He detailed those errors. 
And said that our investigators view didnt recognise that almost every contact hed had with 
Phoenix had been unfair, unreasonable and misleading. Mr S asked for details of the 
organisations he could turn to for free to help him to overcome his trust issues with the 
information Phoenix had given him. He said that neither Pension Wise or the Pensions 
Advisory Service could help him with Phoenix. Mr S also said the following:
- He was disappointed to note that this service couldnt check the tax-free cash calculations hed been provided with
- Itd taken him two years to get a correct picture of his pension with Phoenix. So he 
now lacked trust that hed been given accurate information
- Our investigator had made no recommendations for Phoenix to improve its service 
and prevent the recurrence of the issues hed experienced for other consumers
- He felt he had been caused an indirect financial loss. He questioned at what date our 
investigator had assumed he could reasonably have made an informed decision 
about his Phoenix pension.
- He felt that our investigator hadnt explained how hed concluded that Phoenixs offer 
of £300 was fair and reasonable. And that the severe material distress and 
inconvenience hed suffered over a two-year period hadnt been recognized
As agreement couldnt be reached, this case has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know this will be disappointing to Mr S. Ill 
explain why Ive made this decision.
Before I start, Id like to thank Mr S for all of the detailed information hes provided on this 
case. While Ive reviewed all of the evidence hes provided, I wont cover every point hes 
made in my decision. Instead, Ill focus on what I consider to be the main points. 
Pensions are incredibly complex. And there are a great deal of options when someone 
decides they want to take the benefits from their pension policy. So its important that clear 
and correct information is provided. I acknowledge that Mr S has asked me to consider his 
complaint from the perspective of a layman. 
So I understand why Mr S would like a pension professional to check the pension figures 
Phoenix has produced: beyond his laymens ability. But based on what Ive seen, it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable to ask Phoenix to pay for that. But I hope I can help Mr S to 
better understand the pension policy he has with Phoenix so that he can decide for himself 
what he wants to do with the funds.
Ill consider Mr Ss points below.
When could Mr S reasonably have made an informed decision about his Phoenix 
pension?
I can see that on a number of occasions Phoenix provided incorrect information to Mr S. And 
this wouldve made it even more difficult for him to decide how to take his benefits. This is 
especially true given the health issues Mr S has been going through. 
However, I also note that not long after Mr S first contacted Phoenix about his pension, 
which hed been trying to track down for some time, he wrote to it. In his 2 August 2018 letter 
to Phoenix:
It is clear from the information you have sent, I will be clearly disadvantaged to retire early and will lose the benefit of the guaranteed value £15,941.82.
And: it is clear I have a guaranteed value £15,914.82 and a guaranteed annuity rate:
£104.17 each year pension per £1,000.00 of retirement cash benefit paid monthly in 
advance, level in payment and guaranteed for 5 years.
So it appears that by August 2018, Mr S understood what the guaranteed value of the 
pension was at 62, and what the guaranteed annuity rates were.
Mr Ss 2 August 2018 letter also asked Phoenix to:
Please provide the LTA forecast figures for NRA with:
A) Maximum Tax-Free Lump Sum
B) Without any lump sum being paid.
Phoenix replied to Mr S on 3 September 2018. It said that: based on the early retirement 
value of £8,101.81 as at 9 September 2018 (as quoted in the early retirement quotation 
dated 16 August 2018), the maximum tax-free cash sum available from the policy at that 
date is £5,231.52. It said it couldnt calculate the maximum tax-free cash available as at Mr 
Ss normal retirement date of 9 January 2020.
On 21 November 2019, the retirement pack included the estimated maximum tax-free cash 
sum available to Mr S on 9 January 2020. It said this was £7,164.63. It also said the 
estimated pension savings were £15,941.82 as at 9 January 2020. The pack also included a 
quotation for the entire pension policy being cashed in. 
While I acknowledge that this pack had a number of errors in it, Im not persuaded that these 
errors confused Mr S about the value of his pension. I can see from his marked up copy of 
the pack that he realised that the tax-free cash figure of £7,164.63 had been transposed with 
the reduced annuity figure of £914.40. This is not surprising given what Mr S had written in 
his 2 August 2018 letter to Phoenix about the clear guaranteed fund value at 62 and the 
clear guaranteed annuity rates. 
Phoenixs 18 January 2020 letter said: you are able to take £7,164.63 tax free at your 
normal retirement age. This would be recalculated based on the date you take the benefits 
and the fund value at that time and may change. 
The 11 January 2021 retirement pack gave details about the value of Mr Ss pension fund as 
at 9 January 2021. The total pension savings were now £16,420.07. This is 3% bigger than 
the figure quoted as at 9 January 2020, as expected. It also said the maximum tax-free cash 
sum available to Mr S on 9 January 2021 was £7,264.72. The 26 March 2021 letter from 
Phoenix fully explained the complicated calculation for the maximum tax-free cash. 
Mr S told this service: Whilst I may have thought I understood the guaranteed value of my 
pension in 2018, it is clear from a review of correspondence from PL to 2021, that they have 
not demonstrated a clear and consistent view of my pension. Mr S provided a list of all the 
mistakes he said Phoenix had made over this period. He asked this service to look at the 
whole file of correspondence from 2018 to 2021. I can assure Mr S that I have done what he 
asked.
Mr S said: I have 3 other pension pots accumulated with other employers during my career. 
And that these: were clear, consistent and I could trust the information from them. During the 2018 to 2021 period with PL, they made repeated serious financial errors in their 
communications, right from my initial communications with them, where they said they had a 
pension for me, then they said they did not. The NRA pack they sent was full of errors and 
most correspondence since.
Mr S also told this service that he hasnt accessed his funds from Phoenix yet, due to having 
lost trust in Phoenix. He also said that he originally planned to take his Phoenix pension at 
62. And that he feels Phoenix prevented him from doing so due to the amount of errors it 
made.
Phoenix accepted it had caused confusion given the amount of errors it had made in its 
communications. 
From what Ive seen, Phoenix provided the estimated maximum tax-free cash sum available 
as at 9 January 2020 in the 21 November 2019 retirement pack. It explained that this figure 
would change over time in its 18 January 2020 letter. Mr S couldnt claim his pension until it 
had a value at least equal to the guaranteed amount, or he turned 62. So Im satisfied that 
Phoenix provided the fund value and the maximum tax-free cash available in time for Mr S to 
take his pension around the earliest possible time. Mr S asked this service when we felt he 
could reasonably have made an informed decision about his Phoenix pension. I consider 
that he couldve made that decision after receiving the 18 January 2020 letter. 
Based on what Ive seen, Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable to hold 
Phoenix responsible for Mr S not yet taking his pension. I can see why Mr S has lost trust in 
Phoenix, given the number of errors its made. But, given what Mr S said in his 2 August 
2018 letter, and Phoenixs subsequent clarifications and demonstrated calculations, Im 
satisfied that he had all the information he needed to access his pension from around his 
62nd birthday. 
I acknowledge that Mr S has claimed interest at a rate of 8% per year on £15,941.82. He 
effectively said hed been deprived of the use of that money. But Ive seen no evidence of 
that. Mr S couldve taken his benefits at or around his 62nd birthday. I cant hold Phoenix 
responsible for the fact that he didnt take his benefits then. So it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable for me to ask Phoenix to pay Mr S interest in this way.
Can Mr S trust that hes been given accurate information?
Mr S confirmed in his 2 August 2018 letter to Phoenix that he understood the guaranteed 
value of his fund at 62 and the guaranteed annuity rate that would be used for his fund.
I acknowledge that Mr S felt that his pension was lower than hed expected. But in terms of 
Mr Ss complaint about Phoenix, Im satisfied that it has shared all relevant information it 
holds about Mr Ss pension policy. Ive seen no evidence that the guaranteed value of the 
policy, or the terms attached to it, are incorrect.
Whilst this service cannot check the tax-free cash calculation that Phoenix shared with Mr S, 
Ive no evidence to suggest it was carried out incorrectly.
I do acknowledge that a series of mistakes on the documentation Phoenix sent to Mr S have 
made it difficult for him to trust what it now tells him. But, from what Ive seen, the mistakes it 
made were relatively minor. I do acknowledge that there were many minor mistakes. So I 
completely understand why Mr S doubted some of the information hed been given. 
Having said that, Mr Ss pension policy with Phoenix is relatively simple. The guaranteed 
value as at 9 January 2021 was £16,420.07. Up to Mr Ss 75th birthday, this will increase at 3% each year. 
Phoenix also confirmed in its letter of 18 January 2020 that the guaranteed annuity rate isnt 
lost if Mr S delays taking his benefits. And that the guaranteed annuity rate is £104.17 
pension for each £1,000 of pension fund for a single-life annuity that is paid monthly in 
advance, doesnt increase, and is guaranteed for five years. Phoenix also said that the 
guaranteed annuity rate is adjusted if the annuity Mr S requires is payable on a different 
basis.  
I acknowledge that Mr S feels that the level of his Phoenix pension is lower than he was 
expecting from his former employer. But Ive seen no evidence that the value at 9 January 
2021 - £16,420.07  is incorrect.
Overall, although I completely understand why Mr S feels the way he does, Ive found no 
evidence to suggest that he cant now trust the pension figures Phoenix has quoted him. 
Organisations that can provide support to Mr S
Mr S asked for details of the organisations he could turn to for free to help him to overcome 
his trust issues with the information Phoenix had given him. He said that neither Pension 
Wise or the Pensions Advisory Service could help him with Phoenix. 
As both Phoenix and our investigator have pointed out, there are a number of free services 
out there that can help consumers understand their pension options. I agree that none of 
these services would be able to help Mr S sort out his specific issues with Phoenix. But I 
dont agree that they cant help him to better understand his options so he can access his 
pension benefits in a way that suits him best. However, I do note that none of the free 
services can give Mr S advice. The only way Mr S can receive advice on his pensions is to 
consult with an IFA. 
Should Phoenix fund the cost of an IFA for Mr S?
I acknowledge that Mr S feels that he cant trust Phoenix and that this is why he wants a 
pension professional to check the figures hes been given. I can understand why he feels 
this way. But, having looked at all of the figures Mr S has been given, Im satisfied that the 
information he now has is clear and correct. 
Fundamentally, Mr S has to decide how to take his pension benefits. And from what Ive 
seen, he now has all the information he needs to make that decision. Therefore it wouldnt 
be fair or reasonable for me to ask Phoenix to pay for an IFA to review its paperwork for Mr 
S. 
Can this service make recommendations for Phoenix to improve its service? 
This service exists to resolve disputes between consumers and financial businesses. It cant 
make recommendations to those businesses to improve their services, as its not the 
regulator.
Distress and inconvenience
Mr S felt that our investigator hadnt explained how hed concluded that Phoenixs offer of 
£300 was fair and reasonable. And that the severe material distress and inconvenience hed 
suffered over a two-year period hadnt been recognized
He said that our investigators view didnt recognise that almost every contact hed had with Phoenix had been unfair, unreasonable and misleading.
Mr S explained how hed been impacted by Phoenixs errors. He said hed had reduced 
living standards as hed planned to use the tax-free cash lump sum to make home 
improvements. He also said he was worried that pension taxation might increase in the near 
future, so he wanted to resolve his issues before any detrimental changes took place. Mr S 
also said that Phoenixs protracted and repeated mistakes affected him practically and 
emotionally, causing great distress, inconvenience, pain and suffering. 
Im really sorry for what Mr S has gone through. I appreciate hes also been suffering poor 
health during this time. 
Phoenix made some minor errors in its 21 November 2019 retirement pack. But from what 
Ive seen, these errors didnt materially impact Mr S. Phoenix confirmed all the information 
Mr S needed to know in order to choose his pension benefits by the time he received its 18 
January 2020 letter. This was only 9 days after the earliest possible time he couldve taken 
unreduced benefits. Phoenix offered compensation of £50 for the trouble and upset this had 
caused.
Phoenix then made a further error by sending an annual update in November 2020 which 
didnt reflect the correct guaranteed value of Mr Ss pension policy. I can see that this 
wouldve been concerning. And a few days later Phoenix issued a replacement Key 
Features document as itd noted that the previous version had been incorrect. Phoenix 
acknowledged that itd caused further confusion with the additional errors. And increased its 
offer of compensation from £50 to £300 to reflect the number of errors.
In order to decide whats fair compensation, I not only need to consider the impact of the 
errors on Mr S, but I also need to look at what Phoenix did to put things right. From what Ive 
seen, Phoenix took reasonable steps to put the material errors right. In doing so, it acted to 
minimise any financial impact on Mr S. I do appreciate Phoenix didnt always correct all of 
the minor errors. And I can see that this has been a source of frustration for Mr S.  
Based on the errors Phoenix made, what it did to put things right, and the impact the errors 
had on Mr S, I consider that the £300 compensation Phoenix has offered Mr S is fair and 
reasonable. I consider that this level of award is reasonable as there have been repeated 
small errors. These have required a reasonable effort from Mr S to sort out. I acknowledge 
that Mr S doesnt agree. Hes asked for £820 in respect of the time hes spent dealing with 
Phoenixs errors. And for compensation of £4,000 for the severe distress and inconvenience 
hes suffered over a long period of time. I cant ask Phoenix to compensate Mr S for the 
number of hours hes spent pursuing his complaint. This service doesnt usually make a 
specific award for someones time, or calculate it using a set amount. But we do factor in the 
inconvenience someone may have experienced spending time dealing with a matter.
And I dont agree that £4,000 compensation is appropriate under the circumstances. From 
what Ive seen, there was nothing preventing Mr S from accessing his pension on his 62nd 
birthday. So I cant hold Phoenix responsible for him not taking his pension benefits and 
using the tax-free lump sum to make home improvements. And as pension taxation hasnt 
changed, I cant ask Phoenix to compensate Mr S for that.
In summary, Im very sorry that Mr S has found it so difficult to access correct information 
about his Phoenix pension policy during a time when hes been suffering ill-health. But 
having looked at the errors Phoenix made, and the actions it took to correct them, Im 
satisfied that the compensation it offered is fair and reasonable. I would expect Phoenix to 
honour its offer to pay £300 should Mr S choose to accept it.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman