DRN-3310285
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy that Arch Insurance (UK) Limited has declined to offer them a full 
premium refund, after they were unable to travel on holiday due to coronavirus restrictions.
What happened
On 9 January 2020, Mr and Mrs C purchased a single trip travel insurance policy, which 
provided them with cancellation cover from this date. The policy also provided additional 
cover for Mr and Mrs Cs trip  including post-departure cover. Mr and Mrs C were due to go 
on holiday on 3 June 2020 to 13 June 2020. Mr and Mrs C paid £144.09 for the policy, which 
included cover for five medical conditions, and some additional cover options, such as travel 
dispute and end supplier failure cover, which Arch has explained were included as standard.
After taking out the above insurance policy, Mr and Mrs Cs holiday was cancelled. This was 
because of the coronavirus pandemic. Mr and Mrs C havent been able to provide any 
information to show what date their holiday was cancelled. But on 23 July 2020, after cover 
had ended, they contacted Arch and said they would either like the policy, which had 
expired, to be cancelled, or placed on hold for the next year. Arch said it wasnt able to do 
this. But it could offer a partial refund for the policy. 
This partial refund came to £9.23. So, this was what Arch offered to Mr and Mrs C. But 
Mr and Mrs C didnt feel this level of refund was fair. And so, Mr and Mrs C raised their 
concerns about Archs position on the matter.
Arch considered Mr and Mrs Cs comments but maintained its position. In its final response 
letter Arch said that under the policy no refund was due to Mr and Mrs C, given the policy 
wasnt cancelled within its first 14 days. And it said that Mr and Mrs C had been provided 
with cancellation cover under their policy  from the date they took out the policy on 9 
January 2020, until they were due to go on holiday on 3 June 2020.
But it recognised that Mr and Mrs C werent able to use the post-departure part of their 
cover, due to the global coronavirus pandemic. This cover being from 3 June 2020 until 
13 June 2020. Because of this, it said it was willing to offer Mr and Mrs C a refund for these 
11 days of cover, which came to a total of £9.23.
Mr and Mrs C considered this offer too low. And so, they referred their complaint to this 
service for an independent review.
Our investigators opinion
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They set out 
the details of the relevant cancellation rights  and how they applied in the circumstances of 
this case. They also explained that it is a fundamental principle of insurance law, that if the 
insurer has started to bear a risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is not 
returnable. The investigator said that this meant its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep 
any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time.
The investigator also explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for Mr and Mrs Cs 
contract of insurance to be performed, because cover under the policy started on 09 January 
2020, and the policy covered various risks during from that point. And cover would have 
been available under the policy until the date Mr and Mrs Cs holiday was cancelled.
The investigator noted that Mr and Mrs C hadnt been able to provide information for when 
the holiday was cancelled but acknowledged that Mr and Mrs C hadnt been able to travel on 
3 June 2020. And they recognised the unique and unprecedented circumstances of 
Covid-19. 
Given this, they thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances was 
for Arch to provide Mr and Mrs C with a pro-rata refund, calculated based on the remaining 
premium from when their holiday was due to go ahead on 3 June 2020, until the policies end 
date of 13 June 2020. This being because there was no evidence of earlier cancellation (and 
therefore Arch not being on risk from that point), and when it came to 3 June 2020 onwards, 
it was clear Arch werent covering any risk under the policy.
As this is what Arch has based its refund on, our investigator considered this to be fair. They 
reviewed the calculation Arch had completed when arriving at the refund figure and were 
satisfied it was based on a pro-rata refund for the days Mr and Mrs C were no longer on 
cover, as above.
Mr and Mrs C didnt think this was fair. They explained that they felt £60 was a more 
reasonable figure for Arch Insurance to pay to it. Our investigator asked Arch if it was willing 
to offer this  and it said no, given it was satisfied the refund it had offered was fair.
Because Mr and Mrs C remained unhappy with the investigators view their complaint has 
been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You may cancel this policy within 14 days of its issue (provided you have not commenced 
an insured journey) and, subject to you not having or intending to make a claim, a full 
refund will be made. If you choose to cancel and a claim has been made under this policy 
during the policy period or Insured Journey has commenced, you will not be entitled to 
any premium refund
Im satisfied Arch Insurances offer to refund Mr and Mrs C £9.23 cash is fair and 
reasonable. And so, I dont require it to do anything more. I say this because:
Mr and Mrs Cs policy ended outside the 14-day cooling-off period. There is no requirement 
under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer any refund to 
Mr and Mrs C, regardless of the reasons for cancelling, after this 14-day cooling-off period 
has ended.
And Mr and Mrs Cs policy also doesnt provide for any refund after the cooling-off period 
either. It only offers a refund during those 14-days, where the above term is met. So, based on the industry rules and guidelines, and the terms of their policy, nothing would be due back 
to Mr and Mrs C.
However, Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint, including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-19. 
And in the circumstances of this case, I do think Archs offer is fair.  
Mr and Mrs C were covered from the date they purchased their policy, for any cancellation 
claim they may have needed to make. And the premium they paid included this cover. As 
Arch was on risk for any potential claim during this time, Im satisfied its reasonable that 
Mr and Mrs C pay for the acceptance of this risk. 
But after Mr and Mrs Cs holiday was cancelled there was nothing left to insure. 
Mr and Mrs C havent provided evidence of when this was, or that it was earlier than 3 June 
2020. Theyve said they dont know when the trip was cancelled. And they contacted Arch on 
23 July 2020, after their policy had expired  so this doesnt give any indication as to when 
the holiday was cancelled either. But Mr and Mrs C were due to go on holiday on 3 June 
2020. And from that point there was nothing left for Arch to insure. As this was an 
unprecedented situation, I think Archs offer to provide a pro-rata refund, from the date the 
holiday was due to commence, until the policy end date of 13 June 2020 is fair. It means 
Arch arent charging Mr and Mrs C when there wasnt anything left to cover.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs C feel that a refund of £9.23 isnt sufficient  and that a refund 
of £60 would be fairer. But Im satisfied that the way Arch has calculated the refund is 
reasonable. Arch has calculated the refund from the date Mr and Mrs C were due to go on 
holiday  3 June 2020, to the date the policy was due to end, 13 June 2020. This is 11 days 
where the policy was unused and where Arch werent on risk  which equates to £9.23 of the 
premium paid. As this offer reflects the fact Arch werent on risk for the 11 days, Im satisfied 
its offer is fair. And so, I wont be requiring it to do anything more than this. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I consider Arch 
Insurance (UK) Limiteds offer to refund Mr and Mrs C £9.23 fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman