DRN-4086272
The complaint
Mr B complains Revolut Ltd blocked his account and removed £25 from the account without 
his permission. They closed Mr Bs account. Mr B would like to know the reason and 
compensation.
What happened
On 28 July 2022 Mr B tried to make a payment but was declined. Revolut confirmed they 
had blocked his account as they were carrying out a review. Mr B contacted Revolut to try 
and find out why the account was being reviewed but Revolut didnt provide Mr B with this 
information.
On 5 August Revolut sent 60 days notice to close Mr Bs account. Revolut said Mr B had 
until 4 October to transfer his funds. Revolut also transferred £25 from his account. Mr B 
thought this was a fraudulent transfer, but Revolut told Mr B that the sending bank had 
requested the funds be returned.
Mr B was unhappy his funds had to be converted to sterling in order to close the account.
Mr B complained to Revolut. They said they couldnt provide information about why the 
account was closed. They confirmed they were entitled to return the £25 back to the sending 
bank. They agreed to refund Mr B £6.99 premium subscription charge.
Mr B was unhappy, so he complained to our service. One of our investigators looked into the 
complaint. She said Revolut were entitled to review and close his account. And she didnt 
think Revolut had done anything wrong by not sharing the reasons with him. She said 
Revolut had acted fairly when it returned £25 back to the sending bank. She confirmed the 
funds had been sent to a bank I will call M. She thought Revolut had done nothing wrong 
when converting the funds in Mr Bs account to sterling on closure of the account although 
she accepted that it caused Mr B inconvenience. She thought Revolut was fair to refund the 
premium fee.
Mr B was unhappy with the view he said he wanted to know what Revoluts reasons were. 
He was concerned that without knowing this Revolut could have made up false information 
about him, he pointed out he felt he had done nothing wrong.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mr Bs account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied Revolut were complying with these 
obligations when they reviewed Mr Bs account. 
I can see that in blocking the account Revolut were following an internal process which they 
carried out in order to comply with their legal and regulatory obligations. This was a 
legitimate exercise so I cant say Revolut was unfair. 
Revolut proceeded to give Mr B 60 days notice that they would be closing his account.
As the investigator explained its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to 
provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless 
theres a good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a financial institution must 
keep a customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
Banks should, however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less depending on the circumstances. I can see that 
Revolut wrote to Mr B on 5 August 2022 and let him know it was closing his account giving 
him 60 days notice. So, Im satisfied Revolut closed the account in line with the account 
terms. And gave Mr B B adequate time to open another account.
Reason
Mr B is concerned that Revolut havent given him a reason for the closure of his account. He 
says without this Revolut could be making up false information about him.
I appreciate Mr B found it difficult to be told his account would close and not be given a 
reason. I understand that Mr B wants Revolut to explain the reason it applied the block to his 
account and subsequently close it. And provide him with the information it relied on to do so. 
But Revolut doesnt disclose to its customers what triggers a review of their accounts. And 
its under no obligation to tell Mr B the reasons behind the account block and closure, as 
much as hed like to know. So, I cant say its done anything wrong by not giving Mr B this 
information. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it to do so. 
I want to reassure Mr B that I have looked at the information that Revolut relied on to review 
and block the account. Having done so I am satisfied that Revolut didnt treat Mr B unfairly 
when it reviewed and blocked his account, and I wont be asking them to compensate Mr B. 
Mr B has said that hes unhappy Revolut took £25 out of his account and sent it back to the 
sending bank. Mr B says that Revolut dont have the right to transfer this money out of his 
account. Mr B originally thought there had been a fraud on his account and I can understand 
that this would have caused him anxiety however Revolut explained the funds had been 
recalled by the sending bank. I have looked at the terms of the account and Revolut are 
entitled to reverse a payment in certain circumstances, and Im satisfied they havent done 
anything wrong when they sent the £25 back to the originating bank.
Mr B has said that due to the closure of the account he had to transfer all his funds into 
sterling, and he is unhappy about this. Ive again looked at the terms and Im satisfied 
Revolut are entitled to require that the funds be transferred into the base currency in this 
case Sterling. So, I cant say Revolut have acted unfairly there.
Mr B received a refund from Revolut of the premium fee of £6.99 following Mr Bs complaint. 
I am satisfied this is fair In summary having reviewed all the information provided by both parties Im satisfied that 
Revolut acted fairly when they reviewed and closed Mr Bs account. As Ive said they are not 
obliged to disclose the reason for the review and closure, so I dont think they have acted 
unfairly in not providing Mr B with a reason. I can see Revolut were entitled to return the £25 
to source so I am satisfied that Revolut have treated Mr B fairly and I wont be asking them 
to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman