DRN-3028829
The complaint
This complaint is about two payment protection insurance (PPI) policies sold to Mr L and 
Mrs S by Bank of Scotland Plc. The first policy was taken out in 1997 alongside their 
mortgage. The second policy was taken out in 2003 when Mr L and Mrs S applied for a 
further advance. 
When PPI was sold, Bank of Scotland was trading as Halifax. To keep things simple, Ive 
referred mainly to Halifax for the rest of this decision. 
What happened
In 1996, Mr L and Mrs S applied to Halifax for a mortgage. The mortgage account started in 
November 1996 and the PPI was sold to them a couple of months later in January 1997. 
This policy was set up to cover Mr L only. 
In 2003, Mr L and Mrs S applied for a further advance. At the same time, they were sold a 
total mortgage protection plan (TMPP). A TMPP was typically comprised of a number of 
different types of insurance products such as PPI, critical illness cover and life protection. It 
was possible to choose some or all of the products that were offered. The TMPP policy was 
set up to cover both Mr L and Mrs S and they chose life cover and PPI. Mr L and Mrs S have 
only complained about the PPI element of the cover and so that is what I have looked at in 
this decision. 
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr L and 
Mrs Ss circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policies benefits, limitations 
and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint. Mr L and Mrs Ss representative 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or additional points but 
repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously made. 
I can see that Halifax offered to pay back some of the cost of PPI because of it didnt 
disclose a high level of commission and profit share it received from their premiums. I 
havent seen a response from Mr L, Mrs S or those representing them on that point. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time of both 
sales. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like this. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint in respect of either policy. 
Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Halifax 
should have disclosed the commission it received - but that Halifaxs offer to refund some of 
the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive 
summarised my reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
Did Mr L and Mrs S know they had a choice? 
When PPI was sold, Halifax had to take steps to ensure that the optional nature of the cover 
was made clear to Mr L and Mrs S. As the circumstances for each sale are slightly different, 
Ive looked at each sale separately below. 
1997 
This policy covered only Mr L and not Mrs S. 
As I said above, this policy was sold to Mr L and Mrs S after their mortgage funds had been 
released to them. So I think they would have known the cover was a separate product and it 
wasnt a condition of their mortgage  because they had the money theyd borrowed by this 
point. I can also see that an application form was completed by Mr L at the point of sale, so 
Im satisfied they knew about the cover and chose to take it out knowing they didnt have to. 
2003
This cover was set up to cover both Mr L and Mrs S. 
Although I havent seen the application form Mr L and Mrs S completed for this policy, I still 
conclude that they knew they could have refused it if they didnt want it. As I said above, this 
was the TMPP policy in which Mr L and Mrs S could select a combination of policies. They 
chose some products and rejected others. I think if theyd known they could reject some 
policies, theyd have known they could refuse all of them. 
I think its likely the cover was debited separately from their mortgage payments, which 
would mean they would have had to complete a separate direct debit mandate. There 
appears to have been a somewhat detailed discussion about how to set the policy up. I say 
this because if Mr L was off sick or if he lost his job, 70% of the mortgage repayments would 
have been made; whereas if Mrs S was off, 30% would have been paid. I dont think that 
would have been the default position. 
Im also satisfied Mr L and Mrs S knew theyd taken the cover out as I note that a successful 
claim was made on the cover in 2012. 
All in all, I think Mr L and Mrs S also took this policy out knowing they could refuse it if they 
wanted to. 
Were the recommendations suitable? 
Halifax recommended PPI to Mr L and Mrs S. So it had to check that it was right for them. To 
help me decide whether each recommendation was suitable, Ive looked at the terms and 
conditions of each policy. And Ive thought carefully about what Mr L and Mrs S told us about 
their circumstances at the relevant time. Again, I have dealt with each sale separately below. 1997
I can see that if Mr L had to make a claim under this policy, he would have been covered for 
up to 12 months if he lost his job or if he was off sick. I understand he would have been 
entitled to some sick pay at that time, but I think the cover would have lasted for longer than 
that pay. And Mr L and Mrs S didnt tell us about any other means they had to fall back on at 
that point if Mr L was out of work. So I can see how the cover could have been useful at that 
time. 
I havent been told about any medical conditions Mr L had. And I havent seen anything 
unusual about his employment circumstances that would have stopped a successful claim 
from being made. I dont think it was wrong of Halifax to recommend this cover. 
2003
If Mr L or Mrs S had to make a claim on this policy, I can see they would have been covered 
for up to 24 months for each claim if they were made redundant or they became unwell. The 
cover would have lasted for longer than their sick pay and I understand they didnt have any 
other means with which to repay their mortgage if they werent working. Again, I can see 
how the cover could have proved useful. 
There was nothing about either of their occupations that would have stopped them from 
being able to make a successful claim if they needed to. Im aware that Mrs S had her 
appendix removed in the 1960s, but Im not aware of any complications arising from this 
operation that affected her in 2003. So I dont think this operation would have had an impact 
on her decision whether to take the PPI out. I havent been told about any other medical 
conditions either she or Mr L had been diagnosed with. 
On balance, Im satisfied that Halifax made a suitable recommendation in respect of this 
policy as well. 
The information provided by Halifax
When it sold PPI, Halifax had to give Mr L and Mrs S enough information about the PPI so 
they could decide for themselves whether each policy was a good fit for their needs. I accept 
its possible the information provided wasnt as clear as it should have been. But Ive found 
they chose to take the cover out, so it looks like they wanted this type of policy. The policies 
werent fundamentally wrong or unsuitable. And I think its most likely that they werent too 
dissimilar to what Mr L and Mrs S thought they were buying from the information they were 
given at the point of each sale. I dont think theyd have declined the cover if Halifax had 
given them more or better information. 
I appreciate there were some limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions. But in light of Mr L and Mrs Ss circumstances at the relevant time, I cant 
reasonably say these limitations made the policy unsuitable or fundamentally wrong for 
them. I still think theyd have thought they had some good reasons to take the policies out. 
Overall, I consider that Mr L and Mrs S would have still taken out PPI. I think the policies 
could provide a useful benefit in difficult times, given their circumstances. I also think the 
policies were sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the cover in any event.
Mr L and Mrs Ss representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.But Mr L and Mrs Ss representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr L and Mrs Ss individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr L and Mrs Ss particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold the mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr L and Mrs S.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Halifax should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that Halifaxs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness 
caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Halifax didnt tell Mr L and Mrs S about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in 
this case. So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Halifax and Mr L and Mrs S was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
because Halifax didnt tell them about the high levels of commission and profit share in 
this case. 
I dont think Halifax acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr L and Mrs S because it 
failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr L and Mrs Ss representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on their complaint.
In summary they have said Mr L and Mrs S should get back all the money they paid for the 
policies because: Halifax failed to tell Mr L and Mrs S about the high commission and profit-
share rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipthey say that meant the cover was poor value, I should find that Mr L and Mrs S wouldnt 
have taken out the policies had they known about the level of commission and they should 
receive a refund of all the premiums they paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI had the commission 
been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policies had the commission been 
disclosed; and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mr L and Mrs S in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Halifax not disclosing the 
high level of commission to them before they purchased the PPI. 
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policies cost, plus interest 
in order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of 
commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policies in this way is an order which, in 
my view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr L and Mrs Ss representative suggests, driven to conclude that they 
wouldnt have purchased the policies but for Halifaxs failure to disclose the level of 
commission for the reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Halifax to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mr L and Mrs S paid for their PPI. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mr L and 
Mrs S with the policies Ive concluded above they would still have taken out if Halifax had 
done everything it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Halifaxs offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the costs (plus associated interest where applicable) in 
line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
My final decisionOverall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr L and Mrs Ss complaint or make any 
award in favour of them for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that Bank of 
Scotland Plc should pay Mr L and Mrs S an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the cost (plus associated interest where applicable) if it 
hasnt already done so.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman