DRN-2060481
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that, following his commercial property owners insurance claim for fire 
damage, his property was found to be substantially underinsured. He believes that South 
Essex Insurance Brokers Limited (SEIB) set the reinstatement value of the property and 
failed to advise him to revise it. 
What happened
Mr C took out his insurance through SEIB in 2003. His brother arranged it and spoke to 
SEIB, filled in the proposal form and sent it to Mr C for signature. The policy was duly set up. 
In the first few years of the insurance SEIB recommended the policy to Mr C as suitable for 
his needs. In subsequent years the policy was sold non-advised which meant that it had a 
duty to provide Mr C with enough information to make an informed choice about the cover he 
took.
Mr C advised that he knew nothing about the difference between reinstatement value and 
market value and that his brother gave the details of the property to SEIB who set the 
reinstatement value in the first year of the policy. The value was index linked and the policy 
renewed each year until 2017. Mr C says he had no reason to dispute the valuation as this 
was provided by SEIB. So he was distressed to find that when he made a claim for fire 
damage in early 2018 the property was found to be 40% underinsured which meant that he 
only received payment from the insurer for 60% of his claim. He thought that SEIB was 
responsible for this.
SEIB said that Mr Cs brother contacted it in respect of the insurance. It did not set the 
reinstatement value for the property but would have pointed out the matters that have to be 
taken into account in setting the value. Those matters are clearly set out in the proposal 
form, which was completed by Mr Cs brother, signed by Mr C and returned to it. It no longer 
has records of phone calls going back to 2003. In subsequent years, although Mr C was 
anxious to keep the price he paid for the policy down, he was reluctant to read any 
information given to him at renewal. It did however as required, send him information each 
year, highlighting the need to read through all the paperwork to check all the values were 
correct. It also set this out clearly in its renewal letters. From 2014 onwards it set out the 
need to ensure the property was valued correctly and enclosed a leaflet specifically warning 
of this. In 2016 and 2107 this was highlighted by a PS at the end of the letter enclosing the 
renewal notice, warning that 80% of properties were undervalued for insurance.
Mr C says he never received the leaflet about underinsurance, he asked for documents by 
email and this document wasnt attached. He believes the need to value the property 
properly was never highlighted to him, buried in pages of documents which he didnt have 
the legal experience to read.
On referral to this service our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that SEIB had 
complied with its obligations to give Mr C enough information to make an informed choice 
about the cover he took. And that it had set out the information in a way that was clear, fair 
and not misleading.
Mr C disagreed with this, and pointed out that in the 2003-5 renewals SEIB specifically 
recommended the policy for his demands and needs. He says the letters made it clear that 
his brother set out the details of the property and that SEIB set the value. 
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this matter Im aware that the initial setting of the reinstatement value took place 
in 2003. There are no recordings of the telephone calls back then. The original adviser is not 
available and Mr Cs brother has had to rely on his recollection of a call some 18 years 
again. With this in mind I have to decide what is likely to have happened based on the 
evidence we have.
The policy was sold advised from its inception in 2003 up to and including the 2008 
renewal. An advised sale means the seller is recommending (or advising) that a customer 
buy a particular policy. As Mr C has pointed out the policy was recommended to him in those 
years. If the policy contains any unusual, onerous or restrictive terms, this needs to be 
clearly highlighted. But theres an additional duty on the seller to ensure that the policy being 
recommended is suitable for the customers needs. In Mr Cs case these were:
Cover with a leading UK insurer
Competitive premium
Exceptionally wide policy cover
Reliable claims service
So far as Im aware these remained Mr Cs needs up to and including the 2017 renewal. But 
that doesnt mean that SEIB necessarily chose or recommended what values to put in the 
policy
Mr C says that SEIB chose a wildly incorrect sum for my buildings cover. SEIB denies that 
it chose this sum. It says that As far as [it] is aware it has never been our practice to advise 
regarding the sums insured, we have always recommended that the client takes professional 
advice from a surveyor.
As there are no telephone records going that far back I have had to draw inferences from the 
correspondence at the time, which still exists. Firstly the insurance was arranged through 
Mr Cs brother. The telephone consultations were with him and the proposal form for the 
policy was sent to him for completion. In the accompanying letter in 2003 it said: Cover 
would be for a re-building sum of £150,000 plus contents Assuming that Mr Cs brother 
hadnt obtained a surveyors valuation, I infer from this that the telephone conversation did 
involve some discussion of the reinstatement value of the property. And Mr Cs brother had 
written to SEIB setting out the details of the property which at the time consisted of shop 
premises and two flats above.
The proposal form was completed by Mr Cs brother with that figure inserted. The proposal 
form set out what needed to be included in the reinstatement value, such as Landlords 
fixtures and fittings, outside buildings/annexes, walls gates and fences, services, architects, 
surveyors and consultants fees, and debris removal. So Mr C would have known (through 
his brother) the nature of reinstatement costs as opposed to the market value. And the form clearly set out that ..if your sums insured are inadequate, you will have to bear a 
proportionate part of any loss ie if any sum represents 75% of the true amount you will only 
receive 75% of any loss.
I think it likely that the original sum insured was set by agreement with Mr Cs brother. But I 
think it very unlikely that a broker would give advice as to the actual figure to set. I think 
Mr Cs brother was given sufficient advice about what the figure should include. I dont know 
if the figure set in 2003 was the right one. But as Mr C says the market value now is 
considerably less than the indexed policy value I can understand if he thought at the time 
that the sum was adequate. 
From 2009 onwards the policy wasnt sold advised, which means the policy itself wasnt 
recommended to Mr C. This means there was a duty on SEIB to make sure that Mr C was 
given enough information that was clear, fair and not misleading so that he could make an 
informed choice about whether the policy was right for him. Its clear from the 
correspondence for several renewals that Mr C was concerned about keeping the premiums 
down, but questioned why he had to read through the documents sent to him each year. For 
instance in June 2014 he asked, Please could you explain to me exactly why I must read 
these documents?  At the 2016 renewal SEIB advised Mr C that it had sent the renewal 
documents by post to his address abroad. Mr C advised that he had not been at that 
address for five years. He asked that SEIB send documents to the risk address, but also 
asked that it communicate by email. Again he made it clear that he didnt want the 
documents.
I think the renewal documents at least from 2014 onwards set out clear information in a 
readable format. Each time the renewal schedule was accompanied by a letter which said in 
its second line Please read through all the paperwork to ensure that the Sums Insured, 
Limits and Estimates meet your current requirements as summarised in the table below. 
This was followed by a table setting out the policy limits.
Given that Mr C had made it clear that he didnt want to read through all the policy 
documents, and that there were each year a number of such documents I think that SEIB 
needed to highlight, so it was reasonably prominent, what information it needed Mr C to 
understand. He clearly understood the premium due as he queried it over several policy 
years. As to whether he was adequately informed about possible underinsurance, I 
understand Mr Cs point that he didnt want to have to read though a number of lengthy 
documents to understand the main points. Whilst the renewal letter highlighted the insurance 
values and it was Mr Cs responsibility to check these he wouldnt have anticipated that he 
might be underinsured. But I note that the renewal letters for the 2016 and 2017 renewals 
have a PS which says:
PS: Research shows up to 80% of properties in the UK are under-insured  please see the 
attached Property Valuations leaflet for further information.
Mr C has pointed out the property valuations leaflet wasnt attached to the email (it 
was enclosed with the posted documents). He argues that the PS was an 
afterthought and not something that would draw his attention. I dont agree  a PS on 
a commercial letter is placed so as to draw the readers attention, and the 80% figure 
is quite eye-catching. In my view the renewal letters for 2016 and 2017 draw 
attention to the schedule of values, to the renewal premiums (which are set out in a 
table) and to the fact that Mr C was likely to be underinsured. He could have enquired about 
the property valuations leaflet. In any case in the email attachment following the letter and 
the invoice the is a page headed in bold letters Important Considerations for Property 
Owners. The page goes on to set out that it is not uncommon for properties to be underinsured, and to explain that experts are increasingly recommending that properties be 
valued by a surveyor every three to five years.
I think that at least for the 2016 and 2017 renewals SEIB did set out as clearly as it could 
that it was Mr Cs responsibility to check the values and that he was at risk of being 
underinsured. As he was reluctant to read through large bundles of documents, I think that 
by setting the values and premiums in tables, by adding a PS that most properties are 
underinsured and having a page headed in bold letters did draw Mr Cs attention to those 
points.
So I think that overall the method of valuing a property was notified to Mr C through his 
brother and that in later years he was told in clear way to check the values and ensure he 
wasnt underinsured. In those circumstances I cant uphold the complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman