DRN-2804477
The complaint
Mr G complains about British Gas Insurance Limiteds (BG) level of service given during a 
claim made under his home emergency insurance. 
  
What happened
 Mr G contacted BG to make a claim as there was a leak in a soil pipe at his home. He was 
told by the advisor that soil pipes were covered under the policy and an engineer was sent to 
his home, after the £50 excess charge was paid.
After the initial inspection (which included making access holes in a ceiling), the engineer 
couldnt locate the source of the leak, so another visit was arranged. That visit found that the 
leak came from a soil pipe. But as the pipe contained asbestos, the repair was unable to be 
completed. BG told Mr G that under the terms and conditions of the policy, any asbestos 
found must be removed before it could carry out the repair. 
Mr G didnt accept BGs explanation as he believed the terms and conditions of the policy 
didnt specifically exclude BG from removing the affected pipework. And that BG should do 
so, especially as it had originally implied it would. Mr G raised a complaint with BG. 
In its final response, BG relied upon the terms and conditions of the policy, in that it said 
although the removal of the soil pipe was covered, the removal of the asbestos was not 
covered. So, it was Mr Gs responsibility to remove the asbestos and obtain a certificate to 
prove that it had been removed, before BG would return to carry out any further repair. 
BG did recognise that there had been some poor service and offered £50 as a good will 
gesture. Mr G wasnt happy about this outcome and referred a complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt uphold it. He said that it wasnt 
unfair or unreasonable for BG not to have completed the repair, as the policy terms and 
conditions say that it was Mr Gs responsibility to remove the asbestos. And as BG couldnt 
complete the repair, it couldnt fairly charge the excess and that fee should be refunded to 
Mr G.
He also said that alternatively, if Mr G confirmed that the asbestos had been removed, BG 
could keep the excess charge as it would be carrying out the repair of the pipe. But, if Mr G 
didnt agree with removing the asbestos, then BG ought to refund the excess charge, as it 
wouldnt have carried out the work. 
Mr G didnt agree with our investigator. He said that the terms and conditions of the policy 
regarding asbestos being present, didnt refer to any claims made under the drains cover 
part of the policy. And as this claim was being made under the drains section, this meant BG 
were obliged to remove the asbestos. Also, if the asbestos was removed, there would be 
nothing for BG to repair. Finally, he said that he hadnt received the £50 goodwill gesture 
that he had accepted. So, he asked the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr G, Ive decided not to uphold his 
complaint and Ill explain why. 
The main issues here are:
Whether BG are responsible for removing the asbestos. 
Whether BG has issued the £50 goodwill gesture that Mr G accepted. 
Mr G purchased a home emergency policy that provided cover for his central heating, 
plumbing and drains. Both parties accept that asbestos was found in a soil pipe, the issue is 
whether BG are responsible for removing the asbestos, before completing the repair. 
I have looked at the terms and conditions of the policy to see what the responsibilities of 
both parties are.
Mr G said that there was no specific term in the policy, under the drains cover that prevented 
BG from removing the asbestos. Especially, as he said BG had implied it would. But I dont 
agree, and Ill explain why. 
The policy provides: 
We wont start or continue doing any work in your home if we believe theres a health and 
safety risk, for example: hazardous chemicals, pest infestations, verbal or physical abuse, or
harassment. And we wont return to finish the work until that risk is gone.
If any asbestos needs to be removed before we can repair your boiler, appliance or system,
youll need to arrange and pay for someone else to remove it and give you a Certificate of
Reoccupation which youll need to show us.
Im satisfied that the general conditions and in particular the your responsibilities sections 
(which is where the term is located) applies to the whole of the policy. The term specifically 
details that if asbestos is found, it needs to be removed before a repair can be completed. 
The responsibility to do so is that of the policyholder. Which I think means that the 
responsibility to remove the asbestos lies with Mr G. 
The exclusion goes on to explain that if BG are working in a home and there is a health or 
safety risk there (such as asbestos being present), this risk will need to be removed before it 
can finish the work. So, Mr Gs obligations under the policy are to remove the asbestos and 
provide evidence of its removal. Following which, BGs responsibility would be to return and 
complete the repair. In these circumstances, I think its reasonable for Mr G to organise for a 
company to remove the asbestos and obtain proof of its removal.
I understand that Mr G has said that once the asbestos has been removed, then there will be 
no repair. But BG has confirmed that it will complete the repair (which in this case would be 
to install a new soil pipe) as per the terms and conditions of the policy. And it will co-ordinate 
with any company that Mr G gets to remove the asbestos so that there is no delay in 
installing the new pipe, which I think is fair. I have next considered whether its fair for BG to charge the £50 excess, given that the 
repair cant yet be completed. The policy provides that an excess charge (which is the 
amount chosen by the policyholder) is payable on each completed repair and a repair is 
defined as: repair(s) as to fix your boiler, appliance or system following an individual fault or 
breakdown  From the evidence, BG hasnt completed the repair of the soil pipe yet. I 
appreciate that other call outs were made to the property, but for this claim, the repair hasnt 
been finished. So, I dont think its fair for BG to charge the excess, in these circumstances. 
If, however, Mr G confirms that the asbestos has been removed, then its reasonable for BG 
to retain the excess charge once it has completed the repair. 
Mr G also raised the issue of the payment of the £50 goodwill gesture. Mr G agreed to 
accept BGs offer of the payment for poor service but has yet to receive the money. I 
contacted BG who confirmed that the payment will be re-issued. I think if Mr G does not 
receive the re-issued payment, then he ought to contact BG so it can arrange for the 
payment to be made.   
Putting things right
Overall, I think that BG has been fair and reasonable in relying on the terms and conditions 
of the policy by not completing the repair, until Mr G confirms that the asbestos has been 
removed. If Mr G provides such evidence, then BG should complete the repair and can fairly 
charge the excess. 
If Mr and Mrs G dont wish to remove the asbestos, then BG ought to refund the excess 
charge. Finally, BG has confirmed that it will re-issue the payment, which is fair. If Mr G 
doesnt receive it, he should contact BG so that payment can be made to him. 
  
My final decision
Mr G should confirm whether the asbestos will be removed and, on its removal, provide a 
certificate of proof. If this is completed, British Gas Insurance Limited can retain the £50 
excess charge and should complete the repair. 
If Mr G decides not to remove the asbestos, then British Gas Insurance Limited should 
refund the £50 excess charge. 
British Gas Insurance Limited should re-issue the goodwill gesture payment of £50.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman