DRN-4336773
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as B, complains about the amount paid by Society of Lloyd's in 
settlement of a claim on its Jewellers Block Insurance Policy.
What happened
In June 2020 B discovered that a diamond necklace had gone missing from its premises. 
Following this, a stock check was carried out. B also searched the premises and reviewed 
CCTV recordings, but wasnt able to find anything to explain the cause of the diamond 
necklace disappearing. B reported this to the police and Society of Lloyds.
Society of Lloyds appointed loss adjusters to assess the claim and they originally declined it 
on the basis B hadnt provided enough evidence of the loss. After reviewing further 
information from B, Society of Lloyds made an offer of £30,000. It said this was on a without 
prejudice basis and it would consider any further evidence B was able to provide.
Although that sum was paid, B remained unhappy and sought a total of £55,000 in 
settlement of its claim.
When B referred the complaint to this service our investigator didnt think it should be 
upheld. He said it was for B to prove its claim and based on the evidence provided the 
settlement offered was reasonable.
B then provided further information. The investigator referred this to Society of Lloyds but 
this didnt lead to Society of Lloyds changing its position. The investigators view remained 
the same. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry rules and guidance say insurers must deal with claims promptly and 
fairly; provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress; and not unreasonably reject a claim. They should settle claims 
promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
The policy provides cover for the loss of the item of jewellery but, as with all insurance 
policies, the claim is subject to the policy terms and conditions, which in this case include the 
following:
The Insured undertake to keep proper stock and account books in which all sales and 
purchases are recorded. These books, as well as those relating to sendings and 
entrustments, shall be made available for inspection to Underwriters or their representatives 
in case of a claim being made under this contract.
In the case of any loss or damage, the Insured shall, as a condition precedent to any
right of indemnification, supply Underwriters with such information and evidence as to
the property lost or damaged and the circumstances of the loss or damage as
Underwriters may reasonably require and as the Insured may be in a position to
give.
This is in line with the general requirement that, in the first instance, its for the insured to 
prove their claim. Its reasonable for Society of Lloyds to request evidence of the item, the 
circumstances of the loss and its value.
Its not for me to determine the value of the item of jewellery. My role is to consider whether 
Society of Lloyds decision was in line with the policy terms and was fair.
Society of Lloyds initially declined the claim on the grounds that B hadnt proved its claim. It 
then reconsidered and agreed to pay £30,000. Ive looked at the information B provided and 
the way Society of Lloyds considered this.
The evidence B provided in support of the claim included a consignment letter, a
photograph of the necklace, a drawing from memory of the necklace and a personal 
statement from an experienced individual.
The necklace was taken by B on consignment from a customer, who Ill refer to as Mrs A, on 
the basis it would be held by B waiting to be sold at an appropriate time. There is a 
document signed by Mrs A which records the following:
Diamond necklace Value (GBP) £55,000
[B] will pay [Mrs A] a sum of £20,000 before the 3/5/20 to have the above necklace on 
consignment
Although theres evidence of the value agreed between B and Mrs A, there are no specific 
details  for example the cut, colour clarity or carat weight. So the information is limited. 
Mrs A said shed bought the necklace a long time ago at auction and didnt have a receipt or 
other documents.
Society of Lloyds sought a valuation but the consultant said it was difficult to give a valuation 
based on the limited evidence provided. Ultimately, Society of Lloyds did make an offer after 
reviewing all the information gathered in the investigation of the claim.
I appreciate B provided further evidence. And it has also explained about its representative, 
who has many years experience. B is frustrated that his opinion wasnt enough to persuade 
Society of Lloyds to increase its offer, given his relevant knowledge. However, theres hardly 
any documentary evidence about the necklace. And despite the individuals knowledge, a 
valuation based on a photo of the necklace and someones memory of something he hadnt 
seen for a long time, wouldnt carry as much weight as properly documented evidence taken 
at the time, rather than a year later.
Society of Lloyds says the only real new information B provided was a valuation done in 
August 2023 which is based on the original limited documentation. It says if that valuer has a 
provable track record of providing accurate valuations from photographs and drawings,  
potentially their valuation could be used as evidence but it wouldnt be the same as having 
original documents made at the time. I think thats a fair comment.
Bearing in mind B are professionals in this area its reasonable to expect them to keep 
proper records  and thats a requirement of the policy. Indeed, its a condition precedent 
that it supplies the information society of Lloyds requested. This means if B doesnt meet the 
condition then on the face of it, its not entitled to indemnity at all. Theres a good commercial reason for that term and a clear link between it and the claim; 
without evidence of the loss and the value, its difficult for Society of Lloyds to assess the 
claim. Ive taken account of Bs comments about the valuation and thought about the weight 
to be given to valuations based on photos and memory of the necklace. On balance I dont 
find them persuasive enough to say Society of Lloyds decision was unfair, particularly 
bearing in mind its for B to prove its claim. 
For the reasons set out above, I consider the way Society of Lloyds dealt with the claim was 
in line with the policy terms and was fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman