DRN-4038162
The complaint
Ms W complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money wont pay her the value 
of a transaction that was refunded to her credit card account. 
What happened
Ms W booked a holiday via a travel company in early 2022. She paid the deposit on her 
Virgin Money credit card and the larger final balance on her debit card. The travel company 
subsequently cancelled the holiday in August 2022. All the funds Ms W had paid were 
refunded to her credit card.
Ms W couldnt access the refund as her credit card account had been closed as, in the 
interim period, she had entered into a Debt Relief Order (DRO). She complained to               
Virgin Money saying it should have refunded the amount paid using her debit card should be 
refunded to her debit card. She subsequently complained that Virgin Money had delayed 
responding to her complaint. 
Virgin Money said the refund was applied to Ms Ws credit card on 30 June 2022 by the 
travel company and not it, so Ms W needed to take this matter up with the travel company. 
But it accepted there had been a delay in responding to Ms Ws complaint and it offered £50 
compensation by way of an apology.  
Unhappy with the response Ms W referred her complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked into it. But he didnt uphold the complaint. He said it was the travel company that had 
applied the refund to Ms Ws credit card and Virgin Money had no control over that. He 
added that as the credit card account was now subject to a DRO, Virgin Money didnt have 
the authority to release the payment to Ms W without the authority from the Official Receiver.
Ms W didnt accept this. She said the refund was applied in August 2022 not June 2022. She 
said she could no longer access her account, but records would show only the deposit was 
paid on her credit card. The investigator accepted that Virgin Money had made a mistake 
referring to the date of the refund as being in June 2022. But he didnt think this altered the 
outcome of the complaint. He said it was the travel company who had applied the refund to 
Ms Ws credit card. He suggested that Ms W should contact the Official Receiver to resolve 
this situation.
As Ms W disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator for the same 
reasons. But I will provide some further clarification.
I can see Ms W has said the refund was made in August 2022 and not June 2022 as      
Virgin Money said in its final response. Ms W has provided evidence from the travel 
company which shows that the refund was made on 5 August 2022. So, I accept the refund 
was made in August 2022. But, like the investigator, Im satisfied the date of the refund 
doesnt make a difference to the outcome of the complaint. 
Ms W thinks Virgin Money should have refunded the funds used to pay for the holiday 
deposit to her credit card and the rest to the debit card. I accept Ms W paid for her holiday 
using both her credit card and debit card for the deposit and the final balance respectively. 
But when the holiday was cancelled, Im satisfied it is primarily for the merchant (in this case 
the travel company) to ensure that the refund was made correctly. There is no dispute that 
the travel company made the refund, but it made the full refund to the credit card. But I cant 
hold Virgin Money responsible as the refund was outside of Virgin Moneys control. 
Ms W asked Virgin Money to pay her the amount shed paid on her debit card. Virgin Money 
declined to do so. This is the crux of Ms Ws complaint. But at the time of the refund, Ms W 
was in a DRO. This meant Virgin Money couldnt recover the outstanding balance Ms W 
owed on her credit card. But, as the refund was within 12 months of the DRO taking effect, 
the outstanding balance hadnt been discharged, meaning it did still exist. 
The investigator said that because of the DRO Virgin Money didnt have the authority to 
release the payment to Ms W without the authority from the Official Receiver. Ive thought 
carefully about this. In doing so, enquiries have been made with the Insolvency Service. The 
Insolvency Service said that when the refund was made Ms W should have contacted it  
which is line with what the investigator suggested Ms W should do. But it also said that it 
wouldnt have contacted Virgin Money directly and that when the DRO is discharged it would 
be for Virgin Money to decide what happened with the refund.   
Taking this all into consideration, Im not persuaded Virgin Money was able to pay the refund 
to Ms W. It follows Im not going to require Virgin Money to repay Ms W the money that was 
refunded to her credit card. I understand Ms Ws DRO will be discharged soon. But she can 
still contact the Insolvency Service if she wishes to. The Insolvency Service DRO team can 
be contacted on 0300 678 0015. Ms W will need to provide them with her DRO reference 
number.
 
While I dont find it was unfair or unreasonable for Virgin Money to decline Ms Ws request, I 
do find it took too long to make  and then communicate  its decision. This caused Ms W 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience, for which fair redress is appropriate. 
Virgin Money recognised it let Ms W down here, apologised and offered her £50 
compensation. I consider that a fair and reasonable resolution to this part of Ms Ws 
complaint. It follows Im not going to require Virgin Money to do more. If Ms W now wishes to 
accept the £50, she should contact Virgin Money directly.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Sandra GreeneOmbudsman