DRN-3925490
The complaint
Miss J complains about difficulties she experienced when attempting to make a claim on her 
Home Insurance policy with Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA).
What happened
Miss J arranged for her home insurance cover with RSA to be transferred to her new 
property before moving home in February 2022. RSA says there was a system issue which 
meant policy documents couldnt be issued.
Miss J raised a complaint with RSA because she needed to provide these documents to her 
solicitor and was worried about her home purchase falling through. RSA sent Miss J a letter 
confirming the buildings cover and paid her £100 compensation as an apology.
In March 2022, Miss J contacted RSA about a leak in her bathroom and was told it couldnt 
find a record of her policy. She says she made numerous calls and no progress was made to 
rectify the situation. She says she had to independently organise a plumber to visit and stop 
the leak. 
In June 2022, Miss J phoned RSA again after discovering another leak in her bathroom. She 
said a plumber wasnt able to isolate the leak and told her she needed to arrange trace and 
access. She was told once again that there was no record of her policy. After she was put 
through to another team, she was told there was a policy in place, but the change of address 
hadnt been completed due to a systems issue. Miss J was told that the systems issue had 
been fixed and the change of address could be completed. However, Miss Js premium had 
increased by £56.
Miss J raised a complaint with RSA. She said shed been told there was no policy in place 
from February and felt she should be refunded the premiums for the period there was no 
cover. 
In response to her complaint, RSA said Miss Js change of address couldnt be completed 
on the policy due to a technical issue. Although there were notes to indicate the matter had 
been reported, there was nothing to show any further action had been taken.
RSA said it was arranging for the policy to be re-written. Once this was done, it would be 
able to assess a claim if Miss J still needed to make one. It paid Miss J £50 compensation 
for the frustration shed experienced.
In August 2022, Miss J made another complaint to RSA about a payment of £213.70 which 
had been taken from her bank account. RSA said the payment had been taken in error. It 
should have deducted an amount taken under the previous policy. RSA had refunded 
£149.56 but it should have refunded a further £42.77 as September and Octobers 
instalments werent due yet.
RSA said it would pay £42.77 as a gesture of goodwill, so that no further payment would be 
taken for the current period. It said it would pay her another £50, so shed receive a total of 
£92.77 compensation.
Miss J remained unhappy, so she referred her complaints to our service. She thought RSA 
should refund the premiums shed paid for February to the end of July 2022 (with interest), 
because she said the policy technically didnt exist. She also thought RSA should pay her 
significantly more compensation because of the work shed had to cover independently, as 
well as the distress and inconvenience shed experienced.
I issued a provisional decision on 9 January 2023 where I explained why I intended to 
uphold Miss Js complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Miss Js complaint. Ill explain why. 
I havent looked at the matters dealt with in RSAs final response letter dated 10 February 
2022 because Miss J brought her complaint to us more than six months after the date of the 
letter. Miss J has confirmed she understands this. Her concerns mainly relate to what 
happened after she tried to make a claim in March 2022.
I can see that Miss J spoke to RSA on more than one occasion in late March 2022, after she 
noticed a leak in her bathroom. Miss J was initially told that a policy couldnt be found for her.  
However, from what I understand a home emergency visit was arranged. 
Miss J phoned RSA the next day because she wanted to make a trace and access claim in 
order to find the source of the leak. I understand RSA was willing to honour the claim, but it 
couldnt be logged due to an issue which meant her cover at her new home wasnt reflecting 
on RSAs system. 
Ive listened to a recording of Miss Js conversation with a representative from RSAs claims 
team. In this, Miss J was told that RSA couldnt arrange the trace and access visit for her, 
until the systems issue was fixed. The representative suggested that Miss J might want to 
arrange trace and access herself. He said that if Miss J provided photos of damage and an 
invoice (with a breakdown) from a leak detection company or plumber, it would assess her 
claim once it was set up on its system.  
There doesnt appear to have been any further contact from Miss J until around three 
months later when she called regarding another trace and access claim. Miss J told RSA 
that a home emergency plumber had visited after shed discovered a leak in her bathroom 
that morning.
Once again, Miss J was initially told that a policy couldnt be found for her. She was 
transferred to another team and was told this was due to a systems issue which had been 
resolved. However, the change of address needed to be completed. After confirming the 
details for the new property, the RSA representative told Miss J that her premium had 
increased by £56. Miss J was told shed need to agree to the additional premium for her 
claim to be considered.
Miss J says she was unable to claim because she was told there was no policy. She says 
RSA refused to honour her policy and would not let her raise a claim to have someone carry 
out trace and access at her property.Im aware that Miss J was told there was no policy at her current address by some of the 
RSA representatives she spoke to. However, Im satisfied that the representatives she spoke 
to (in the calls Ive referred to above) made it clear that there was cover in place and she 
could make claims if she wanted to. 
The terms of the policy say:
Trace and access.
Finding a leak: if its necessary to remove and replace any part of your buildings to find the 
source of water or oil leak from a heating or water system, well pay the cost. The most well 
pay is the trace and access limit shown on your Policy Schedule.
The terms dont specifically say that RSA will arrange trace and access. However, in the call 
of 28 March 2022, the RSA representative told Miss J that they would normally arrange trace 
and access after setting up a claim. So, I appreciate Miss Js frustration that shed had to do 
this herself.
RSA was aware there was an issue with the change of address on the policy in February 
2022. Its acknowledged that appropriate steps werent taken to make sure the change of 
address was actioned following Miss Js calls in March 2022. I think it would have been 
particularly frustrating for Miss J to find that the matter still hadnt been resolved when she 
called again in June. 
Miss J was caused further frustration and inconvenience when RSA took a payment from her 
in error in August 2022. 
RSA has paid Miss J a total of £142.77 for the two complaints Ive considered. However, I 
dont think this is enough to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes 
experienced. 
It took RSA almost six months to fully resolve the issue regarding the change of address. 
This meant that Miss J experienced frustration and inconvenience when she attempted to 
make claims in March and June 2022. She was caused additional upset when an incorrect 
payment was taken from her account in August 2022. So, I think it would be fair for RSA to 
pay Miss J an additional £150 for distress and inconvenience.
RSA has said it would be willing to consider a claim from Miss J, but its told us that she 
hasnt pursued this. If Miss J would still like to make a claim, she should contact RSA.
I set out what I intended to direct RSA to do to put things right. And I gave both parties the 
opportunity to send me any further information or comments they wanted me to consider 
before I issued my final decision.
Responses
Miss J said she felt strongly that RSA should refund her for the period where it was not 
honouring its contract with her. She said it didnt feel right that RSA had taken money from 
her and refused to give her the service she was paying for (i.e. organising the trace and 
access).
RSA said it was happy to pay Miss J a further £150.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Miss J believes it would be fair for RSA to refund the premiums from the 
start date of the policy until it was successfully set up on its system. However, Im satisfied 
that Miss J had cover from the start of the policy and RSA has said it would be willing to 
consider a claim if Miss J was to make one. 
As I said in my provisional decision, the terms of the policy dont specifically say that RSA 
will arrange trace and access. I appreciate that Miss J didnt receive the service she 
expected when she contacted RSA. But I think the compensation Im asking RSA to pay 
fairly recognises the impact this had on her. So, Im not persuaded that RSA should also 
refund the premiums. 
Putting things right
RSA should pay Miss J an additional £150 for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Js complaint and direct Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman