DRN-3501626
The complaint
Mrs A complains about Mercantile Claims Management Solutions Limited (Mercantile) and 
their decision to invoice her for a fee based on a refund she believes she received without 
their involvement.
What happened
Mrs A purchased a timeshare from a company, who Ill refer to as Z, using finance obtained 
from a lender, who Ill refer to as B.
In May 2019, Mrs A instructed Mercantile to pursue a claim against B on a no win no fee 
basis, as she felt the timeshare was mis-sold. Mercantile made the claim to B in August 
2019 and when they didnt receive a reasonable response, they referred the claim to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service in December of that year.
In October 2021, the Financial Ombudsman Service wrote to Mrs A explaining the industry 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), had undertaken a review of loans provided 
by B in relation to Z. And so, B would need to offer compensation. Mrs A accepted this, and 
her complaint was marked as resolved.
As Mrs A had paid off the loan in full, she was paid a refund of just over £7,500 by B. And 
so, Mercantile issued Mrs A with an invoice for just under £3,000, in line with the terms and 
conditions of the agreement. But Mrs A was unhappy about this, so she raised a complaint.
Mrs A didnt think Mercantile were fair to invoice her for a fee, when B had stated the refund 
she received was made to her without any involvement from any third parties. So, she didnt 
think Mercantile had completed any work that had led to the refund she received and so, she 
wanted the outstanding invoice to be waived.
Mercantile responded and didnt agree. They thought they had completed the work 
necessary to secure the refund Mrs A received, including contributing to the legal challenge 
that led to the FCAs intervention. So, they thought they acted fairly, and in line with the 
terms of the agreement Mrs A entered into, when invoicing for their fee and they felt this 
remained due. Mrs A remained unhappy with this response, so she referred her complaint to 
us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They recognised why Mrs A 
would challenge the validity of the invoice, due to the information Mrs A had been told by B. 
But they were satisfied that Mercantile were instructed before the FCA issued the findings of 
their review that led to Bs refund. And they were satisfied Mercantile had submitted the 
claim to B and then to FOS before this refund was provided. So, they thought Mercantile 
were fair to invoice for their fee and didnt think Mercantile needed to do anything further.
Mrs A didnt agree. And she provided evidence which she thought evidenced her belief that 
Mercantile hadnt completed any work of value to the refund she received. Our investigator 
explained they reviewed the file, and this evidence, and their view remained the same. Mrs A 
continued to disagree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mrs A. I appreciate Mrs A was 
unhappy with the timeshare she initially purchased through Z. And I recognise she instructed 
Mercantile to raise a claim with B in the hope of recouping funds to address the financial loss 
she felt she suffered. So, I can understand why Mrs A is unhappy that she is now left in a 
situation where she is owing money to Mercantile and has been threatened with legal action 
if it isnt paid.
But for me to say Mercantile should waive this invoice and cease collection activity, Id need 
to be satisfied they have acted outside of the terms and conditions of the agreement Mrs A 
entered into when issuing it. Or, if I think they did work within these, that it was unfair of them 
to do so. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
This decision focuses solely on the claim Mercantile has progressed against B in relation to 
the timeshare purchased from Z. Im aware Mrs A has another claim with Mercantile about 
another loan, and this isnt something thats impacted the decision Ive reached.
It's not in dispute that Mrs A instructed Mercantile to pursue a claim against B on her behalf. 
Ive seen the Letter of Authority (LOA) and Terms of Business (TOB) she signed which 
authorised Mercantile to complete this work. And Im satisfied Mrs A was aware of the 
potential fee shed be charged if a claim was successful, as she queried this fee with 
Mercantile and she continued to engage with them, including returned signed Financial 
Ombudsman Service forms, after Mercantile confirmed the fee would be 30%+VAT as 
stipulated in the TOB. So, I havent considered this further.
Instead, Ive focused on Mrs As main area of dispute, which resolves around the work 
Mercantile completed to secure the refund she received from B.
I can see Mercantile submitted a claim to B. And when B failed to uphold or settle Mrs As 
claim, I can see Mercantile referred the claim to the Financial Ombudsman Service. This is 
what I would expect Mercantile to do in this situation, as this is the usual claim process. 
It is following this that the FCA determined B should refund certain loans provided by B, 
which Mrs As loan fell within. This determination was made in August 2020, some 8 months 
after Mercantile had referred Mrs As complaint. I can Mercantile made Mrs A aware of this 
determination while also providing her with updates regarding the status of the claim that 
was with the Financial Ombudsman Service. So again, I think Mercantile did everything I 
would expect them to do. 
When B provided Mrs A with their offer a refund, I can see B stipulated that the refund was 
separate to any actions a company such as Mercantile were completing on her behalf. And 
that the actions of Mercantile hadnt influenced the outcome of the claim. So, I can 
understand why Mrs B would then query the work Mercantile have carried out.
But crucially, I dont think this statement from B impacts the validity of Mercantiles fee. The 
agreement Mrs A entered into with Mercantile is entirely separate to any relationship Mrs A had with B. So, I dont think any statement made by B should automatically impact this.
Bs statement explains the refund they have offered is being offered by them, through their 
own decision. But this decision was directed by the FCA, who reviewed loans such as Mrs 
As following legal challenges from companies such as Mercantile. So, I dont think the way 
B portrayed this offer was entirely accurate.
And I think its reasonable for me to assume that, by offering Mrs A a refund, B have 
accepted that the loan was mis-sold to Mrs A in the first instance. So, had B responded to 
Mercantiles claim they raised on Mrs As behalf in August 2019 fairly, this is the outcome B 
wouldve reached. And had B reached this outcome then, Mercantile wouldve invoiced Mrs 
A for their fee and I think this fee wouldve been payable. 
I dont think it would be fair for me to say Mercantile should waive their fee, due to B failing to 
respond to the initial claim they raised in a fair and reasonable way. I can see Mercantile 
progressed the claim in line with the process I would expect them to do, and I can see 
theyve taken steps to ensure Mrs A had been kept updated during this process. And I can 
see while the claim was ongoing, and Mrs As agreement with Mercantile was outstanding, 
Mrs A received a refund. So, I think Mercantile have acted fairly when deeming this claim to 
be successful and so, are reasonable to invoice Mrs A for their fee in line with the terms of 
the agreement. Because of this, I dont think Mercantile need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mrs A was hoping for. And I recognise this leaves Mrs A 
in a position where there is an outstanding fee she needs to pay. But Im unable to say 
Mercantile have acted unfairly or done anything wrong on this occasion. If Mrs A no longer 
has the funds to pay this invoice, she will need to agree a method of repayment with 
Mercantile and I would expect Mercantile to act positively and sympathetically to Mrs As 
situation when considering an what is reasonable and affordable.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs As complaint about Mercantile Claims 
Management Solutions Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman