DRN-1126133
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc (T/A Barclaycard) sold her outstanding credit 
card balance to a third party. Shes also unhappy adverse credit information has been 
recorded on her credit file.
What happened
In January 2010 Mrs C applied for a Barclaycard online. Her account was opened and she 
transferred a balance from another credit card to her Barclaycard, the balance of which she 
paid in full in September 2011.
After this time Mrs C began to experience financial difficulties in making payments to her 
account. In October 2012, Barclaycard said it agreed a 12 month formal repayment plan with 
Mrs C whereby she paid £60 per month, which was less than 1% of the balance she owed. It 
also suspended charges and interest. 
After Mrs Cs repayment plan expired in October 2013, Barclaycard said it wasnt able to 
agree another formal repayment plan because Mrs C was no longer working. But it 
continued to informally accept monthly payments of £60 and interest and charges remained 
suspended.
In July 2014 Barclaycard issued a default notice because the payments Mrs C was making 
no longer met her contractual monthly payments. Her account was passed to Barclaycards 
recoveries department. It sent her a formal demand for payment in July 2015. And, in August 
2015, Mrs Cs account was sold to a third party, who Ill refer to as P in this decision. 
Mrs C wasnt happy with what had happened and complained to Barclaycard. But it didnt 
uphold her complaint as it said its decision to sell her account to P was in line with the 
account terms and conditions. It also said it had notified her about the sale. So, it didnt 
agree that an error had been made.
Being unhappy with Barclaycards response to her complaint Mrs C referred it to our service. 
Our investigator looked into this and, while they empathised with Mrs C, didnt think that 
Barclaycard had done anything wrong. But Mrs C disagreed and asked for her complaint to 
be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I sympathise with Mrs Cs situation, having considered everything that she and 
Barclaycard have said, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator for broadly the 
same reasons. I understand that Mrs C will be disappointed by this outcome. But I hope she 
can understand the reasons behind my decision.Id like to make it clear at the outset that, while P has also been involved in handling Mrs Cs 
outstanding balance, this complaint relates only to what Barclaycard did. So, Ill limit my 
findings to whether it acted fairly and reasonably here. 
The first part of Mrs Cs complaint is about Barclaycards decision to sell her debt to a third 
party. She feels this was unfair because she was maintaining her agreed payments. So, Ill 
focus on this issue first.
I can see that Mrs C had agreed a formal payment plan with Barclaycard in October 2012 
whereby she paid £60 per month. But this plan was for 12 months and, when Barclaycard 
reviewed it in October 2013, Mrs C was unemployed. So it wasnt able to set up another 
formal payment plan. This isnt unusual and I cant fairly find that it acted unfairly in not 
setting up a new formal payment plan given Mrs Cs change in circumstances. 
Despite there being no formal payment plan Barclaycard continued to accept payment of 
£60 per month. And it continued to waive fees and interest. I think this demonstrates that 
Barclaycard took reasonable steps to try to help Mrs C in reducing her debt. But, as our 
investigator explained, where a formal payment plan isnt in place the minimum payment 
falls due. And, based on the evidence Ive seen, the payment Mrs C was making each month 
wasnt sufficient to cover her contractual monthly account payment. 
As a result of this, Barclaycard issued a default notice in July 2014. I dont think this was 
unreasonable because, when an account goes into arrears for a number of months as Mr 
Cs did here, a business is entitled to issue a default notice. Guidance from The Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO) says it would expect a default to be registered by the time a 
consumer is six months behind with their payments. Im satisfied Barclaycard acted in line 
with this guidance.
In July 2015 Barclaycard sent Mrs C a formal demand for payment. This letter warned her 
that if her balance remained outstanding the debt may be sold to a third party. One month 
later, Barclaycard sold Mrs Cs account balance to P. Based on the evidence Ive seen Im 
satisfied that Barclaycard kept Mrs C informed of what was happening with her account and 
its intention to sell her debt before it was sold to P.
I recognise that Mrs C is unhappy that her outstanding balance was passed to a third party. 
But this is a commercial decision its entitled to take if it wishes and its common practice for 
businesses to take this action so that agents  can take over, as they are generally more able 
to be more flexible with the payments and amounts theyre able to accept.
The terms and conditions of her account set out in clear intelligible language the options 
Barclaycard has when a customer isnt maintaining their account. Under the section titled 
missed payments Barclaycard says we may also sell your debt on to another 
organisation. 
So, those terms and conditions make it clear that debts can be sold on. And Mrs C was 
warned that could happen in correspondence Barclaycard sent. It follows that Im satisfied 
that Mrs Cs debt was sold by Barclaycard in accordance with the terms and conditions. And 
I cant fairly find that Barclaycard made an error here.
Ill turn now to the second part of Mrs Cs complaint, which is about the information recorded 
on her credit file. 
Mrs C said she sent Barclaycard a screenshot of her credit report. She said this showed that 
when her debt was sold to P it removed reference to her credit limit, which immediately 
impacted her credit score as it suggested she was borrowing more than 100% of her available credit. She said prior to her debt being sold to P her credit report showed she was 
borrowing less than her credit limit. So she felt the way in which her debt was being recorded 
after the debt sale was unfair.
When our investigation queried this with Barclaycard it said once it has sold an account it will 
record a customers account as being settled and will show a credit limit of zero because its 
no longer lending to a customer even thought theres an outstanding balance. It also 
explained that any reporting to credit agencies would, at that stage, be taken over by the 
third party.
So, here once Barclaycard sold Mrs Cs account to P it took over reporting to credit 
reference agencies. This means that Mrs C will need to raise her concerns regarding the 
fairness of any entries on her credit file with P directly.
I realise Mrs C will be disappointed with this decision. But it brings to an end what we, in 
trying to resolve this complaint with Barclaycard informally, can do for her. Im sorry we cant 
help Mrs C any further with this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman