DRN-2331358
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain Saga Services Limited mis-sold a legal expenses insurance policy to 
them.
What happened
In 2016 Mr and Mrs L insured their home with Saga and took out an additional legal 
expenses insurance policy alongside that cover.
In 2019 Mr and Mrs L had an issue with some building work at the property and called Saga 
to find out how much cover was provided under the legal expenses policy.  Mr and Mrs L 
were told they would have cover for up to £100,000.  Their claim under their legal expenses 
insurance was declined by the insurer as there was a specific exclusion on the policy that 
didnt provide any cover if the value of the contract was over £20,000.  Mr and Mrs L 
complained to Saga they were misadvised and misled about the level of cover the policy 
provided.  They said they had to pursue their legal claim privately which was very stressful 
and distressing for them. They want Saga to pay the legal costs they incurred and the 
balance of money they were unable to obtain from the builder.
Saga looked into the complaint but said it didnt think it had done anything wrong.  It said it 
had provided Mr and Mrs L with details of the policy when it was taken out and again at each 
renewal. It agreed that when Mr L called prior to making a claim, he was given the wrong 
information about the limit that specifically applied to building contract disputes.  It offered 
£50 for the inconvenience this caused. Mr and Mrs L disagreed so brought their complaint to 
this service. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He explained to 
Mr and Mrs L he thought Saga had provided them with information about the policy as it was 
required to do, so he didnt think it had been mis-sold. He thought the offer of £50 
compensation was fair and reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs L disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. In doing so 
they reiterated many of the points they had already made. Mr L also added that at the time of 
sale hed specifically asked how much cover they had and was repeatedly told the insurance 
provides cover up to £100,000. 
The case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed in detail everything Mr and Mrs L have explained about the legal claim they 
had to make, I can understand why it would have added to their frustration and distress 
when they found out their legal costs wouldnt be covered. When selling the policy to Mr and 
Mrs L Saga had a responsibility to provide them with information that was clear fair and not 
misleading. And, which would have allowed them to make an informed choice about whether 
or not the policy was suitable for them. 
Having looked through everything, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator 
for the following reasons:
Mr and Mrs L were provided with information about the policy at the time of sale, and 
again at each renewal. They had several opportunities to look through the 
information provided to them and ask any questions they needed to.  Im satisfied 
this information outlined the cover in detail and as such Im satisfied, they were given 
clear information about the policy coverage.
Mr L has said they told the adviser they would not read the policy documents in 
detail and relied on the fact they were told the policy provided cover up to £100,000.  
The adviser wouldnt have been wrong in saying this to Mr and Mrs L as the policy 
does do exactly that.  However, every policy is defined by its exclusions, I wouldnt 
expect an adviser to go through all of the details related to the policy, only its key 
features and any unusual exclusions. The fact that Mr and Mrs L chose not to read 
the policy documentation is not something I would hold Saga responsible for. 
Its unfortunate the claim Mr and Mrs L wanted to make fell under an exclusion in the 
policy. But I dont think this particular exclusion is unusual, so I dont think Saga 
needed to specifically point it out at the time of sale. 
Saga have admitted that when Mr L called to discuss the claim he wanted to make; 
he was incorrectly advised about the level of cover available at that point. This was 
an error which Saga has offered £50 compensation for. I think this is fair and 
reasonable. At that point, the legal expenses insurance policy was in place and had 
previously renewed some five months earlier, so the terms of cover available was 
already set. 
Having considered everything, while I understand Mr and Mrs Ls frustration, I dont 
think the legal expenses policy was mis-sold.
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint against Saga Services 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman