DRN-4458276
The complaint
Mr H complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited mishandled his claim on a 
motor insurance policy. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a hatchback car, first registered in 2014.
Mr H had the car insured on a comprehensive policy for the year from June 2022. Mr H 
agreed to pay the yearly premium of about £1,700.00 by instalments.
The policy was branded with the name of an insurance intermediary. Advantage was the 
insurance company that was responsible for dealing with any claim.
The policy terms included the following:
4. Alcohol and drugs
Youre not covered if an accident happens while you or anyone entitled to drive under
your current Certificate of Motor Insurance:
Is found to be over the prescribed limit for alcohol in the country where the 
incident happens
Is driving while unfit through alcohol, drugs or other substances, whether 
prescribed or not
Doesnt provide a sample of breath, blood or urine when required to do so, 
without lawful reason.
In December 2022, Mr H and his car were involved in an accident that caused damage to 
the front nearside of the car. Police breathalysed Mr H and found 66mg of alcohol per 100ml 
of breath, which is almost double the legal limit.
Much of Mr Hs complaint is about acts or omissions of the intermediary acting as claims-
handler on behalf of Advantage. Insofar as I hold Advantage responsible for such acts or 
omissions, I will refer to them as Advantages.
By a letter dated 9 February 2023, Advantage turned down Mr Hs claim. It said that it had 
paid the authorities £362.25 to get the car back. As its salvage company had sold Mr Hs 
damaged car for £1,200.00, Advantage offered to send Mr H a payment as follows:
sale proceeds £1,200.00
less storage costs £   362.25
total £   837.75
Mr H complained to Advantage that it had sold the car without his authorisation.
By a final response dated early March 2023, Advantage apologised. It offered to send Mr H 
the £1,200.00 and said it had not yet paid the £362.25 to its salvage agent.
Advantage sent Mr H a cheque for £837.75.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that Mr H 
had told Advantage of his intention to retain the salvage prior to the sale of his vehicle. The 
investigator said he wouldve asked Advantage to offer £500.00 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused, but as theyd paid the storage and recovery costs, he was only 
recommending that Advantage should pay a further £150.00 to make up for their error.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr H 
and to Advantage on 9 November 2023. I summarise my findings:
Advantages salvage agent was wrong to sell Mr Hs car. I held Advantage 
responsible for that.
Mr H hadnt provided enough evidence that the damaged car was worth any more 
than the £1,200.00 that Advantage received.
As it declined the claim (and I wasnt not dealing with a complaint about that), I didnt 
find that Advantage treated Mr H unfairly by deducting the £362.25 from the 
£1,200.00 and sending Mr H a cheque for the balance of £837.75.
For his level of distress and inconvenience, I found that compensation of £500.00 
would be fair.
Subject to any further information from Mr H or from Advantage, my provisional decision was 
to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to direct Advantage Insurance Company Limited 
to pay Mr H (insofar as it hasnt already paid him) as follows:
for the damaged car £1,200.00
less storage charges £   362.25
sub-total £   837.75
for distress and inconvenience £   500.00
total £1,337.75
Advantage hasnt responded to the provisional decision. But I understand that Advantage 
has previously agreed to pay the above sums.
Mr H disagreed with the provisional decision in part. His father says, in summary, that:
The sale of his son's car has nothing to do with his drink/driving.
Advantage dealt with the sale of the car despite him phoning and emailing them. 
Before mid- February, Advantage said in emails and phone calls they would not sell 
the car.He asks why he never saw any quote or correspondence from Advantage saying it 
would cost over £12,000.00 to repair the car. If that was the case, Advantage 
wouldve scrapped the car and not sold it via an auction.
After Advantage sold the car, Mr H and his father couldnt get an estimate for repair 
themselves. A friend is a body repair specialist, and a family member is a mechanic. 
They looked at the photographs and thought about £1,500.00 - £2,000.00 for parts 
etc. but they would not charge for labour.
Its value would have been about £4,000.00.
He has no record that anyone from Advantage has spoken to or emailed him to 
actually say sorry.
He has done all the chasing and making phone calls, for 3-4 months when working 
full- time away from home quite often. People didnt return calls.
His son worked hard to pay for that car, he owned the vehicle outright.
A more reasonable amount of £2,500.00 upwards is a more acceptable amount, as 
his son will never see his first car again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Scope of this final decision
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute 
resolution rules. One of those rules means that, before we can investigate a complaint, the 
consumer must first have made that complaint to the regulated firm and waited for up to 
eight weeks for a final response. It follows that we can usually only investigate the complaint 
that was made before the final response.
Mr H emailed Advantage in mid-February 2023 complaining specifically about the sale of the 
car. So this final decision will deal with that complaint rather than any other aspects of 
Advantages service.
Sale of the car
Advantages salvage agent was wrong to sell Mr Hs car. I hold Advantage responsible for 
that.
We dont assess compensation at a level intended to punish or deter unfair acts or 
omissions. Rather, we look to compensate any financial loss or distress and inconvenience 
caused to the policyholder by unfair acts or omissions.
Mr H says that he couldve got the car repaired by a friend for about £1,500.00. But he hasnt 
provided enough detail of any estimate for the repair work. And the salvage companys 
estimate for the cost of repairs was about £12,000.00. So Im not persuaded that Mr H 
couldve got the car repaired to a roadworthy standard for as little as £1,500.00.
Moreover, Mr H hasnt provided enough evidence that the damaged car was worth any more 
than the £1,200.00 that Advantage received.
Mr Hs response to the provisional decisionI accept that Mr H had worked hard to pay for the car.
His father regards the drink- driving and the accident as separate from the sale of the car. 
But the accident led to the claim and Advantage turned down the claim because of the drink 
driving. It is relevant for me to mention this because it explains how Advantage came into 
possession of the car and regarded it as a total loss, before turning down the claim and 
selling the car without meeting the claim.
I wouldnt expect Advantage to have shared with Mr H the estimate for repairs, especially as 
it greatly exceeded the pre-accident value of the car. I think Mr H is mistaken that this meant 
that Advantage wouldve scrapped the car rather than sold it. Advantages salvage agent 
said the car was Category S. I would expect Advantage to have sold the damaged car 
through the salvage agent  but only if and when it had met the claim.
I accept Mr Hs fathers statements that he contacted Advantage to ask to keep the damaged 
car- and Advantage agreed. Even if there had been no such contact or agreement, 
Advantage shouldnt have sold Mr Hs car without his consent unless it was settling his 
claim.
I also accept that, after the sale, Mr H didnt have access to the vehicle to arrange an 
assessment. Nevertheless, the key question is the value of the damaged car. In part, that is 
to do with the cost of repairs against the value of the car after repairs.
I have no reason to doubt Mr Hs fathers statement that he had contacts through whom he 
couldve got the car repaired for about £1,500.00 - £2,000.00. That meant, in my view, that 
the car was more valuable to Mr H than to others who wouldve had to pay for labour. 
Nevertheless, Ive found that Mr H hasnt provided enough evidence that the damaged car 
was worth any more than the £1,200.00 that Advantage received.
Mr Hs father doesnt recall any apology. However, Advantage sent him its final response in 
March 2023 containing the following:
it has resulted in the vehicle being sold, unfortunately and I am so sorry for that
Mr Hs fathers says that he did all the chasing while working full-time and Advantage didnt 
always return his calls. However, Ive said that this final decision deals with the complaint 
specifically about the sale of the car, rather than any other aspects of Advantages service. 
Also, Mr H was the policyholder. 
I see no reason to change my view that £500.00 is fair compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to him by Advantages shortcomings.  
Putting things right
I accept that, in accounting for the £1,200.00, Advantage has deducted £362.25 for storage 
and other costs it incurred in recovering the damaged car before it declined the claim. As it 
declined the claim (and Im not dealing with a complaint about that), I dont find that 
Advantage treated Mr H unfairly by deducting the £362.25 from the £1,200.00 and sending 
Mr H a cheque for the balance of £837.75.
Mr H told us that he hadnt cashed the cheque. However, I consider that he couldve cashed 
it and continued to pursue his complaint. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct 
Advantage to pay interest on that balance.Nevertheless, the car had been Mr Hs first car and hed wanted to keep it after the accident. 
So I dont under-estimate the annoyance and frustration the sale caused to Mr H. He felt that 
Advantage had ignored his wishes and violated his rights of ownership. For that level of 
distress and inconvenience, I find that compensation of £500.00 is fair.
In conclusion, I find it fair and reasonable to direct Advantage to pay Mr H (insofar as it 
hasnt already paid him) as follows:
for the damaged car £1,200.00
less storage charges £   362.25
sub-total £   837.75
for distress and inconvenience £   500.00
total £1,337.75 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Advantage Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr H (insofar as it hasnt already paid 
him) as follows:
for the damaged car £1,200.00
less storage charges £   362.25
sub-total  £   837.75
for distress and inconvenience £   500.00
total £1,337.75 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman