DRN-2768408
The complaint
Mr O has complained about Wesleyan Assurance Society. Hes unhappy about advice he 
received to start a Free Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution policy (FSAVC), instead 
of buying added years in his occupational pension scheme. 
Mr O says that he cant access the funds from the FSAVC without paying substantial
Tax and that when he first spoke with Wesleyan, he was told it would calculate his losses, 
only to be told later that there was no loss.
What happened
Mr O took advice in 1994 and set up an FSAVC. Wesleyan completed a review of the sale of 
the FSAVC in 2019. It upheld the complaint accepting that the risks and charges of the 
FSAVC compared to added years wasnt made clear. 
Wesleyan said that it would have actuaries complete a calculation to assess any loss. In 
2020 Mr O was told that the actuarial calculation showed that there had been no loss.
Mr O referred his complaint to this service where it was considered by an investigator. The 
investigator didnt think that the complaint should be upheld. 
The investigator explained that this service doesnt check calculations, but the information 
that had been inputted into the assessment appeared to be correct. Wesleyan was able to 
demonstrate that features of the FSAVC including a Guaranteed Annuity Option (GAO) 
meant that there was no loss.
On the issue of tax, the investigator explained that this service wouldnt expect Wesleyan to 
do anything differently which would mean Mr O avoided the additional tax relating to 
exceeding his lifetime allowance. The lifetime allowance includes all pensionable income 
and isnt directly linked to this FSAVC fund. 
The investigator also explained why she didnt think it would be fair to require Wesleyan to 
pay any compensation in respect of any loss of expectation. Although Mr Os complaint was 
upheld and he may have expected a payment, a calculation had to be made and this would 
inevitably take time.
On the issue of earlier retirement, the investigator said that whilst it was possible that Mr O 
may have considered retiring earlier, he hadnt in fact retired early.
Mr O didnt agree and asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigator and with her reasoning. I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain 
why by reference to some of the specific issues that have been raised.
The calculation
Wesleyan have undertaken an actuarial calculation to assess any loss. As the investigator 
has said, this service doesnt have the resources to check the calculation itself, but the data 
that has been used appears to be correct. I note that the FSAVC contributions would have 
only been enough to buy just over one added year when the plan was arranged in 1994. But 
Mr O stopped contributing after less than ten years, and so that reduced the potential added 
years to around 215 days. And significantly, the FSAVC plan included what appears to be a 
valuable guaranteed annuity rate. These appear to be significant factors which lead to their 
being no loss when a comparison was made between added years and the FSAVC.
The lifetime allowance
The lifetime allowance (LTA) takes into account all pension entitlements and would have 
taken some account of any added years if Mr O hadnt taken out the FSAVC. Also, this 
FSAVC plan is only part of Mr Os total pension arrangements. 
Wesleyans aim at the time of the advice would have been to maximize Mr Os pension 
income in retirement. It wouldnt have had regard to the LTA and any possible LTA charge 
when it gave the advice in 1994, the LTA didnt exist then. And as I understand things, 
Wesleyan wasnt providing Mr O with ongoing financial advice over the years. 
It was up to Mr O to consider his LTA position, take advice if necessary, and take what 
protection he could in his circumstances. I understand that he has in fact taken some LTA 
protection in any event. I dont think Wesleyan is responsible for any impact of this FSAVC 
on Mr Os LTA and any liability he may have for an LTA charge. 
Early retirement
Mr O says that if he had purchased added years he may have retired sooner. That may be 
true, but I think its important to note that the FSAVC contributions would only have 
purchased around one added year, and so Im not certain how significant a consideration 
that would have been in Mr Os retirement planning. But in any event, I think its fair that 
Wesleyan should assess any loss by reference to what happened, rather than speculate 
about what may have happened in the past in different circumstances. Its calculation does 
take into account the retirement choices Mr O actually made. I think that is fair.
Loss of expectation
I can understand that Mr O may have expected to receive compensation once his complaint 
was upheld. But Wesleyan was perfectly entitled to take time to make the calculation of loss. 
These calculations are not simple and straightforward and do require actuarial input. The 
calculation showed no loss, as Ive set out above. That was always a possibility and Im not 
satisfied that Mr Os expectations were falsely raised.
Therefore, for these reasons, and for the reasons given by the investigator which Ive 
summarised above, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman