DRN-2961665
The complaint
Mr C complains Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclays) reduced the limit 
available on his credit card account without good reason.
What happened
Mr C holds a credit card account with Barclays and says he received notification in April 
2021 it was their intention to review the credit limit available on his credit card account. Mr C 
says despite him providing Barclays with evidence of his income and financial status and the 
fact he was a longstanding customer of theirs, Barclays still reduced his limit by almost 
£10,000. Mr C says this has caused him problems as he relied upon the flexibility the higher 
credit limit had given him. Mr C says he feels the reason for the reduced limit may be a 
consequence of his age and furthermore the reduction in his limit will reflect poorly on his 
credit file. Mr C wishes Barclays to either provide the previous limit he enjoyed or reduce the 
limit to say £10,000, which he says could work for him. 
Barclays says they regularly review their customers credit card accounts to ensure they 
provide responsible facilities. Barclays says after reviewing Mr Cs financial information he 
provided them, their underwriters felt the reduced limit was appropriate. Barclays says, Mr 
Cs age didnt form part of their decision when reducing his credit limit. Barclays says it is 
their responsibility to accurately report to credit reference agencies, when their customers 
limits are amended and have acted within the terms and conditions of the credit card 
agreement.
Mr C wasnt happy with Barclays response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. She 
felt under the terms of the credit card agreement, Barclays were entitled to review and 
reduce Mr Cs credit card limit. The investigator was satisfied Barclays, had reduced Mr Cs 
credit card limit as part of their regular review of all customers accounts. The investigator 
says these reviews affected a range of customers across all age brackets, so couldnt 
support Mr Cs view, they had acted unfairly here. The investigator also felt Barclays were 
obliged to report the credit card limit reduction, to the appropriate credit reference agencies.
Mr C didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I can understand it would be upsetting and inconvenient for Mr C, as a long-standing 
customer of Barclays, to have his credit card account limit reduced despite his track record 
with them. When looking at this complaint, I will consider if Barclays acted unfairly when 
reducing Mr Cs credit card account limit in the way they did.
When coming to a full and impartial decision here I have taken into account information 
provided by both parties. From the information provided to this service, I can see Barclays 
wrote to Mr C in April 2021 advising him of their intention to reduce his credit card limit. Mr C 
says he provided further financial information to Barclays, so they could review their decision 
and he could see no reason why the credit card limit should be reduced given his overall 
financial status and long-standing relationship with them. Mr C suggests Barclays havent 
considered his own individual circumstances but merely grouped him together as part of a 
general review of its customers facilities. Mr C also suggests Barclays may have taken his 
age, and the fact he enjoys preferential interest terms into account, when coming to their 
decision here. 
I understand the points Mr C has made here and I can see that the reduction in his credit 
limit was inconvenient to him. That said, although Mr C may not agree, Barclays under 
section 6 the terms and conditions of credit card agreement, can review customers limits 
from time to time. In addition, under section 12 of the credit card agreement it goes onto say:
Managing your credit limit
If we reduce your credit limit based on an assessment of risk or your ability to repay, we 
have the right to not give you any notice beforehand if we think this would not be 
appropriate, (However, we may choose to give you up to seven days' notice). We won't 
reduce your credit limit to less than your total outstanding balance, plus any transactions 
authorised but not yet charged to your account.
Mr C feels his background and the financial information that he provided Barclays should 
have been sufficient for the existing limit to remain in place. I can see Barclays have 
reviewed his request, as I would expect them to, but they decided following that review, the 
lower level of credit limit was appropriate. Its worth saying that Barclays, like many banks, 
have various criteria when making decisions about the level of borrowing they feel 
comfortable with. Its not my role to tell Barclays, what these criteria must be or that they 
should share this detail with its customers, but to ensure they give reasonable notice of their 
intentions to change any credit limits, and I am satisfied that is what happened here. 
I have considered the point Mr C raises about his age playing a part in Barclays decision to 
reduce his credit card limit, but I have seen no evidence to support that. Barclays have made 
clear to this service, when deciding on credit limit reviews like these, age isnt a part of the 
process -  its more about credit risk criteria and ensuring its customers credit limits are 
deemed appropriate following an underwriting assessment by them. I can also see no 
evidence to support Mr Cs point his beneficial interest borrowing rate may have been a 
reason for Barclays wanting to reduce his borrowing limit. I am satisfied, given the request 
for the limit to remain in place was reviewed by Barclays underwriters, it was in all 
probability, even if Mr C may not agree, more of a question of credit risk than his age or 
pricing that led to his credit limit being reduced. 
Mr C is unhappy the result of this credit limit reduction by Barclays will have financial 
implications for him and additionally given the credit limit reduction has been reported to the 
relevant credit reference agencies, it will affect his credit score. While theres no evidence to 
support any current or future impact on Mr Cs financial position as a result of the reduction 
in his credit limit, its fair to say his credit score wouldnt be the only factor that individual 
credit providers take into account when considering providing credit. Its also reasonable to 
say that having decided to reduce the available credit limit to Mr C, even though I 
understand how unpalatable that was for him, Barclays do have a responsibility to accurately report any actions they have taken on a customers account, to the relevant credit agencies.
While I understand Mr C found the original credit limit beneficial to him, thats not to say 
Barclays must leave it in place without review and here, having done so they feel the level 
they have now set fairly reflects the risk they now wish to take. For the reasons I have 
already given I cant say Barclays have been unreasonable by doing so. 
While Mr C will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Barclays 
here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman