DRN-1310404
 
The complaint
Ms H and Mr P complain that Clydesdale Bank Plc misled them about being able to port their 
mortgage and avoid paying an early repayment charge (ERC). 
What happened
Ms H and Mr P took out a new fixed rate mortgage product with Clydesdale in mid 2018. 
They were intending to move house and checked theyd be able to port the product. 
In 2019 Ms H and Mr P called Clydesdale several times. They were looking to move and 
downsize. They were told they could port the mortgage but would have to pay an ERC on 
part of the loan, as they would be borrowing less. And there were other fees to pay. 
Clydesdale upheld Ms H and Mr Ps complaint in part, saying they hadn't been given correct 
information when they'd first contacted it about porting in early 2019. It offered £150 
compensation for this and delays in responding to their complaint. 
Mr P and Ms H say they were misled when they took out the fixed rate product.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said before taking out 
the new product Mr P asked a general question about porting and the answer he was given 
was correct. He didnt say they intended to downsize. While Clydesdale didnt explain thered 
be an ERC when Ms H told it they intended to downsize, this was after theyd taken out the 
product. The investigator said Clydesdale's offer of £150 compensation was fair.
Mr P and Ms H didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
what happened?
In June 2018 Mr P called Clydesdale. Mr P and Ms H's previous mortgage product was 
ending. Mr P said they were intending to sell the property. So before taking out a new 
product he wanted to check it could be ported so they wouldn't have to pay an ERC. 
Clydesdale said it could be ported, including if there was a gap between selling the property 
and buying another. There was no discussion about what would happen if they downsized.
Mr P and Ms H applied for a fixed rate product online. The product offer says an ERC is 
payable if all or part of the loan is repaid during the fixed rate period. It says the mortgage 
product can be ported, including that the sale and purchase dont have to be simultaneous. It 
says an ERC is payable on part of the loan if the new loan is for a lower amount.Mr P and Ms H wanted to move and downsize. They contacted Clydesdale about porting. It 
said this was possible, but theyd have to pay a £499 porting fee, property valuation fee, £40 
funds transfer fee and the ERC on the balance not being ported. Mr P and Ms H decided not 
to go ahead with porting.
Mr P and Ms H paid an ERC of about £8,500 when they repaid their mortgage in June 2019.
did Clydesdale mislead Mr P and Ms H?
Clydesdale didnt provide advice to Mr P and Ms H in June 2018 or recommend the new 
product. It provided information to Mr P, including about porting and the ERC. 
I dont think the information Clydesdale gave Mr P in June 2018 about porting the mortgage 
was incorrect. There was no discussion about downsizing. But I wouldnt expect Clydesdale 
to explain all possible scenarios, and Mr P didnt say they were thinking of downsizing. The 
product offer said an ERC would be payable on any part of the loan that wasnt ported. 
When Ms H first called Clydesdale about downsizing, she was told this wasnt a problem, 
despite her asking about the ERC. But this was about six months after theyd taken out the 
new product. Mr P and Ms H were given correct information about porting - including the 
ERC and other costs - when they spoke to a mortgage adviser.
I understand Mr P and Ms H are frustrated about the ERC they paid. But I don't think they 
were misled when they agreed to the fixed rate product. Clydesdale offered £150 for the 
incorrect information it gave Ms H and Mr P in 2019 and delays in responding to their 
complaint. I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 May 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman