DRN-3310316
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) unfairly turned down her claims under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA).
What happened
In 2010 Mrs M purchased a joint trial membership with a timeshare provider (Business A) 
during a face-to-face meeting abroad. The trial membership was set to run for 34 months 
and gave Mrs M and the joint member, Mr E, up to 5 weeks of holidays during that time, for 
the price of £3,995. Mrs M took out a £3,000 loan with BPF in her sole name to pay for the 
purchase. The duration of the loan was 36 months. 
In 2019 Mrs M approached BPF, via her representative, to raise a claim under section 75 of 
the CCA  because BPF provided the loan to Mrs M to buy the timeshare membership. 
Although Mrs M purchased a joint membership with Mr E, only Mrs M could have a claim 
against BPF under the CCA because the credit was taken out in her name only. I will 
therefore refer to Mrs M only in this decision.  
Mrs Ms representative said she was subjected to a rigorous, unrelenting, and scripted sales 
routine by Business A during the sale in 2010, and they were forced into taking out finance. 
They said Business A stated that all accommodation would be of a high quality (4 and 5 star) 
and that they would be able to book worldwide via Business As partners. They also said 
they were not given critical information to be able to make an informed decision to buy.
Mrs Ms representative said Business A didnt give Mrs M correct information about the 
ongoing maintenance fees and charges, which were not rational or manageable. They said 
Mrs M was unable to book at certain locations due to her membership and amount of points. 
They believe Business A made false and enticing statements in reference to availability and 
bookings, as when Mrs M tried to book holidays, she wasnt able to. They said Business A 
also made false statements about the resorts being members only clubs  and the 
accommodation that was available wasnt of the quality she was promised. 
Overall, her representative said Business As sales pitches were misleading; they made 
untruthful declarations and lied about everything from maintenance fees to membership and 
resales. Mrs Ms representative said she found out the representations made during the sale 
werent true when Mrs M made further visits to the resorts. 
Mrs Ms representative said they didnt receive a credible response from BPF, so they made 
a complaint via our service. In response, BPF said the loan that was taken out in April 2010 
to buy the timeshare membership was settled in July 2010. They said Mrs M also took out 
another loan in July 2010, which was then settled in September 2010. BPF said Mrs M didnt 
make a claim to BPF until 2019. So, they believed a claim under either section 75 or section 
140A of the CCA was made out of time. 
 
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Ms complaint. He didnt think BPF acted unfairly in 
seeking to decline Mrs Ms claims under the CCA. He considered the relevant law, the 
Limitation Act 1980 (LA), and explained his view that Mrs M had six years from the date of 
the sale (April 2010) to raise her claim under section 75 for misrepresentation, which would 
have been April 2016. And because she didnt raise her claim until April 2019, she was too 
late. 
 
He also considered whether Mrs M had a claim under section 140A of the CCA. However, 
he explained his view that the relevant six year time limit under the LA would run from the 
date the credit agreement was settled  in this case, that was in July 2010. This meant she 
would have needed to raise a section 140A claim by July 2016. So, the claim she raised in 
April 2019 was also made out of time.
In response, Mrs Ms representative said the date the investigator relied on was incorrect 
and in fact it would be from when Mrs M had knowledge of the misrepresentation  and not 
when the transaction was incepted. They also said a full substantive response would follow, 
and that they would be relying on section 32(1) (a-c) of the LA. Our investigator explained 
that section 32 covers postponement of the limitation period in the case of fraud, 
concealment, or mistake  which he didnt think would extend the limitation period in this 
case. 
Because the parties disagreed, the case was referred to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to tell BPF to do anything further to resolve the matter 
and Ive explained why below.
When evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about 
the merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I 
consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the 
wider circumstances.
I also have to take account of law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and 
standards, and codes of practice and good industry practice, when I make my decision. 
And I want to assure Mrs M, if I dont address every point thats been raised, its not 
because I havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said and 
sent to us. But Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is relevant and 
material to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
Was the claim under section 75 of the CCA brought in time?
Mrs M says that Business A misrepresented a number of points in relation to the 
timeshare agreement she purchased, so she says BPF is jointly liable under section 75 
of the CCA. But if BPF could show the claim was brought outside of the time limits set 
out in the LA, it would be entitled to rely on the LA as a defence to answering the claim. I 
should make it clear, however, that Im not deciding if any right that Mrs M may have to 
bring these claims has expired under the LA - thats a matter for the courts. In this 
decision Im considering if BPF has acted fairly and reasonably in turning down Mrs Ms 
claims.
A claim for misrepresentation against the supplier would be brought under section 2(1) of 
the Misrepresentation Act 1967. It was held in Laws v. The Society of Lloyds [2003] EWCA 1887 that this type of claim is an action founded in tort covered by section 2 of the LA or an 
action brought for a sum recoverable by statute within section 9 of the LA. Under both of 
those provisions, a claimant has a period of six years to bring a claim from the date on 
which the cause of action accrued.
In this case, Mrs M brought a like claim for misrepresentation against BPF under section 75 
of CCA. That claim was brought under the CCA, so would be covered by section 9 of the 
LA. Again, it means Mrs M had six years from the date on which the cause of action 
accrued to bring a claim.
The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point in time that everything needed to 
make a legal claim occurred. So, in Mrs Ms case, thats when she could have brought a 
claim for misrepresentation against the supplier or the like claim against BPF. I think that 
was the date she entered into the agreement to buy the timeshare, so in April 2010. It was 
at that time that she entered into an agreement based, she says, on the misrepresentations 
of Business A. She says, had the misrepresentations not been made, they wouldnt have 
bought the timeshare. And it was on that day that she suffered a loss, as she took out the 
loan agreement with BPF.
It follows, therefore, that I think the cause of action accrued on 16 April 2010 (when Mrs M 
entered into the loan agreement with BPF), so Mrs M had six years from that date to bring 
a claim. But she didnt try to contact BPF about her claim until April 2019, which was 
outside of the time limits set out in the LA. So, I think BPF acted fairly in seeking to turn 
down Mrs Ms misrepresentation claim.
The claim under s.140A CCA
Under section 140A a court may make an order under section 140B in connection with 
a credit agreement if it decides that the relationship between the lender and the 
creditor arising out of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make 
such a determination, but I think this is relevant law and I have taken it into account.
The LA applies to a claim under section 140A of the CCA too. It was held in Patel v. Patel 
[2009] EWHC 3264 (QB) that when considering section 140A of the CCA, the time for 
limitation purposes ran from the date that the credit agreement ended if it was not still 
running at the time the claim was made. BPF has shown that Mrs Ms agreement was paid 
off on in July 2010. As with an action under section 75 of the CCA, the limitation period is 
six years, so Mrs M would have to bring an action within six years from that date. As she 
didnt do that, I think she brought her claim too late. This means I also dont think BPF 
acted unfairly in seeking to decline a claim under section 140A on this basis. So, I dont 
think it needs to do anything further. 
Mrs Ms arguments on limitation
I appreciate Mrs M may say she didnt know about the time limits Ive referred to above in 
the LA, but Im afraid thats not generally accepted as grounds for extending the limitation 
period. However, I note Mrs Ms representative argued the following points, which Ive 
considered in turn:
(a) The date upon which the investigator relied on was incorrect and the relevant date 
would be when Mrs M had knowledge of the misrepresentation  not when the 
transaction was incepted.
(b) They asked for section 32(1) (a-c) of the LA to be considered but didnt provide any 
further submissions on this point. 
Turning first to point (a), under section 11A of the LA time doesnt start to run for limitation purposes until the claimant first had the relevant knowledge. This provision is titled Actions 
in respect of defective products and applies to an action for damages by virtue of Part 1 
of the Consumer Protection Act 1987. However, this applies to actions that arise out of 
products and not services such as timeshares, so I dont think it assists Mrs M. Neither in my 
view does section 14 of the LA, which also refers to the date of knowledge but simply 
defines what is meant by date of knowledge in other provisions that dont apply to Mrs Ms 
claim.
Section 14A of the LA also provides a Special time limit for negligence actions where 
facts relevant to cause of action are not known at date of accrual (as per the title of 
that section). But Im not persuaded that section 14A applies to Mrs Ms claim either. That 
provision provides for a second period in which a claim for negligence can be made. 
Looking at what happened, when Mrs M purchased the timeshare and took out the finance, 
I think there was an obligation to give Mrs M sufficient, appropriate and timely information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about whether to take out the loan. But Im not 
persuaded a duty of care arose or advice was provided that could give rise to a claim to 
which section 14A of the LA could apply.
Turning then to point (b), I have been asked to consider section 32 of the LA, which states 
that in cases of fraud, concealment, or mistake, the limitation period only starts to run from 
when a claimant discovers the fraud, concealment, or mistake (or could have discovered it 
using reasonable diligence). But Mrs Ms representative hasnt explained how they think 
this applies to her claim that Business A misrepresented the timeshare membership during 
the sale. Indeed, theyve not pointed to anything in particular that they think constitutes any 
fraud, concealment, or mistake. And, based on what Ive seen so far, I cant see that there 
was any. In any event, I think Mrs M probably had enough information about the terms of 
the agreement to start the clock running not long after she purchased the product. So, Im 
not persuaded that Mrs M is able to rely on section 32 of the LA in these circumstances. 
Overall, while I think BPF ought to have responded to Mrs Ms claim sooner, I think BPF 
fairly considered the things it needed to when it said the claims were brought too late. Its 
ultimately for the courts to decide whether or not any claim that Mrs M may have against 
the supplier or BPF has expired under the LA. But, as far as I can see from the information 
available, any claim that Mrs M might have against the supplier and/or BPF has most likely 
exceeded the time limits set out in the LA. I think it is reasonable to take this into account 
in these circumstances. So, I am not persuaded that BPF acted unfairly in seeking to 
decline Mrs Ms claims under the CCA. This means I wont be asking it to do anything 
further in response to Mrs Ms claims.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint against Clydesdale 
Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Joanna Brown
Ombudsman