DRN-2676922
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the way that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) handled a 
claim under his home insurance policy for a water leak and the settlement it offered him.
What happened
In July 2019 Mr G made a claim to RSA for a water leak from his bathroom which had 
damaged the kitchen below. RSA sent a specialist restoration company to review the 
damage the same day. A few days later RSAs loss adjuster inspected the damage. He 
reported that thered been a leak from a waste pipe in the bathroom and said there was 
evidence of a second older leak in the kitchen which wouldnt be covered by their policy. It 
was later found that there was in fact only one leak.
In September RSA arranged to strip out the parts of the property that were damp so that 
they could be dried. In the course of that they discovered a gas leak, which had to be 
isolated and repaired. 
In mid-October Mr G asked RSA to remove the drying machines. He signed a disclaimer 
agreeing that he wouldnt hold RSA liable for the fact that the property hadnt been 
completely dried. Mr G said hed lost confidence in RSAs contractor and felt hed had no 
choice but to stop the drying of the property and arrange his own repairs because of the 
delay.
Mr G complained to RSA about the lack of communication and delays. He said this had 
caused added inconvenience to him and his family, especially his wife who was heavily 
pregnant at the time.
RSA apologised for the poor service Mr G had received and awarded him £500 
compensation.
Mr G brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. She didnt think 
RSA needed to do anything further. As Mr G didnt agree, the matter has been passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Now that the works have been completed, the main issues are the amount of the settlement 
and how much compensation RSA should pay Mr G for the shortcomings in its service to 
him. 
There are a number of aspects of the settlement that Mr G isnt happy with. Ill look at them 
in turn.
cash settlement offer for kitchen
RSA settled the claim on the basis of what it would have paid its contractor to finish the 
reinstatement of the kitchen, being £3,600 including VAT. Mr G was quoted £4,700 by his 
contractor. He didnt feel he could rely on RSAs contractor to complete the job in a timely 
manner. Normally Id say that RSA should only have to pay what it would have had to pay 
its contractor. But I appreciate that at the time Mr G felt under pressure to hurry things 
along with a new baby due. RSA has since offered to consider the invoice for the works if 
Mr G forwards it to it. I think thats a fair offer in the circumstances. 
kitchen reinstatement delays
Mr G was charged £400 by his contractor because the kitchen units werent returned on time 
by RSA. The top units were returned early morning and the bottom ones arrived late 
afternoon. Initially RSA said it would have been better to rehang the top units first anyway as 
the fitters could get closer to the wall. Mr G said some of the brackets and fixtures were 
missing with the first delivery and without this no works could start. Again RSA has offered to 
consider the invoice for the delay. I think thats reasonable and if Mr G isnt happy with the 
outcome of that, he may be able to make a further complaint but I hope that wont be 
necessary.
repair of gas pipe
Mr G claimed £60 for repairing a leaking gas pipe set in concrete. 
RSAs contractor had isolated the leak and switched off the gas before leaving the property. 
Ive listened to recordings of calls between Mr G and RSA regarding this. Although it wasnt 
clear to Mr G at first what should be done, this was resolved within a relatively short time. 
RSA explained that he needed to get the leak repaired and if its contractor had caused the 
leak, it would consider the cost. 
RSA thought the pipe hadnt been fitted properly as it was set in concrete. Shortly after the 
gas leak was fixed in mid-September Mr G told RSA his engineer hadnt said what had 
caused the leak. Mr G later forwarded to RSA an invoice produced in November referring to 
the pipe having been damaged by rubble being dropped on it. Mr G has since told us that he 
accepts RSAs contractor wasnt at fault. So I dont think RSA treated him unfairly in not 
reimbursing the £60 fee.
Mr G told us he was unhappy about the lack of clear information as to what he should do 
next when the leak was discovered. Ive taken this into account when looking at how much 
compensation RSA should pay Mr G for trouble and upset. 
cleaning
Mr G complained that various items in the kitchen had become dusty due to not being 
properly protected when the kitchen was stripped out. These included a dishwasher, 
washing machine, blinds, dryer, oven, toaster and a kettle. He wanted RSA to pay what it 
would cost to deep clean these items.
RSA agreed as a goodwill gesture to instruct its supplier to assess all items and to test 
them to see whether they could be cleaned or needed to be replaced. It tested the toaster, 
kettle and dryer and they all passed. Mr G wanted a plumber to test the washing machine 
and dishwasher and a specialist for the oven. RSA said it would arrange that. I think this 
was a reasonable offer in the circumstances . 
waiving the disclaimerI understand why Mr G wanted to press on quickly with the works. So he asked RSA to 
remove the dryers before it could confirm the property was completely dry. Ive listened to 
telephone calls in which RSA explained the possible consequences of this. Even though 
RSAs delays arguably led to Mr G feeling under such pressure, I dont think it should now 
be liable for any works which may become necessary in future as a result of the property 
not being properly dried. I think this is a risk that was explained to Mr G at length and which 
he knowingly accepted at the time. Ill take into account the effect of RSAs delays on Mr G 
when looking at compensation.
alternative accommodation
Having listened to the call recordings Im satisfied that alternative accommodation was 
offered to Mr G on at least five separate occasions. Each time, he declined it. I appreciate 
why he wanted his family to stay in their own home. I dont think RSA is liable for the 
additional trouble and upset Mr G suffered due to staying at home while the works were 
carried out. 
laundry allowance
RSA said it would pay £10 a week towards Mr Gs laundry costs while he couldnt use his 
washing machine. Mr G didnt feel this was enough. RSA said it would pay more if Mr G 
could provide some sort of proof that hed visited a launderette during this period. 
Unlike the cost of alternative accommodation, laundry costs arent usually covered under 
most home insurance policies. But I think it was fair for RSA to cover Mr Gs reasonable 
additional expenses provided he could prove hed incurred them. Not everyone keeps 
receipts for this sort of expense. But in this case Mr G was told towards the end of the claim 
that he needed to provide receipts for this part of his claim. I appreciate that not all 
launderettes issue receipts. But I think he should have been able to show that hed used a 
launderette at least once and what it charged. In the absence of any evidence to support 
this part of his claim I think RSAs offer of £10 a week was fair.
food allowance
RSA agreed to pay a food allowance of £10 a day for each adult and £5 a day for a child to 
cover the reasonable additional expenses which Mr G and his family would incur while they 
had no kitchen facilities. This rate is commonly applied by insurers when theres a need to 
cover the cost of any extra spending a policyholder incurs whilst living in a home which is 
lacking basic facilities  such as cooking and washing. Mr G thinks this should have been 
paid from the date of the claim as opposed to the date when the kitchen cupboards were 
removed for drying. Thats because he didnt think it was safe to use the kitchen during this 
period.
I can see that the oven was professionally tested at an early stage in the claim and found to 
be safe to use. Mr G also confirmed in phone calls to RSA that the oven was usable. The 
sink was also usable. So I dont think RSA treated Mr G unreasonably in saying that it 
wouldnt pay the food allowance until the kitchen units had been removed.compensation for trouble and upset
I should mention that awards of compensation arent intended to fine or punish a business  
thats the job of the regulator. All insurance claims come with a level of inconvenience and a 
degree of trouble attached to them. Some more than others. But when this service considers 
how much compensation to award, were looking at what trouble and upset the insurer has 
caused to its policyholder above and beyond that which wed normally expect to see 
associated with a claim of this type.
RSA offered Mr G £500 compensation for the delays and poor customer service. Mr G 
doesnt think this was enough for the level of stress and inconvenience he suffered. He said 
hed been worried about the health of his wife and the new baby. Hed had to spend a lot of 
time on the claim due to RSAs failing and that had affected his work. The poor 
communication between the different parties involved had been an additional cause of 
stress for him. I dont doubt that this was the case. 
But its only fair for me to recognise that RSA has acknowledged its service should have 
been much better and that its offered a total of £500 to compensate Mr G for the trouble and 
upset caused by its poor service. Having taken all the circumstances into account I think that 
compensation of this amount is fair and reasonable. I appreciate that this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr G but Ive thought about this services approach to awards made in 
similar circumstances and I dont think I can fairly award any more. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman