DRN-3851561
The complaint
Mr P and Mrs P are unhappy that Bank of Scotland (trading as Halifax) will not refund the 
money they lost as the result of an investment scam.
Mr P and Mrs Ps complaint has been brought by a representative, but Mr P had the dealings 
with the scammers, so for ease of reading I will refer solely to Mr P in this decision.
What happened
Mr P has explained that in July 2018 he made a Faster Payment of £10,000 from his Halifax 
current account to fund what he believed was the purchase of premium bonds with a 
company that did property development, Ill call that company R. 
When Mr P subsequently got in touch with Halifax to explain hed been scammed, Halifax 
didnt reimburse his lost funds. Remaining unhappy, Mr P referred his complaint about 
Halifax to this service. As our investigator couldnt resolve the matter informally, the case 
has been passed to me for determination.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its common ground that Mr P authorised the scam payment in question here. He was tricked 
by scammers into instructing Halifax to make the payment. So although Mr P didnt intend 
the money to go to scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations and the terms and 
conditions of his account, Mr P is presumed liable for his loss in the first instance. 
To reach my decision I have taken into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, 
relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. To note, as the payment pre-dates the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code 
its principles do not apply in this case. This means I think that Halifax should have:
been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering, and the financing of terrorism.
had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years,
which financial institutions are generally more familiar with than the average
customer.
in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, taken
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the
possibility of financial harm.
When considering the size of the payment compared to Mr Ps normal account spend, I think 
it was unusual enough for Halifax to have intervened. But like our investigator, Im not 
persuaded such intervention would have made a difference to the careful decision Mr P had 
already taken to send this payment. 
Much of the discussion to date on this case has focused on the questions Halifax ought to 
have asked of Mr P at the time of the transaction  and whether it could have prevented the 
scam through proportionate probing. I note Halifax didnt intervene in the payment, so I think 
it is reasonable to adopt the same approach as the investigator and consider what would 
most likely have happened had the bank intervened meaningfully.
If Halifax had intervened (as I think it ought to have), I think it could have asked what the 
purpose of the payment was. I think Mr P would have explained hed researched investment 
opportunities as he was unhappy with the savings rates offered by high street banks and had 
found R. Id reasonably have expected Halifax to ask Mr P what due diligence checks hed 
carried out before deciding to invest and I think Mr P would have explained that R was 
regulated and hed spoken with them, checked their details on Companies House and had 
checked their details on the FCAs website. At this point, I think Mr P would have reassured 
Halifax that hed carried out all the necessary checks before sending this payment and I 
dont think Halifax would reasonably have suspected Mr P had fallen victim to a scam or 
wasnt dealing with the genuine R. 
I recognise the FCA had published a warning to say the genuine R had been cloned but this 
warning was published after Mr P had made his payment and there was no credible adverse 
information about R at the material time Mr P decided to invest with them. 
So whilst I think Halifax failed to intervene, I dont think this failing was the primary cause of 
Mr Ps loss as I think Mr P would have likely made the payment irrespective of an 
intervention. I think Mr P made his decision to invest in R very carefully and carried out all 
the necessary checks before instructing this payment. I think this was a very sophisticated 
scam and I dont think Halifax could reasonably have suspected that Mr R was dealing with a 
clone of R. I recognise the rate of return offered by R was high compared to what was being 
offered by high street banks but I also have to take into account that mini-bonds offered a 
higher rate of return and so the rate offered to Mr P wasnt unusual for the type of products 
he was investing in. Whilst the products may have been risky, Halifax wouldnt have been 
obliged to provide investment advice or indeed try to prevent Mr P from getting involved in a 
high-risk investment opportunity. 
And so, I dont think Halifax missed an opportunity to prevent Mr Ps loss.
Recovery
Having decided the above, I could only uphold this complaint if I thought Halifax 
unreasonably hindered recovery of the funds and that this caused Mr Ps loss.
Ive noted Mr P reported the scam to Halifax in June 2019  almost a year after he instructed 
his payment. Ive seen that Halifax made attempts to recover the payment but received no 
response from the beneficiary bank  despite chasing it. Given the time that had passed, I 
think its unlikely Halifax could have recovered Mr Ps payment as its common for scammers 
to remove funds from the beneficiary account as quickly as possible. So whilst I appreciate 
this lack of response from the beneficiary bank would have been of concern to Mr P, I dont 
think Halifax are responsible for it failing to respond. Halifax did all it could to try to retrieve 
the funds. 
I therefore dont think Halifax could have recovered Mr Ps payment. My final decision
My final decision is, despite my natural sympathy for Mr P and Mrs Ps loss, I dont uphold 
this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman