DRN-3891340
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that Aviva Equity Release UK Limited wont allow them to withdraw 
money from the cash reserve facility on their lifetime mortgage.
What happened
In November 2021, Mr and Mrs O took out a lifetime mortgage with Aviva. It was 
recommended to them by a third party mortgage broker. They borrowed £75,000, with a 
further cash reserve of £75,000, which they could drawdown in the future.
In January 2022, Mr and Mrs O asked to withdraw £25,000 from the cash reserve. Aviva 
asked Mr and Mrs O for bank and credit card statements so that it could consider their 
request.
Mr and Mrs O complain that the agreement they entered into with Aviva allowed them to 
borrow up to £75,000 without further approval. It has reneged on that agreement by asking 
for documents from them before it will decide whether to approve the draw down or not. 
They said if Aviva had told them that such further checks were possible, they would not have 
entered into the agreement.
I issued a provisional decision, which explained why I wasnt proposing to uphold this 
complaint. My provisional findings, which form part of this decision, were:
This lifetime mortgage was recommended by a third party broker. Theyre responsible for 
recommending a mortgage that is suitable for Mr and Mrs Os needs and circumstances and 
explaining the key features of the mortgage.
I largely agree with Mr and Mrs Os understanding of the mortgage offer. I think it is difficult 
to read in any other way than that a drawdown from the cash reserve is available without any 
further approval. 
The terms and conditions of the mortgage state:
1.2
We will always act fairly, in good faith and in a reasonable manner towards you when we 
deal with your Lifetime Mortgage and when we apply or enforce these Conditions. this 
promise is an overriding promise and you should read each section of the Conditions in light 
of this promise.
3.13 
We may reasonably suspend or withdraw the Cash Reserve in any other situationif we 
have concerns about financial crime or your (or any joint borrowers) health or wellbeing. We 
will only do this if we consider it to be necessary. We remind you that any action we take 
under this section mist be consistent with our promise to you under section 1.2.
I consider the terms and conditions did allow Aviva to withdraw the cash reserve facility 
where it had reasonable concerns about financial crime or Mr and Mrs Os wellbeing.
Im also required to decide what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
of the complaint. Aviva has explained that it had not declined Mr and Mrs Os request  it 
had merely asked for further information so that it could protect them from fraud, to make 
sure the terms and conditions of the loan were being complied with and to make sure they 
were making an informed choice about the potential impact of withdrawing funds. I consider 
these were all legitimate reasons for it to ask for more information.
I consider the reasons given by Aviva for wanting more information in line with what I 
consider to be good industry practice and relevant code of practice. Those are both things 
that I am required to take into account in deciding what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of a complaint.
Aviva is a member of the Equity Release Council. It has a number of overarching principles 
and outcomes, including:
The best interests of its customers being paramount.
Seeking to deliver suitable outcomes for customersthrough every point of contact 
during the life of the product.
Members will seek to identify and provide appropriate support to customers who may be 
exposed tofinancial vulnerability at any point of contact.
In my experience, good industry practice would require lenders to look for potential warning 
signs that a borrower might have fallen victim to a fraud or scam or that a drawdown request 
might not be in the borrowers best interests. 
Mr and Mrs O made the request for a drawdown less than two months after taking the 
original advance. They said they wanted to drawdown money for a holiday and to repay 
credit card debt. But that would not repay all of the credit card debt. They also said that they 
hadnt used all of the original advance. 
Aviva notes that the recommendation was based on Mr and Mrs O drawing down around 
£8,000 a year, but they were now looking to drawdown a third of the cash reserve and that 
their credit card balance had gone up a lot in the last month. I consider these were all 
legitimate concerns for a lender to have. Indeed, we see complaints from borrowers that the 
lender did not carry out adequate checks who have drawn down money in similar 
circumstances and then fallen victim to a scam.
I consider it was reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the account and 
good practice for Aviva to look for further information from Mr and Mrs O before it approved 
the drawdown. It was reasonable for Aviva to have concerns that the transaction was not in 
Mr and Mrs Os best interests and to take steps to ensure that it was before releasing the 
drawdown.
It was Mr and Mrs Os decision not to provide the information that Aviva requested.  
Mr and Mrs O did not accept what I said. They could not understand how I could agree that 
the cash reserve was available without any further approval and then disregard and override 
that. The meaning of the wording without further approval is crystal clear and totally 
unconditional.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The cash reserve was always available to Mr and Mrs O. Aviva simply wanted to check that 
the drawdown was in their best interests and they hadnt been the victim of a fraud or scam 
before releasing the funds. As far as I can see it was not carrying out any checks that it 
would undertake when approving an application for an equity release mortgage. Rather it 
was taking steps to make sure that the drawdown was in Mr and Mrs Os best interests. 
Mr and Mrs O may not have been the victim of a fraud or scam  or of any other potential 
things that could cause people to lose the money they draw down from an equity release 
mortgage. But I have seen cases where consumers have fallen victim to such scams. Aviva 
was acting reasonably  and in line with good industry practice and the terms and conditions 
 in asking for the information it did. It was Mr and Mrs Os decision not to provide that 
information. Without it Aviva could not satisfy itself that the drawdown was in Mr and Mrs Os 
best interests.
I appreciate that the offer said Mr and Mrs O could drawdown funds without any checks. But 
the terms and conditions theyd agreed to also allowed Aviva to suspend the cash reserve in 
certain circumstances, including in the circumstances here. So the ability to drawdown was 
not completely unconditional. Aviva acted reasonably as it had legitimate concerns in view of 
the conduct of the account. 
Ultimately, Aviva was taking reasonable steps to protect Mr and Mrs O  although they may 
not see it that way. I dont see how I could reasonably find that it was unfair or unreasonable 
for Aviva to take cautious stance here bearing in mind the prevalence of fraud and scams. It 
would send out the wrong message if I were to find that Aviva should not take such steps to 
protect its customers. And I am satisfied that Aviva was acting in good faith here.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman