DRN-2650827
The complaint
Mr S has complained Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, wont refund him for 
transactions he didnt authorise.
What happened
Mr S held an account with Halifax. It wasnt an account he used much. He paid more than 
£12,000 into this account between late October and November 2019. Mr S then ordered a 
new card and PIN for the account.
Shortly after Mr S went away for a short period. In early December he noticed more than 
£11,660 had been withdrawn from the account without his authority. He asked Halifax to 
reimburse him.
Halifax considered this issue but felt there were too many coincidences leading up to the 
disputed card use. This they felt suggested Mr S may well have known what was going on. 
Mr S brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence. She felt there wasnt enough evidence to show Mr S 
hadnt authorised the disputed transactions. She confirmed she wasnt going to ask Halifax 
to refund Mr S.
Mr S disagreed with this outcome. Hed sought legal advice which argued that our 
investigators view was flawed. Hes asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not intending to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain other circumstances do apply but nothing 
thats had an impact on the decision Im making here.
To help me reach a decision, Ive considered evidence provided to us by Halifax and Mr S. 
Ive also noted the detail in our investigators view of 31 January 2021 but feel no need to 
rerun some of the arguments made there. I will, of course, refer to those aspects which drive 
the decision Im making.
Lets start with some history of Mr Ss account management.
Mr S had held this account since 2016 and apart from a short period towards the end of that 
year rarely used it. Between 25 October and 4 November 2019 three large payments of 
£3,900, £4,290 and £5,000 credited the account. I asked Mr S for copies of his bank 
statements for his other bank account to clarify where these funds came from. He didnt 
provide these. Hed previously told us these funds came from another of his accounts and 
were to be used for a future job.
On 5 November Mr S called Halifax for a new card and PIN. This was the third time in 2019 
Mr S had made this request. Mr S told Halifax he didnt know how to change his PIN but I 
can see from Halifaxs account records that Mr S had used this facility previously on 30 July 
and used the PIN he customised frequently.
Mr S has confirmed he lives in a large block of flats and post can go missing. I accept this is 
the case. His card and PIN were sent separately and the chances of both going missing is 
limited. Ive noted that previous cards and PINs sent to Mr S  which seems to involve at 
least five different postings  did not go missing. So I wonder what would make this time be 
so different.
Ive also reviewed the disputed transactions themselves. These were all carried out using 
the new card and PIN sent to Mr Ss home address (separately) in early November. Our 
investigators view contained full information on these. £11,662.90 was spent overall with 
numerous individual transactions over almost a four week period. Transactions came to an 
end on 3 December. Mr S contacted Halifax to raise his concerns on 5 December. 
Whilst Mr S had been away in November working, at no stage had he been concerned by 
the absence of his newly-requested card and PIN. Nor had he checked an account hed only 
quite recently used to deposit over £13,000. I find this behaviour unusual despite Mr S being 
busy. Particularly as hes said he was using this account for business purposes and had 
funded it in advance for a job he was due to start. We asked Mr S for more evidence of 
where he was working but he provided us with no further information.
Mr Ss legal advice raised again the issue whether Halifax had acted with a sufficient duty of 
care. Theres no doubt that some of these transactions dont match Mr Ss normal use on 
this account. However in all cases the genuine card and PIN were used. I can also see 
Halifax texted Mr S on more than one occasion to notify him that theyd identified a potential 
issue. I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to expect Halifax to have done more in this 
case where the genuine card and PIN were being used.
Mr S has told us his phone wasnt working so didnt respond to Halifax. But I wonder why he 
wasnt surprised about a potential transaction taking place which he knew wasnt him. If Mr S 
had contacted Halifax at this time, nearly £5,000 wouldnt have been spent.
So Ive considered these aspects along with the actual disputed transactions  which dont 
follow the normal pattern of fraud when a fraudster has noticed theres £13,000 in an 
account and tries to empty it in as short a period as possible. Its always tricky to rely on 
what we consider to be normal fraudulent behaviour in deciding what happened. Im less 
convinced than Halifax its straightforward to decide how fraudsters do and dont behave. But 
Id still have expected an unknown fraudster  in possession of Mr Ss card and PIN and 
knowing the balance on his account which happened here  to have taken steps to empty 
the account much earlier.Mr Ss legal advisor talks about the evidence that Mr S made these transactions as 
circumstantial. And I agree thats the case but there are a number of related coincidences, 
which include:
Mr Ss changed use of his own account including funding it with more than £13,000;
Intercepted delivery of Mr Ss new card and PIN;
Mr Ss phone not working; 
Mr S not checking his account or missing his card and PIN; and
Mr S only contacting Halifax after the vast majority of funds had been taken from the 
account.
Authorisation within the context of the PSRs involve two different things: authentication and 
consent. Ive noted above the genuine card and PIN were used so am satisfied these 
transactions were authenticated. Overall taking all the evidence into account I believe its 
more likely than not that Mr S either made himself or authorised someone else to make 
these transactions.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ss complaint against Bank 
of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman