DRN-2246952
The complaint
C, a third party acting on behalf of Mrs G, complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC 
(TPF) were irresponsible in providing her with a credit card when she applied for one. C also 
complains that the credit agreement contains unfair terms and that TPF disproportionately 
added costs, fees and charges.
To resolve the matter, Mrs G would like a full write-off of the balance on the card.
What happened
On 20 October 2014 Mrs G applied online for a TPF credit card. The card was approved and 
opened the same day with a credit limit of £1,400. According to TPF records, Mrs G 
maintained the account without significant issues. However, in August 2018 her credit card 
went into arrears. On 9 October 2019 TPF agreed a repayment plan of £1.54 per month with 
Mrs G. Due to the length of the arrangement the account was eventually transferred to their 
recoveries team and the account defaulted. In November 2019 C complained to TPF. The 
complaint comprised mainly of two parts:
As Mrs G was in financial difficulties at the time of entering into the credit agreement, 
TPF was irresponsible in lending her the credit.
The terms applied to Mrs Gs credit card were unfair, mainly because they allowed 
disproportionate fees and interest to be added to the account whilst she was 
experiencing financial difficulties
On 9 December 2019 TPF sent their final response to Mrs Gs complaint. They didnt uphold 
her complaint. TPF believed they carried out the necessary affordability checks prior to 
approving the credit card; and applied the terms that were appropriate. Unhappy with the 
outcome, Mrs G instructed C to bring her complaint to us here. One of our investigators 
reviewed her concerns concluding that TPF did act fairly in their lending. The investigator 
didnt uphold Mrs Gs complaint. Mrs G has instructed her representative to request that an 
ombudsman look into her concerns in order to provide their final decision on the matter.
In addition, C has provided us with a letter from a debt management company, confirming 
that Mr and Mrs G were in a debt management plan from April 2007 until July 2019. They 
also provided us with Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage statements, which showed that they were 
experiencing mortgage arrears when the TPF card was taken out.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has two main parts: TPFs irresponsible lending and the unfair terms applied 
to the account. Ill address each part separately.
irresponsible lending
The Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), which can be found within the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) handbook, explained in 2014 that a business must carry out a 
creditworthiness assessment before a credit agreement is entered into with a consumer. A 
creditworthiness assessment involves a review of a consumers credit history, the 
consumers ability to afford any new repayments, their ability to maintain future repayments 
and any impact that the lending may have on them. It went on to say the assessment must 
be based on enough information taken from:
the customer, where appropriate; and
a credit reference agency, where necessary
According to TPF records at the time of application, information from Mrs G and from credit 
agencies were used to conduct the creditworthiness and affordability assessments. The 
credit report Ive seen showed that at the time of application, Mrs G had additional lending all 
which TPF found didnt have any default amounts. Although I have seen separate evidence 
of this, there were no records of a debt management plan on the report. As part of her 
complaint, Mrs G believes TPF should have recognised the number of credit facilities being 
applied for at the time, which would have been indicators of her financial difficulties. 
However, its clear from the report that many of her credit applications, particularly those 
resulting in eventual default balances, were taken out after her approval for the credit card 
with TPF.
In addition, TPF had detected a previous county court judgment (CCJ) which had since been 
satisfied. They also confirmed that their internal scoring model placed Mrs Gs score within 
14 points of their acceptance threshold. This meant that her application had been referred to 
an alternative bureau, for further checks. TPF have confirmed that at the time of application, 
Mrs Gs indebtedness had been assessed. The customer indebtedness index assessment 
(CII), provides a score thats indicative of the amount of money a customer owes. Typically, 
a score over 40 indicates that a business should proceed with caution when considering 
lending to a customer. Mrs G scored 5 during her application which further indicated to TPF 
that this would be affordable for her.
As this was an online application made some years ago, its uncertain how much information 
Mrs G provided, although TPF suggest Mrs G shared income details stating she was in full 
time employment and receiving a regular income. According to the TPF lending criteria, an 
assumption of 30% of the net monthly income was used to calculate expenditure. 
Considering the above information, its clear to me that TPF carried out a number of 
affordability and creditworthiness checks that were proportionate and fair. Looking at the 
information provided, with Mrs G being in fulltime employment, TPF had no reason to doubt 
that this would be her circumstances for the foreseeable future. I appreciate the problems 
faced by Mrs G were made more challenging by her husband being out of work at around 
the time of this credit application. Ive no reason to think TPF was made aware that Mr G had 
stopped working, or that it had any other cause to ask about his circumstances in the context 
of a credit application from Mrs G. Im satisfied TPF acted in line with the guidance in place 
at the time
unfair terms
When considering the fairness of the terms applied to Mrs Gs credit card, Ive had to think 
about whether TPF acted fairly, reasonably and transparently in applying any potential 
changes; and whether the appropriate notice was given before any changes took place.
The complaint letter specifically refers to the charges, fees and interest incurred on the credit 
card when raising the concern over unfair terms, so Ive looked carefully on these. Ive also 
thought about the fairness of TPF having the ability to vary their terms during the agreement.Having looked at the original credit agreement alongside the varied agreement, I cant see 
that any changes have been made that have adversely affected Mrs G. More specifically, in 
terms of charges, fees and interest, in the original agreement under the heading Making 
changes, it stated clearly that TPF can make changes to these. Reasons given for such 
changes included the consumers circumstances or usage of the account, changes in law or 
regulation, and changes in costs to the bank in providing the account. Changes for any other 
reason could only be made where Mrs G was able to end the agreement without charge.
The agreement also said that at least 30 days notice would be given.
I can see a section on the agreement which clearly pointed out what the charges would be in 
certain breaches of terms. In addition to the credit agreement, the statements produced for 
Mrs G each month would have confirmed any interest, charges or fees being applied. These 
are a common feature on most credit card accounts, and in this case, I cant see that TPF 
have applied them unfairly. Nor have I seen any persuasive evidence that suggests that the 
charges in question were disproportionate. Past enquiries weve made of credit card 
providers in similar cases have shown that a £12 fee is a true reflection of cost, and Ive not 
been given any reason to reach a different conclusion here. Having considered this, I dont 
think TPF have acted unfairly in this regard.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020. 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman