DRN-3244668
The complaint
Ms N complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc blocked a payment out of her account.
What happened
Ms N says she successfully transferred £20 to her mothers account before attempting to 
transfer approximately £2,000 on 26 April 2021. She says the payment didnt reach her 
mothers account which caused anxiety. Ms N says as a result there was a risk of her losing 
a car purchase. She would like an explanation and an apology.
The Co-op says it acted in line with its policies and in line with account terms and conditions 
where it had security concerns. It says its systems flagged the payment and it tried to call Ms 
N as well as e-mail her about it. The Co-op says it released the payment on 27 April 2021 
and was entitled to carry out checks.
Ms N brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought The Co-op acted in line with account terms and conditions by blocking a transaction 
that had raised security concerns. The investigator thought the payment was released within 
a reasonable time period.
Ms N doesnt accept that view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
I am sure Ms N appreciates that fraud is a major problem for banks and building societies as 
well as for customers. There must be security measures in place to protect both a 
customers and a businesss money. I appreciate that means in practice that legitimate 
transactions as here can be made subject to security measures but that doesnt mean a 
business is at fault for blocking such legitimate payments. 
I appreciate Ms N was trying to send her money to her mothers account and that an earlier 
payment was successful. There is no dispute that a payment of £2,500 was blocked by The 
Co-op. I have looked carefully at Ms Ns account terms and conditions which I think she 
would have agreed to when the account was opened. Those terms and conditions make 
clear that a transaction may be blocked where there are security concerns. So, I dont think 
The Co-op made a mistake or acted unfairly by blocking the transaction on 26 April 2021 
where is had security concerns.
Im satisfied that The Co-op tried to speak to Ms N by telephone and then e-mailed her about 
the transaction. I think it likely that if Ms N had spoken to The Co-op when it telephoned her 
that the transaction would have been authorised. But in any event, I can see that on 27 April 
2021 the transaction was authorised and so I dont think there was a significant delay in the 
money being sent by the following day.
I appreciate Ms N says she was concerned about a vehicle purchase falling through. I cant 
fairly hold The Co-op responsible for that for the reasons I have explained. I have not seen 
any evidence in any event of that sale not going through.
I can see that Ms N wanted an explanation about what took place. But Im satisfied that The 
Co-op has now explained why it blocked the payment and has explained fairly that its 
entitled to do so. Im also satisfied that the block was put in place to protect Ms N and her 
money and avoid the risk of fraud.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman