DRN-1801217
 
The complaint
Mr Z complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc has unfairly closed his account which has meant he 
can't access his money in a different account.
What happened
Mr Z says HSBC closed his current account without telling him and as a result can no longer 
access his savings account. He says he didn't receive any letters from HSBC about this. And 
would like his account reinstated, so he can access his money and use the account for 
payments in the United Kingdom. Mr Z lives in Australia.
HSBC says it closed the account as it had a zero balance and hadn't been used for over a 
year. It says it acted in line with account terms and conditions and wrote to Mr Z to tell him 
what it intended to do. HSBC says Mr Z's saving account is active and has given him 
information about how he can access his money and says Mr Z is able to apply for a new 
account.
Mr Z brought his complaint to us and our investigator didn't uphold it. The investigator 
thought HSBC was entitled in line with account terms and conditions to close an account and 
had written to Mr Z to tell him that. The investigator thought HSBC had told Mr Z that he 
could open a new account and didn't think Mr Z had done so.
Mr Z doesn't accept that view and says he has been trying since December 2018 to 
reactivate his account and says the only way of accessing his money is to call HSBC. He 
says he is happy to provide updated information so HSBC can reinstate his account but says 
it's laughable to expect him to provide information to open a new account. Mr Z questions 
why HSBC couldn't have e-mailed him the letter and also questions why it kept one account 
open.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall view as the investigator and for similar reasons. I realise Mr Z will be disappointed by 
my decision.
I have looked at the account terms and conditions which I think Mr Z would have agreed to 
when the account was opened. Those terms and conditions say that HSBC can close an 
account by giving two months notice. I can see that HSBC wrote to Mr Z in January 2018 
giving him notice that his account would close as it hadn't been used in over a year. I 
appreciate that Mr Z says he didn't receive that letter. But I'm satisfied it was sent to Mr Z at 
his correct address and having looked at HSBC's records can see that there is a record of 
the letter being generated. And I can't hold HSBC responsible for Mr Z not receiving the 
latter as it's not responsible for the safe delivery of the mail. So I don't think HSBC made a 
mistake or acted unfairly by making the decision to close the account as I can see that it hadn't been used in over a year and had a zero balance and that HSBC acted in line with the 
account terms and conditions by closing it.
I appreciate that Mr Z questions why HSBC didn't e-mail him the letter. But I'm satisfied 
those sorts of decisions are for a business to decide upon when exercising its commercial 
judgement and not something I can fairly interfere in.
I'm satisfied that HSBC has fairly told Mr Z on a number of occasions that it's not prepared to 
reinstate the account, but that he is able to apply for a new account. I appreciate that may 
cause Mr Z some inconvenience. But we can't order that HSBC reinstate an account in 
circumstances where I'm satisfied it was entitled to close the account.  I also make clear that 
I accept that HSBC has a duty to monitor accounts that are not used.
I appreciate that as a result of closing the account Mr Z has experienced problems 
accessing his savings account. But I'm satisfied that HSBC has fairly told Mr Z that he can 
contact it and it will arrange for a payment to be made. I accept that may cause some 
inconvenience due to the time differences. But I can't fairly hold HSBC responsible for that in 
circumstances where I find it's not made a mistake.
Overall I accept Mr Z is unlikely to accept my decision but I'm satisfied HSBC has not acted 
unfairly and has provided a reasonable alternative for Mr Z to access his money. For those 
reasons I think this brings an end to what we, in trying to sort out this dispute informally, can 
do to assist Mr Z.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman