DRN-3189781
The complaint
Mr K and Mr K complain that 1st Stop Home Loans Limited (1st Stop) lent to them
irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr K and Mr K are father and son  referred to here as Mr KS (senior - father) and Mr KJ 
(junior - son). They lived together, although the house was in the name of Mr KS. They 
were referred to 1st Stop by a broker and they took a secured loan of £28,000 from 1st Stop 
on 15 December 2017. This was in joint names, payable over seven years. The interest 
rate was 18% per annum, fixed for five years. Repayments were £656 per month. The 
purpose of the loan was listed as home improvements and debt consolidation. 1st Stop took 
a second charge secured on Mr KS house. The first mortgage was for £56,000 with 
payments of £571 per month. The property value was £160,000. The loan with 1st Stop fell 
into arrears in December 2018. In March 2020, Mr KS sold the house, and the loan was 
paid off.
Mr KS and Mr KJ complained that 1st Stop shouldnt have given them the loan. The 
payments depended on both their monthly incomes, including Mr KJs of £1,342. They said 
Mr KJ had known gambling problems  which 1st Stop didnt investigate enough before they 
agreed to the loan. They also said theyd been told that the interest rate would reduce after 
a few months - and it didnt. When Mr KJ left home in late 2018, this meant Mr KS had to 
make the repayments on his own  and he said that wasnt possible. Because of situation 
he found himself in, Mr KS said he had to sell the house. He said he sold it for less than it 
was worth  but he had no alternative. Mr KS and Mr KJ were also concerned that - 
because of the missed payments, their credit files had been affected. Mr KS says hes now 
in rented accommodation with no prospect of buying another property.
1st Stop said theyd acted fairly. They said they had no evidence that they agreed to reduce 
the interest rate after six months. If that was mentioned by the introducing broker, that was 
a matter which Mr KS and Mr KJ would have to take up with that broker. They said theyd 
considered the circumstances of both Mr KS and Mr KJ when agreeing to the loan. Joint 
monthly income was £3,041 and joint outgoings were £1,698. After other expenses of £656
and the 1st Stop loan payment of £656, there was spare income of £367. They said - it was 
unfortunate that Mr KJs circumstances had changed  as Mr KJ had left home.
Mr KS and Mr KJ brought their complaint to us. Our investigator said that 1st Stop shouldve 
completed more checks when agreeing to the loan. Mr KJ had a known gambling problem, 
which meant that his income couldnt be relied upon. Hed told 1st Stop that this was under 
control, but 1st Stop hadnt done the proper checks to make sure it was. Hed seen Mr KJs 
bank statements since September 2017. These showed that Mr KJ was spending between
£30 and £200 a day with online betting firms. And  he was making payments to payday 
lenders. The repayments to the loan depended on Mr KJ paying his share  as Mr KS 
couldnt afford them on his own. And because of his gambling problems, Mr KJs income 
couldnt be relied upon. He couldnt find any evidence which said the interest rate might be 
reduced in the future. Our investigator said that 1st Stop should refund the broker fee of
£1,960, the loan acceptance fee of £1,295, and add 8% per annum simple to these 
amounts. Also, they should pay compensation of £750 to Mr KS, and remove any adverse 
markers from Mr KS and Mr KJs credit files.
1st Stop disagreed. They said theyd checked Mr KJs bank statements from 24 October 
2017  and could see his gambling had stopped. Theyd been told by Mr KJ that hed 
stopped  and believed him. And  the real reason the loan fell into problems was that Mr 
KJ left home in late 2018  and so Mr KS couldnt make the payments on his own. The 
payday loans had been paid off by 1st Stops loan  so that wasnt a relevant consideration.
1st Stop asked that an ombudsman look at the complaint.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
I take a different view to our investigator.
The loan that 1st Stop agreed  depended on the joint income of Mr KS and Mr KJ. Looking 
at the assessment that 1st Stop did  the joint monthly net income was £3,042. Of this, Mr 
KJs share was £1,342. After expenses and loan payments to all lenders, there was spare 
cash each month of £367. So  if Mr KJs income wasnt available, there were going to be 
problems. And so - the crux of this complaint is  should 1st Stop have completed more 
checks about Mr KJs gambling to make sure he could contribute to the loan repayments. 
Our investigator said there shouldve been more checks, but I dont agree with him.
When Mr KS and Mr KJ applied for the secured loan, they were open about Mr KJs 
gambling. We looked at Mr KJs bank statements for August 2017, September 2017 and 
October 2017 - and they show significant gambling payments. The August 2017 statement 
shows online gambling payments of £1,150 in the month. And the September statements 
shows payments of £470. And then - between 14 October 2017 and 24 October 2017 - 
there were gambling payments of £1,065.
But  Mr KJ told 1st Stop the gambling had stopped. 1st Stop told us that they checked Mr 
KJs bank statements from 24 October 2017 up to 13 December 2017 - and these didnt 
show any gambling payments. I can see from their records - they did these checks and what 
they say is correct. 1st Stop could see evidence that Mr KJs gambling had stopped  for 
almost two months. So this was consistent with what Mr KS and Mr KJ had said. We asked 
1st Stop what their policy was in these circumstances, and they told us that it was to obtain 
bank statements for a 30-day period within 60 days of the loan agreement date. And so  
theyd done that. Based on this, Im satisfied that 1st Stop completed its usual checks, and 
was satisfied that Mr KJ was no longer gambling excessively. So it was reasonable to use 
both incomes when assessing affordability.
Our investigator said Mr KJ had a lot of payday loan commitments. And I can see that a total 
of £2,630 are listed in 1st Stops assessment  but are shown as being paid off, and the 
payments stopped. Ive seen evidence that these were repaid by 1st Stops loan, and that 
1st Stop tracked these to make sure that was the case  so thats what we would have 
expected to see. And so  Mr KS and Mr KJ didnt have those commitments anymore.
I can see that Mr KJ had a loan of £10,950 and credit card debts of £4,106  these werent 
paid off. These payments were included in 1st Stops assessment, and they could see that 
based on the joint income of Mr KS and Mr KJ, they thought they were still affordable.
Ive looked at the payments made to the secured loan after it was drawn in December 2017. 
Payments were made throughout 2018  until December 2018, when the direct debit was unpaid. It looks like there were problems in making the payments after that  the direct debit 
wasnt paid in January 2019. And at that time, 1st Stop agreed to reduced payments of
£438.14 a month. Mr KJ had left home in November 2018  I can see that Mr KS called 1st 
Stop then to say so and said that as a result he was £300 a month short each month. So  it 
does look like the problems with making the payments started because Mr KJ left home, not 
when the loan was originally agreed. The fact that happened is unfortunate, but that doesnt 
mean that 1st Stop shouldnt have agreed to the loan in the first place.
It is often the case that when loans are granted based on two incomes, it will be 
unaffordable if one person is no longer able or willing to contribute. Whilst this is 
unfortunate, it doesnt mean that a lender is required to test whether a loan is affordable 
based on one income alone. Im satisfied that 1st Stop completed sufficient affordability 
checks at the time of Mr KJ and Mr KS taking the loan. The fact that their situation changed 
isnt the fault of 1st Stop.
Ive looked for evidence that 1st Stop agreed to a reduction in the interest rate after six 
months. I couldnt find anything. The secured loan offer dated 15 December 2017 does state 
that the rate was fixed for the first five years, with a floating rate after that. So  I think its 
unlikely that 1st Stop couldve said that the rate would reduce. It may be that it was the 
broker who said this  if Mr KS and Mr KJ want to take this up, they should speak to the 
broker.
I can see that Mr KS has been through a difficult time and Im sorry for the way things have 
turned out for him. Mr KS and Mr KJ will be disappointed by my decision. But  having 
looked at all the evidence, I dont think that 1st Stop were irresponsible in agreeing to the
secured loan, and I wont be asking them to do anymore here.
 
Responses to the provisional decision:
1st Stop didnt have any comments, but Mr KS and Mr KJ did. Mr KJ responded and said:
I hadnt fully considered that theyd been declined before for the loan  and that the 
previous six months bank statements showed the extent of his gambling.
The calls with 1st Stop said that all they needed to do was to show one month of no 
gambling and the loan would be approved.
His gambling continued after the loan was approved, showing that he hadnt stopped.
1st Stop didnt complete all the checks they needed to.
So  I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered again what Mr KJ has said. I dont dispute that the previous bank statements 
showed his gambling and I was aware of that  as were 1st Stop. I had seen that theyd been 
declined for a loan before  but the issue before us to decide on was the decision made to 
approve the loan  in December 2017. The 1st Stop records show that they told Mr KJ that 
he needed to stop gambling for 30 days and he needed to demonstrate that. If that was said 
on the call as Mr KJ says  I dont consider that to be new information. And as I said in the 
provisional decision  that was 1st Stops policy, so they were consistent in applying that 
policy in this case.
Mr KJ says he continued to gamble after the loan was agreed. I didnt look at that  but I 
dont think thats relevant because 1st Stop had by then completed their checks and granted the loan. And if he did continue to gamble  as I noted in the provisional decision - that the 
repayments to the loan were made consistently through 2018 until late 2018  when Mr KJ 
left home. This would indicate that the problems with the repayments arose because Mr KJ 
left home  not because of his gambling.
I think 1st Stop did complete all their checks  as Ive outlined in the provisional decision.
And so, having considered Mr KS and Mr KJs further points, Im not going to change what I 
said in the provisional decision, and for the reasons I gave in it.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman