DRN-3495252
The complaint
Mr R complains about the way Nationwide Building Society dealt with his data rights 
requests. 
What happened
Mr R complained about the sale of his income protection policy. He also complained about 
the way Nationwide handled subsequent requests hed made for information in line with his 
data rights  that included a subject access request (SAR).
Nationwide acknowledged it could have done more to provide Mr R with the information hed 
requested in a timely manner and offered a total of £300 compensation to recognise the 
inconvenience caused. 
Mr R remained unhappy with the way Nationwide had handled matters though, and he said it 
still hadnt provided him with everything he had asked for. So, Mr R referred his complaint to 
this service. 
Our investigator looked at what had happened and said Mr R had made relatively straight 
forward requests which Nationwide could have actioned sooner. Our investigator recognised 
that Nationwides actions, or lack thereof, had caused Mr R considerable upset and 
significant inconvenience, and they recommended it paid £400 compensation (less any 
compensation already paid) to reflect that.
Nationwide agreed with our investigators opinion, but Mr R did not. He said the 
compensation recommended was derisory and ridiculous considering the number of hours 
he had spent on the matter, and it was much less than what a court would award too. Mr R 
said the actions of Nationwide had clearly been deliberate, obstructive, and dishonest. And 
he said he had been caused him much stress and anguish.
As no agreement was reached on the amount of compensation warranted in this complaint, 
the matter was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reason Ill now explain, I will be upholding Mr Rs complaint:
I do not see the need to recite Nationwides individual failings here. Nationwide did 
not disagree with what our investigator identified, and it has already acknowledged 
that it could have done more. However, for the avoidance of doubt I too agree that 
Nationwide could and should have done more following Mr Rs requests for 
information.
Mr R says Nationwides failings were a deliberate attempt at obstruction. I appreciate 
the understandable frustration Mr R has, but other than his testimony I havent seen 
any evidence to corroborate that Nationwide deliberately tried to obstruct him. 
Mr R has set out why he thinks more than £400 in compensation is warranted. As 
part of doing so, he has explained his understanding of the way in which a court 
would calculate such an award. I have no reason to doubt that Nationwides failings 
had a negative impact on Mr R, and I agree compensation is warranted. But this 
service is not a court and I will not be basing the amount I award on the way in which 
Mr R says a court would calculate it. 
Any award I make will be done so with the intention of it being a fair and 
proportionate reflection of the impact Nationwides failings had on Mr R. Thinking 
about that here I note:
Mr R had to wait much longer than he should have done to get the 
information he requested from Nationwide. I dont consider the requests he 
made to have been particularly unusual or complex, and I think Nationwide 
should have been able to deal with them much more quickly than it did. 
Mr R had to make a number of attempts to get information and updates from 
Nationwide. This was over a prolonged period of time, and disappointingly 
many of his attempts at contacting Nationwide went unanswered. 
Mr R had to deal with incorrect information about what Nationwide could 
provide to him. He was often frustrated by a number of Nationwides actions 
too, and all of the above would have both added to and increased the impact 
being experienced by Mr R at the time. 
I understand that Nationwide has already provided some compensation, but I dont 
think that collectively that amount is enough. I too am persuaded that Nationwide 
should increase its total offering. It caused Mr R unnecessary frustration, 
inconvenience and upset, and for the reasons given above I too think a total amount 
of £400 represents a fair and proportionate reflection of the impact of Nationwides 
failings. 
Putting things right
Nationwide Building Society should put things right by paying Mr R a total amount of £400 in 
compensation. That amount will be less any amounts it has already paid to him in 
compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Nationwide Building Society should put 
things right in the way I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman