DRN-2726415
The complaint
Mr Ds complaint about Revolut Ltd (Revolut) relates to the rejection of a direct debit (DD) 
following changes made by Revolut to their payment instruction as a result of the UKs 
withdrawal from the EU on the 1 January 2021.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them here in 
any great detail, save to say Mr D set up an EUR DD in October 2020 in order that payments 
for an internet service could be made to an EU bank. That instruction proceeded without any 
problem until January 2021 when the DD failed. Mr D says that Revolut should have advised 
him of the changes it had made, and also told sending or receiving banks too. 
He also complains that despite asking Revolut to inform the merchants bank of the changes 
and new requirements they refused to do so, suggesting Mr D do that.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My summary of what happened is brief and I know the parties went into a lot more detail. Im 
going to focus however on what I think the key issues are as our rules allow me to do this 
and it reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. So, if theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, its because Im satisfied that I 
dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome.
There are a number of aspects to Mr Ds complaint which I will deal with under discrete sub 
headings. Before I do so it is worth repeating that the changes under discussion come about 
as a result of the Wire Transfer Regulations that came into effect from 1 January 2021. As 
the investigator has pointed out, these changes, in so far as they relate to the circumstances 
of this complaint, meant that payment instructions would require additional details such as 
the payers address. As a result of these changes, when Mr Ds January DD was due, 
Revolut were obliged not to allow it to go through - so in this respect I cant say they have 
acted unfairly.
The impending changes
It is Mr Ds argument that as Revolut knew of the impending changes I mention above, it 
should have notified him. Revolut say it did and have pointed to a message it sent to all its 
customers likely to be affected. This message does not specifically address the very point 
which has arisen to cause Mr Ds complaint, but it does warn of potential problems with 
transfers cross border. However, it concludes with the statement that if a customer should 
be expecting an incoming payment from a European bank, the customer should reach out to 
the send or sending bank. This of course is not applicable to Mr D as he was making the 
transfer not receiving it.
Revolut has also said that it put information on its website regarding the Brexit transition and 
had on hand its Support Team who could have helped Mr D had he got in touch. So, the 
question must arise as to whether this was enough or whether, reasonably, Revolut should 
have done more. Quite obviously Revolut could have written individually to each customer 
and attempted to anticipate the effect of how any changes might impact on each individual 
customer. I dont think that would be a reasonable or proportionate approach. What Revolut 
have done is raise the issue of Brexit potentially affecting its customers. The message sent 
to Mr D does do that in my view. And having done so I think it is then reasonable to expect a 
customer, such as Mr D, to check with Revolut as to the specifics of any issue he had or 
might have. Mr D knew he had set up a EUR DD and having been put on notice of potential 
changes, I dont think there was anything further Revolut reasonably needed to do.
Advising sending or receiving banks of changes
I dont think there was any duty on Revolut to contact all potential sending or receiving banks 
of the impending changes since every such bank would be responsible itself for ensuring it 
was fully appraised of the effect of Brexit and complied with any regulatory framework. So, in 
the circumstances of Mr Ds complaint here, I agree with the investigator that it would be the 
merchants receiving bank that would be the party responsible for ensuring that any 
transactions they were to conduct would meet the Wire Transfer Regulations.
Failing to contact the merchants bank on his behalf.
I have partly addressed this point above in finding that there was no responsibility or duty on 
Revolut to contact the merchant receiving bank. I understand Mr D feels Revolut asking him 
to contact the merchant or their bankers was unreasonable, but I think that was actually a 
sensible suggestion since it would have got to the heart of the issue very quickly, and on 
balance, probably much quicker than a communication from Revolut. So, I dont think 
Revolut have acted unfairly or unreasonably here. 
So, although Mr D will probably be disappointed with my decision I cant say that I think 
Revolut has acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2021.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman