DRN-4106093
The complaint
Mrs R complains that she was given unsuitable advice by Greystone Financial Services
Limited (Greystone) to give up the benefits from her employers defined benefit (DB)
pension and use the available funds to provide her with a tax-free cash lump sum (TFC)
and a level annuity instead.
What happened
In late 2010 Mrs R approached Greystone as she was looking to access her pension. She
was 59 at the time and she and her husband had been retired for three years and were living
abroad. They were living off her husbands pension of around £6,000 per year. They had a
mortgage free home worth £140,000 and had no other savings or liabilities.
Mrs Rs state pension of around £4,600 was due to be paid from summer 2012. Her
husbands state pension would not be paid until 2015.
It was recorded that the couple needed joint income of £12,000 per year and that Mrs R
wanted to take the maximum TFC possible in order to replenish the couples savings which
had been depleted since they retired. Mr R also had to travel back and forth to the UK for
medical tests which they were finding difficult to cover the costs for. Mrs R wanted to
maximise her pension income and didnt want to take any risk with her pension.
Greystone compared different options for Mrs R. The earliest she could access her pension
from the DB scheme was at age 60. In early 2011 she was recommended to come out of the
DB scheme and take the maximum TFC and a level annuity (which was enhanced due to Mr
Rs medical conditions).
In 2022, Mrs R complained through a representative. She said she had seen an online
advert in 2021 and asked a claims management firm to check whether the advice given to
her had been suitable.
Greystone said the complaint had been brought outside the regulators time limits. They said 
Mrs R ought to have known more than three years before she complained that she had 
cause for complaint. They said she had been paid an annuity since 2011 and so she knew it 
was level (compared to an increasing income in the DB scheme) and if she didnt think the 
payment was acceptable she could have raised her complaint earlier. They also referred to 
all the information and comparisons she received at the time of the advice. 
Our investigator agreed that the complaint was made out of time. Mrs Rs representatives 
disagreed and so the complaint was referred to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision where I explained that I thought the complaint had been 
brought in time. I went on to consider the merits of the complaint and explained why I was 
intending not to uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
I asked both parties for their comments.
Greystone had no further comments. Mrs Rs representatives disagreed with my decision.
As no further comments on jurisdiction have been made I wont revisit this and focus solely 
on the merits of the complaint in this decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said:
Mrs Rs representative say she gave up guaranteed benefits and a spouses pension. 
However, Mrs R took out an enhanced joint life annuity, so she does receive a guaranteed 
income and a spouses pension which is in line with her attitude to risk. So some of the 
benefits of a DB scheme were replicated. The main difference is that her annuity is level in 
payment whereas her DB benefits (and spouses benefits) would have increased every year.
Ive seen the suitability report issued by Greystone which set out the different options Mrs R
had in terms of taking retirement benefits. It showed level and increasing annuities with 
differing amounts of TFC. It also set out what Mrs R could receive directly from her DB 
scheme either in 2011 (with two differing TFC amounts) or if she waited until 2012. Mrs R 
also received the information about the available DB benefits directly from the scheme in 
December 2010.
Mrs R couldnt access her DB benefits until August 2011 which at the time of the advice was 
only six months away. So I considered whether she should have reasonably been advised to 
wait and access benefits directly from the scheme. The fact find and suitability report record 
that Mr and Mrs Rs savings had been depleted since they retired three years prior and they 
were living off Mr Rs pension of around £6,000 compared to income requirements of 
£12,000 leaving them with an annual shortfall of £6,000. The documents from the time of 
sale recorded that the couple wanted to replenish their savings and cover immediate 
expenses and committed outgoings. The fact find said they were finding it extremely difficult 
to cover additional costs of Mr R having to travel to the UK for medical tests. 
Mrs R now says that this is incorrect and they were registered with a doctor in their resident
country and didnt need to travel back and forth to the UK. She says she didnt have an 
immediate need to access cash. She says if she had known her DB benefits were available 
to her in a few months time, she would have waited. 
Of course I do not know exactly what was discussed, however I have put more weight on the 
contemporaneous evidence at the time of the advice which noted that Mr and Mrs R did 
need money urgently. This is clearly stated in the suitability report and if this was incorrect I 
would have expected Mrs R to query this at the time. So on balance Im satisfied Mrs R did 
require money relatively urgently. They had no savings and it seems they were struggling 
financially. Mrs R was sent information from the DB scheme directly which made it clear she 
could access her DB benefits from August 2011 and what she could receive. And this 
information was repeated in the suitability report. So Im satisfied she did know this was an 
option.Greystone also specifically compared the following options:
a lump sum of £32,287 and a starting income of £4,843.09 which was increasing
each year from the DB scheme in August 2011
a lump sum of £35,200.63 with a level annuity of £6,118
They calculated that it would take around 19 years for the accumulative income from the
increasing DB income to match the level annuity. And this didnt take into account the slightly
higher TFC that came with the annuity and that the income would start earlier.
Its true that the longer Mrs R lived the more beneficial the overall DB benefits would be. The
DB benefits would provide an overall higher income and spouses pension (as this would
also increase with inflation) in the long term.
However, I think Mrs R was given a clear picture of her options and I think receiving a
significant lump sum and further income immediately to cover her expenses and receive a
higher income for many years would have likely outweighed this. She was also informed that
a level annuity would provide a higher income but that its purchasing power would be 
eroded by future price inflation. The report correctly noted that Mr and Mrs Rs income had
some inflation protection due to their other future income being increased (both their future
state pensions and Mr Rs pension which was also from a DB scheme).
Overall, I think Mrs R was given clear enough information about her options and I think the
advice given to her in her circumstances at the time was suitable.
In response to my provisional findings Mrs Rs representatives in summary made the 
following points:
They reiterated that Mrs Rs husband didnt need to travel back and forth to the UK 
and that they were both registered with a doctor in their country of residence. 
Mrs R also said she didnt need the money urgently. She had no mortgage and her 
outgoings were minimal. She and her husband spent very little.
If she had known that she could access her DB scheme in six months time she 
would have waited
Mrs Rs only other retirement income was her state pension. The DB pension was 
her main pension source. Greystones advice wasnt in Mrs Rs best interest in the 
short and long term.
Having considered the additional comments provided, I still remain satisfied this complaint 
shouldnt be upheld.
Most of the points raised have been made before and have already been considered in the 
provisional decision. I acknowledge that Mrs Rs testimony about her financial circumstances 
is different to what was recorded at the time of the advice. However, I think its reasonable in 
the circumstances to put more weight on the contemporaneous written evidence. 
Theres a retirement options form signed by Mrs R which mentions her husbands recent visit 
to a doctor in the UK who suggested further tests for cancer. It mentions that additional 
funds will be needed to cover doctor visits to the UK. And theres no reason for me to think 
Mrs R didnt receive the suitability report addressed to her that described her circumstances 
at the time. So I think they accurately described what she told the adviser at the time as she 
otherwise most likely would have queried this. I dont doubt that Mr and Mrs R also had a 
registered doctor abroad. However, this doesnt mean Mr R wasnt planning to travel to the 
UK for specific tests.As noted before I also think Mrs R would have known that DB benefits were available from 
her 60th birthday. This was mentioned in the report but also in the information she received 
directly from her DB pension scheme. And the options what she could receive though her 
DB scheme and through annuities was clearly explained in the report. So I think its more 
likely they did need the funds urgently and Mrs R didnt want to wait-even if this was just a 
matter of waiting another six months. 
It's correct that this pension made up a significant part of Mrs Rs retirement provisions. 
However, the TFC and annuity still provided guaranteed income and a spouses pension and 
met the couples immediate financial needs. It also provided higher benefits in the short to 
medium term and only would have been overtaken by the DB income at age 79. Long before 
this, both Mr and Mrs R would receive their respective state pensions which would increase 
every year and together with Mrs Rs annuity and Mr Rs DB income gave them income 
which far outweighed their recorded income needs. 
So overall, having considered everything again, I still think the advice given to Mrs R was 
suitable in her circumstances.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman