DRN-4085319
The complaint
E complains about HSBC UK Bank Plcs decision to block and close its account. E also 
complains about the time taken in releasing the money held in the account back to it. 
Mr K, Es director, says this caused significant loss to Es business and reputation and wants 
compensation.
What happened
E had a UK and foreign currency business account with HSBC, which allowed E to transact 
in EURO, USD, and GBP.
In March 2021, E received a large payment into its EURO account. Following this, HSBC 
restricted Es accounts  including the money in them  while they carried out a review. 
HSBC asked E for proof of entitlement to the funds held in the account, and E provided this. 
HSBC continued with their review and informed E they were complying with their UK 
statutory requirements so E couldnt transact on the account.
Mr K, on behalf of E, explained that the limitation of Es account meant E had lost out on a 
significant amount of money - around €95,000, and wasnt able to enter into new contracts. 
He said this caused reputational damage as well as financial loss to E and personal distress 
to him as the director including health issues.
In July 2021, HSBC finalised their review and decided to end their banking relationship with 
E. They provided E with 60 days notice. E sent HSBC relevant bank details to transfer the 
money in the account too and the money was transferred once the account was closed 
around August 2021.
Our investigator reviewed things and thought HSBCs actions were fair up until around May 
2021. But he hadnt seen enough evidence to satisfy him of whether HSBCs actions were 
reasonable between May 2021 and when they released the money to E. So, he asked HSBC 
to pay E 8% simple interest on the amounts withheld in the accounts.
E agreed  but HSBC didnt. They said E was able to transact on the account up until the 
exit date and therefore they couldnt release the money before the closure as there was 
potential for E to use it.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised the events in this complaint in far less detail than the 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking 
this approach. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to 
the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im 
satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I 
think is the right outcome. I do stress however that Ive considered everything that E and 
HSBC have said before reaching my decision.
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains 
security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the information HSBC 
has provided is information that we considered should be kept confidential. This means I 
havent been able to share a lot of detail with Mr K, but Id like to reassure him that I have 
considered everything.
The review and closure
HSBC are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and 
existing relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts  
either in full or partially while they carry out their review. Having looked at whats happened, 
it appears Es account flagged for review due to a large payment coming into the account, 
and a request from E to transfer it out. 
I appreciate why E may have found this inconvenient, but HSBC must ensure they keep their 
due diligence checks updated at all times. As part of their review, HSBC asked E for detailed 
information about the money in its account and where it came from  which theyre entitled 
to do under their obligations. Having reviewed everything, I do think HSBCs requests were 
reasonable in the circumstances. Ultimately it is HSBC who decide what information they do 
or do not require as part of a due diligence review and they have a duty to protect their 
customers money and understand where it came from. Because of that, I cant fairly 
conclude HSBC acted inappropriately.
At times, following a review, banks sometimes choose to end their relationship with 
customers. This can be due to a number of reasons and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason 
to the customer. Just the same as if E decided to stop banking with HSBC, it wouldnt have 
to explain why. I appreciate E feels very strongly about HSBC making an error in regard to 
where the money was sent from  and he thinks they have mistaken the origin. I appreciate 
Mr Ks strong feeling around this, however based on what HSBC has shared with me, Im 
satisfied their actions were wholly appropriate in the circumstances.
HSBC can only close accounts in certain circumstances and if its in the terms and 
conditions of the account. HSBC have relied on the terms and conditions when closing 
Es account. The terms explain that the bank can close the account with notice. Ive 
considered the full circumstances of this complaint and I agree HSBC were entitled to close 
the account and Im pleased to see they gave E the full notice period to allow it to arrange 
other banking facilities  albeit Mr K asked for the accounts to be closed sooner.
Withholding the money and the impact
HSBC initially said they couldnt return the money to E before the account was closed as E 
was able to transact up until the exit date, which was 9 September 2021. However, more 
recently HSBC have said that E wasnt able to use the account and it remained blocked until 
the balances were transferred out in August 2021. Ive thought carefully about this, having reviewed all of the evidence HSBC has sent, like our investigator, Im not persuaded that 
HSBC couldnt have released this money sooner. While we wouldnt usually give a certain 
timeframe that a review should be completed in, Id expect the review to take place in a 
timely manner without any undue delays. And based on the evidence Ive seen; I think its 
likely HSBC could have released the money in May 2021  so I find withholding the money 
from E after this date unreasonable and therefore think HSBC need to recognise this loss of 
use. 
Mr K says the time without access to the money caused E severe financial losses and loss 
to its reputation as it couldnt enter into new contracts. While Mr K, on behalf of E, has 
submitted documentation relating to Es business, I havent seen any evidence which 
satisfies me of the losses E has incurred. Therefore, I cant reasonably ask HSBC to pay E 
the amount of compensation it is seeking. In order for me to do that, Id need to see clear 
evidence that HSBCs actions were unfair, and that they resulted in E losing out financially 
due to HSBCs error. Im not satisfied that has happened and therefore I wont be upholding 
the complaint on this point. 
Ive also thought about what Mr K has said in relation to the health issues he faced 
personally due to this situation. I cant consider any impact to Mr K as an individual  
because he is a separate legal entity to E. And in the circumstances of this complaint, E is 
HSBCs customer. So, while Im sorry to hear of the difficulties Mr K faced personally, it 
wouldnt be appropriate for me to comment on them.
Putting things right
I consider an interest payment of 8% simple should be calculated and paid on the amounts 
held in Es account from 5 May 2021 to when the funds were transferred out. This 
recognises the loss of use of the funds and while doesnt reflect the loss of business or 
reputation E says it occurred, it is the current statutory interest rate on judgment debts and 
therefore, I consider it to be the fairest in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint against 
HSBC UK Bank Plc.
To put things right, HSBC Bank UK Plc should pay E interest at 8% simple per year on the 
amount in each account they withheld from E from 5 May 2021 up to the date the bank 
returned the money to E. This should be paid in the designated currency of each account.
HM Revenue & Customs require HSBC UK Bank Plc to withhold income tax from the 
abovementioned interest. HSBC should give E a certificate showing how much is taken off if 
it asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman