DRN-3063031
The complaint
Company W has complained about AXA Insurance UK Plc. It isnt happy that AXA turned 
down a claim under its agricultural vehicle insurance policy. For ease of reading any 
reference to AXA includes its agents.
What happened
Company W had an agricultural vehicle insurance policy with AXA. In June 2019 it made a 
claim after its harvesters drum was damaged. W thought that a foreign object had got into 
the drum causing the damage. Given the time of year and the need to keep the machinery 
working it undertook a temporary repair. And then got its usual repairer to complete a full 
repair before making a claim under its policy a while later.
AXA looked into the claim but turned it down. It wasnt satisfied there was sufficient evidence 
to conclude that the damage was caused by an accident and could well have been caused 
by wear and tear which wasnt covered under the policy. As Company W wasnt happy about 
this it complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for W but didnt uphold the complaint. She looked at all 
the available evidence from both sides but didnt think AXA had done anything wrong. It got 
its engineer to consider the claim and all the evidence provided by W but he concluded that 
there wasnt sufficient evidence to say the damage was caused by ingress. And it got its 
senior engineer to take a further look but maintained its position. As Company W didnt 
agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information provided 
by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been said in 
this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the crux 
of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to reflect my 
informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I dont think 
its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question raised unless 
its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
This case isnt easy to decide. Its hampered by the fact AXA didnt get the opportunity to 
examine the harvester in order to establish whether the damage was caused by wear and 
tear or by an accident. And while I can understand why W chose to get on with the repair as 
a matter of urgency, as it needed to keep the machinery working given the time of year, it 
should have kept the damaged parts as this would have assisted in deciding the claim. 
I know that W intended to keep the parts and it isnt sure what happened to them. But I cant 
hold AXA responsible for this and the delay in reporting the claim has clearly impacted AXA 
here. Indeed, Company Ws own engineer said that I suppose if there was a cracked drum 
as evidence, further tests could be done to prove.. exactly what happened. And as the 
parts havent been retained AXA hasnt been able to do this and Ws repairer wasnt 
conclusive in its findings. It said that cracks start off so small (that they dont get picked up 
during normal maintenance) in reference to how the damage may have been caused 
although it did suggest that a foreign object was possible. So, had the claim been reported 
earlier or the parts retained (and the onus was on W for this) then it would have been 
possible to establish for certain what happened here.
For its part AXA appointed an engineer who considered all of the relevant evidence, 
including the video and reports provided by W in concluding its initial position. And it went on 
to appoint a senior engineer to review the matter and to liaise with the manufacturer and 
looked at the same model as Company Ws. So I cant say AXA didnt look to consider the 
claim in full and in a fair and reasonable way. But ultimately, it didnt feel there was sufficient 
evidence to say that the damage was caused by ingress and AXAs engineer thought that 
the damage was most likely caused by wear and tear. 
I know Company W dispute this and point to the fact that the harvester was regularly 
maintained and serviced  it had been serviced a few weeks before this incident. But even 
their regular repairer highlights that it was possible that there was a small crack that couldnt 
have been picked up during maintenance, so it is quite possible that this was the cause 
here. W feels that the problem was caused by ingress, but it hasnt been able to evidence 
this. All it has been able to say was that an incident happened causing the damage and it 
believes the incident was caused by an unidentified object entering the harvester. But it 
hasnt been able to provide any real evidence of this and not all events are insured, such as 
problems caused by mechanical failure and wear and tear which is what AXA believes 
happened here.
Given all of this, I dont think there is sufficient evidence to say that the damage was caused 
by a foreign object as opposed to wear and tear. And I would have expected W to at least 
keep the parts if it wasnt able to wait for the insurer to assess the claim in order that AXA 
could assess the damage caused. In fact, it should have allowed AXA to look at the physical 
damage caused before repair and I feel there was opportunity to do this. So, I cant say that 
AXA has acted unreasonably as it undertook a thorough and detailed review of the claim 
before concluding that there was insufficient evidence to suggest that the damage wasnt 
caused by wear and tear.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons explained above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 January 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman