DRN-1819116
The complaint
This complaint is about payment protection insurance (PPI) sold to Mr R when he took out a 
Marks & Spencer Personal Reserve Account in 1997. Allianz Insurance Plc as the policy 
insurer has accepted responsibility for the complaint, so Ill be referring to Allianz throughout 
this decision.
What happened
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld.           
Mr R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
The sale took place 23 years ago. Allianz hasnt been able to send us the paperwork from 
the time and has limited information about where or how the sale took place. This isnt 
unusual and its understandable in view of the time that has gone by since the sale took 
place. But where there is limited information, I will make my decision based on whats more 
likely to have happened, taking into account the evidence available, what both parties have 
told me and what we know about these types of sale.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint and I will explain why.
From what we know of the way Allianz sold these policies in 1997 it is likely Mr R would have 
needed to tick a box or sign within the credit agreement to agree to the PPI. And Allianz has 
shown us a copy of an application form from the time of the sale which has a box to tick if 
the consumer wanted PPI.
So, I think it is most likely Mr R agreed to the policy. And I think hed have been aware at the 
time it was optional, and he didnt have to take it out in order to get the account. But I can 
understand if he cant recall this after so many years.
Allianz did not provide a personal recommendation when it sold this type of policy. So, it 
didnt have to make sure the PPI was right for Mr R.
But Allianz did have to give Mr R clear information about the policy so he could decide for 
himself whether to take it out.
Its possible Allianz didnt give Mr R all the information it shouldve. But even if it had, I dont 
think Mr R wouldve acted differently and declined the PPI.This is because Mr R was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the main 
exclusions or limitations of the policy. For instance, Mr R has told us he didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions which wouldnt be covered by the policy.
The policy wouldve paid a monthly benefit of 15% of the outstanding balance each month if 
Mr R couldnt work through sickness, or if he lost his job. And it would continue to pay the 
benefit until Mr R returned to work or the balance of the account was cleared. Compared 
with other similar policies from around the time this was a good level of benefit. Mr R has 
told us his employer provided him with sick pay, but the policy would pay in addition to any 
sick pay. So, bearing in mind the benefits of the policy, I still think hed have found the policy 
useful if things went wrong.
Taking everything into account I think Mr R was made aware the policy was optional and he 
chose to take it out. I think its likely the information given to him about the policy couldve 
been clearer. But even if Mr R was given full, clear information about the policy I think hed 
still have bought it. So, I dont think Mr R has lost out because of anything Allianz did wrong.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint and I make no award against Allianz Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman