DRN-2074979
The complaint
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA), as the insurer, should accept 
responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA as the seller in my 
decision.
Mr J says AXA mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mr J took out on a store card account in May 1998. It 
was added to his account when he applied for the card in store.
Mr J says AXA mis-sold the policy to him. He says through his representative that he was 
self-employed, and he would have found it difficult to claim benefit through the terms of the 
policy.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr J disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Js case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Js complaint and Ill explain why.
I think AXA made Mr J aware that he had a choice about buying the PPI, and that he chose to 
take it. I say this because AXA has given us a copy of the store card application form from the 
time of sale. This shows there was a separate section for PPI. This separate section has been 
ticked in agreement to have the PPI policy. Mr J has then signed the application form to say he 
consented to the information contained in it. So, I think this reflected what he wanted. Had Mr 
J not wanted the PPI he could have completed the application without the box being ticked.
So, on balance, I think Mr J was aware the policy was optional, and he agreed to take it out, 
knowing it was something he could say no to.
This application was made by Mr J completing an application in a store. So, because of this, 
I dont think a recommendation was made by AXA. So, AXA didnt have to check if the policy 
was suitable for him. But it still needed to make sure it gave Mr J enough information to 
make an informed choice whether the policy was right for him, taking into account his 
personal circumstances.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mr J about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. So, I need to consider if Mr J would have acted differently and not bought the policy, if 
better information had been provided. And on balance I dont think better information 
wouldve led him to act differently.
I think the PPI could have been useful to Mr J in that his store card payments would be met. 
It also would have provided additional cover if Mr J was unable to work. So, I dont think 
clearer information would have put him off regarding the amount of benefit that the policy 
offered.
Mr J says he was self-employed, and he would have found it hard to claim benefit due to the 
onerous terms of the policy. He says through his representative, that if he had been given 
clearer information about this at the time of sale it would have put him off from having it. So, I 
have looked into this.
I have read through the terms and conditions of the policy and can see the term relating to 
self-employed people. It states, If you are self-employed and wish to make an 
unemployment claim your business must have stopped trading and / or be in the process of 
being wound up. Mr J through his representative, says the policy term is onerous as it says 
he must have either ceased trading or be in the process of ceasing trading. But I can see the 
policy term doesnt say that. I think Mr J could have claimed benefit if he needed to when his 
business had stopped trading at any point. I dont think this term restricted Mr J from 
claiming benefit if needed so I dont think clearer information on it wouldve affected his 
decision to agree to have the PPI policy. I also couldnt see any significant or limiting terms 
that would have affected Mr Js decision to take the policy out either.
Im not sure AXA gave clear information on the costs of the PPI policy, but I dont think this 
would have affected Mr Js decision to take out the policy for the reasons I have already 
given. 
Ive taken into account all of Mr Js comments, but for the reasons mentioned above, these 
points dont change my conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2020.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman