DRN-2776648
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) declined to give him a partial refund for 
his motor insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mr K holds motor insurance with AXA. His complaint relates to his August 2019 to August 
2020 policy year.  
On 2 May 2020 Mr K contacted AXA to ask for a partial refund on his policy. Hed not used 
his car as much as hed expected to due to Covid-19 restrictions. 
AXA declined his request. It told him it had no plans to provide a blanket refund to all its 
customers. Mr K contacted AXA again on 5 May 2020 to tell them that some insurers were 
providing a Covid-19 refund. So he wanted to understand AXAs position on this.
AXA told Mr K that it had focused its response on providing extra help to those most in need.
Mr K contacted AXA again on 19 May 2020. His policy allowed up to 5000 miles a year. He 
asked what difference it would make to his premium if he reduced that to 4000 miles. He 
was told that such a change would result in a £0.96 refund. But he didnt go ahead with the 
change.
Mr K complained to AXA. It didnt uphold his complaint. But it did offer to waive the 
cancellation fee if he wanted to cancel his policy and move to a different insurer. It said itd 
give him a partial refund for the cover hed not used if he cancelled. 
Unhappy with its response, Mr K brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold his complaint. He felt that AXA had acted fairly and reasonably. Mr K didnt agree. So 
his complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint. Im satisfied that AXA didnt act unfairly or unreasonably 
when it declined to give him a refund for lower use. Ill explain why.
Mr K said that a number of insurers have issued some sort of refund to their customers. He 
said that theyve done this having recognised and reassessed the risk. So he cant see why 
AXA havent done the same. 
AXA said that there was one insurer that offered a small refund of £25 to its customers. It 
said that other insurers advertised refunds. But those were subject to terms and conditions. 
It said itd focused its Covid-19 response on helping those most in need. 
AXA also explained what itd done for its customers in light of Covid-19. It explained it 
couldnt suspend policies due to the need for continuous insurance. And it pointed out that 
cover for theft, malicious damage, fire, storm and other non-road risk perils was still being 
provided when a car wasnt in use.
But Mr K felt it was irrelevant that his car had been covered for other risks over the period in 
question. He felt that thered been a reduced risk due to his lower than expected mileage. 
And so he felt he should get lower premiums.
But when he asked AXA to re-price his premium assuming he wanted cover for 4000 miles, 
not 5000 miles, his premium only reduced by £0.96. AXA explained that this small difference 
was because the rating margins at this level of mileage are very small. I dont find this 
unusual, or unfair or unreasonable.
AXA also confirmed that no other AXA customers were given Covid-19 refunds during this 
period.
For an insurer, there may be hundreds, or even thousands of variables it has to consider 
when setting a premium. It also has to include its own commercial requirements. And we 
generally take the view that, providing they treat people fairly - that is they treat customers 
with similar circumstances in the same way - insurers are entitled to charge what they feel 
they need to in order to cover a risk. The same is true here. Insurers are entitled to offer a 
refund with no strings attached, with conditions, or not offer one at all. AXA has decided to 
focus its response to Covid-19 on helping those most in need. And I cant interfere with that 
commercial decision.
Im not persuaded that AXA has done anything wrong. Its treated Mr K the same as its other 
customers. As he was unhappy, it offered to cancel his policy without the cancellation fee if 
he wanted to move elsewhere. And it told Mr K how his premium would be affected if he 
reduced the miles covered on his policy. So I cant ask it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman