DRN-2742964
The complaint
Mr R says Bamboo Limited lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr R took out a loan over 48 months from Bamboo on 19 June 2018. It was for £5000 and 
the monthly repayments were £256.59. The total repayable was £12316.21. I understand the 
loan remains outstanding.
Mr R said Bamboo didnt complete good enough affordability checks; it didnt explain 
the interest and charges to him; its agent was pushy on the phone; and it made errors 
with his repayment plan that put him into arrears on other bills and caused him to incur 
bank charges. 
Our adjudicator found that Bamboo did not lend irresponsibly to Mr R. He found the 
lenders checks were not proportionate, but he had not found any evidence that better 
checks ought to have led to a different lending decision. He did not think Bamboo had 
acted unreasonably or irresponsibly towards Mr R in any other way.
Mr R rejected this conclusion. He asked for his case to go to an ombudsman, saying 
we had said Bamboo ought to have reviewed his bank statements and that there were 
issues with his credit file. He also flagged that whilst the mortgage was paid from his 
wifes account he contributed to it, and that his net income could be lower some 
months as he didnt always receive a mileage allowance - so Bamboo had not used the 
right value for its analysis.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and 
Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when Bamboo lent to Mr R required it to carry out a reasonable 
and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed in a 
sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an 
affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So Bamboo had to think about whether 
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for 
Mr R. In other words, it wasnt enough for Bamboo to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the repayments on Mr R.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
- the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
higher repayments from a particular level of income);
- the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make 
repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether Bamboo did what it needed to before agreeing to 
lend to Mr R. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
- did Bamboo complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Rs 
loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable 
way? 
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
- did Bamboo make a fair lending decision?
- did Bamboo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see Bamboo asked for some information from Mr R before it approved the loan. It 
asked about his income, residential status and number of dependents. It also checked 
Mr Rs credit file to understand his current credit commitments and credit history. It checked 
his declared income against a recent payslip and made some assumptions about his living 
expenses based on national averages. It asked about the purpose of the loan, which was for 
debt consolidation. From these checks combined Bamboo concluded Mr R had enough 
monthly disposable income to afford to repay the loan.
I note Mr R has flagged that his income varied depending on his mileage allowance, so the 
value Bamboo used was too high. But I think checking a recent payslip was a reasonable 
way to verify his declared income. And Bamboo has confirmed that whilst this showed his 
net income was £2034.99 it used a lower figure of £1827 to take into account the mileage 
payment and other items. So I dont find the lender made an error in this regard. 
However, overall, I dont think Bamboos affordability checks were proportionate. Mr R was 
applying for a loan over a term of 48 months, so I think Bamboo ought to have carried out 
better checks to ensure it understood Mr Rs actual monthly outgoings. I can see it used his 
credit file to understand his credit commitments, but in the circumstances I dont think it was 
enough to make assumptions based on national averages about his other living costs. Given 
it was deciding if Mr R could sustainably afford to repay a loan over a four-year period, and t 
knew he already had significant debts to service each month, I think it needed to understand 
his actual expenditure. Also, it knew from his credit file he was jointly liable for a mortgage 
yet was happy to rely on an assumption about his contribution to this.
 
So, Ive looked at what I think proportionate checks would likely have shown. Ive looked at 
Mr Rs bank statements before his loan application to try to understand his typical monthly 
living costs at the time. I am not saying that Bamboo ought to have reviewed his bank statements, but this could have been one way for it to make sure it understood his outgoings 
before deciding the loan was affordable. It isnt wholly clear what Mr Rs fixed monthly 
outgoings were and whether his contribution to the joint mortgage was fixed or variable (as it 
reasonably may have been) but I havent found enough evidence to conclude that Mr Rs 
fixed monthly costs were such that he didnt have enough disposable income to make the 
repayments sustainably for this loan. 
In addition I can see nothing on Mr Rs credit file that I think should have led Bamboo to 
make a different lending decision. There wasnt a concerning level of adverse information 
(such as overdue or defaulted accounts). Whilst Mr R was near his credit limit on his credit 
card accounts and his monthly credit commitments were quite high relative to his income, as 
he was taking out this loan to consolidate existing debt, I dont think this was a reason for 
Bamboo not to lend in this case. 
It follows I dont think if Bamboo had completed proportionate checks that it ought to have 
reached a different lending decision. I know Mr R will be disappointed, and Im sorry that he 
is now struggling financially and has been unable to repay this loan, but I dont think the 
lender could reasonably have known this - I note he lost his job a number of months into the 
term of this loan. Based on his circumstances at the time of this loan I dont think Bamboo 
did anything wrong. 
Finally, I have considered whether Bamboo acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other 
way. It seems during the course of this services investigation the issues about Mr Rs 
payment plan have been resolved so I will comment no further on this. And from the calls I 
have had access to I havent found any fault in Bamboos approach to Mr R. 
Mr R also said the interest rate and charges were not fully explained to him. But I can see 
from the pre-contract credit information and the loan agreement which Mr R signed
electronically that the monthly repayment, the loan term and total cost for credit were set
out clearly, alongside the APR and the interest rate. Mr R had to actively engage in the loan 
application process, so I think its likely that he was aware of what he was agreeing to pay. I 
havent seen anything which makes me think that Bamboo treated Mr R unfairly or breached 
industry practice regarding interest charges.
It follows I dont think Mr R has lost out because of any problems with the sale or 
administration of this loan. If, as it seems, there is an outstanding baIance I would remind 
Bamboo of its obligation to treat Mr R sympathetically and positively whilst he is having 
financial difficulties. 
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman