DRN-3019018
The complaint
Mr B and Miss S complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the 
claim they made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) concerning a 
solar panel system they say was misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mr B and Miss S are represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In or around August 2017 Mr B and Miss S contacted a company Ill call P to talk about 
buying a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at their home. After a visit from a 
representative of P, Mr B and Miss S decided to buy the system, and to finance it through a 
15-year fixed-sum loan from Shawbrook. The system was subsequently installed.
In July 2019 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr B and Miss Ss behalf under 
section 75 of the Act. The CMC said that Mr B and Miss S contacted P to enquire about 
buying solar panels after they saw an advert online. P then called Mr B and Miss S and a 
representative of P subsequently met with them at their home. The CMC says Ps 
representative made a number of representations about the system which have turned out 
not to be true. And it said it was these misrepresentations that had induced Mr B and Miss S 
to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following misrepresentations were made:
The total cost of the system was shown as £12,177.90 to mislead Mr B and Miss S, 
since when interest was added the total cost was £23,161.60. Ps sales 
representative didnt explain the cost of the finance, and the impact the interest would 
have.
The system would be self-funding by virtue of the feed in tariff (FIT) payments and 
electricity savings.
The cost of the system would be paid off in less than 10 years.
Mr B and Miss S would make significant savings on their electricity bills.
The CMC also raised concerns under section 140A of the Act. It said there was an unfair 
relationship between Mr B and Miss S and Shawbrook, due to the misleading 
representations it says Ps representative made about the systems performance.
And the CMC said that Shawbrook hadnt carried out a proper credit or affordability 
assessment before agreeing to the loan.
In its response to the complaint, Shawbrook said it didnt agree that the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr B and Miss S, or that there was any other reason for the claim to be 
upheld. But it offered to pay Mr B and Miss S £200 to apologise for its delay in issuing a final 
response to their complaint.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, she didnt think that P had misrepresented the system to 
Mr B and Miss S. She acknowledged that Shawbrook had accepted that P had over-
estimated the expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR), and had agreed to 
compensate Mr B and Miss S for that. But she found no other reason to uphold the 
complaint. 
The CMC told us that Mr B and Miss S didnt agree with the investigators view. They said 
that Ps salesperson told them the worst-case scenario was that they would be around £20 
out of pocket per month for the term of the loan. As its turned out, though, the deficit is much 
higher. The CMC said that taking into account the deficit in the first 11 years and the profit in 
the remaining four years of the loan term, it works out to be a deficit of just over £23 per 
month. But Mr B and Miss S are actually experiencing an average deficit of £70.69 per 
month. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes sections 56, 75 and 140A of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr B and Miss S paid for the system with a fixed-sum loan agreement, Shawbrook 
agrees that section 75 applies to this transaction. This allows Mr B and Miss S to claim 
against Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the 
same way they could have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into 
account when deciding whats fair in the circumstances of this case.
Ive also taken account of section 56. This says that any negotiations between Mr B and 
Miss S and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
Section 140A is relevant too. It says:
(1) The court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it determines that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor 
arising out of the agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement) 
is unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following:
(a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of his rights 
under the agreement or any related agreement;
(c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).(2) In deciding whether to make a determination under this section the court shall have 
regard to all matters it thinks relevant (including matters relating to the creditor and 
matters relating to the debtor).
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or their agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and the solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar 
Quotation. Ive looked at these in detail, and have considered whether they support the 
alleged representations made by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and that it is therefore relevant, alongside Mr B 
and Miss Ss recollection of the sale, when considering if there were any untrue statements 
of fact.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest rate to be charged, 
the total charge for credit, total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.
Cost of the system
The loan agreement clearly sets out that the cash price of the goods.
Mr B and Miss S say the cost of the system was shown as £12,177.90. They say that this 
was designed to mislead them, as the figure didnt include any interest on the loan. So they 
consider that it hid the true cost of the system, which was £23,161.60.
Im satisfied that the quote provided to Mr B and Miss S makes it clear that the cost of the 
system was £12,117.90. This is supported by the credit agreement, which shows the total 
cash price as £12,117.90. The total amount of credit is £12,077.90, as Mr B and Miss S paid 
a £100 deposit. But it then goes on to show the total amount payable as £23,161.60.
The quote is also clear that thered be a monthly loan repayment due, as set out in the table 
below. So Im satisfied that the quote and the credit agreement made it clear that although 
the cash price of the system was £12,177.90, it would cost Mr B and Miss S more than this, 
as theyd decided to pay for it with an interest-bearing loan.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr B and Miss S that the system would be self-funding.
The System Analysis section of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr B and Miss S 
could expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the 
expected FIT payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. 
The FIT scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr B and Miss S could expect to receive a 
total FIT income in year one of £166.68.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr B and Miss S could expect from the 
system. The expected year one electricity saving is £192.02. Taking into account the 
optional extras which Mr B and Miss S chose, the combined income and savings figure for 
year one is shown as £694.68. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three table showing repayments over 60,120 
and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months, as this is the length of the loan 
that Mr B and Miss S entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as repayable 
in 180 monthly payments of £129.05. For each year of the 15-year loan it shows the 
expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, 
and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £129.05, to give an average difference 
between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr B and Miss S could expect to receive from 
the system, by way of FIT payments, and the monthly loan repayments that would be due
The table sets out the estimated average monthly return from the system, and the effect on 
that return of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im satisfied that the table is clear and 
easy to understand. And in my view, it clearly shows that the overall return Mr B and Miss S 
could expect to receive, by way of FIT income and any additional savings, would not 
immediately be enough to cover the monthly loan repayments. So the system wouldnt be 
self-funding from the start.
However, I do accept that Mr B and Miss S were told by P that the system would be self-
funding over a duration of time. 
The quote includes a table headed Estimated performance over 25 years. This shows that 
by year 18 the overall benefits that Mr B and Miss S could expect to receive would have 
exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement. And it wasnt until year 12 
that the estimated overall benefits would have exceeded the cash cost of the system. So Im 
not satisfied that Ps representative claimed that the cost of the system would be paid off in 
less than 10 years, as Mr B and Miss S have said. 
Im satisfied that P told Mr B and Miss S that the system would pay for itself by year 18, as 
supported by the table above. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and if I were satisfied 
that this was what induced them to enter into the contract, and they subsequently suffered a 
loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
I acknowledge that the CMC continues to question whether the quote document formed a 
central part of the sales process with P. Ive carefully considered the points that the CMCs 
made, along with those made by Shawbrook on behalf of P. Having done so, I remain 
satisfied that the quote did form a central part of the sales process when Mr B and Miss S 
agreed to enter into the contract.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system, and whether its in line with the 
contract between P and Mr B and Miss S. The MCS certificate and quote shows that the 
system was expected to produce 2,531.10 kWh a year.
Ive looked at Mr B and Miss Ss FIT statements and have taken into account the meter 
reading which an engineer took when he inspected the system in January 2022. The 
engineer reported that having carried out a full system check, he couldnt find any problems 
with the system. The system has, on average, generated 2,417 kWh a year. Although this is 
slightly less than estimated by P at the point of sale, the system has been performing, on 
average, at 95.5 per cent of the generation figure shown on the MCS certificate and quote. 
So Im satisfied that its performing, within a reasonable tolerance, as expected.
Ive also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, and 
expected annual RPI inflation increase. Im satisfied that Ps methods for calculating these 
are fair and reasonable. As the investigator mentioned, Shawbrook has previously 
acknowledged that it over-estimated the expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) in 
this case, and that this resulted in the benefits of the system being over-estimated. And it 
agreed to make a payment to Mr B and Miss S to compensate them for the discrepancy. Im 
satisfied that this was fair. 
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2015 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. Ive looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than P predicted at the point of sale. I think this 
explains why Mr B and Miss S havent been receiving the financial returns they may have 
been expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the saving achieved through the energy generated by the system has 
been correspondingly lower.
As Ive explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available from 
the ONS covering 2006 to 2015. And based on this, I dont consider that it was unreasonable 
for P to use them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr B and Miss S 
could expect from the system. So, while I appreciate that the return may not have been as 
high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to P using 
unreasonable assumptions when Mr B and Miss S entered into the contract.
Unfair relationship  section 140A of the Act
Ive gone on to consider whether a court might conclude that there was an unfair relationship 
under s140A the Act.
A sufficient inequality of knowledge and understanding is considered a classic source of 
unfairness in a relationship between a creditor and a consumer. Shawbrook has confirmed 
that it paid no commission to P and, considering that I havent found any misrepresentation 
and Im of the view that the underlying assumptions used by P were reasonable, I think a 
court would be unlikely to conclude that theres an unfair relationship under the Act.
Credit assessment
Shawbrook addressed this aspect in their final response to Mr B and Miss Ss complaint. 
Having completed my investigation, Im satisfied that there isnt any information to support 
the allegation that proportionate credit checks and assessments werent completed.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im 
satisfied that P didnt make any untrue statement of fact that induced Mr B and Miss S to 
enter into the contract for the system. And Ive found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr B and Miss Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss S to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman