DRN-3746020
The complaint
Mr C complains about the increase in premium Acromas Insurance Company Limited 
charged him when he renewed his motor insurance policy. He wants a refund of the increase 
he paid, with interest.
What happened
Mr C took out a policy with Acromas. He had a non-fault claim on the policy within the policy 
year. At renewal, he was quoted a premium that had increased by 42% over the previous 
year. Acromas said any claim may affect his future premium. Mr C paid this premium and 
made a complaint. Acromas said the premium had been calculated correctly. But Mr C 
remained unhappy.
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Acromas provided 
evidence from its underwriters to show how the premium had been calculated. He thought 
Acromas had increased the premium correctly and in keeping with its own internal 
guidelines. So he thought Mr C hadnt been treated unfairly and he didnt think Acromas 
needed to pay him any refund. 
Mr C replied that he thought this was unfair. He said the other drivers insurer had paid the 
costs of the claim in the previous year. Mr C asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an 
Ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C told us that another driver reversed into his car and accepted liability in full. So the 
other insurer dealt with his repairs and Acromas had no involvement. Mr C notified the 
incident to Acromas. And when his policy came up for renewal, he found that the price 
quoted had increased significantly since the previous year. I can understand that Mr C would 
want to understand why this had increased. 
Insurers constantly update how they rate the risk of consumers. And their rates continually 
change. Acromas has provided us with confidential business sensitive information to explain 
how Mr Cs price increase was calculated. Im afraid I cant share that with him, but I can 
assure him that weve checked it carefully. 
The premium increase that Mr C saw was due to a change in Acromas rating system. 
Acromas explained to Mr C that it considers various risk factors when rating risks.
These risk factors include, but are not limited to a customer's age, driving history, mileage 
and insured vehicle.
And it has lately refreshed its rating system so that Mr Cs premium increased at renewal. 
Im satisfied the price Mr C was quoted at renewal has been calculated correctly and all of 
Acromas customers in his position will have been charged a similar premium. I can also see 
that Acromas told Mr C in his renewal invitation that he may get a better price if he shopped 
around. But Mr C chose to remain with Acromas. 
Mr C was concerned that the non-fault claim had increased his premium. We often find that 
a claim or notification itself  regardless of whos at fault  will affect the premium. While 
some insurers will only rate on No Claims Discount (NCD) disallowed or fault claims, others 
will consider any claim  or even just a claim notification  as a risk factor. This is because 
insurers say that drivers who have been involved in accidents, regardless of fault, are more 
likely to be involved in future claims. 
I can understand that Mr C may find this to be illogical. But being involved in an incident 
could be linked to such things as his use of higher risk roads or junctions or driving at 
particular times. Its not our role to tell an insurer how to price their policies or what factors 
they should consider when calculating a risk. However we need to make sure the insurer is 
applying a fair and consistent approach to all consumers.
Again, Ive looked at evidence from Acromas underwriters. And I can see that the premium 
increase wasnt solely due to the claim. I can see that it was calculated correctly in keeping 
with Acromas internal procedures. And Mr C hasnt been treated any differently to other 
customers in his position. But I cant divulge further information about this as its 
commercially sensitive. 
So I think Acromas increased Mr Cs premium at renewal correctly in keeping with its 
underwriting guidelines. I think it treated Mr C fairly and reasonably. And so I dont require it 
to pay Mr C any refund. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman