The complaint
Mr G is unhappy Starling Bank Limited registered a CIFAS against him after fraud was 
committed on his account that he says he wasnt aware of. He says this is preventing him 
opening a bank account, so he wants the marker removed.  
What happened
Mr G says he was approached by a good friend about a way he could make some easy 
money through someone his friend knew. He was told to open an account with Starling and 
use it as normal. Money was then deposited into the account and he was asked to transfer 
this onto his main account with another bank, which he did. 
Mr Gs mum has told us he was then driven to a bank in a random town, where he withdrew 
the money from his other account and handed it over to the third party. He also withdrew 
£300 from the Starling account at an ATM and handed this to the third party too. In the end, 
he says he didnt receive a cut of the money.  
Starling had concerns over the activity on the account, so took steps to close it immediately 
and register a CIFAS against him. 
Mr G has admitted he made a mistake in following the instructions given to him, but he 
trusted his friend and didnt think he was taking part in anything illegal. He says he had 
concerns at one point and googled ways to make quick money but because nothing illegal 
was mentioned, and as he trusted his friend, he was convinced to proceed. 
Starling maintains the CIFAS marker has been recorded correctly due to the activity on Mr 
Gs account and his involvement in this. It therefore told Mr G it wouldnt remove it. 
Mr G brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
She concluded that although Starling hadnt done a thorough investigation at the time, it was 
entitled to record the CIFAS marker given the circumstances of what happened. She also 
concluded it had closed his account correctly, in line with the terms and conditions. 
Mrs G, on behalf of Mr G, disagreed with our investigators opinion explaining that her son is 
a good boy and made a mistake, regretting everything that happened. She says his health is 
now suffering and he deserves another chance so he can move on with his life. She also 
pointed out that mistakes were made on both sides as Starling didnt do its checks properly 
at the time. 
Our investigator explained that she agreed Starling didnt do the required checks at the time 
it registered the CIFAS marker. However, following her investigation she was satisfied that 
had it done proper checks, the outcome wouldve been the same. 
DRN-1571481Because Mr G disagreed with the outcome, the complaint has now been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions 
as the investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons.
CIFAS loading 
Its clear from what Ive seen that Starling didnt conduct a thorough investigation before 
loading the CIFAS marker against Mr G. It didnt ask him for any explanation around the 
deposits into his account before doing so. This is an error on its part. Given the implications 
on an individual for having a CIFAS marker against their name, Starling has a duty to carry 
out sufficient checks and keep a record of these for the duration of the loading. However, 
this error doesnt automatically mean the CIFAS should be removed. 
The point I have to decide in this complaint is, despite Starlings failing at the time, did it 
make a mistake in filing a marker against Mr G on the CIFAS database. 
The bar for recording a CIFAS marker is a high one. The bank must have  a good reason to 
believe it couldve suffered a loss and/or it reasonably believes it has grounds to press 
criminal charges as a result of the activity on the account. This should be more than just a 
suspicion or concern.
So here, I need to be satisfied Starling couldve made a formal complaint to the police or 
other law enforcement agency on the basis that there were reasonable grounds to believe 
fraud or a financial crime had been committed or attempted. The evidence of that also needs 
to be clear, relevant and rigorous.
I should be clear that Starling isn't required to demonstrate, for instance, beyond any level of 
doubt, that Mr G has committed fraud or any other financial crime. And I'm only coming to a 
decision as to whether it's fair and reasonable for the bank to have reasonable grounds to 
believe that to be so.
Having reviewed the necessary information Starling has provided and the explanation Mr G 
has provided, I believe the CIFAS marker has been filed correctly and I won't be asking it to 
remove it. 
I understand Mr G says he trusted his friend and so believed everything was above board. 
However, he clearly appreciated there was a risk to the actions he was taking. Hes admitted 
he had concerns and so did some research on the internet. He also went ahead and 
withdrew the money from the account despite not knowing where it had come from and how 
exactly it was a way to make quick money.  
I appreciate the impact this is having on Mr G and his admission that this was just a silly 
mistake on his part, but Im afraid that doesnt mean I can conclude the CIFAS has been 
loaded incorrectly. 
Account closure Starling has the discretion to offer accounts to who it wishes, just as Mr G can choose who 
to bank with. When closing an account though it must do so in line with the terms and 
conditions. I can see the terms of Mr Gs account allow for immediate closure, so Im 
satisfied Starling hasnt made an error here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint against Starling Bank Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17July2020.
Sarah Brimacombe
Ombudsman