DRN-4462735
The complaint
Miss A complains that National Westminster Bank plc closed her current account without 
notice and failed to account to her for funds held in it.
Miss A has been represented by a family member, so references to her submissions include 
those made on her behalf.
What happened
Miss A held three accounts with NatWest  a current account and two savings accounts. The 
balance on each immediately before the events which led to this complaint was fairly 
modest.
On 10 and 11 May 2022 the current account was credited with a total of £10,119 over four 
payments. On the same dates transfers out of the account totalling £10,125 were made. The 
account statements indicate the payments out were all made to an account in Miss As 
name.
Soon afterwards NatWest contacted Miss A to say that it would be closing the account with 
immediate effect.
Miss A said that she did not know anything about the money that had been paid into her 
account and that she did not feel the bank had done enough to prevent a third party from 
gaining access to it. She complained too that her details had been passed to CIFAS, the 
UKs fraud alert service; this was preventing her from opening an account with a different 
provider.
NatWest said that it had not done anything wrong. It had acted in line with the account terms 
and had properly accounted to Miss A for all the funds held in each of the accounts.
Miss A referred the matter to this service. Our investigator did not recommend that the 
complaint be upheld. Miss A did not accept that recommendation and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.
I did that and issued a provisional decision, in which I said:
Banks can generally decide for themselves whether to provide  or continue to provide  
banking services to any customer. They should usually give notice before withdrawing 
services, but in certain circumstances do not have to do so. That general position is reflected 
in NatWests account terms, and Miss A was not given any notice before her account was 
suspended and then closed.
Miss A says she does not know anything about the payments into and out of her account on 
10 and 11 May 2022. I can see how someone might be able to make payments into her 
account without her knowledge or consent, but it would have been much more difficult for a 
third party to make the withdrawals. And I note that the withdrawals were made to an 
account which, on the face of it, was controlled by Miss A.
In my view, therefore, NatWest was within its rights to close Miss As account. If, as she 
says, she was not involved at all in the transactions on 10 and 11 May 2022, it is clear that 
her account had been compromised by fraudsters. Alternatively, she was more directly 
involved. Either way, I think the bank acted reasonably in closing the account without notice. 
That is the case, whether or not Miss A was directly involved and whether or not she 
benefited from those transactions.
I do not accept that the bank should have done more to monitor the account than it did. In 
any event, it contacted Miss A on 18 May 2022 about the transactions  that is, it did tell her 
about its concerns.
As far as the account balance is concerned, the account statements indicate that it was 
£59.35 before the credits made on 10 and 11 May 2022. As I have indicated, Miss A denies 
any knowledge of the four payments into the account and has not suggested that she was 
entitled to the money which passed through it. I am satisfied that NatWest has paid her the 
money represented by the account balances.
Miss A did not accept my provisional findings. Through her representative, she said that she 
thought I was accusing her of being involved in the payments. She said too that the bank 
had not sought authorisation for the payments from her.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, I have not however changed my view from that set out in my provisional 
decision. I shall discuss briefly the points made in response to it. 
It is of course open to me to make a finding that Miss A was directly involved. She has 
referred the matter to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent assessment of 
it, and that carries with it the possibility that an ombudsman will make findings of fact which 
do not fully accept her account of events. But my provisional decision in fact concluded that 
the banks actions were fair, whether or not Miss A was directly involved and whether or not 
she benefited from the payments. 
As far as authorisation of the payments is concerned, a bank would not usually seek the 
authority of its customer before accepting a payment into an account. The transfers out of 
the account were online payments, and so would only have been made if Miss As security 
details had been provided. That is, the banks systems would have identified them as 
authorised. I accept of course that they may not have been, if someone else had been able 
to obtain Ms As security information. But, since Miss A does not claim to have been entitled 
to the funds in any event, I dont believe it makes any difference to the outcome. If the bank 
had stopped the payments at any point, I think it would still have been within its rights to 
close Miss As account.  
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not uphold Miss As complaint and do not 
require National Westminster Bank Plc to take any further steps to resolve it.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 January 2024. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman