DRN-4216615
The complaint
Ms B complains about how American International Group UK Limited (AIG) handled her 
mobile phone insurance claim.
AIG is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agent. As AIG has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agent, in my 
decision, any reference to AIG includes the actions of the agent.  
What happened
In April 2023, Ms B made a claim under her mobile phone insurance policy with AIG. Ms B 
was told that a replacement device wasnt available, and it would take up to five working 
days for one to be shipped to her. 
Ms B raised a complaint with AIG because she was unhappy with the delay and believed it 
should have offered her an alternative device. AIG arranged for a device to be sent to Ms B 
around a week after she made her claim. In response to her complaint, it apologised for not 
looking into an alternative device for her sooner. AIG paid Ms B £50 to compensate her for 
the amount of time shed spent on calls and the inconvenience shed experienced.
Ms B remained unhappy and asked our service to consider her concerns. She said she 
would like a full refund of the £100 excess shed paid AIG, plus £100 for the hassle and 
upset it had caused her.
Our investigator didnt think Ms Bs complaint should be upheld. He thought the £50 AIG had 
already paid her was fair.
Ms B disagreed with our investigators outcome. She said the terms and conditions clearly 
state that AIG would offer her a replacement, but it didnt until she complained a lot. She said 
this should have been offered on the first phone call. She was left without an operating 
mobile phone for one week as a single parent with a child. She had to spend at least five 
hours of her time trying to sort it out and raise complaints before AIG would offer her a 
replacement. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy terms say:
You will pay a contribution of £100 for each approved replacement claim (the Replacement 
Excess) and £50 for each approved repair claim you make (the Repair Excess) The 
applicable excess will be collected from you by (AIGs agent) before we repair or replace 
your phone.
AIGs notes show that Ms B paid the £100 excess on the day she made the claim. 
The terms and conditions also say:
If your phone is being replaced, (AIGs agent) will try to provide you with the same make 
and model of phone, although it may be a different colour. In the unlikely event that (AIGs 
agents) suppliers do not have your phone in stock, (AIGs agent) will offer you an alternative 
phone. This will be at least the equivalent technical specification of your phone but may be a 
different make, model or operating system or have different features and functions.
AIG says Ms B was told her device was out of stock and on back order the day she made 
her claim. It looks like it offered her an alternative device around a week later, after shed 
phoned a couple of times to complain. The phone was ordered and shipped to Ms B the 
same day.
I appreciate it was inconvenient for Ms B to be without a phone for around a week. I think 
this timeframe would likely have been reduced if AIG had offered her an alternative device 
when she first made her claim. However, AIGs terms and conditions dont give a specific 
timeframe for a claim to be settled. So, Im not persuaded its breached the policys terms 
and conditions or that there was an unreasonable delay in Ms B receiving a replacement 
device.
I understand Ms B is unhappy about the time she spent on the phone trying to get the matter 
resolved. However, using financial services wont always be hassle free and our service 
wont always award compensation when a business makes a mistake. Wed normally say an 
apology or small monetary award is enough to remedy a mistake if it causes minimal impact 
and is put right quickly.
I know my answer will be disappointing for Ms B, but I think the £50 AIG has already paid 
her is sufficient compensation for any distress and inconvenience its caused her. So, I dont 
require it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman