DRN-2561930
The complaint
Mr Ls complaint is about text messages he received from MBNA Limited relating to his 
credit card account.
What happened
In June 2020, Mr L opened a credit card account with MBNA and opted out of 
receiving marketing messages. Mr L asked MBNA not to communicate with him 
unless there was possible fraudulent activity on his account, or to send a monthly 
statement to his address. Mr L received some text messages from MBNA.
Mr L wasnt happy about this and complained to MBNA.
MBNA said it couldnt stop all messages it sent as these were linked to service 
activities, and in line with the terms and conditions of his account. So it didnt uphold 
his complaint.
Mr L didnt agree and brought his complaint to us.
After investigating, our investigator concluded the complaint shouldnt be upheld 
because MBNAs terms showed it could contact Mr L about service activities. And 
they found that as MBNA had shown it couldnt offer a bespoke messaging service to 
Mr L at this time, it had acted fairly in addressing his concerns.
Mr L doesnt agree. He asked for an ombudsmans decision, so the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for these reasons:
Mr Ls account terms state, We will contact you using the details you give uswe 
will send you a letter or write to you individually in some other way that we 
reasonably think is suitable. Examples include email, text. The terms go on to 
state, If you provide your mobile phone numberwe will register you for our free 
account alerts service so we can send you messages to notify you of certain activity 
regarding your card.
Looking at the terms, I think it clearly shows MBNA can send Mr L messages about 
certain activities on his account. And I havent seen any messages from the evidence 
provided which would fall outside of these terms. So I cant say MBNAs done 
anything wrong here.  
It isnt the role of this service to decide how MBNA chooses to communicate. In 
response to Mr Ls complaint, MBNA has said it cant currently provide a service 
where individual customers can pick and choose what messages they receive 
regarding account activity. But it has passed Mr Ls concerns on to see if it can be 
done in the future. I find this reasonable.
While I understand Mr Ls frustration. I find the text messages he received were 
reasonable as set out in the terms and conditions of his account. So I wont require 
MBNA to do anything more.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint about MBNA Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman