DRN-2736716
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about the early repayment charged (ERC) they were charged by 
The Chorley and District Building Society when they redeemed their mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out their mortgage with The Chorley, supported by a shared equity loan 
from the government help to buy scheme, on a two bedroom flat. The mortgage they took 
included a discount on The Chorleys standard variable rate (SVR) for the first three years  
and during that period an ERC of 3% was chargeable if the mortgage came to an end.
To meet their growing needs, they decided to move to a house. They initially asked The 
Chorley to allow them to let out the property, or convert it to a buy to let mortgage, but it 
refused. It said this was a residential mortgage, and in any case Mr and Mrs M werent 
allowed to let the property under the terms of the help to buy scheme.
Mr and Mrs M asked to port their mortgage to a new property. The Chorley said this wasnt a 
portable mortgage. But it said that if they took a new mortgage to buy the new property with 
The Chorley, it would refund the ERC it would charge when this one came to an end.
Mr and Mrs M said they wanted a five-year fixed rate. The Chorley said it didnt offer 
five-year fixed rates. 
Mr and Mrs M said they didnt think it was fair that The Chorley didnt offer a product that 
was suitable for them. They said they had been left with no choice but to move their 
mortgage to another lender. In doing so they had paid an early repayment charge (ERC) of 
just under £6,000.
Mr and Mrs M complained about the ERC. They said it wasnt fair that they had to pay it. And 
they didnt think the amount they were charged was fair or represented the cost to The 
Chorley of losing their business  especially as there was only a few months left before the 
discount period and ERC came to an end.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint, so Mr and Mrs M asked for it to 
be looked at by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage was a specific type of mortgage linked to the help to buy scheme. 
It wasnt portable  that is, the mortgage rate couldnt be moved to another property. Thats 
not unusual; most lenders that offer help to buy mortgages dont offer portable ones. Thats 
because the mortgage is specifically designed to sit alongside a help to buy loan, and is 
structured and priced accordingly. When moving property, a help to buy loan has to be paid 
back and cant be transferred to a new property  so if this mortgage was ported, it would be 
a help to buy mortgage on a property without a help to buy loan, and it isnt designed for 
that. So  like most help to buy mortgages across the market  it wasnt portable. 
I dont think that was unreasonable. And I think it was fair for The Chorley to give 
Mr and Mrs M the option of avoiding the ERC, even without porting the original mortgage, if 
they took another The Chorley mortgage instead to buy the new property.
Mr and Mrs M didnt take up that offer. They said they wanted a five-year fixed rate, which 
The Chorley doesnt offer. And they didnt think it would offer the loan to value they wanted 
on the new property.
I dont think The Chorley acted unfairly here. Strictly speaking, it didnt have to offer to refund 
the ERC at all  according to the terms of the mortgage contract Mr and Mrs M agreed to, 
the ERC was chargeable once the old mortgage was repaid, whether or not they took a new 
one. So The Chorley was offering more than it needed to. And while it didnt have the 
specific product Mr and Mrs M wanted, it doesnt have to offer particular products, or types of 
products  whether or not other lenders do. There were options open to Mr and Mrs M, even 
if they didnt match their first preference.
In any case, the mortgage worked as it should. When a lender lends a mortgage, it first has 
to have raised the funds to lend from somewhere  either on the money markets, or from 
funds its savers deposit with it. Raising funds on the markets generally comes at a cost. And 
raising money from savers means needing to offer competitive interest rates  so savers 
dont withdraw their money. So that involves a cost too. Finally, lenders have to hold certain 
levels of capital according to the level, and risk, of debt theyre exposed to  which again 
carries a cost.
A lender recovers those costs, along with some profit, through the interest charged on its 
mortgages. And with a fixed interest rate, it budgets to do so over the fixed rate period.
The Chorley offered initial promotional rates, and expected to recover its funding costs over 
the period of the discount rate. If the mortgage ends early, it wont receive the full three 
years of interest for the promotional period  and so wont recover its budgeted costs in full. 
But rather than tie in borrowers without the possibility of exit for that initial period, a mortgage 
allows a borrower to bring the loan to an end early  in return for covering the cost of that to 
the lender. Thats the ERC. ERCs are allowed for in the regulators rules and are standard 
across the mortgage industry.
When a mortgage is first taken out, the lender has no way of knowing whether  and, if so, 
when  an individual borrower will end it early. But the lender can look at its lending history 
and other data, and calculate the proportion of its mortgages that end early, and the average 
costs of them doing so.
This is what The Chorley did.
The rules of mortgage regulation allow lenders to base an ERC on a reasonable pre-
estimate of the costs of a mortgage ending early, rather than the actual costs if it does so. 
This means that the specific cost can be set out in the mortgage contract up front, and the 
borrower can take it into account when deciding to take the mortgage.
And the rules also allow the pre-estimate to be set across a group of mortgages, rather than 
for each mortgage individually.Im satisfied that The Chorley calculated its ERC fairly and in accordance with the rules. It 
set a methodology that allowed it to recover a reasonable pre-estimate of its costs across a 
group of mortgages when the expected proportion of them ended early.
Basing the ERC on a pre-estimate, and averaged across a large number of mortgages, 
means that the ERC charged in any individual case bears no direct relation to the individual 
losses from that specific mortgage ending early. 
Mr and Mrs M have pointed out that the ERC they paid to The Chorley was higher than the 
total interest they would still have to pay during the discount period. That means, they say, 
that the ERC doesnt reflect The Chorleys losses.
And that may well be the case. But that doesnt make it unfair. As Ive explained, the ERC is 
set based on an estimate of the share of the overall costs each mortgage likely to end early 
needs to contribute for The Chorley to recover its costs across the group of mortgages as a 
whole.
In some individual cases, the ERC will be less than the costs on that individual mortgage; in 
other individual cases it will be more. But as along as  across the group of mortgages as a 
whole  the ERCs expected to be recovered are a reasonable pre-estimate of the losses 
from the proportion that end early, thats a reasonable approach for The Chorley to take. To 
require it to calculate the individual losses would be more complex  and would mean The 
Chorley wouldnt be able to state the applicable ERC in the offer before the mortgage starts.
While I can understand Mr and Mrs Ms concerns about the ERC charged to them at the 
point in their specific mortgage when it was charged, I dont therefore think that The Chorley 
has treated them unfairly.
The ERC was clearly set out in the mortgage contract, in the way the regulator requires. 
Mr and Mrs M would therefore have been aware of it before taking the mortgage out  and 
before deciding to repay it. The Chorley offered them options to avoid having to pay it, which 
they decided not to take. And when they paid the ERC as a result, it was calculated fairly 
and in accordance with the rules. I dont therefore uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman