DRN-1732084
 
complaint
Mr R says Close Brother Limited (CBL) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
background
Mr R bought the regular premium policy alongside a loan in 2009.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. As CBL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, the 
complaint was passed to me.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 9 March 2020, a copy of 
which is repeated below, and so it forms part of this final decision. In my provisional decision 
I set out the reasons why I was minded not to uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 8 April 2020. Both parties have contacted us to say they received 
my provisional decision. CBL made no further submissions. Mr R expressed his 
disappointment at the provisional outcome and made a final submission. So I am proceeding 
to my final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Rs case.
In my provisional decision I explained that,
After reviewing all of the information provided in this complaint, I do not intend upholding 
Mr Rs complaint. I explain why below.
Ive first looked at whether CBL gained Mr Rs consent and whether it made clear to Mr R 
that the policy was optional. Mr R told us he could recall little of the events of the sale. CBL 
sold the policy by telephone. Sadly the actual call is no longer available. These events did 
happen over ten years ago and businesses arent obliged to keep records indefinitely. But 
Ive been given a copy of the script the representative was supposed to follow at the time 
and I can see that the representative was supposed to only add the cover if they got the 
consumers agreement. And in asking for that agreement they were supposed to do so in a 
way that made it clear the cover was optional. I havent seen sufficient evidence to find that 
this guidance was not followed in this case. I also note that the telephone call was made a 
couple days after the loan had been agreed. And the script suggests the call would have 
started by reminding the consumer that the loan was already in place. So, having considered 
all the submissions I have received in this case, I think its more likely that CBL wouldve made Mr R aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it, even though he 
may not remember that now, many years later.
CBL says it recommended the policy to Mr R. This meant CBL needed to take reasonable 
steps to make sure the policy was suitable for Mr R. Based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time, I think the recommendation was right for him. I explain why 
below.
Mr R was eligible for the cover, and he doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the 
main exclusions from or limitations to the policies. Mr R has told us that his sick pay would 
have only lasted at his full rate of pay for six weeks. And Mr R told us that he had no other 
means he could have relied on such that he may have had to rely on his parents for support. 
The PPI would have paid out for up to 12 months if Mr R was too ill to work or if he became 
unemployed. So I think the policy could have been useful to Mr R.
The cost of the policy appears to have been comparable to other similar policies at the time 
and appears to have been affordable.
So having thought about everything carefully, I think the policy was suitable for Mr R.
As well as checking the policy was right for Mr R, CBL also had to give him clear enough 
information about the policy so he could decide if he wanted to buy it. Its possible the 
information CBL gave Mr R was not as clear as it shouldve been. However, for the same 
reasons I think the policy was suitable for Mr R, Im not persuaded better information 
wouldve made a difference to his decision to take out the PPI policy.
So I dont think that Mr R lost out as a result of anything CBL might have done wrong.
I have considered again all the evidence and arguments from the outset in order to decide 
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive read and considered 
the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on 
any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it, but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. 
In making his final submission Mr R expressed his disappointment at the provisional 
decision. He restated some bits of testimony that I had already considered in reaching that 
provisional decision. And he suggested that I should review the uphold statistics against CBL 
before reviewing the case. I have not done that as each case is considered on its own 
merits. And as Mr R explained that he had no new evidence he could produce in this case, I 
have had no new evidence to consider in this case. In the absence of any further points for 
me to consider, I find no reason to depart from my original findings as set out in my 
provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, and within my provisional decision, I do not think the PPI 
policy was mis-sold  so I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint against Close Brother Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman