DRN-2821802
The complaint
Mr J complains that a car he took on hire purchase from BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited (BMWFS) was not of satisfactory quality.  
What happened
In March 2020 Mr J took a car on a five-year hire purchase agreement from BMWFS. The 
car was around five years old with a recorded mileage of 47,000. Its cash price was a little 
over £8,000. Mr J was to make monthly payments of £172.
Within a few months Mr J says he noticed a whining sound coming from the cars engine. He 
took it to four different garages, including the dealership which had supplied it. Three of 
those establishments (but not the dealership) said they thought the noise might be 
something to do with the cars turbo-charger, but they could not identify any fault. One said 
the turbo might be worn, but that nothing could be done until it actually failed.
In October 2020  that is, seven months after Mr J acquired the car  he took it for a service. 
At that point, a full diagnostic check was done. That showed that there was an oil leak 
coming from the turbo and the turbo actuator was excessively worn. To fix that problem, the 
turbo would need to be replaced at a cost of just over £1,300.
Mr J contacted the dealership, which said that the three-month warranty supplied with the 
car had expired and that he would therefore have to pay for the repairs himself. It was for Mr 
J to show that the fault was present at sale, and he had not done so. Mr J therefore 
complained to BMWFS, which said much the same as the dealership had done. He therefore 
referred the matter to this service.
One of our investigators considered what had happened. She thought that the evidence 
showed that the car had not been of satisfactory quality at delivery and that BMWFS should 
therefore meet the costs of repairs and refund the monthly payments Mr J has made while 
he does not have use of the car. BMWFS did not accept the investigators view and asked 
that an ombudsman review the case.
I did that and issued a provisional decision. I have copied my provisional findings below:
The hire purchase agreement was to be read as including a term that the car would be of 
satisfactory quality. An item is of satisfactory quality if it is of the quality a reasonable person 
would expect in the circumstances. In this case, that includes the cars age, price and 
mileage.
Mr J says that the car was not of satisfactory quality. In court, someone who alleges 
something is usually required to prove it. Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, however, 
where an item is shown not to be of satisfactory quality within six months, it is for the 
supplier to show that it was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. I have taken those 
matters into account but should stress that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not bound 
by the same rules of evidence as a court would be.
Mr J says, and I accept, that he became concerned by a noise from the engine after about 
three months. It was not however until about four months later that the fault with the 
turbocharger  and the need for it to be replaced  was identified. By that point the cars 
mileage was a little under 52,000  not significantly more than when it was delivered to Mr J.
The investigator considered that this was sufficient to show that the car was not of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. In particular, she thought it was not sufficiently 
durable. I agree with that conclusion. Some issues were to be expected with a car of this age 
and mileage, but I dont believe a reasonable person would expect it to have needed a 
replacement turbo within a matter of months. Depending on how a car has been driven and 
maintained, a turbo should usually last significantly longer than was the case here. There is 
no suggestion that Mr J drove the car in such a way as to cause damage or that he did not 
properly maintain it  indeed, the problem was diagnosed during a service.
As the investigator noted, the car can be repaired. In the circumstances, I think a fair remedy 
would be for BMWFS either to arrange a repair at its cost or for it to make a payment to Mr J 
so that he can arrange a repair. I do not believe however that it is appropriate to refund any 
monthly payments in this case; rather, Mr J should receive some compensation for the 
inconvenience to which he has been put.
I recommended that BMWFS should either (i) arrange for the turbo-charger to be replaced 
and pay Mr J a further £150 in recognition of the inconvenience to which he had been put or 
(ii) pay Mr J £1,500 so that he could arrange repairs.
Mr J indicated that he would accept that recommendation, but BMWFS did not respond by 
the deadline I set.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, however, I see no reason to depart from the findings I set out in my 
provisional decision. Neither side has provided any new arguments or evidence.
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I indicated that BMWFS should have the option of arranging 
repairs or paying Mr J sufficient to arrange them himself. I did so because I do not know 
whether it is better or worse placed than a customer to arrange repairs. In exercising the 
option, however, I would expect it to consider Mr Js interest in having the car fixed at the 
earliest opportunity and with the least inconvenience. It is of course open to Mr J, in 
responding to this decision, to indicate any preference he may have.
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that, to resolve this complaint, BMW Financial 
Services (GB) Limited should, at its option, either:
arrange for the turbo-charger to be replaced and pay Mr J £150; or
pay Mr J £1,500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021. Mike Ingram
Ombudsman