DRN-3228999
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy about the service he received from BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited in 
relation to the voluntary termination of his hire purchase agreement.
What happened
Mr G was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement with BMWFS. In 
March 2021 he asked if he could voluntary terminate the agreement.
BMWFS provided Mr G with a termination figure which said he didnt owe any money 
because he had paid half of the sum due under the agreement.
Mr G returned the car. Later, BMWFS sent him an invoice saying he owed £582.08. Mr G 
contacted BMWFS who advised him that a payment holiday in September 2020 hadnt been 
taken into account when it provided the termination figure.
Mr G complained to BMWFS. He said if hed been provided with the correct information, he 
wouldve kept the car for another month and paid half the agreement. He said he was 
unhappy about the adverse information recorded on his credit file.
In response, BMWFS acknowledged that it had provided incorrect information and offered to 
reduce the amount outstanding to £500.
Mr G brought his complaint to this service. During the investigation by this service, BMWFS 
made an offer to reduce the outstanding balance to £383.08  a reduction of £200 in total. It 
said that once the balance was paid it would stop reporting adverse information on Mr Gs 
credit file but said that the previous missed payment markers would remain.
Our investigator thought the offer was fair. He said that although Mr G had been provided 
with incorrect information, this did t take away his obligation to make payments due under 
the agreement.
Mr G didnt agree. He was unhappy that the previous adverse markers would remain on his 
credit file. He said hed tried to contact BMWFS to sort things out but had received no 
response.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that BMWFS provided incorrect information to Mr G when he asked about 
termination of the agreement. BMWFS has acknowledged that the quotation it provided was 
incorrect because it failed to take account of arrears accrued as a result of a payment plan 
set up in September 2020.
BMWFS has made an offer to reduce the balance by £200, which would leave Mr G with 
£383.08 to pay. Ive thought about whether the offer is fair. On balance, I think it is. This is 
because although BMWFS provided incorrect advice, its still Mr Gs responsibility to make 
payments due under the agreement. So, whilst BMWFS has recognised its error and offered 
to pay compensation, I dont think it would be fair to ask it to write off the entire balance.
I appreciate that Mr G is unhappy about the impact this has had on his credit file. BMWFS 
has reported adverse information because of the unpaid outstanding balance. Im only able 
to ask a business to remove adverse information if its been reported in error. In this case, 
Im unable to say that BMWFS has made an error because the balance hasnt been paid. 
BMWFS has reported correctly.
Mr G has said that he tried to contact BMWFS several times to try and resolve things but 
didnt get a response. Ive looked at the system notes provided by BMWFS. These show that 
Mr G was in contact with the collections team in June, July and August 2021, and that he 
was advised of the impact that non-payment of the outstanding balance might have. Taking 
this into account, and whist I understand that Mr G isnt happy about his credit file, Im not 
persuaded that there are grounds for me to ask BMWFS to remove the previous adverse 
markers. Once Mr G has paid the outstanding balance, BWMFS has said it will stop adverse 
reporting.
Putting things right
To put things right, BMWFS must reduce the outstanding balance to £383.08.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited must 
reduce the outstanding balance to £383.08.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman