DRN-4132812
The complaint
Mr M complains that ITI Capital Limited (ITI) took too long to action his request to close his 
account and move his money somewhere else.
What happened
In 2020, Mr M contacted ITI asking it to close his account and transfer the money held in his 
share dealing account. ITI didnt respond and Mr M complained. ITI wrote to him to 
apologise for the delay, and offered him £50 to say sorry, which it subsequently paid him.
A few months later, Mr Ms account still hadnt been closed, and his money remained in his 
ITI account. He complained again. ITI didnt immediately respond to this complaint, so Mr M 
asked our service to investigate.
After our investigator started looking into things, ITI got in touch to say it had reviewed what 
happened to Mr M. It said it had taken too long to action Mr Ms requests. It said it would pay 
him a further £150 to say sorry, as well as £9.05 in interest for the period of the delay.
Our investigator thought this was a fair way to resolve things given the delays ITI had 
caused, and Mr M accepted ITIs offer. But after a substantial time had passed, ITI still 
hadnt paid the amount it agreed and didnt respond to any further contact from either our 
service or Mr M. As a result, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key facts of this complaint arent in dispute, and so I dont think its necessary to dwell 
on them in great detail. Mr M asked ITI to close his account and transfer out the money he 
held in his account. I think thats a reasonable request and in the normal course of events 
something that wouldnt take too long.
ITI has acknowledged that it didnt act on Mr Ms instruction as quickly as it should have 
done. Im aware ITI had recently onboarded a large number of clients and had many 
requests to process from those wanting to move to different brokers. But I dont think it was 
fair to make Mr M wait as long as he did, especially as ITI didnt let Mr M know what was 
going on during that time.
Im satisfied that this will have caused Mr M some upset. He wasnt able to do anything with 
the money that was sat in his ITI account and was left in the dark about what was, or wasnt, 
happening. I think its fair and reasonable for ITI to compensate Mr M for that trouble, and I 
think the £150 it has offered Mr M is fair. I also think its right ITI pays Mr M interest for the 
time he was unreasonably deprived of his money, and Im glad to see that ITI has offered to 
do that, and that Mr M accepts the offer ITI has made.
All the parties are largely in agreement about what went wrong and what ITI should 
reasonably do to put things right. And for the reasons given above, I agree that the proposed 
remedy is a fair one. ITI should therefore carry out the settlement it put forward, which 
amounts to £159.05 inclusive of the award for Mr Ms trouble and interest on his funds.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. ITI Capital Limited must pay Mr M £159.05.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Luke Gordon
Ombudsman