DRN-4118708
The complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about a claim he made on his Soteria Insurance Limited legal expenses 
insurance policy.
All references to Soteria include their claims handlers.
What happened
Mr M made a claim on his Soteria Insurance Limited legal expenses insurance policy for 
cover to bring a professional negligence claim against Solicitors he instructed to act for him 
in respect of a medical negligence claim. 
The history of the claim is well known to both parties, so I dont intend to repeat it here. The 
matters I am considering and which essentially form the crux of this complaint are:
whether there was any failure by Soteria to progress Mr Ms claim within a reasonable 
amount of time and if so what level of compensation should be awarded to him. 
whether Soteria failed to provide Mr M with the cover he was entitled to under his policy 
and what should happen next. 
Mr M has also referred to various examples of where he thinks Soteria are responsible for 
maladministration of the policy, but I dont intend to determine those issues on a standalone 
basis- rather Ill look at Soterias actions in the round and comment on them where relevant 
when determining the matters Ive set out above. 
Our investigator considered Mr Ms complaint and initially concluded that it shouldnt be 
upheld and that Soteria werent responsible for the actions of the panel firm. She later 
reviewed things afresh as well as Mr Ms considerable submissions in response. At that point 
she concluded that Soteria had failed to properly progress Mr Ms claim within a reasonable 
timeframe or properly assess it under the terms of the policy. As such she recommended 
Soteria pay Mr M £950 in compensation for this and arrange for assessment of his claim to 
now take place. 
Soteria have agreed to the investigators recommendation, but Mr M has not. Hes made a 
number of submissions in response which I will deal with in summary in the body of this 
decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld for broadly the same 
reasons set out by the investigator.
I set out above the issues Im considering in this complaint. Mr M has introduced some 
additional matters since he brought his complaint to this Service- including the fact that he 
feels the policy was mis-sold. But thats not something I can deal with here. I know the 
investigator has made some comment on that matter, but I dont think its appropriate for us 
to determine the issue in finality because its not one the seller of the policy would have had 
the opportunity to comment on and the issue of the sale of the policy hasnt in any event 
been considered in detail by them or the investigator. If Mr M wants to pursue a specific 
complaint for mis-sale of the policy, he will need to raise it with the business that sold it to 
him in the first instance. 
I also wont be considering any of Mr Ms submissions in relation to the actions of the panel 
firm. They are an independent firm of professionals with their own codes of conduct and 
regulator. Its not within my remit to determine any complaints against them save where they 
were administering the terms of the policy by say turning down cover on behalf of Soteria. If 
Mr M remains unhappy with their conduct, he will need to address this with them directly. If 
he remains dissatisfied, he can refer the matter to the Legal Ombudsman. 
Mr M has made considerable submissions in this complaint which I know he wants 
addressed. I wont however be addressing those submissions individually. No disrespect is 
intended to Mr M in this regard. It simply reflects the informal nature of this Service. 
I turn now to whether there were any failures by Soteria to progress Mr Ms claim within a 
reasonable amount of time. Soteria themselves have accepted their failings in this regard. 
Whilst they initially offered Mr M £250 to put things right, they have subsequently accepted 
the investigators view that this doesnt go far enough to compensate Mr M for the time it 
took to progress things. So, the question for me is to determine whether this is the right 
amount of compensation. 
There was almost a four-month delay in Soteria acknowledging the information theyd asked 
Mr M to provide before his claim could be assessed. Things then progressed but stalled 
again because there was considerable debate about who Mr M wanted to consider the 
merits of his claim, as well as grievances about the actions of the panel firm and the 
instructions and information they intended to send to the Barrister. Whilst I cant attribute the 
stalemate reached entirely to Soteria, I do think they were in a position to move things 
forward sooner in order to fulfil the terms of the policy based on the information they had. 
This would have enabled them to decide whether they were in a position to offer cover at all. 
As things stand no merits assessment has been conducted to date. So Mr M doesnt know if 
Soteria are prepared to offer him cover. And I understand that he was advised the limitation 
for his claim against his former Solicitors is fast approaching. The delays to my mind amount 
to the initial four months it took for the claim to be acknowledged and for over a year after 
that where no assessment happened before Mr M complained in finality. I have no doubt, 
having read everything hes said, that this would have caused him considerable stress and 
frustration. I would ordinarily award more than the £950 recommended by the investigator for 
delays amounting to this sort of time frame but Im also mindful that they arent entirely of 
Soterias own making. I say so because the tone, length, nature and frequency of the 
correspondence from Mr M, did in my view partly contribute to this delay. And I can see that 
Soteria, through their panel firm, did try to work with him amicably for some time to reach the 
point where an assessment could be provided which would be acceptable to him. Because 
of this I agree with the investigator that £950 is adequate to compensate him for the delay in 
his claim being progressed. 
It follows that in failing to progress the claim Soteria also failed to provide Mr M with an 
assessment of his claim in order to determine whether he was entitled to the benefit of 
funding at all. So I turn to what should happen next. I appreciate that Mr M wants control over a number of things such as who will assess his 
claim and what instructions they should receive. But I dont think thats up to him to decide. 
There is currently no cover in place as his claim has yet to be assessed. And given Soteria 
are paying to establish whether cover should be afforded, its up to them to decide who to 
instruct and what instructions to give. In doing so theyre entitled to rely on the opinion of 
their panel firm in this regard so long as that professional is suitably qualified and the advice 
being obtained is not based on factual mistakes. As yet there is no advice so I cant say it is 
based on a factual mistake and Im satisfied that the panel Solicitor is suitably qualified to 
instruct a Barrister to consider the merits of the claim.  So if Soteria wish to instruct the 
Barrister through the panel firm as they initially wanted to, they should do so by providing all 
of the information Mr M has submitted in support of his complaint to them. Mr M should also 
be given one additional opportunity to supply anything else he wants to the Barrister to 
consider. If however Soteria wishes to instruct another legal professional, that is up to them, 
but they should provide the same information Ive set out above to that person.
In making this determination I recognise that Mr M feels the panel firm werent going to 
provide all the information to the Barrister that hed supplied but this was later identified and 
is therefore subject to correction- had instructions in finality been sent. So although I 
understand his trepidation, I dont think the matter is now in issue as the panel firm accepted 
particular documents were omitted in error and Mr M will in any event have another 
opportunity to supply any further information he wants to be considered. 
The investigator said that Mr M was entitled to take his own advice about the merits of his 
claim if he had no faith in the panel firm or the Barrister they intended to instruct. In response 
to that Mr M said he didnt have the funds available to do so. Mr M now takes issue with that 
submission being disclosed in the investigators view. Whilst I understand he may find this 
issue sensitive, it is important to address it given it forms part of his submissions. Ive also 
taken into account what hes said about this. Having done so, I dont think this means 
Soteria need to fund his own choice of Solicitor or Barrister to consider the merits of his 
claim because of his personal circumstances. His claim isnt at a point where he has the 
freedom to choose his own Solicitor because his matter is not at a point where proceedings 
are necessary. So the options open to him now are to allow Soteria to instruct a professional 
of its choice or to withdraw his claim entirely. If his circumstances change and he disagrees 
with Soterias Barristers view, then he can take his own advice, at his own expense. If that 
opinion is favourable I would expect Soteria to consider things further in accordance with its 
policy terms and inline with the approach we adopt in such circumstances.
Mr M has made the point that Soteria arent currently acting in line with their policy terms by 
instructing a Barrister to comment on the merits of his claim. He cites the following term in 
that regard:
2. Reasonable prospects and proportionality
(a) We will assess whether Your claim has Reasonable Prospects of success and/or is 
Proportionate before We can confirm cover.
(b) If We decide that Your claim does not have Reasonable Prospects and/or is not 
Proportionate and You get a legal opinion, at Your own expense, that says Your claim does 
have Reasonable Prospects and/or is Proportionate then We will arrange to get a final 
opinion from an independent barrister.
Mr M argues that as he hasnt obtained an opinion at his own expense, so Soteria arent 
entitled to instruct a Barrister. I dont agree. That policy term applies in very specific 
circumstances- in particular where an assessment of merits has already been obtained. In 
this case that assessment has yet to be determined so as Ive said above, it is now up to Soteria to obtain that and they are, in my view entitled to take that advice from a legal 
representative of their choice. 
Putting things right
Soteria should pay Mr M £950 in compensation for the delays in dealing with his claim.
Instruct a Solicitor or Barrister of their choice to consider the merits of Mr Ms claim against 
his former Solicitor, providing all of the information Mr M has supplied in support of his claim. 
If Mr M wishes to supply anything further, then he should be allowed one opportunity to 
provide that.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint against Soteria Insurance Limited and direct them to put things 
right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman