DRN-2574806
The complaint
 Mrs R complains that St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc gave her a series of bad 
investment advice  for a variety of reasons  in 2017.
  What happened
In a Provisional Decision, I outlined why I felt this complaint should be upheld. St Jamess 
responded to say it accepted my conclusions including the proposed redress. Mrs R 
confirmed that she had surrendered all the products in 2019.
This is an abridged version of that Provisional Decision.
Mrs R met with a St James advisor in August 2017 and he recorded that she could afford to 
invest £600,000, looking for a mixture of capital growth and regular income. This would leave 
her with around £300,000 for various commitments and requirements.
He recommended she invest: £ 21,052.63 in a St. Jamess Place ISA, £200,000 in a St. 
Jamess Place Unit Trust Feeder and £380,000 in a St. Jamess Place Investment Bond.
The ISA/Unit trust invested mainly in global equities spread across a wide range of 
investment managers. The fund also contains some cash assets and fixed-interest bonds. 
The investment bond was split 50/50 between the managed funds portfolio and the deferred 
income portfolio, both investing into a similar mix of global equities and bonds/cash assets.
In her complaint, Mrs Rs representative said:
This wasnt the right time to recommend such investments given her recent 
circumstances and uncertain future
She was in a very vulnerable position (for reasons he outlined) and should have been 
treated as a vulnerable customer
All the investments posed too much risk for her circumstances and objectives; the 
investment bond was also manifestly unsuitable given Mrs R was a non-taxpayer
The fund performance itself was very poor
St James rejected the complaint, saying it was satisfied the advice had been appropriate.
An investigator at this service broadly agreed with St James.
Mrs Rs representative did not agree, saying (in brief):
Mrs R met all four of the key criteria (as outlined by the regulator) to be treated as a 
vulnerable customer (outlining these in detail); the advisor did not treat her as such
She was not put in a position to fully understand what was being recommended or 
the considerable risks posed to her money
Mrs R had no investment experience or knowledge (the few investments she had 
previously held had been selected by her ex-husband without her involvement)
She should clearly have been assessed as only in a position to take a small 
investment risk (for a variety of reasons which he outlined)
There was no justification for recommending an onshore bond (outlining why this was 
the case, in his view); the investigator merely repeated St James arguments rather 
than assessing this issue
Mrs R had no intention of returning to work, contrary to what the advisor claimed, so 
the investment bond was manifestly unsuitable for a variety of reasons
Numerous financial websites point out why onshore bonds should not be 
recommended to non-taxpayers; the advisor can only have recommended it because 
of the loading of fees which would come to St James via this product
He subsequently added:
Mrs R had stopped working in 2005 when the business she and her husband owned 
was sold. She hadnt worked in the 12 years since and, particularly given her various 
health issues, had no desire or plans to return to work again. She categorically 
denied telling the advisor she would/might return to work in a years time
She hoped the divorce settlement would provide sufficient income going forward and 
would only contemplate returning to work  part-time  if absolutely necessary
Three years on she has still not worked; so she will remain a non-taxpayer, making 
the onshore bond totally unsuitable from a tax perspective
She was entirely in the hands of  and led by  the advisor; he did not attempt to 
assess her attitude risk (via a risk-based questionnaire, for example) and simply 
concluded she wanted medium risk investments
It was only later  after talking to family members connected to the financial industry 
 that she fully understood what this meant. She agreed to fill out a standard risk 
assessment questionnaire at their behest which concluded she was only prepared to 
accept a Cautious/Balanced level of risk
Her former husband had made all their financial decisions and she had never 
previously met with a financial advisor, including when investments were taken out in 
her name
In my assessment, I said:
I am satisfied that the evidence indicates Mrs R was, in effect, a first-time investor. I 
dont think the advisors description of her as having some investment experience 
fairly reflects her knowledge or experience of investments
I therefore feel she was likely to be entirely reliant of the advisor to fully assess her 
likely financial requirements and her attitude to risk, and explain the advantages and 
potential disadvantages of any recommendations. I am not persuaded that he did 
any of these key things
It was crucial for the advisor to fully explore with Mrs R the likelihood of her deciding 
to return to work (and when). Instead, he merely refers to the possibility of her 
returning to work but states, this is not guaranteed. I say this because taking 
account of her house purchase plans and a modest emergency pot, she only had 
sufficient money  after this £600,000 investment  for the next 12 months (based 
on her existing and intended expenditure)
I therefore do not believe the advisors statement in his suitability report  you are 
looking to invest the funds over the medium term, initially for capital growth with a 
view to moving to income provision at some stage in the future  is an accurate 
resume of her situation. She was clearly looking for income 12 months hence and I 
dont consider that medium termI am fully persuaded by Mrs Rs very detailed explanation as to why she had no 
intention to work going forward (unless forced, financially to do so) and do not feel 
the advisors record is accurate in this regard
Given this, I think the starting point for any advice should have been an explicit 
recognition and statement that Mrs R was relying on this £600,000 as her sole 
source of potential income going forward.  The advisor refers to Mrs R being 
comfortable with drawing 5% a year i.e. £30,000 a year and reiterates this later in 
the document. I am therefore satisfied that his advice was based on seeking to 
deliver this objective (rightly or wrongly). His account of her modest pension 
provision suggests this would only marginally reduce her income needs post-
60/63.do you mean her age?
In this context, it was crucial for the advisor to clearly set out  in his suitability report 
 the fundamental link between the stated risk level of an investment and its 
potential to increase or decrease in value, and the consequent impact of how much 
a 5% income would deliver as a result. While a higher level of risk increases the 
potential size of any income, it also increases the possibility of such a 5% delivering 
far less than the £25,000 was looking to receive
Ive seen no evidence that the advisor explained this. I therefore dont believe Mrs R 
was in a sufficiently informed position to decide how much risk she wanted to take 
i.e. how far she was prepared to risk her annual income being substantially less than 
£25,000. Of course, no risk-based investment could guarantee £25,000 (or any other 
annual sum) without a reduction in capital but this was not fully explained either
I have then considered the evidence about what steps the advisor took to try and 
establish how much risk Mrs R wanted to take. There is nothing in his fact find to 
indicate he explored this issue; no evidence, for example, of Mrs R being offered a 
risk questionnaire, something which allows an inexperienced investor an opportunity 
to think about her appetite for risk via a series of laypersons statements. So I am not 
persuaded that he had a sufficient basis for stating, in his suitability report, that Mrs 
R was happy to take a medium level of risk with this money (which represented 
virtually all her available savings (after the proposed house purchase/upgrading)
I am surprised by his statement that Mrs R, confirmed that a fall in the value of this 
investment would not have a significant impact on your standard of living because 
you are not initially reliant on income from the funds, given it is clear that she would 
be relying on income from this investment 12 months hence. Whether she agreed to 
such a statement or not, I think the advisor should have explained to her that this did 
not appear to match her need for regular income very soon (from an investment 
perspective)
I am not persuaded that the advisor either undertook sufficient work to safely assess 
Mrs Rs attitude to risk or fully outlined the implications of different levels of risk. I am 
therefore not satisfied that his account of her agreeing to medium level of risk is well-
grounded
I dont believe Mrs R was in a position to fully assess whether these 
recommendations matched her key objective for a product/s which offered the best 
prospect of delivering something close to her desired income going forward
Given her lack of investment experience, financial situation and absolute need for a 
fairly steady reliable income (irrespective of whether that could be delivered), I am 
satisfied that she would have chosen a lower level of risk if fully informed about the 
above. I also think the advisor, given his considerable financial experience 
compared to hers, should have actively recommended she only take a modest 
investment risk  and fully explained why
As both parties acknowledge that the recommended products were of medium risk 
with a substantial exposure to equities, particularly foreign ones, I do not feel the 
need to explain why I agree with this assessment. I will, however, say that I consider both to be at least medium risk and couldnt reasonably be described as low/medium 
in risk
I therefore currently intend to instruct St James to calculate how much Mrs Rs 
various investments would have been worth if invested more cautiously, delivering a 
return equivalent to this services recommended low risk formula. That is, an equal 
combination of the returns as shown by the Bank of Englands fixed-rate bonds of 12 
to 17 months duration and those indicated by the FTSE UK Private Investors Total 
Income Return Index
In the case of the investment bond, St James should make this calculation up to the 
date Mrs R surrendered the bond in 2019 and compare the amount she received 
after the early surrender fee with the above formula. If this shows a loss, it must pay 
this and add 8% simple interest per annum to this figure up to the date of settlement 
of this complaint
In relation to the unit trust feeder (where both sums remain invested, I assume), it 
should make the calculation up to the date of settlement of this complaint. Further, if 
Mrs R chooses to surrender any part of this investment (the ISA-wrapped funds or 
non-wrapped ones), St James must agree to waive any early surrender charges
Finally, based on her evidence, I am satisfied that Mrs R has suffered significant 
distress and inconvenience as a result of this unsuitable advice and instruct St 
James to pay Mrs R £250 in lieu of this
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons outlined in my provisional decision, I am satisfied this complaint should be 
upheld with the redress as set out in that decision.
Putting things right
St James must calculate how much Mrs Rs various investments would have been 
worth if invested more cautiously, delivering a return equivalent to this services 
recommended low risk formula. That is, an equal combination of the returns as 
shown by the Bank of Englands fixed-rate bonds of 12 to 17 months duration and 
those indicated by the FTSE UK Private Investors Total Income Return Index
It should compare these figures with the amounts Mrs R received when she 
surrendered them all in 2019 i.e. after surrender fees etc.
If these comparisons show a loss or losses, it must pay these and add 8% simple 
interest per annum to these losses up to the date of settlement of this complaint
Mrs R has suffered significant distress and inconvenience as a result of this 
unsuitable advice and so I instruct St James to pay Mrs R £250 in lieu of this
My final decision
  I uphold this complaint and instruct St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc to pay 
compensation as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman